Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFWlKAL LISE ONLY
Report No. 9113-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(BANGUN DESA II)
FEBRUARY 22, 1991
.a Regional Office
,ntry Department V
cument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
ficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorHl Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1991)
Currency Unit  =  Rupiah (Rp)
$1.00          = Rp 1,901
RIp I millioni  =  $526,04
GOVERNtIENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS ANDI MEASURES
1 kilometer (kni)          =  0.62 wniles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km112)  =  100 ha = 0.39 sq miles
1 hectare (ha)             =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogramii (kg)          =  2.2 pounids (11)
1 metric toti (ton)        = 2,206 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS
AARD              - Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BANGDA            - Directorate General of Regional Development, Ministry of
Home Affairs
BANGDES           - Directorate General of Rural Development, Ministry of Home
Affairs
BAPPEDA           - Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah (Regional Development
Pla.ning Agency)
BAPPENAS          - Badarn Perencaniaan Pembangunan Nasional (National
Development Planning Agency)
Bupati            - Political and administrative head of a district (kabupaten)
BRI               - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Dinas Pertaniani - Autonomous provincial or dlistrict agriculture agency
DIY               - District Istewema Yogyakarta (Special Province of
Yogyakarta)
Desa              - Village
Dusun             - llamlet
GOI               - Governnment of Indoniesia
INPRES            - Presidential lnstruction
Kabupaten         - District
Kecamatan         - Subdistrict
KUDST             - Kabupateni (District) Upland Development Support Team
KUPEDES           - Kredit Umum Pedesan (General Village Credit Program)
Micro DAS         - Micro Watershed
PDP               - Provincial Development Program
PY                - Project Year
RLKT              - Agency for Soil Conservation (Ministry of Forestry)
Sawah             - lrrigated Rice Land
Tegalan           - Dry Land Fields
Setwilda          - Office of the Governor/Bupati
TK I              - Tingkat I (Provincial level)
TK II             - Timigkat II (District level)
UDST              - Uplanid Developmenit Support Team
YRDP              - Yogyakarta Rural DevelopmetnL Project (Cr. 946-IND)



- i -                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Indonesia
Loani Amount:         $15.5 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable rate.
Project Description
and Benefits:       The project's overarching goal is to develop a
sustainable and replicable approach to soil stabilization
atid agricultural development as a basis for improving
incomes and living standards in Yogyakarta's upland
villages, specifically, and in Java's similarly
endangeced upland areas, more generally. Its four major
subprograms respond to continuing, articulated needs
regarding soil and moisture conservation; upland
agricultural productivity; social and physical
infrastructure (credit, markets, roads, bridges); and
managerial and technical skills of government extension
and support services.
The project's innovative thrust would be a low-cost,
community-directed approach to agricultural development
by groups of neighboring farmers in the context of
microwatersheds. Over five years, the project would
focus on better moisture retention and runoff control and
more productive upland farming practices in
microwatershed areas, with emphasis on the use of
vegetative barriers, perennial crops for ground cover,
and higher-yielding, higher-value food, tree, and estate
crops. A project-supported research station would be the
first permanent station that concentrates on upland
agriculture.
Concurrently, throughout Yogyakarta's upland villages, a
menu of on-farm technology options wouid be demonstrated
for farmer selection, more credit facilit.es would be
provided, essential social services expanded, and in
remote areas, village roads and bridges upgraded. The
improved village road network is expected to facilitate
access and respond to increasing demand for services,
inputs, markets and off-farm employment in upland areas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Using existing line agencies and staff, the project would
provide skills-based and managerial training support to
all implementing agencies to bolster delivery of upland
services, strengthen planning, execution, monitoring and
continuity of project activities, and improve
coordination of Government agencies at all levels, with
special emphasis son the local area--village, district
and province.
Risks:                The project's risks are technical and institutional and
might lead to constraints to spontaneous replication of
new technologies. Low-cost soil conservation and
coordinated runoff measures and farming systems that put
a larger portion of cultivated area under shrubs or
treecrops to ensure adequate ground cover may be slowly
adopted by farmers within microwatersheds. Line agencies
might also be slow in responding to the project's
coordination mechanisms. Research, training, technical
assistance, and detailed institutional planning are
directed at these concerns, which would be annually
reviewed jointly by GOI and the Bank. The risks are
considered reasonable.
Estimated Costs: la
Local     Foreign   Total
------ -$ million -------
Upland Productivity and Stabilization          4.1        1.0       5.1
Upland Community Development                   3.2        0.2       3.4
Village Roads and Bridges                      4.7        1.8       6.5
Institution Strengthening                      3.4        1.3       4.7
Base Costs                                   15.4         4.3      19.7
Physical Contingencies                         1.5        0.3       1.8
Price Contingencies                           3.0         0.6       3.6
Total Costs                             19.9         5.2     25.1
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign   Total
------- $ million -------
Government                                     9.6        -         9.6
IBRD                                         10.3        5.2       15.5
Total                                   19.9        5.2      25.1
/a Inclusive of duties and taxes of $2.0 million equivalent.



- lli -
Disbursementt                                IBRD FY
($ '000)         1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Annual            500   1,323   3,730   3,525   3,058   2,814         550
Cumulative        500   1,823   5.553   9,078  12,136  14,950  15,500
Rate of Return:       12 percent for the agriculture on soil conservation
component, 15 percent for the village roads component.
Map: IBRD 22421



- iv -
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (BANGUN DESA II)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
A.  The Agriculture Sector ... .      .  .  .  .  .    .... .       1
B.  Development Priorities in Agriculture Sector . . . . .         1
C.  Java's Rainfed Uplands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         2
D.  Participating Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
II.  BANK EXPERIENCE AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT . . . .          5
A.  Bank Experience  ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .    .. .           5
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . .         8
III.    THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
A.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
B.    Project  Area   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
C.  Main Feature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        10
D.  Detailed Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        10
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         16
A.  Project Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
B.    Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
C.  Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        18
D.  Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        20
E.  Sperial Account  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
F.  Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising of
Messrs. E. Zimmer-Vorhaus, Wawan Mulyawan (p/t), Wirantc Soehendro (Bank),
P. Beeden, M.R. Clapham, G. Edgerton (Consultants) w',ich visited Indonesia in
February 1990. Peer reviewers were Ms. A. Molnar, Messrs. A. Cittati,
D. Leeuwrik, A. Sindhu. Messrs, R. Cheetham. Director (AS5DR) and A. Cole,
Chief (AS5AG) have endorsed the project.



Page No.
V.  PROJEC'T MANAGEHENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . .           21
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . .            26
VlI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . .            29
ANNEXES
1.   Project Area, Laudform Classes and Phasing Assumptions
Aplpendix I Sununary of Upland Village Data
2.   ProjecL-Assisted Ttainiug Activities
Table 1, Cost Estimates
Table 2, Sununary Analysis of Participation
Table 3, Detailed Analysis of Participation
3.   Technical Assistance
Table 1, List of Specialist Services
4.   Technical Interventiotis for Teclntology Me;-u Displays
5.   Village and Kecamatan Projects
Appendix 1, List of Eligible Village Projects
Attaclmlent 1, The Regional Planning Mechanism
Attaclumient 2, Funding Mechanism for Village Projects
6.   Upland Watershed Systems Action-Research
7.   Village Roads and Bridges
8.   Project Custs alld Financing
Table 1, Project Base Costs by Subprograms and Level of Governnmeut
Table 2, Project Costs by Components
Table 3, Project Costq by Year and Components
Table 4, ProJect Costd by Year and Sunmnary Accounts
Table 5, FItnancing Plan by Components
Table 6, Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
Table 7, Finanicing Plan by Disbursement Categories
9.   Disbursement Sclhedule
10.   Project lmplementation and Coordination
l..   Crop Models
Table 1, Financial Prices
Table 2, Yields and Inputs
Table 3, Sunmary of Net Income at Crop Models



- vi -
12.   Ecous(nie Atialysis
13.   Implj)lemenltation St.hedule
14.   DocUIIIezitt  on Project File
CHARTS
1.   Relat.tonship with Existinig Government Structures
2.   Relationishlip Among Subprograms, Components, Subcomponents, and Levels
of Governimlent
3.   Project Organization Structure
MAP:    IBRV  22421



INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (BANGUN DESA II)
I. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture Sector
1.1       The agriculture sector continues to be a mcinstay of Indonesia's
economy.  In 1988-89, agriculture represented 24 percent of GDP and was the
livelihood and source of income for 55 percent of the population of
176 million. During the 1980s, the sector made substantial gains in
production, although its annual growth rate of 3.1 percent slowed from
3.8 percent in the previous decade. This slowdown has been due primarily to a
decline in rapid expansion of rice production and lower prices for Indonesia's
agricultural exports. Self-sufficiency in rice and higher yields in other
foodcrops, such as maize, cassava, and soybeans were achieved largely due to
improved infrastructure and technology, higher-yielding varieties and
increased use of fertilizer in more intensive cropping systems, more so in the
irrigated subsector. While gains in rainfed agriculture were also achieved,
due to better water retention and increased use of inputs, such gains often
masked an underlying depletion of the resource base, mainly soil due to
erosion, especially in fragile upland areas.
1.2       Increasing population is putting pressure on forested and marginal
lands for expansion of agricultural production, and as a result, resource
degradation has already put sizeable areas at environmental risk. At the same
time, the sector's capacity to absorb some of the 2.3 million new entrants to
the work force annually has diminished, especially in the less-endowed rainfed
areas where agriculture has traditionally played a key role. Per capita
income in the sector is roughly estimated at $450, with a significant portlon
earning less in areas with limited natural endowment and remote from inputs,
services, and markets.
B. Development Priorities in Agriculture Sector
1.3       For more than a decade (Repelita III-V), the Government of Indonesia
has maintained its emphasis on poverty alleviation, employment-generation and
equitable development. In rural areas where agriculture is the primary
determinant of income, it has now shifted (Repelita V, 1989-94) its initial
focus on immediate production increases to more long-term sustainable growth,
with mutual emphasis on productivity and conserving the resource base that
undergirds it. It has pursued these objectives mainly through public
investment, credit or subsidies for infrastructure (irrigation, roads, bench
terraces), inputs and services, resource management and conservation, and
strengthening support institutions. Substantial resources have been directed
at intensifying production in both irrigated and rainfed subsectors,
diversifying more production into industrial and higher-value food crops,
increasing efficiencies in water retention and use, extending agricultural
credit, and training large cadres in agricultural extension and related
services.



1.4       Recognizing that unsound agricultural practices would undercut its
overall policy objectives of generating incomes and husbanding renewable
resources over the long term, government is placing renewed emphasis on land-
use patterns and watershed management, innovative cropping patterns,
vegetative soil conservation techniques, and locally oriented research on
agricultural practices that would maintain or enhance the resource base.
Coming to grips with these concerns over a widely dispersed archipelago with
extreme variations in agroecological conditions has necessitated a move toward
decentralized decision-making and greater involvement of the producer
communities, and concerted efforts at institution-building and inteLsectoral
cooperation through training of relevant government workers.
C. Java's Rainfed Uplands
1.5       The issues of agricultural productivity and resource management and
conservation in Indonesia are becoming critical, notably in the rainfed
uplands of Java. Some 60 percent (106 million) of the country's population is
concentrated on the island and virtually all land is in productive use,
including 75 percent in agriculture. The pressure on renewable resources is
tremendous. Average family farm size on Java is 0.5 ha, and holdings are
highly fragmented. Despite population growth of 1.7 percent that is lower
than the national average (2.1 percent), about 150,000 farm households are
added each year. The annual conversion of 18,000 ha of forest and 40,000 ha
of lowlands to urbanization and industrialization in Java puts additional
pressure on an agricultural base that has little potential for expansion.
Agriculture's capacity to absorb the incremental labor force on Java was only
12 percent during 1980-85 and appears to be less in upland areas.
1.6       About two-thirds of Java's area is hilly to very steep terrain and
one-third is flat lowland. The uplands are distinguished from the lowlands by
varying soils, slope, rainfall, more diverse cropping patterns, lower
productivity, less off-farm employment, lower farm incomes, and lower density
of roads, marketing facilities, and government services.  These UL.Iditions
seriously limit the ability of upland farmers to maintain or enhance
productivity and farm income. While data on income distribution in upland and
lowland areas of Java are not available, many upland households are among the
poorest on Java.
1.7       In the uplands there is increasing depletion of forest resources and
protective vegetative cover and degradation of arable land through
exploitative production systems. The areas most at risk occur in the upper
parts of Java's watersheds. Considered to be in a critical state, i.e.,
endangered by actual or potential erosion, they comprise 1.9 million ha or
15 percent of Java's arable land area and support 12 percent of its
population. While erosion has detrimental effects on downstream riverbeds and
irrigation structures, the larger impact Is the loss of agricultural
productivity in upland areas due to soil depletion. A recent World Bank study
(Indonesia - Forest, Land and Water: Issues in Sustainable Development,
1989), estimated Java's cost of soil erosion at $350-420 million per annum,
with 80 percent attributed to on-farm productivity loss and 20 percent to
siltation of rivers, dams, and canals downstream.



D. Participating Area
1.8       The province of Yogyakarta (DIY) is the smallest of Java's four
provinces. About 75 percent (2.5 million) of its 3.3 million population lives
in rural areas and depends on agriculture for income or subsist6nce.
Population density varies by elevation and soil conditions, ranging from less
than 400 persons per km2 in steep limestone areas to 900 per km2 in the more
productive lowlands. Farm incomes in DIY increased substantially during the
19809, in large measure due to improved yields of major foodcrops, improved
infrastructure, and increased economic activity in villages. As a result, the
incidence of rural poverty declined significantly (50 percent), and the
province no longer ranks among Indonesia's five poorest provinces, as it did
in 1980. However, its growth rate of average per capita income, 2.8 percent
annually between 1981 and 1987, remains the lowest of Java's provinces.
Statistics comparing upland/lowland income in DIY are not available, but
differences are observable between living standards in the uplands and the
predominantly rice-growing lowlands.
1.9       The environmental conditions affecting land use and agricultural
produc ivity in DIY are topography, soil, and rainfall pattern, all of which
factors vary considerably across the province's 317,000 ha. Its topography is
dominated, as throughout Java, by a series of active or dormant volcanoes
ranging in altitude from a few hundred meters to over 3,500 m above sea level.
About 40 percent Df the province is flat or nearly flats the irrigated rice
plains (123,000 ha) and the Wonosari plains (50,000 ha) which together
comprise the most stable and highly productive of the five landform classes in
DIY. The remaining 60 percent is sloping (above 15 percent) to steep to very
steep (above 30 percent slope). The sloping 144,000 ha fall into three land
form classes characterized by poor soil subject to erosion: the unstable
uplands (73,000 ha)--the main watersheds at risk; tne Land of a Thousand Hills
(65,000 ha)--a pool area with dark clay soil held in pockets of porous lime
stone bedrock; and the volcanic uplands (6,000 ha)--with volcanic soils and
debris less susceptible to erosion than sedimentary materials. DIY is subject
to a tropical monsoon c.imate with mean monthly temperature in the 22-28 C
range. Mean annual rainfall tends to increase with elevation, generally
ranging 1,800-2,500 m, except in two mountainous areas where it is 3,500-
4,000 mm. Rainfall intensity, contributing to erosion, can be high and
commonly exceeds 5 mm per minute for short periods. More important than
rainfall is its distribution. The long dry season (4-6 months, June to
November) often restricts the range of crops that can be grown and crop
yields.
1.10      Almost all land in DIY, even in the uplands, is under some form of
producti- use, albeit at low levels of cropping intensity and productivity.
Besides forest lands managed by the Ministry of Forestry, there are three
major land-use types: (a) Wetlands (sawah): highly productive, stable
resource base used mainly for irrigated paddy in lowland fields. About
15 percent of DIY's wetland is rainfed, with lower productivity. (b) Dryland
(tegalan): less productive (20 to 33 percent less than wetland), susceptible
to degradation in sloping areas, mainly cultivated with annual foodcrops in
multiple or relay cropping arrangements. (c) Home gardens (pekarangan):
usually more productive than dryland fields, due to household residues and
manure, often stable soils, and intensively cropped with annual and trec
crops, as important supplements to family diets.



1.11      In DIY, dryland and home gardens dominate, although about 30 percent
of upland farmers have access to small plots of either rainfed or irrigated
wetland.  About 40 percent of farm households own less than 0.5 ha of land,
and 70 percent less than 1.0 ha, with considerable variation across DIY's
districts. Upland farms typically comprise about 0.6 ha of dryland (about
0.5 ha of net cropped area), often in two or more separ:ate plots, and a home
garden (up to 0.2 ha).
1.12      Almost 90 percent of sloping dryland has been t"rraced at some time
in the past, but the condition of terrace structures is often poor, inducing
severe soil loss due to uncontrolled runoff. The major rainfed crops are
annual foodcrops (cassava, rice, maize, groundnut, and soybean), various grain
legumes (ming bean, cowpea, velvet bean), plus a few fruits (jackfruit,
banana, mango) and estate crops (mlinjo, cloves, coffee). Most dryland plots
contain some fodder and fuelwood trees (Sesbania, Glyricidia and Dalbergia),
and often a few timber species (teak, mahogany and Albizzia).
1.13      Annual crop yields vary widely according to local conditione (slope,
soil, moisture regime) and cropping system. A productive two-cycle intercrop
system is used on about 40 percent of cultivated upland. Crop planting starts
in November with the onset of the wet season. Cassava is interplanted with
maize, groundnut and upland rice, which latter crops are harvested in
February. If fertility and moisture allow, the still-maturing cassava is
interplanted with the second cycle of crops, usually maize, groundnut, or
soybaan. However, on the poorest soils (about 20 percent of cultivated upland
area), only cassava can yield a worthwhile return and it is planted as a sole
crop.
1.14      In upland areas, livestock are important as sources of income (about
25 percent of farm income is derived from livestock) and as a source of
emergency funds and manure. In 1987, DIY's livestock population was estimated
at 188,000 cattle, 260,000 goats, 75,000 sheep and 6 million poultry. Most
upland farmers own one or two goats or sheep, and more prosperous farmers own
cattle, either for fattening, breeding or draft power. Livestock are stall-
fed on crop residues and herbage gathered from terrace risers and wasteland.
Foduer for livestock is often in short supply towards the end of the dry
season, and liveweight losses are frequent at this time.
1.15      Agricultural Services.  DIY has 20 rural extension centers (lower
than average density), an agriculture information center and an in-service
training center. The province has 434 agricultural extension workers and
supervisors, according to the Ministry of Agriculture's ratio of one extension
worker per 1,600 farmers. Only about half have the use of motorcycles.
Traditionally, the extension services have given more attention to lowland
production, to the neglect of upland agriculture, which is aggravated by a
lack of training in upland production. An added time consuming task for
extension workers has been the need to organize farmers' groups.
Agricultural research, conducted by a unit (AARD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture, has similarly concentrated on lowland crops at the expense of
upland crops, for which there is currently no permanent separate and
specialized research station.
1.16      Soil conservation services in DIY, provided by the Ministry of
Forestry through a subunit in Yogyakarta with district representatives, mainly



carry out indepeadent programs such as GOI's Regreening Program. Although the
forestry service participates in the broad-based extension forum organized at
the province and district levels, the coordinating mechanisms are not strong
ejiough to encourage integrated programs for soil conservation and improvements
in agricultural production.
1.17      Rural credit in Indonesia became deregulated in 1983.  Subsidized
credit for inputs and investments is being phased out, and the transition to
unsubsidized sources is progressing well in DIY. A government scheme for
unsubsidized lending (Rp 25,000 minimum) by the state-owned Bank for
Agriculture (KUPEDES) is operating through 82 village branches, with interest
rates ranging 30-44 percent per annum. Credit for crop ,oduction is also
available through 44 cooperative branches. For production credit of less than
Rp 25,000, the precursor project provided seed money (Rp 100,000) to hamlet
revolving funds for onlending to farmers. Recently, NGJs and foreign donors
have begun to support self-help groups in setting up savings and loan schemes,
and the first NGO-supported rural bank has applied for registration in
Yogyakarta.
1.18      Marketing of inputs and production is mainly handled by traders in
DIY, and to a lesser extent by cooperatives. Low volumes, long distances, and
poor road standards increase marketing costs, especially for fresh food
products. Recently established livestock markets, operated by district
departments of revenue, have strengthened competitive marketing, ensured
correct weights, and broken even from collection of fees.
1.19      Off-farm income is earned by about half of upland farmers through
employment on lowland farms, road construction, carpentry, and semi-skilled
urban labor. There are indications that the seasonal flow of rural to urban
labor markets is increasing, although such movement is currently constrained
by the poor upland road network.
II. BANK EXPERIENCE AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
A. Bank Experience
2.1       To broaden the focus of agricultural development, particularly from
irrigated rice (para. 1.3), GOI together with some of its major donors has
undertaken a series of initiatives to increase the productivity and
sustainability of rainfed upland agriculture. These initiatives, which have
been suported under the operations listed below, have aimed at testing and
providing the technical, infrastructural, institutional, and social
underpinnings to raise incomes and preserve the natural resources of the
fragile and densely populated upland areas of Java and some of the poorer
islands. They have involved area specific projects as well as a national
regreening program. Valuable lessons have been learned. They indicate the
potential and some of the difficulties to be resolved to facilitate
replication of sustainable upland farming systems within costs that would be
attractive for participating farmers, community action groups, and Government
institutions.



Yogyakarta Rural Development Project (YRDP) (IBRD Cr. 946-IND) 1979 completed
Upland Agriculture and Conservation 1l         (IBRD Ln. 2474-IND) 1985
Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Support Services (IBRD Ln. 2638-IND) 1986
Forestry Institutions and Conservation         (IBRD Ln. 2930-IND) 1986
Citanduy (West Java)                          USAID                 1969 completed
Upper Solo Watershed Management and Upland  FAO/UNDP                1973 completed
Kali Konto                                    Netherlands           1980 completed
East Java Rainfed Agriculture                 IFAD                  1990
Regreening Program (IMPRES Penghijauan)       GOI                   1970
In addition to this project experitnce several OED and Bank sector reports
provide some guidance on how Bank operations should approach integrated rural
development and some of the typical challenges of upland agriculture. These
include:
Annual Review of Evaluation Results           World Bank/OED        1989
Rural Development World Bank                  World Bank/OED        1990
Experience 1965-86
Indonesia - Forest, Land and Water:           World Bank            1989
Issues in Sustainable Development
Philippines - Forestry, Fisheries and         World Bank            1989
Agricultural Resource Management Study
(FFARM)
Watershed Development in Asia,                World Bank WP 127   1990
Strategies and Technologies
Indonesia - Poverty Assessment                World Bank            1990
and Strategy Report
For the proposed project past experience has provided useful guidance on the
technologies of farming and conservation systems, the impact of
infrastructure, the supporting role of community development, and
institutional requirements.
2.2       Technology.  Progress has been made in developing and testing
farming systems suitable for the uplands. From the perspective of soil
conservation, experience under the first Yogyakarta Project (project
completion report, May 1990) and from elsewhere in Asia has cast doubt on the
1/   Co-financed by USAID.



effectiveness of large scale expansion programs for bench terraces that have
been a major part of past upland conservation programs. Their construction is
costly, labor intensive, and when poorly done and without integration into
run-off control systems can accelerate soil degradation. Moreover, in
Indonesia farmers have required subsidies of up to $200 per ha as a
construction incentive in particular where opportunities for off-farm
employment exist. It now appears possible and more appropriate to rely much
more on vegetative barriers, such as grasses and shrubs to build up natural
terraces and to retain moisture especially when supported by a limited number
of physical structures in gullies and areas of water concentration as applied
in the Philippines. These techniques are more effective and offer the
opportunity of lowering the cost of soil stabilization and facilitating their
replication. They also lend themselves to be incorporated into a range of
farming systems. These farming systems and their acceptance by the farmers
are, as experience of the Indonesian upland projects has demonstrated,
determined by a wide range of natural (soils, slopes, rainfall) and economic
conditions (markets, off-farm employment). Increasing demand for higher value
crops allows diversification into tree crops not only on homeplots - a major
success of the first Yogyakarta project- but also in the fields.
Consequently, agricultural extension and research has to be diversified to
provide a broad menu of advice on cropping and livestock systems that are
appropriate for a wide range of farming conditions. The research to support
these extension efforts should not, as experience from the first Yogyakarta
project and OED findings indicate, be carried out by small project units but
only by permanent stations integrated into the national research system.
Results to date also indicate that compared to irrigated lands, the uplands
have long been neglected in terms of physical and social infrastructure,
agricultural research and extension. With the relative decline in the price
of rice compared to some of the upland crops, economic returns on investments
in the uplands are comparable to those for irrigation rehabilitation ( 12-14
percent). Upland soil stabilization would require public investments of $
180/ha compared to irrigation rehabilitation costs of $ 1100/ha. Such
investments would heip to improve farmers net income by 40 percent in the
uplands and by 100 percent in irrigation. While individual benefits from
irrigation are higher supporting upland agriculture is becoming more
attractive as water resources and suitable land for irrigation in Java are
becoming scarce, and the demand for agricultural products more diversified.
2.3       Roads and Water Supplies.  There is a growing body of opinion in
Asian countries that investments in rural roads brings very high rates of
return and that without roads agricultural development is not possible beyond
subsistence level. While it is difficult to disaggregate the roles of roads
from other promotional activities evidence from the first Yogyakarta project
indicates that their combined impact probably had a marked effect in enhancing
a process that has already reduced poverty levels considerably and will
probably continue to gain momentum. In addition to roads, improvements in
house water supplies have been essential to release women's time for
productive farming activities. This has been the case for the first
Yogyakarta project where the water supply component was supported by a NGO.
2.4       Community Development.  As with irrigated farming, sustainable
agriculture in the Uplands depends upon concerted community actions to prevent
degradation of the hill slopes, and to provide the credit, training and social
underpinnings for vibrant development. Many of the upland communities are



- 8 -
closely knit and self supportive. They have been effective under the first
Yogyakarta Project and under Governments Provincial Development Program (PDP)
in improving the productive and social infrastructure. Their potential has
yet to be fully developed, but they are an essential complement to the
official services and have the potential of being a springboard for more
spontaneous development.
2.5       Institutions.  All watershed projects in Indonesia suffered because
soil conservation measures in Indonesia are not normally integrated with
farming practices or community development as the three services responsible
belong to different ministries. The existing mechanism for the coordination
of these services at provincial and district level are weak and poorly
utilized. They have the potential to be revitalized through training, and
improved structures and procedures. However,the first Yogyakarta project and
OED reports have demonstrated that providing these specialized services
through special project management units and thus bypassing the line agencies,
is nut a sustainable solution. There is growing evidence in Indonesia that,
as OED findings indicate, the more sustainable way of strengthening
institutions is to increase efficiency and not staff numbers or creating new
institutions.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.6       The Bank continues to support the Government of Indonesia's sectoral
priorities of accelerating agricultural production and exports, alleviating
poverty, conserving natural resources and the environment, and achieving
regional balance in development. These goals are inextricably interlinked on
Java, where the country's population is concentrated, largely dependent on
agriculture, and major components (forests, land, and water) of the resource
base are diminishing. The microcosm where agricultural productivity is
lowest, poverty is most acute, disparities in living standards most apparent,
and resources critically threatened is the upland watersheds.
2.        As noted above, much progress has been made in improving agriculture
and raising incomes, but challenges remain. These include technology where
the Bank can bring lessons from work experience in other upland areas, as well
as for institutional and social development for which the Bank san provide GOI
with assistance through its multisectoral experience in Indonesia. This
includes road developmert, education and health, and improving understanding
of the ways in which community development activities must be promoted and
sustained.
2.8       The Yogyakarta Province, while no longer among the poorest or most
critical watersheds, provides a basis and environment in which refined
technologies and administrative processes can be developed most rapidly for
possible wider replication. It thus offers an early opportunity to obtain
results of broader significance than interventions in another upland area
would produce. Over the medium-term, the Bank can help GOI to develop the
processes, institutions and technologies to develop a national program to
foster sustainable development throughout Indonesia's most critical upland
watersheds with the objectives of protecting critical watershed environments
from erosion and of reducing the number of people living below poverty levels.
While data on the extent of the critical watersheds and of the occurrence of
poverty of Java is limited, it is probable that about twelve million people



- 9 -
live on its upper watersheds, of whom between 30 and 40 percent have incomes
below the poverty level. Programs such as proposed in this project, together
with income growth through spontaneous development, indicate that, based on
experience with the first Yogyakarta project, these levels of poverty could be
halved in five to ten years at a cost of about $80 per capita. Such
investments would bring annual income increases of about $11 per capita which
are very similar to per capita ;investment costs and returns for irrigation
scheme rehabilitation, and are significantly more viable than investments in
new irrigation for rice cultivation. If the levels of costs and benefits were
to be extrapolated to cover the areas and populations in Java with similar
conditions, this would show that a sustainable development program reducing
the costs of soil erosion (para. 1.7) and raising the incomes of about twelve
million people and thus reducing the poverty incidence from 40 to 20 percent
of Java's upland population could be implemented at a cost of about $1
billion. The proposed project would help the government to support and test
the soundness of this strategy.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1       The project's main objective is to improve the incomes and living
standards of upland residents, mainly farmers, on a sustainable basis through
better resource management. As the sequel to the earlier upland development
project (YRDP, Cr. 946-IND), it aims at addressing the major needs of upland
areas: effective and affordable soil and moisture conservation measures,
increased farm productivity leading to higher farm incomes, essential social
services and infrastructure, and institutional support for plarnning and
implementing site-specific change. It would tackle the major threat to upland
produc'ivity over the long term--the degradation of a fragile and eroding
resource base--through an innovative and low-cost approach to soil
stabilization within microwatersheds. It involves the delivery of on-farm
technology options geared to local conditions, physical infrastructure and
government services that would enhance productivity in upland hamlets and
villages while conserving, possibly enhancing soil, water and ground cover
retention. The project would also provide extensive on-the-job training to
implementing agencies to improve capacity at all levels to execute cross-
sectoral upland development activities, supported by research on
conservation/productivity technology specific to upland conditions. It would
also provide essential experience over the medium term to support nation-wide
watershed programs.
B. Project Area
3.2       The project area covers all 140 upland villages in Yogyakarta
province. Upland villages are defined generally as those where at least
30 percent of the land has slopes exceeding 15 percent. Approximately 720,000
people live in the 160,000 ha of upland located across 26 subdistricts of
DIY's four districts. Seventeen subdistricts fall within the landform class
most at risk from erosion with thin-to-medium depth sedim- arv soils. The
remaining nine subdistricts, while less at risk from erosiin, ave not
benefitted from previous upland development programs. The special focus on
microwatershed stabilization would be confined, initially, to 2,500 ha



- 10 -
covering 500 microwatersheds. Each microwatershed is generally less than
10 ha. (Annex 1 for details).
C. Main Features
3.3       Over five years, the project would implement four interrelated
subprograms at the district, province, and national levelst
*    Upland productivity and stabilization, involving intensive activity
and research on soil stabilization in 500 microwatersheds and
extensive on-farm displays of conservation/productivity improvements
across all upland villages.
*    Upland community development, largely centered on the extension of
credit and grants for hamlet- and village-level investments in
infrastructure and productive (farm and non-farm) activities to
improve incomes and living standards.
*    Village roads and bridges (173 km roads and 22 bridges) to remote,
but intensively cultivated upland villages to facilftate
participation in and benetit from the rural econcmy.
-    Institution strengthening, through in-service training and some
technical assistance to improve the capacity of government at all
levels to plan, implement, monitor, evaluate and sustain locally
based initiatives for upland development.
D. Detailed Features
Upland Productivity and Stabilization
3.4       This subprogram involves three major components--microwatershed
stabilization, upland watershed systems action-research, and on-farm
technology displays--supported by extension services and grants to
participating communities and training to implementing agencies (Table 4.2 and
Chart 2).
3.5       Microwatershed stabilization (subccmponent 2.1) introduces
microwatershed-based management of soil water resources and
conservation/productivity options to stabilize soil conditions in 500
microwatersheds, located in 80 upland hamlets. It uses the hydrological unit
of the microwatershed as the management unit for soil stabilization and
production technology. Under the project, farmers on contiguous fields who
are mutually dependent for runoff control would be organized in microwatershed
activity groups for the following activities: (a) local planning and
construction of runoff control structures, such as drainage and absorption
canals across plot boundaries, and improved drop structures to drain terraces;
(b) terrace rehabilitation using vegetation (multipurpose trees, grasses and
legumes) to reinforce terrace risers and modest earth moving to reduce lateral
and horizontal slope; (c) ground cover improvement through higher plant
density, mulches, minimum tillage practices and changes from annual crops to
perennials (fruit trees, estate crops, fodder, fuel and timber trees, grasses
and fodder legumes).



- 11 -
3.6       The project would fund grants to the 80 participating hamlet
councils for development of hamlet nurseries (trees, grasses and legumes to be
used for terrace rehabilitation and soil stabilization) and for runoff control
measures (subcomponent 1.1). The typical grant would be Rp 0.8 million for
hamlet nurseries and Rp 1.5 million for runoff control over a 5 ha area.  DIY
hamlet councils implementing the grants and farmers organized into
microwatershed activity groups would receive support in microwatershed
planning and development as well as nursery development from existing forestry
(for runoff control) and agricultural extension workers (farm planning and
diversification, subcomponent 2.2) who would receive on-the-job training under
the project.
3.7       A newly formed Upland Development Support Team, (UDST, Component 6)
would provide overall support for project participation, select the 500
microwatershed sites and conduct rapid rural appraisal of local conditions.
The team would consist of multidisciplinary (land-use, community development,
agronomy, soil conservations (forestry, RLKT) and tree crops specialists) and
multiagency groups to be based in the foodcrops agency, Dinas Pertanian, at
the province level. In PY3, the multidisciplinary support would be
decentralized to three districts (with Sleman district being serviced from
Gunung Kidul) and district-level (kabupaten) teams constituted for upland
development support (KUDST, subcomponent 2.3).
3.8       An uplands watershed systems action-research program (component 8)
would be initiated to develop and test improved slope stabilization technology
for DIY's uplands, with the potential for replication throughout Java.
Staffing would involve a multidisciplinary unit of Indonesian agricultural
scientists and socioeconomists (4 full-time and 12 part-time). The program
would test a range of vegetative soil stabilization techniques, including the
use of vetiver and signal grasses, to stem runoff and develop more productive
land use practices for smallholders that are sustainable over time. It would
use the 500 microwatershed sites as field laboratories. Under AARD, a unit of
the Ministry of Agriculture, the new station would be the first permanent
station in Indonesia to focus on upland agriculture. It would be supported by
the provincial working group on watershed systems action-research which has
been appointed. Assurances were obtained that research facilities in
Yogyakarta would be upgraded to full research station status by April 1, 1993,
[para. 7.1(a)].
3.9       On-farm technology displays (subcomponent 2.4) would be set up
throughout the 140 upland villages, starting with 30 villages in PYl and 30-40
additional villages in successive years. By presenting an array or "menu of
technology options" on a farmer-managed display plot, local farmers could
choose the elements of technology packages that suit their specific farm
conditions, finance and labor constraints. Demonstrated would be innovative
or promising land-use options (shifting to high-value estate or spice crops),
planting materials (higher-yielding, faster-maturing or disease-resistant
foodcrops such as maize, groundnut and soybean), vegetative conservation
(grasses and fodder legumes to stabilize slopes, and risers), and cultural
practices (balanced or split dressing of fertilizer, alley-cropping,
integration with livestock fodder). Drawing upon the action-research and
pilot micto-fatershed stabilization components, the on-farm technology displays
would strengthen the technical basis for subsequent intensive microwatershed
development throughout the uplands.



- 12 -
3.10      The displ..ys would be conducted by subject matter programmers at
rural extension centers under subject matter specialists in the foodcrops
agency, Dinas Pertanian, at the district level. The cost of the eacb display,
with 140 at full development, would be about Rp 150,000 per annum, including
materials and inputs. Additionally, a 16-seater transport to convey local
farmers to the display plot would be provided to each district under the
project.
Upland Community Development
3.11      The community development subprogram involves two components that
would extend credits/grants to upland hamlets and villages to promote both
increased agricultural productivity in ways compatible with conservation goals
and off-farm earnings through the development of village infrastructure
(Subcomponent 1.2). A training and support component would focus on improved
community participation, administering credit, and generating baseline
socioeconomic data for monitoring and evaluating impact of the project
(component 5).
3.12      Hamlet revolving funds would be enlarged by grants to a level of
Rp 1.0 million ($557) for each of the 1,400 hamlets in DIY's upland areas.
The credit would be onlent to individuals at commercial rates, mainly for the
purposes of purchasing seasonal inputs and developing alternative sources of
income. Assurances were obtained that these funds would charge interest rates
not lower than those charged by the BRI KUPEDES scheme (para 7.1(b)].
3.13      Village Projects would be financed by matching grants to 140 upland
villages to supplement Government's current allocation of Rp 2.5 million to
each village per annum under its INPRES DESA program. In response to village
initiatives on productive investment for farm and off-farm activities,
according to agreed criteria (Annex 5), the project would finance about 475
separate village grants over five years, averaging Rp 5.0 million per grant.
The village's self-help contribution would be not less than 20 percent in
kind. Each grant would support 4-5 separate projects for a total of some
2,000 village projects over five years. While grant allocation would be
flexible, it would emphasize village and hamlet nurseries and fruit and
vegetable production in home gardens and house water supply. Special grants
to hamlet councils for nurseries and runoff control measures under the
microwatershed stabilization component would be additional to the village
matching grants under this component (para. 3.9). Assurances were obtained
that hamlet, village and subdistrict projects would be selected in accordance
with criteria listed in Annex 5 and would be subject to the physical and
financial supervision by the district agencies [paras. 7.1(b)].
3.14      Both the hamlet credit and village grant components would be
administered by the rural development agency BANGDES at the district level,
working closely with subdistrict BANGDES staff, rural extension centers, and
village and hamlet councils. Design for house watersupply would be based on
known standards.
3.15      Community development training and support (component 5) would be
provided to BANGDES at the province level in order to train rural development
staff at the district level and below in: participatory planning techniques,
administering self-help credit schemes, and generating village baseline data



- 13 -
on village-level socioeconomic conditions (Potensi Desa) to enable interactive
monitoring and evaluation of project activities and their impact on upland
communities. The agreed implementation program stipulates that the design for
courses for (i) hamlet council microwatershed planning, (ii) microwatershed
activity group mobilization; and (iii) village level planning and management
be completed by November 30, 1991 (para. 7.1(c)].
Village Roads and Bridges
3.16      Village roads and bridges of an all-weather standard are required in
upland villages, particularly those remote from inputs and markets, in order
to facilitate the delivery of public services that would upgrade living
conditions and access to economic opportunity (farm and off-farm) that would
improve incomes in the rural economy. The subprogram involves three
components: road and bridge construction; maintenance of previously improved
and newly improved roads; and strengthening of public works agencies through
training in selection criteria, construction methods, and maintenance and
monitoring of road construction and maintenance projects.
3.17      Road and bridge construction (subcomponent 3.1) would entail
upgrading 173 km of existing village tracks and roads and 22 bridges (about
362 m running length). Roads would be upgraded from gravel to all-weather
surface, mostly macadam but asphalt where slope exceeds 15 percent and the
surface is prone to flooding. The minimum camber would be 4 percent with
proper drainage. Gunung Kidul, the district with the largest area and
population and greatest length of roads in poor condition, would be the site
of 40 percent of road construction. The remaining three districts would get
20 percent each of the road length to be constructed. Part of a five-year
work program, selection criteria would be that: the road be the only all-
weather link to a village, minimum 2 km in length, serving 5,000 people, no
technical or land acquisition problems, reasonable cost in relationship to
traffic and population served, and not subject to other investment (Annex 7).
Labor-intensive construction methods would be tused. Construction progress
would be monitored at each site. As in the precursor project standard designs
would be used and no substantial engineering would be required. Environment
assessment would precede any road construction that requires major realignment
cutting into slopes.
3.18      Village road maintenance (subcomponent 3.2) of the 364 km built
under the previous project (YRDP, Cr. 946-IND) and 173 km to be upgraded under
the project would require an institutionalized approach, based on regular
monitoring of road and bridge conditions at the district l'vel. With larger
traffic volume and more asphalt surface, maintenance wo-lid increasingly be
shifted from the usual method of village maintenancc through unpaid self-help
(gotong royong) to larger involvement of the public works agency at the
district level. Activities would include technical guidance from the
province-level public works agency to district and local staff on road
maintenance, maintenance of asphalted village roads and monitoring of road
maintenance activities by the district-level public works agency, and
preparation of subdistrict road maintenance plans.  The satisfactory
maintenance of the roads built or to be built under both projects would be a
condition for continuation of disbursement for road construction (para. 7.2).



- 14 -
3.19      Public works agency strengthening (subcomponent 3.3) would entail
improvements in the capacity of province-and district-level public works staff
to select road and bridge projects, construct roads, monitor both construction
and maintenance activities, through training. Sequential training of district
and subdistrict staff in the aforementioned would follow. About 120 public
works agency supervisors at the province level and 420 village leaders would
be trained in labor-intensive road construction methods. Vehicles, road
construction and maintenance equipment, and modest computer installations
would be provided for each district public works agency office. Office space
would be constructed and renovated in two districts, Gunung Kidul and Kulon
Progo. Assurances were obtained that the resources provided to Gunung Kidul
under this program would be no less than 40 percent; that the village road
selection criteria as outlined in Annex 7 would be applied; that a system to
monitor costs and physical progress of construction work of village roads and
bridges be developed by December 31, 1991 and applied by the provincial public
works agencies; that a system of regular monitoring of the requirements for
road repair together with subdistrict plans for village road maintenance be
established by December 31, 1991 and that asphalt village roads be maintained
by the public works agencies of the district, that realignment of roads that
cut into slopes be preceded by a satisfactory environmental impact assessment
[para. 7.1(d)J.
Institution Strengthening
3.20      This subprogram involves the expansion of local-to-national capacity
to support and service upland communities and to plan and manage decentralized
upland development programs across aifferent ministries (home affairs,
planning, agriculture, forestry, public works). The project would provide in-
service training for staff, improved planning procedures and coordinating
mechanisms and management information systems, technical assistance,
equipment, and transport over three components at the district, province, and
national levels, respectively.
3.21      District-level (kabupaten) planning, coordination, and support
services (component 4) would increase the capacity of the planning agency
(BAPPEDA II), technical agencies, district administrator (Bupati) and district
administration (Setwilda II) to coordinate and monitor district-level delivery
of support services to upland communities. It would introduce improved
methodology for local program and project planning. Under the planning agency
(BAPPEDA) at the district level, medium-term development plans for sub
districts covered by the project would be developed, with a focus on clusters
of upland villages. The district administrator's office would selectively
allocate resources to district-level technical agencies to support and service
the projects. Funds would be provided to plan and implement subdistrict and
village projects, according to agreed selection and design criteria (Annex 5).
Annual work programs by each implementing agency, constituting a management
information system for project activities, would be coordinated by liaison of
the district administration, rural extension centers, and district-level
technical agencies. Three new rural extension centers (two in Gunung Kidul
and one in Kulon Progo) would be constructed. Office equipment, furniture and
operating funds would be provided to the district-level planning agency
(BAPPEDA) and district administration (Setwilda II).



- 15 -
3.22      Province-level planning, coordination, and support services
(component 7) would increase the capacity of the planning agency (BAPPEDA I)
at the province level and the Governor's secretariat (Setwilda I) to
coordinate upland development activities in the province and support district-
level agencies in implementing them. At the outset, it would involve the
completion of activities leading to loan effectiveness: identity and analysis
of upland villages, final guidelines for subdistrict and village projects, and
conduct of a pilot erosion study in one upland village. Major activities
would relate to implementation capacity, training and technical assistance,
and baseline mapping and land titling in upland villages.
3.23      Management studies of the planning agency (BAPPEDA I) at the
province level and of the Governor's secretariat would be conducted, as would
the assessment of the implementation capacity of key agencies. Work programs
and budgets for project-related activities for each work unit would be
formulated, in order to generate a management information system.
3.24      Several training-related objectives would be required:  a
preliminary design of the first-year training program; detailed plans and
curricula for the program; recruitment of specialist and contract staff,
including technical assistance; contracting of NGOs for specialized training,
surveys, and project implementation (to be funded through $571,000 in
discretionary funds to BAPPEDA I); and contracting of government and NGOs for
design and delivery of in-service training to implementing agencies in
planning and management, management information systems and computers.
3.25      The National Land Board (BPN) would be required to provide maps and
map overlays at the province level for project planning, monitoring and
evaluation; surveys on erosion in upland villages at the beginning and end of
project; and issuance of land titles, targeted at farmers participating in the
microwatershed activities groups of the microwatershed stabilization
component.
3.26      Area development and planning support (component 9) would assist the
directorate general for regional development (BANGDA) in the Ministry of Home
Affairs to provide effective implementation support to decentralized programs
and area development projects and policy guidance in planning other area
development projects. During PY1, the component's overall design, detailed
activities, and cost estimates for PY2 and subsequent years would be jointly
reviewed by BANGDA and the Bank. To be implemented by BANGDA, it would
initially involve preparation activities prior to loan effectiveness,
including management improvement workshops for BANGDA staff, a study of
existing MIS systems in seven provinces, and completion of BANGDA's
computerized local-area network. Technical assistance (international and
local) would be provided for: internal management (filing, database
management and office layout); information/data needs in developing an MIS for
regional development, using the project as a pilot; in-house and selected
overseas training; training materials (publications and audiovisuals); and
support and coordination of project activities in DIY and other provinces
(procurement, recruitment, annual reviews, mid-term reviews, and final
evaluations). See Annex 3, terms of reference for TA 9 (a)-(i); and for
assurances para. 5.7.



- 16 -
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
4.1        Total project costs are estimated at about $25.07 million (Rp 47,671
million), of which $1.95 million (Rp 3,707 million) would be duties and taxes,
and $5.22 million (Rp 9,923 million) would be foreign exchange (Annex 8).
Physical contingencies averaging 9 percent per annum were added and price
contingencies based on estimated annual local inflation of 9.5 percent for
1990 and 6 percent thereafter, and estimated foreign inflation of 6.3 percent
for 1990 and 3.2 percent thereafter. Civil Works costs are based on standard
design and cost estimates from the Public Works agencies. Cost of equipment
and furniture are based on recent quotation from suppliers. Costs of village
projects, training and technical assistance were based on recent experience.
Table 4.1 summarizes cost estimates.
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Percent Percent
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total  Foreign   Base
----- (Rp Million) -----    ------- (8 '000) ------  Exchange  Cost
Upland Productivity end Stabilization
Microwaterohed stabilization     1,088.4    296.7  1,882.1   648.6    167.1   700.7    24         4
Hamlet mobilization              1,080.4    --    1,806.4   667.2    --        667.2      -       8
Uplond development support
team (UDST)                      618.6    690.6  1,804.1   822.6   868.8   686.0    6s          8
Upland waterahod action-ressorch   4,274.6   668.8  4,642.8  2,246.6    298.9  2,647.6    12     i6
On-form technology displays        628.0   280.7   668.7   827.7    121.4   449.1    27           2
Subtotal                     7?860.9  1,70.8  9,689.1  4.129.9    940.7  6.070.6             26
Upland Comunity Development        6o089.8   874.4  6,468.7  3.20s.2    197.0  8,400.2     6       17
Village Roada and Bridges          8,667.1  8.607.9 12,86.0  4,659.2  1,846.8  6.504.6    28      88
Institution Strengthening
District level                   1,866.6    811.2  2,176.0   982.0    168.7  1,146.7    14        6
Province level                   8,227.8  1,401.1  4,626.8  1,697.7    787.0  2,484.7    8o      12
Area devolopment planning        1,880.9   761.0  2,112.0   700.1    410.9  1,111.0    87         6
Subtotal                      6,425.0  2,498.8  s,91.8  3a.79.9  1,811.6  4.691.4             24
Total Base Cost              29,222.8  8,168.9 87,886.2 16,872.1  4,294.6 19,666.6    22     100
Physical contingencies             2,814.0   641.8  8,466.4  1,480.8    887.4  1,817.6    19        9
Price contingencies                6,708.9  1,120.1  6,829.0  8,008.1   669.2  8,692.8    16       16
Total Project Coat           87,746.2  9,926.8 47,670.6 19,865.4  5,221.1 25,076.6    21      128
Project costs by subprograms, levels of Covernment and different agencies
involved [districts (Kabupaten), province, national] are shown Table 4.2.
B. Financing
4.2        The proposed Bank loan of $15.5 million would finance 70 percent of
project costs, 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 62 percent of local



INWNESIA
YOCYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DeAE.DmET PRDJEBT (9bgun Dee. il)
Table  4.2  Poject 8as Co-ts /a
_ _ _________ _____---- --------
--- -_ ---__ -_____________ __________---------------------------------------------     -------------SPOR  - - ------------------------------ ---- - ----- ---------- ------------ ------------------------- ---
I                                             I                                               I 
FUPLN  PRDJCTrVITV AM  STABILIZTION          I       PLAW  CUhKMrr't DEVELOPMENT                       VILLAGE ROD"  AND ORMDE              I        I?  TrIRJICAL STRECTMENIDC                     TOTAL
(US'OOO)  1    I                             (lSooo)  I    I                                 (USIOlO)   S   I                                 ('OODO)   S I   ( '000)   S
____________________________------_---------------------------I. ca         (S   DLErD WrTHIN EACH OF FR K             A    ATEN ------------------------------ -  --------------------------------------- ---
_________________----1.  Cnity  Mlobilization (SAtlDES Tk II)---------------------------- 13. Village Road- and  ridg. 6,504.5   33.S11 4. Kabupaten Pt anning.                     1.145.7    S-.6   12,Se2.4   64.0O
i                                             I       (Public Work. Tk rz)                            Coordination Support
1.1 Dueun iobilizatimn                 687.2   3.51 11.2  Village Mobilization    3,095.2  15.711 I                                                        A Support Services
I  i                                            I       (8APPEDA Tk II)
2.  Slope Stabilization Technicol Service.                                  I                                              I                                                I
(Dines Pertenian T.P. Tk II)   1,149.8   5.1 81
2.1  Runwof Control and Soil 
Con-ervation  /b                                                                            I
2.2  Par. Planning and
Oivaersification
2.3 Stbupstan Upland Devt.
Support Tea o"
2.4  On-Fare Technology                              I                                              I                                              I
Diepl,y (tPP.)
---------------------------------      -. CO ES                                              T     Y PROVIIAL A           --------------------------------    - - - ----------------------------------- - - - --  --
I                                             I                                               I                                                I                    _2
S. Upland Devalaopent                  66.0   3.S1 S 5. Community Davt. Training   305.0   1.61 I                                                  1 7. Provincial Planrning.       2.434. 7   12.411  3,425.7   17.41 
Support Team (Dines                            I                                                                     I                                                                         I
Pertanian T.P. Tkl)                           I      A Support Service.                                                                              Coordination & Support
I      (BANES Tk 1)                                                                           I       Services (BAPEDA TnI)                    I
-------------------------------------------------------------------III.   O       TS          T   BY NATIA  AC CIE -------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Upland Watersbed System           2,547.5  13.05 i                                              i                                               1 9. Area Det. Planning           1, 11.0    5. es   3,65 .5   18.6V
Action Roeearch (AARD)                                                                                                                               A I  I  * Support (bANOA)                I
Upland Productivity and
Stabilization:                     5,070.5  25.81 IUplend Comanity Dent.:        3,400.2  17.31 I Village Road* and Bridgae:   6,504.5    3.S1il Institutional Strengthening:  4,691.4   2S.9T1 19,666.6  100.0a
/a  Related to subprograa, components and level of government.  Excluding contingncies.
lb In teat called Microwaterehed Stabilization.
FILE: JOCYAMS (Lotu-)
26-Feb-91



- 18 -
costs (excluding reserved procurement of $0.99 million and duties and taxes of
$1.95 million). The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate for 20 years, with a five-year grace period. The Government of Indonesia
would provide the equivalent of $9.57 million and excluding duties, taxes and
reserved procuremFat its net contribution would be about 30 percent of project
costs. The financing plan is summarized below.
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
($ '000)
Government of
IBRD             Indonesia            Total
Amount     Z       Amount      Z       Amount    2
Buildings                       232.5   80.0        58.1   20.0       290.6    1.2
Roads and bridges            5,362.8   80.0    1,340.7   20.0    6,703.5   26.7
Vehicles                          -      -         992.3  100.0       992.3    4.0
Equipment and furniture      1,216.9   90.0        135.2   10.0    1,352.1    5.4
Land titling and surveys        210.2   90.0        23.4   10.0       233.6    0.9
Technical assistarce
and studies                2,429.0   90.0        280.3   10.0    2,709.3   10.8
Training and courses         1,709.5   85.0        301.7   15.0    2,011.2    8.0
Village projects, revolving
funds, research funds      4,339.1   80.0    1,069.5   20.0    5,408.6   21.4
Recurrent costs                   -      -       5,375.2  100.0    5,375.2   21.6
Total                    15,500.0   61.7      9,576.4   38.3   25,076.4  100.0
4.3       To facilitate an early start of project implementation
retroactive financing of eligible expenditures (technical assistance, civil
works and equipment), incurred after February 1, 1990, and estimated at $1
million would be provided.
C. Procurement
4.4       The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized below.



- 19 -
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ '000)
LCB       Other        N.A.       Total
Buildings                                 291                                  291
(233)                               (233)
Village roads and bridges               3,352        3,352                   6,704
(2,682)     (2,681)                 (5,363)
Equipment and furniture                   811          541                   1,352
(730)       (487)                 (1,217)
Vehicles /a                                            992                     992
Technical assistance                                 2,709                   2,709
and studies                                       (2,429)                 (2,429)
Training                                                         2,011       2,011
(1,710)    (1,710)
Local projects,                                                  5,409       5,409
revolving and research funds                                    (4,338)    (4,338)
Incremental staff salaries                                       1,195      1,195
and allowances
Staff travel, operation and                                      4,180      4,180
maintenar,ce
Land titling and surveys                                           234         234
(210)      (210)
Total                              4,454       7,594      A 3,029     25,077
(3,645)     (5,597)      '6,258)   (15,500)
/a Reserved procurement.
Note:  Figures in parenthesis indicate amounts financed by t'L  Bank.
4.5       Buildings ($0.3 million) (3 rural extension cent3rsr  Apland research
station, and office buildings) would be built at different tire; and
locations, would not attract international bids, and would the etore be
procured under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.6       Village Roads and Bridges ($6.7 million) would be partly built by
force account with the participation of local communities with labor-intensive
methods and partly by local contractors in small contracts. Becau3e of
contract size and scattered locations they would not attract international
bids and would therefore be procured under local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.7       Vehicles ($1.0 million).  Government regulations, prohibiting the
importation of vehicles, restrict ICB.  Vehicles would, therefore, come under
reserved procurement, and would not be financed from the loan.   Computers,
equipment (farm laboratory, office) and furniture ($1.4 million) would be
required in small batches by different agencies. They would not be suitable



- 20 -
for international competitive bidding and would be procured under local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Items costing less
than $20,000 per contract .ould be procured, up to an aggregate amount of
$500,000 on basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Technical assistance and
studies ($2.7 million) would be procured under Bank guidelJnes for use of
consultants. Foreign and local training ($2.0 million) would be at
institutions acceptable to the Bank, whereas short course for village cadres
and village planning councils would be conducted on force account.   Funds for
village and hamlet projects, hamlet revolving funds ($4.7 million),
research funds ($0.7 million), and incremental staff salaries, allowances,
travel costs, office operating costs ($5.6 million) would be spent under
Government procedures.
4.8       Review of Procurement.  Standard tender and contract documents
acceptable to the Bank would be prepared by BAPPEDA at the province level for
buildings, equipment and furniture to be procured by the agencies involved.
The different agencies responsible for implementation of and procurement for
the different project components are given in table 4.2 and para. 5.2.
Overall internal monitoring and supervision of procurement would be exercised
by BAPPEDA (Project Coordinator). The Bank would review contracts exceeding
$300,000 prior to tendering and award, while the remaining contracts would be
reviewed on a post-&ward basis.
D. Disbursements
4.9       Disbursements under the Bank loan would be made for:
(a) 80 percent of expenditure on civil works, roads and bridges;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditure for directly imported equipment,
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory prices) for locally
manufactured equipment and furniture, and 65 percent of the costs of
locally procured off-the-shelf items;
(c) 100 percent of cost of foreign technical assistance and 100 percent
of the costs of local consultants;
(d) 100 percent of expenditure on foreign training and 70 percent of
expenditures on local training;
(e) 65 percent of grant-fund expenditure for village projects (covering
80 percent of individual project costs); and
(f) 90 percent of expenditure for hamlet projects, hamlet revolving
funds, subdistrict funds, discretionary funds, land titling, and
research funds;
4.10      Disbursements are expected to be completed by 1997, about six years
after Loan Effectiveness (Annex 9). A six-year disbursement for the proposed
loan is considered reasonable because it is a follow-up project.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs)
for equipment, training, research grants and recurrent costs less than
$100,000 equivalent and civil works contracts for less than $300,000



- 21 -
equivalent. For other components and contracts above these thresholds,
disbursement would be made on the basis of standard documentation. SOEs would
be prepared by BAPPEDA at the province level and detailed documentation woul(d
be maintained at BANGDA headquarters in Jakarta. To facilit_te disbursement
administration, loan withdrawal applications would be aggregated as far as
possible and would not be for less than $100,000 equivalent for reimbursements
and $50,000 equivalent for direct payments. The satisfactory maintenance of
roads built under the first project and this project would be a condition for
continuation of disbursement for road construction (para. 3.18).
E. Special Account
4.11      In order to expedite disbursements, Government would establish a
special account at the Bank of Indonesia, to be maintained in US Dollars. The
authorized allocation of Rupiah equivalent of $1.0 million, representing an
estimated average of four months' expenditures, would cover all categories
financed by the Bank. Except for large expenditures that would deplete the
Special Account, all project expenditures would be channeled through this
account and be withdrawn in proportion to the percentage being financed. GOI
would set up the Special Account in Bank of Indonesia for disbursements from
the proceeds of the Bank loan, following procedures and under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.12      Separate project accounts clearly indicating the various sources of
monies received (including revenues generated at research locations) and
monies expended, by functional categories for the respective project
components, would be maintained by BAPPEDA. Accounting procedures presently
utilized by BAPPEDA are expected to change during the project period with the
improvements being introduced by GOI under the Accountancy Development Project
(Loan No. 2940-IND). These include, inter alia, introduction of a uniform
chart of accounts, double-entry accounting and balance sheet accounting. This
should facilitate improved management reporting on project activities.
Assurances were obtained that unaudited project accounts, including receipts
and expenditure statements and SOEs, would be submitted for audit and
forwarded to the Bank within four months of fiscal year-end and that
supporting documentation would be made available to the Bank for inspection
during supervision. The audit reports would be made available to the Bank
within nine months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit report would
include a separate auditors' opinion on special account and SOEs, verifying
that the related expenditures were made for the agreed purposes of the project
(para. 7.1(e)].
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
5.1       The project implementation schedule is detailed in Annex 13.
Project management and implementation are based on the principles of:
decentralizing most responsibility for project implementation to the district
level and below; use of existing government agencies and mechanisms to ensure
institutional strengthening and sustainability of project activities;
allocation of project activities to match, as far as possible, existing



- 22 -
mandates and functions of implementing agencies at each government level;
overall responsibility for project activities by the administrative head of
each governmental level, i.e., Governor of DIY and district administrator
(Bupati) in each district; and community-based planning under which district
line agencies would support project initiatives and preferences shown by local
communities and farmers.
5.2       Institutions.  The network of national, provincial, district,
subdistrict and village institutions in DIY is complex, with multitiered
matrix-reporting relationships and a multiple line agency structure at each
level of government. The proposed project organizational structure is
designed to fit into the existing patterns and procedures of government. The
lead agencies for project components spanning three levels of government are:
District level
*    Slope stabilization technical services
(Dinas Pertanian)                                     (Component 2)
*    Community mobilization (BANGDES)                        (Component 1)
*    Village roads and bridges (Public Works)                (Component 3)
*    District (kabupaten) planning, coordination
and support services (BAPPEDA)                        (Component 4)
Province level
*    Upland Development Support Team 2/ (Dinas Pertanian)  (Component 6)
X    Community development training and support
services (BANGDES)                                    (Component 5)
X    Provincial planning coordination and support
services (BAPPEDA)                                    (Component 7)
National level
*    Upland watershed systems action-research (AARD)         (Component 8)
*    Area development planning and support (BANGDA)          (Component 9)
A project manager (PIMPRO) would be appointed in each lead agency for that
specific project component. In some cases, the responsibility for
implementing a subcomponent would be delegated by the lead agency to a
separate agency, although financial reporting and oversight responsibility
would remain with the lead agency. (See Charts 1,2,3 for project organization
and structure.)
5.3       The only new organizational units proposed under the project are:
(a) policy, steering, and coordination committees at the national,
province and district levels;
(b) an Upland Development Support Team at the province level, to be
later decentralized to the district level; and
2/   Including staff of BANGDES and the Forestry Department (RLKT).



- 23 -
(c) a unit for upland watershed systems action-research to be loter
institutionalized in Yogyakarta as a research station of MARD's
Cente. for Soil Research.
The national steering committee and national technical committee have been
established (Annex 10, Appendix 1). A provincial coordinator; a provincial
steering committee; a provincial project technical support team to coordinate
planning and implementation; and a provincial working group for watershed
systems action-research have been appointed. Details for project coordination
and implementation are in Annex 10.
5.4       Budgeting.  The project would be a centrally assisted regional
project. Funds required would be included in regular budgets of DIY and its
four districts. The managers responsible for project components (PIMPRO)
would include all project expenses in their normal budget requests (DUPDA)
which are then submitted through BAPPEDA I to the director general of BANGDA
and the Ministry of Finance, The funding would be approved and released in
the framework of INPRES DATI I for project activities implemented by the
province, and INPRES DATI II for activities implemented by the districts
(including village roads). Village projects would be funded through the
INPRES Bantuan Desa Program, which is similar to INPRES DATI II but under
whir;, approval of a village project is not followed by physical and financial
supervision.
5.5       Staffing Requirements.  Most components are consistent with existing
functions and capabilities of the agencies involved, with technical assistance
to provide needed expertise to introduce new methodologies and approaches.
Increased capacity would be generated by a combination of improved procedures,
staff training, incentive improvements, and mobilization with coordinated work
programs and improved transport. About 1,100 staff would be involved in
project implementation: approximately 900, 170, and 30 at the district,
province, and national levels, respectively. Typically, provincial and
district agencies are operating at levels well below full establishment
strength.   The project is not predicated on increased numbers of staff,
except in specific instances, as follows:
(a) Upland Development Support Team in PY1 (4 senior staff, para. 3.7);
(b) Kabupaten (district) Upland Development Support Teams (KUDST) in PY3
(three teams, each with 4 staff, para. 3.7);
(c) a contracted Project Training Officer to BAPPEDA I in PYl (Annex 3,
TA 7(k)); and
(d) project unit (later, research station) for upland watershed systems
action-research (12 senior full-time, 4 part-time, para. 3.8).
5.6       Staff Development and Training.  Over the course of the project,
some 9,500 village leaders/farmers, and some 1,900 civil servants, (1,300
district, 300 province, and 300 national staff, respectively) would receive
short-term training in project-related skills (Annex 2, Table 3). Total cost
of project-related training (baseline costs without contingencies) is
estimated at $2.0 million (Rp 3,138 million). (Annex 2, Table 1). Training
activities would be organized by four line agencies;



- 24 -
(a) BANGDES (rural development) at the province and district levels
would expand training of community leaders and local government and
field cadres. Some 1,400 village planning council members would be
trained in planning and management and 6,400 hamlet leaders in
microwatershed planning and mobilization.  At the province level,
BANGDES would expand training of community organizing skills to some
1,100 subdistrict, also village and hamlet leaders, and training in
improved methodology socioeconomic surveys (Potensi Desa) to some 30
subdistrict and village staff.
(b)  BAPPEDA (regional development planning) at the province level would
arrange for the training of some 340 extension staff in technical
matters and 710 of its province and district staff in planning and
management; 90 in computer applications, and additional staff in
MIS. It would contract curriculum design and delivery tc existing
training agencies, such as the Ministry of Home Affairs training
center at Woncatur (near Yogyakarta) and selected NGOs.
(c) The public works agencies at the district level would arrange for
the training of some 420 village leaders and 120 staff in labor-
intensive road construction and maintenance techniques. Training
would be provided by the public works training center in Jakarta or
by the public works center in Bandung.
(d) About 190 BANGDA (regional development) staff would receive training
in planning and management and some 100 would receive technical
training, organized by the planning division of the BANGDA
Secretariat. Twelve staff would be funded to undertake short
o.verseas courses in development planning and management, and four
staff would be seconded to field assignments within province and
district field offices for a period of six months each .
5.7       Technical Assistance.  The project would provide 300 staff-months of
technical assistance (112 international and 188 local, Annex 3), at a cost of
$2.5 million (Rp 4,793 million). It would be concentrated in project
components that require initial assistance in designing and testing innovative
approaches: the Upland Development Support Team (para. 3.7); upland watershed
system action-research unit/station (MARD) (para. 3.8); provincial planning
coordination and support (para. 3.22); and BANGDA [area development and
support (para. 3.26)]. The units implementing these components have the
capacity to put the technical assistance to good use. The BANGDA component
(65 staff-months) would be implemented in BANGDA in the Ministry of Home
Affairs and affect all area development activities in the country. The
research component (13 staff-months) would soon also affect areas outside the
province. Of the total staff-months required 73 (24 percent) would be for
project support and 227 (76 percent) for capacity building. Terms of
reference for key positions are in Annex 3. The agreed project implementation
program (para. 7.02(c)] stipulates that the following specialists would be in
place by November 30, 1991: land and water management advisor (TA 6(a)];
community development advisor (TA 6(b)]; outreach program design specialist
[TA 6(i)]; research methodology specialist [TA 8(a)]; socioeconomist
[TA 8(c)]; upland agronomist/soil conservation planner (TA 8(b)]; area
development advisor (TA 7(e)]; the village development monitoring and
evaluation advisor (TA 5(a)].



- 25 -
5.8       Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs).  The project would provide
discretionary funds (para. 3.24), to be managed by the project coordinator in
BAPPEDA, primarily to engage locally based NGOs on a contractual basis for
studies and infrastructural projects (e.g., water supply). Proposals for use
of these funds would be included in annual budget requests as part of GOI's
normal budgetary process. NGOs would assist in conducting baseline surveys
and analysis, ongoing evaluation surveys, and training of field cadres and
community leaders. Where appropriate, the Yogyakarta-based NGO Forum would
assist BAPPEDA in liaison with the sizeable and diverse NGO community in the
province.
5.9       Monitoring and reporting of project activities would involve:
(a) quarterly reporting of physical and financial progress by each
implementing agency, including special accounting categories to
trace project-related expenditures;
(b) a project management information system to be developed in detail in
PY1 as an extension of the analysis of institutional capacity under
taken prior to appraisal (para. 3.23). Project agencies in the
province and each district would generate input/output worksheets,
specifying key activities, performance indicators, (outputs), and
resource requirements. BAPPEDA at the province level would further
refine this framework into quarterly targets and resource
specifications, to form the basis of quarterly physical reporting
and a "management by objective and deviation" approach to project
coordination. Quarterly reports collated by BAPPEDA would be used
as the basis of review by the provincial project steering committee.
An annual summary report of project progress would be presented to
the national project steering committee; and
(c) the introduction of computerized monitoring and evaluation
techniques into the relevant provincial and district agencies to
track the diverse portfolio of village, hamlet and subdistrict
projects. These techniques have been developed over the past 10
years under the Government's Provincial Development Program (PDP, in
part supported by USAID). Much of the project-sponsored management
training for provincial and district staff would be focused on
delivery of existing training materials from PDP on planning,
budgeting, monitoring and evaluation techniques.
5.10      Evaluation of the project would rely on three sources of
quantitative data to establish benchmarks for subsequent impact evaluation:
(a) an updated survey of erosion in the upland villages by the National
Land Board (BPN), following a survey in the early 1980s. Such a
survey demarcating areas showing marked soil loss would be repeated
at the end of the project;
(b) detailed physical and socioeconomic data collected by the upland
watershed system action-research unit/station before and after
development of microwatershed areas taken as its field laboratories.
Ongoing socioeconomic studies would use nonproject areas as control
sites in assessing progress; and



- 26 -
(c) village socioeconomic data collected by BANGDES staff, using an
improved methodology (Potensi Desa) to be introduced and tested
under the project. BANGDES would put these baseline data into an
interactive computerized database, arrange for its annual updating,
and develop a competent data analysis and evaluation capability in
its provincial office.
A mid-term review would assess progress and problems experienced during
implementation, assisted by six months of internationally recruited specialist
assistance [Annex 3 TA 7(i)].
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.1       Most project benefits include stabilizing the soil in DIY's upland
areas by methods that ensure the productivity base and increase yields and
incomes for farmers under rainfed conditions. Focus and research
concentration on microwatersheds as the organizing unit for stabilization and
production should yield benefits beyond the 2,500 ha where project activities
would be most intense. On-farm technology displays that demonstrate improved
agronomy, planting materials, and the benefits of shifting to perennial crops
in order to retain soil and moisture should have a wide-ranging effect on
production and incomes in all upland villages. A permanent research station
with an upland focus should validate technical and sociological
recommendations for application in upland areas throughout Java. Supported by
improved extension services, credit facilities, and social and physical
infrastructure (roads and bridges), living standards in upland villages should
likewise benefit. With an estimated five persons per family, the project's
benefits by component are likely to affect: microwatershed stabilization,
4,200 households; on-farm technology displays, 12,000 households; roads and
bridges to 49 villages, 49,000 households; village projects, 40,000
households; overall, some 60,000 households with 300,000 upland residents,
often oy more than one component.
6.2       Production and marketing.  The project's incremental production will
mainly be cassava, maize, upland rice, groundnuts (foodcrops), fodder and
firewood (trees), fruits, vegetables and coffee. Although some decline in
yields is likely in the 'without project" scenario (for example, a recent
World Bank study estimates that losses in soil productivity in DIY cause a 4.7
percent dent in yields per annum), no decrease has been assumed. The present
and expected yields of major crops are shown below:



- 27 -
Yields ton/ha
Present     At full development
Cassava (poor soils)                       4.0                5.50
Cassava (better soils)                     5.0                7.00
Maize                                      0.8                0.95
Dry paddy                                  0.9                1.15
Groundnut (dry in shell)                   0.4                0.60
Grass                                      5.0               15.00
Avocado                                      -                3.20
Banana                                                        0.40
A competitive system of local, subdistrict and district markets is in place
and would become more c-fficient under the project with improvements in village
roads and special marketing facilities (e.g., weighing stations and holding
pens for livestock).  Under the precursor project, markets adjusted quickly to
absorb the increased production of fruits and tree products, and would likely
do so under the proposed project. Reliance on the existing trader system is
justified, and it can only become more competitive with the project's
features.
6.3       Farmer's Income.  Two indicative models (Annex 11) were used to
estimate the project's impact on upland farmers' incomes under the project's
two sets of proposed agricultural innovations and improvements. tlbing a
typical 0.6 ha upland farm in each case, one model looked specifically at
conditions in critical upland watersheds where the microwatershed
stabilization component would be introduced. The second model looks at farms
outside the microwatershed area, which are partly terraced and are expected to
benefit from the on-farm technology displays. In both cases, benefits from
other project-related activities (homegardens, livestock, roads) have been
excluded.
6.4       In the financial analysis, all farm inputs and outputs are valued at
constant 1990 farmgate prices, based on sample checks. Incremental family
labor on farm is valued at wage rates prevailing for off-farm activities in
the project area in early 1990. The phasing out of the fertilizer subsidy has
been taken into account. The results of the models are shown below in Table
6.1. No rate of return has been calculated. Given the small investments by
farmers, it would not adequately express the development of farmers' incomes.
For farmers under the project's microwatershed improvements, the net present
value (at 10 percent over 10 years) of net farm income would increase by 41
percent. Cn farms outside microwatershed areas, but exposed to on-farm
technology displays, the net present value of the net farm income would
increase by 22 percent.



- 28 -
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF NET FARM INCOMES FOR 0.6 HA FARM
Form Model Outside            Farm Model in
MicroWatershed              Microwatershed
Per                       Per
Total   capita             Total  capita
Rp'000  Rp'OOO  X    X     Rp'OOO Rp'OOO    X    X
Present                        210       42   100           210    42    100
Future without Project Lb      202       40        100      202    40          100
Future with Project Lb         259       S2  128   128      882    68   158   164
Incremental
To prosent level              49       10                 122    24
To future level Lb            67       11                 180    28
Incremental
net present value in % Uc                    21   22                     89  41
L. Excluding some gardens.
lb After phasing out of fertilizer subsidy.
c Discounted at 10 percent over 10 years
6.5       Economic analysis.  (Annex 12).  The economic rate of return for the
proiect's upland productivity and stabilization components (excluding the cost
of the research component) is 12 percent over 30 years. No economic analysis
was made for support and training services for upland community development,
as their benefits would extend beyond the project's activities. Economic
benefits have been estimated on the basis of incremental production of
cassava, maize, upland rice, groundnuts, grass, bananas, avocadoes and coffee.
Outputs were valued at market prices. For subsidized fertilizer, a conversion
factor of 1.82 was used. For incremental unskilled rural labor, a conversion
factor of 0.7 was applied to wage rates for off-farm employment. The costs of
project investment include varying degrees of unskilled upland labor, and
therefore an aggregate conversion factor of 0.85 was used. Given the
anticipated 12 percent rate of return, costs could increase 10 percent and
benefits decrease 9.1 percent to maintain a 10 percent rate of return, the
estimated opportunity cost of capital in Indonesia.
6.6       The village roads and bridges would affect 49 of the 140 project
villages. Benefits would come from reduced transport costs for inputs end
outputs, better access to markets in the rainy season, less spoilage duting
transport and improve production through better extension coverage. Further
benefits would come from easier access to services (health, credit) and to
employment outside the village, and the stimulation of non-agricultural
activities in the villages. These aggregate benefits were assumed to improve
farmers income by 10 percent. To the cost of village roads an aggregate
conversion factor of 0.865 was applied resulting in an economic rate of return
for 30 years of 15 percent. An increase in costs of 45 percent or a decrease
in benefits of 31 percent would reduce the ERR to 10 percent.
6.7       Environmental Impact.  The stabilization of critical uplands and
control or reduction of rainwater runoff would reduce erosion in the project
area and later in other areas adopting project approaches. The major thrust



- 29 -
of the project is to conserve and enhance the resource and productivity base
of the upland economy.   Without the project, it is likely that fragile slopes
would be brought under increasing pressure to be cultivated. With the
project, better yields combined with sounder environmental practices without
expansion into vulnerable areas are likely. An environmental risk conceivably
could involve the realignment of village roads in fragile slope areas.
However, safeguards against such activity are built into project assurances
that any village road realignment cutting into slopes would be preceded by an
assessment of environmental impact (para. 3.19).
6.8       Impact on Women.  Indonesia's progress in slowing population growth,
raising health and nutritional standards of women and children, and in
increasing the enrollment rites for women in primary and secondary education
has affected the uplands, albeit t- a lesser degree than in the lowlands.
Access to social services would be improved with the upgrading of the village
road network. The role of Java's women in making farm and financial decisions
is reportedly stronger than in many south Asian countries. They share the
field work for annual crops with men. Larger harvests under the project would
increase their workload for harvesting, transport and processing. The gradual
shift to perenrial crops, however, would reduce the workload for soil
preparation and planting. Better roads would ease women's burden of
marketing. Provision of house watertanks under village projects would
eliminate women's heavy burden of carrying water. Women would also benefit
from the greater security which increased production and the issue of land
titles would bring about. This applies even as women do not share their
husband's land title although they retain title to land they inherited.
6.9       Risks.  The project's risks are technical and institutional and
might lead to constraints to spontaneous replication of new technologies.
Farmers might be slow in accepting the low-cost soil conversation measures and
adopting farming systems that put a larger portion of cultivated areas under
tree crops. Further, the diversity of farmers' interests and microwatershed
conditions might slow down the implementation of coordinated runoff control
measures in microwatersheds. The institutional risks are that the line
agencies might be slow in responding to the project's coordination mechanisms.
Research, technical assistance, training efforts and detailed institutional
planning are directed at these two areas which would be reviewed in detail
during annual review jointly undertaken by GOI and the Bank. The risks are,
therefore, considered reasonable. They would be monitored and the project
could be adjusted accordingly.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       Agreements were reached that:
(a) research facilities of AARD's Center for Soil Research in Yogyakarta
be upgraded to a full research station by April 1, 1993 (para. 3.8);
(b) hamlet (dusun) revolving funds charge interest rates not lower than
those charged by the BRI KUPEDES scheme (para. 3.12); hamlet,
village and subdistrict projects funded under the project be
selected in accordance with criteria listed in Annex 5; and village



- 30 -
projects funded under the project be subject to physical and
financial supervision by the district agencies (para. 3.13);
(c) the project would be implemented in accordance with an
implementation program agreed with the Bank (paras. 3.15, 5.7);
(d) the proportion of resources provided to Gunung Kidul under the
village roads and bridges subprogram would be no less than
40 percent (para. 3.19); village road selection criteria as outlined
in Annex 7 would be applied (para. 3.19); a system for monitoring
costs and physical progress of village roads and bridges be
developed and applied by the public works agency (PU Tk I) at the
province level (para. 3.19); a system of regular monitoring of
village road and bridge conditions and subdistrict road maintenance
plans be established; asphalted village roads be maintained by the
public works agencies (PU Tk II) at the district (para. 3.19); and
realignment of roads that cut into slopes be preceded by a
satisfactory environmental impact assessment (para. 3.19);
(e) unaudited project accounts would be submitted to the Bank within
four months of fiscal year end, followed by audit reports nine
months after fiscal year end (para. 4.12).
7.2       The satisfactory maintenance of roads built under the Yogyakarta
Rural Development Project and this project would be a condition for
continuation of disbursement for road construction (para. 3.18).
7.3       With the above agreements and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of $15.5 million with 20 years maturity at the Bank's
standard variable rate, including a grace period of five years. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Indonesia.



31                                     ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ('BANGUR DESA II')
Proiect Area, Land Form Classea and Phasing Assumptions
Pro1ect Area
1.       The project area covers all 140 upland villages 1/ in Yogyakarta
Province, distributed between all four kabupatens. The total land area of
these upland villages is 1,586 km2, of which approximately 1,132, or 712,
has a slope exceeding 152. Appendix 1 presents summary data for all upland
villages, together with an analysis of area and population by kabupaten.
Landform Classes and Proiect Kecamatane
2.       The 140 upland villages lie with 26 kecamatans, which in turn are
associated with three of the five major Landform Classes in the province
(Map 1). Landform Classes I and IV comprise the relatively flat or gently
sloping land not considered at serious risk from erosion in the Wonosari
Plain and in the irrigated lowlands of Sleman and Bantul respectively.
Kecamatans within these Landform Classes are not considered for inclusion
in the project.
3.       Landform Class III comprises the often shallow and unstable soils
of north and west GK, east Sleman and Bantul, and north and west KP. Areas
where these soils occur on slopes greater than 152 are considered to be
seriously at risk from erosion. Fifteen kecamatans were identified with
more than 1,000 ha of Landform Class I1I. These kecamatans would form the
focus of the intensive Microwatershed Stabilization sub-program. A further
three kecamatans were identified with less than 1,000 ha of this Landform
Class, and would also be included in the project but with a lower priority.
1/ An 'upland village, is defined in two separate ways:
i) for Landform Class II and III (most of the-project area) an Upland
Village is defined as a village whose total area consists of at
least 302 upland area (i.e. land with more than 152 slope).
ii) for Landform Class V (the volcanic soil area in northern Sleman),
an Upland Village is defined as a village whose total area
consists of at least 301 rainfed dryland (i.e. 'tegalan' land,
above the spring line at the base of Mt. Merapi).



- 32 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.       Landform Class II comprises the "karst" limestone areas of Gunung
Seribu in southern GK, and Landform Class V the volcanic slopes of Gunung
Merapi in Sleman. N-Jther Landform Class is considered to be seriously at
risk from soil erowion, but both areas have suffered from the general lack
of attention given to upland development. Kecamatans with more than 1,000
ha of Landform Class II or V, together with those in La.idform Class III,
are included in the extensive Upland Community Development sub-program.
Table 1 shows the breakdown of the 26 Kecamatans proposed for inclusion in
the project by Landform Class and by Kabupaten.
Kecamatan Phasing
5.       Project start-up activities would commence in all four kabupatens
in PY1, but would be restricted to only six kecamatans. It is proposed
that the remaining 20 kecamatans would be included in a phased manner over
the next three years of the project. All upland kecamatans would be
included by PY4. The proposed (indicative) phasing of kecamatans by
Landform Class is shown in Table 2, and the breakdown b' kabupatens in
Table 3.  The proposed phasing would allow for a gradua. build-up of
kabupaten experience and capacity to implement the program in PY1 and 2,
without adversely affecting on-going and non-project programs. Experience
during implementation may suggest that a more rapid entry of kecamatans to
project activities is possible, or alternatively that kecamatan phasing
should be further spread out into PY5. The indicative phasing shown in
Tables 2 and 3 has been used in the derivation of project costs.
6.       Further breakdowns of kecamatan phasing by kabupaten in Landform
Class III, and Landform Classes II and V respectively, are shown in Tables
4 and 5. These are necessary since the Microwatershed Stabilization
program be implemented only in Landform Class III.
Village Phasing
7.       A breakdown of upland villages (desa) entering the program from
each kabupaten in each year, is given in Table 6a, with the cumulative
totals in Table 6(b). The phasing of On-Farm Technology displays at one
per upland desa per year, and the phasing of the grants for village
projects in the Cost Tables were der0.'d from Table 6(b). During the
project period, all 140 upland villagts would receive such additional
grants, with a cumulative total of 475 additional annual grants.
8.       The entry of Landform Class III upland desas is shown in Table 7,
indicating that a total of 82 desas would have microwatershed stabilization
and related activities.
Dusing PhasinR
9.       The total number of upland dusuns (hamlet) involved in the project
is estimated to be 1,4C0. The breakdown by Kabupaten and by annual phasing
of entry to project activities is shown in Table 8. In the absence of



- 33 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 3
detailed village and dusun analysis, it has been assumed that each upland
village would contain 10 upland dusuns. This Table has been used to
calculate training costs for KKLKMD members.
Microwatershed Phasing
10.      The assumptions leading to the number of Micro-DAS (Microwater-
sheds) that are proposed (Table 9), relate to the implementation capacity
of the Upland Development Support Team (Province) in PY1 and 2, UDST
(Kabupaten) in PY3 and 4, PLPs/PPLs in PY4 and 5. A total of 500 Micro-DAS
are proposed, with a very slow implementation rate during the early years
of the project, and with almost 702 to be planned and implemented during
PY5. It is also assumed that the planning activities for Micro-DAS (both
for slope stabilization and farm planning and diversification) would be
refined, simplified and streamlined as experience is gained in the
techniques involved. The assumed phasing of the dusuns involved in the
Microwatershed program is shown in Table 10(a) for all kabupatens. Table
10(b) and l0(c) show a breakdown of the assumed phasing by kabupaten, by
year of entry and cumulative, respectively.
PLP and PPL Phasing
11.      The phasing of field extension staff for the Microwatershed
stabilization program follows the phasing of Micro-DAS in the early project
years, and then depends on the estimated numbers of field staff available
within Landform Class III. It has been assumed that a total of 120 PLPs
(Regreening program field staff from Forestry) are currently deployed in
DIY, and a brief analysis suggests that only 55 are working in the Landform
Class III uplands. Sub-Balai RLKT in Yogyakarta have suggested that
redeployment of PLPs within a kabupaten is possible (although redeployment
between kabupaten is unlikely). By redeploying field staff within a
kabupaten to Landform Class III, it is assumed that the number of PLPs
would increase from 55 to 82 PLPs by PY5, or one PLP for each upland desa
in the project (see Table 11). PPLs (agricultural field staff from BIMAS)
are already deployed at almost this level and Table 12 assumes a similar
phasing to that of PLPs.
Technology 'Menu* Displays
12.      As each upland desa is phased into the project, a technology menu
display is implemented in that desa. The number of technology displays
therefore corresponds with the number of upland villages (all Landform
Classes) in any year.
18 October, 1990
MASSl1 SAR 213 Annex



- 34 -                          ANNEX 1
Table 1
Table 1
Proiect Kecamatans, by Landform Class
Land Class
Kabupaten                                                                 Total
III               II                 V
No.    Name     No.       Name     No.       Name
Gunung Kidul (GK)  6   Nglipar,       5     Tepus,      _         _         11
Semin,              Paliyan,
Ngawen,             Panggang,
Ponjong,            Rongkop,
Patuk,              Semanu
Playen
Kulon Progo (KP)   6   Kalibawang,  -           -       -         _          6
Samigaluh,
Girimulyo,
Kokap,
Pengasih,
Temon
Bantul (B)          4   Imogiri,      1     Pundong    -          -          S
Pleret,
Piyungan.
Dlingo
Sleman (S)          1   Prambanan    -          -      3      Cangkringan,  4
Pakem,
Turi
Totals   17                 6                 3                    26



ANNEX 1
Tables 2, 3. 4
Table 2
Phasing of Recamatan Entry By Landfonm Class
PY
Landfonm
Class             1          2         3          4          5          Total
III                 5          7          3         2          -            17
II                  -          -          2         4          -             6
V                   1          1          1          -         -             3
Totals              6          8          6         6          -            26
Table S
Kecamatan Phasing By Kabupaten (All Landforms)
1         2          3          4          5         Total
GK        2          2          3          4         -            11
KP        2          2          1          1         -              6
Bantul    1          2          1          1         -              5
Sleman    1          2          1          -         -             4
Totals    6          8          6          6         -            26
Table 4
Landfom Class III Kecamatan Phasing By KabuDaten
1         2          3          4          5         Total
GK        2          2          1          1         -              6
KP        2          1          2          1          -             6
Bantul    1          1          2          -         -             4
Sleman    -          -          1          -         -             1
Totals    5          4          6          2         -            17



- 36 -                               ANNEX 1
Tables 5, 6
Table 5
Landform Classes II and V Kecamatan Phasing By Kabupaten
1         2          3         4          5         Total
GK        -          1         3          1         -             5
KP        -          -         -          -         -             0
Bantul    -          -         -          1         -             1
Sleman    1          1         1          -         -             3
Totals    1          2         4          2         -             9
Table 6
Phasing of Entry of Upland Desa By Kabupaten
(a) By Year of Entry
1         2           3         4        5         Total
GK                10        14          35        31        -           90
KP                10         9           3         2        -           24
Bantul             4         5           5         1        -           15
Sleman             4         5           2         -        -           11
Totals           28         33          45        34        -          140
Cumulative          28        61         106       140        140        475
(b) Cumulative
Cumulative Numbers of Upland Desa in Project By Kabupaten
1         2           3         4          5       Total
---------------------------------------------------------------------__---
GK                10        24          59        90         90        273
KP                10        19          22        24         24         99
Bantul             4         9          14        1S         15         57
Sleman             4         9          11        11         11         46
Totals            28        61         106       140        140        475



ANNEX 1
TaDles .', 8, 9
- 37 -
Table 7
Phasing of Entry of Upland Desa in Landfomn Class III By Kabupaten
1         2          3          4         5         Total
GK        10         14         14          3         -            41
KP        10          4         10          -         -            24
Bantul      4         5          5          -         -            14
Sleman     -          -          3          -         -             3
Totals    24         23         32         3          -           82
Table 8
Phasing of Entry of Upland Dusuns By Kabupaten (From Table 6(a))
1         2          3          4        5         Total
GK        100        140        350        310        -            900
KP        i00         90         30         20        -            240
Bantul      40        50         50         10        -            150
Sleman     40         50         20          ^        -           110
Totals    280        330        450        340        -         1,400
Table 9
Micro-DAS Phasing By Kabupaten
1         2          3          4           5       Total
GK          2         8         12         30         115         167
KP          2         4         16         30         115         167
Bantul      1         3         12         24          92        132
Sleman      -         -          5          6          23          34
Totals      5        15         45         90         345         500



ANNEX 1
- 38 -                           Table 1
Table 10
Phasing of Dusuns Involved in Micro-DAS Development
(Landform Class III)
(a) All KabuDatens
1         2           3          4         5       Total
No. of Micro-DAS (new)   5          15         45          90      345         500
(cum)   5        20          35        155       500
Average Micro-DAS/Dusun  1           1.3        1.4         2.6      6.1
No. of Dusuns (new)       5         10         30          15       22          75
Cumulative Dusuns         5         15         45          60       82
(b)  By Kabupaten (By Year of Entry)
(Dusuns with Micro-DAS)
GK               2         6           8        10        15        41
KP               2         2          12         2         6        24
Bantul           1         2           9         1         1        14
Sleman          -          -           1         2         -         3
Totals        5         10         30         15        22        82
(c) By Kabupaten  (Cumulative)
(Dusuns with Micro-DAS)
GK               2         8          16        26        41
KP               2         4          16        18        24
Bantul           1         3          12         13        14
Sleman           -         -           1          3         3
Totals           5        15          45         60        82
Assumes: 1. Existing 55 PLPs in Landform Class III (see Table 11).
2. PLP Numbers will rise over project period as field staff are
reallocated to Landform Class III within kabupatens.
3. 82 PLPs are working within 82 Landform Class III desas by
PY5, and within each of these desas only one dusun is involved
in Micro-DAS development. Within each of these dusuns, an
average of 6.1 Micro-DAS areas are developed by PYS, leading
to a total of 500 Micro-DAS areas being developed.



ANNEX 1
- 39 -                               Table 11
Table 11
Phasing of PLP (RLKT) Entry Into the Runoff Control and
Soil Conservation Sub-Component (2.1)
1         2          3         4          5
GK         2          8        16         26        41
KP         2          4        16         18        24
Bantul     1          3        12         13        14
Sleman     -          -         1          3         3
Totals     5         15        45         60        82
Note: Assumes 120 PLPs in DIY and a total of 55 available in Landform
Class III (For Micro-DAS activities) in 1991, rising to 82 by
PY5 as staff are redistributed within each kabupaten, by sub-
Balai RLKT.
Table 12
Phasing of PPL (BIMAS) Entry Into the Farm Planning and
Diversification Sub-Component (2.2)
1         2         3         4          5
GK         2          8        16         26        41
KP         2          4        16         18        24
Bantul     1          3        12         13        14
Sleman     -          -         1          3         3
Totals     5         15        45         60        82



- 40 -
upvills3.,kl                                   INDONESIA                                                                  APPENDIX 1
3.19.90                 YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPHENT PROJECT ("Bangun Desa II')                                        Page 1
Summary of Upland Village Data /a
Total          Landform kv.in Class   Population   Land area   Population    Area )15%             S
6abupaten       No. Kecaaatans   Class    Kecam. Desa         June 1989         ks2        density      slope (km2) Upland
GuDung lidul          11           III         6    41       185,501          372.3         498          235.6 /a         63 /a
II          5    49       221,740         690.2          330          568.7 /a        82 /a
Subtotal, Gunung Kidul   11    90         413,247         1062.5         389          804.3 /a         16 /a
Kulon Progo            6           III         6    24       145,407          275.6         528          216.4            79
Subtotal, Kulong Progo    6    24         145,407          275.6         528          216.4            79
Bantul                 5           III         4    14        98,696          130.0         759           68.1            52
II          I     1         9,323           11.1         840            4.5           41
Subtotal, Bantul            5    15       108,019          141.1         766           72.6            51
Sleman                 4           III         1     3        10,890           19.7         553           15.8            80
v           3     8        43,933           81.2         504           22.8           26
Subtotal, Slesan            4    11         54,823         106.9         513           38.6            36
Total D.lY.          26           III        17    82       440,500          797.5         552          535.8 /b         67 /b
II         6    50        237,063         701.3          338          573.2           82
V           3     8        43,933           87.2         504           22.8           26
TOTAL  D.I.Y.              26   140       721,496         1586.0         455         1131.9 /b         71 /b
/a Data are approximate only, based on first approximations of upland area for three villages in kecamatan
Playen, GI (50S upland area has been assumed for each)
/a Based on detailed data presented in Appendix 1, Pages 2-5.



- 41 -
I wkl                                  INDONISIA                                                                   APPINDIX I
YOGYAKART0  UPLAND ARIAEVHELOPNSNT PROJECT ( Bangun Desa I)                                            Page 2
Summary of Upland Village Data
Landforu                 Population   Land area   Population    Area >15%            %
I    lecamatan        Class         Desa        June 1989         k12         density      slope (kh2) Upland
,idul     Nglipar /a          III   Pengkol              5018            8.8         568             4.1           47
Redungpoh           5758          10.8          533            3.4            31
Natah               4395           8.0          551            2.9            36
Pilangrejo          3590           8.8          410            5.9            67
berteQu             3978           9.7          408            9.0            93
Watugajab           4648           8.0          584            6.3            19
Hargomulyo          7137          11.5          622            9.6            84
Sevin /a            III   Sesin                9126          12.0          759           11.5            96
Pundungsari         4356           7.3          598            6.1            84
larangsari          6381           9.4          680            7.2            77
Egawen              III   Kaapung              6857           8.8          777            3.4            38
Jurangiero          4610           8.1          566            4.2            51
Tegalrejo           6556          10.0          654            6.3            62
tancep              4587            5.0         912             1.9           38
Ponjong             III   Uabulrejo            6886          13.9          497            9.0            65
Sawahan             4956           9.7          509            5.1            53
Taubakroso          4071          11.4          356            7.3            63
Kenteng             3278           9.1          359            6.6            72
Susbergiri          5993          12.1          496            6.5            54
Ponjong             5465           6.3          872            2.1            33
Bedoyo              3817           9.9          386            8.8            89
larangases          2670           7.9          337            6.0            75
Sidorejo            8667          13.2          659            4.5            34
Gonbang             2876           6.4          449            4.1            63
Patuk               III   Salam                2416           5.2          464            3.7            71
Sesoyo              2216           5.8          385            4.8            84
Penook              3023           4.6          659            2.2            48
Beji                2478           7.4          334            5.2            70
Bunder              2698           9.8          275            6.7            68
Putat               3112           7.2          434            4.2            59
Nglanggeran         2088           7.6          274            6.5            85
Ngoro-oro           3268           7.5          433            5 4            72
Terbah              2410           5.9          408            4.4            74
Serut               4782           8.6          557            7.6            88
Sanpang             3048           5.6          549            3.8            69
Nglegi              3172          10.0          317            8.3            83
Ngalang             6687          14.8          452            8.7            58
Patuk               2254           2.9          775            0.9            29
Playen              III   Igleri               3218           9.9          326            4.9 /b         50 /b
Banyu Soco          6022          20.4          296           10.2 /b         50 /b
Gading              6939          13.1          529            6.6 /b         50 /b
par and Semin kecamatans bave been prioritized for the first year of operation.
reation re upland area still awaited: as a first approximation, it has been assumed that each village ha6
upland area.



- 42 -
Sumuary of Upland Village Data                                                             aPie 3
Landform                 Population   Land area   Population    Area >15             S
Class         Desa        June 1989         km2         density      slope (kW2) Upland
II    Giripanggung        6716           20.4         330            15.7            77
Sumberuungu         6840          18.3          374           13.3            73
Bargosari           5279          11.0          480            8.1            74
leairi              4669          11.3          415            7.6            68
Kemadang            5774          19.3          299           13.2            68
Banjarej o          5487          16.7          330           11.1            67
Nteatirejo          5102          13.5          379            9.2            68
Sidoharjo           6366          16.0          397            9.4            59
Tepus               8373          28.6          293           21.6            76
Puruodadi           7859          21.7          362           16.7            77
l1   larangduwet          6282           17.4         360             6.2            36
larangases          6533          12.7          515            6.3            49
hulusan             4405           7.8          565            3.0            39
Nonggol             4402           9.7          455            8.0            83
Giring              2916          10.1          288            7.0            69
Planjan             5736          12.5          460            9.9            80
Kanigoro            5523          24.9          222           21.4            86
Kepek               5523           9.8          563            8.1            82
Jetis               4485           8.9          506            7.8            88
Kraubilsavit        5081          14.8          344           12.7            86
.gloro              2781           7.3          380            6.0            82
11    GiriUati            2138            7.7         279             6.7           88
Giricabjo           4124          16.4          252           16.2            99
Giriasih            1637            8.4         194            7.8            93
Giritirto           3807          12.1          316           12.1           100
GiribarJo           3235          11.4          285           11.4           100
Giripurwo           8361          27.3          307           26.9            99
Glrivungu           2380          11.2          212           11.0            98
Girisoka            6031          25.8          233           24.8            96
Girikarto           3720          13.9          267           13.9           100
Girisekar           7029          21.2          332           20.5            97
II    Pucanganom          3648           13.5         270            13.5          100
Petir               3922          10.6          370           10.5            99
Semugib             4679          11.5          408           11.3            99
laranguoni          3522           9.0          390            9.0            99
Helikan             3457          10.6          326           10.5            98
Pringosbo           3718          10.2          364           10.1            99
Botodayakan         4994          12.9          389           12.8            99
Bohol               1414           5.2          273            5.2           100
Rglindur            2443           7 2          341            7.2           100
Jerokvudel          1806           6.2          292            6.2           100
Pucung              3392          14.4          235           14.1            98
Songbanyu           3531          15.8          223           15.8           100
Tileng              4294          17.0          253           17.0           100
Karangawen          1777           6.3          282            6.3           100
Jepite              4226          16.7          253           16.7           100
Balong              3817          10.9          349           10.8            99
II    Candirejo           7242           22.0         329             8.4            38
Dadapayu            7264          22.4          324            9.8            44



- 43 -
Susmary of Upland Village Data                                                              Age 4
Landfore                 Population   Land area   Po ulation    Area )15%          S
labupaten         lecauatan        Class         Desa        June 1989        kb2         Lesity       slope (ku2) Upland
lulon Progo       Kalibauang /a       III   Ban  aroyo           8588          16.8         511            14.9           89
Bani aarjo         7534           12.3         611            8.0            65
Ban asar           6066           11.4         531            8.2            72
Samigalub /a       III   Sidohadjo            5355          13.8          389           12.2           89
Gerbosari          5118           10.8         475            10.7           99
Ngargosari         4007            7.2         553            7.0            97
Pagerharjo         5184           11.4         454            11.4          100
PBanjarbsartt      53953          17465                         5
leboahario         28          1               381            7:            1 0
Purvobarjo         4186           10 1                        9.7            96
Jatinulo          7989           16.3         410           1 .6            96
Purvosari          5422           13.7         397           10.0            73
lokap               III   Hargorejo           9674          15.4          627           10.9           71
Bargonuijo         8639           15.2         568            7.3            48
Kail reio          6075           13.0         469           11.2            86
largotirto         8052           14.7         547           12.8            B7
largovilis         7126           15.5         461           15.1            98
Pengasib            III   Karangeari          9335          11.7          798            4.3           36
largosari          5227            5.3         979             1.5           27
Sidoaulyo          5477           14.9         367           11.4            76
?elon               III   Kulur               3103           2.8         1108            0.8           30
Temon Wetan         1723           2.2         773             1.0           44
Dhotel            IWWg1ri /b          III   Selopaaioro         11770          22.8         517            14.7           65
larangtengah       4191            2.9        1455             1.1           37
Girirejo           4051            3.2        1250             1.5           47
Wukiruari         12964           15.4         842            8.6            56
Pleret              III   Dawuran             4754           5.0         957             2.3           45
Segoro1oso         5375            4.9        1104             1.9           38
Wonole o           3652            4.5         804            2.8            62
PilyugaD            III   Sri bulyo          13374          14.6          919            4.3           29
Sri Bartani       10521            8.6        1226            3.3            39
/a  lalibavang and Sasigalub lecamatans have been prioritised for the first year of operation.
/b Iogiri lecamatan has been prioritized for the first year of operation.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(uBangun Desa II")
Proiect-Assisted Training Activities
Table 1:     Detailed Cost Estimates (5 pages)
Table 2:     Summary Analysis of Participation (1 page)
Table 3:     Detailed Analysis of Participation (5 pages)



train4.v1l                                                              YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PAWSUN DESA 11)                                            AVIe 2
22.3.90                                                                                                                                                                        Table 1
Detailed Cost Estimates Project-assisted Training Activities                                      Page I
Course   No. of            unit        Source of                                                                   Estiwated
COMPONENT, Course type, (and                   Duration Particip-    Definition          Unit       Physical Ruantity (No. Units)       Total No.         Unit    Total Cost
Participant Category)                       (days)   ants/course                   Projections----------------------------   -------------          Cost
(Annex 1)   1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995  Courses Partpts.  Rp000   Rp mill  US$000
1.  COMITY MODILISATION
1.1  Nicrowatershed Planning (KKLKID)              6         20 11 course
per dusun)
6unung Kidul                                                      Dusun courses  Table 10(b)               6    8   1Q    15         41        820
Kulon Progo                                                                                           2    2   12    2       6       24        480
Bantul                                                              *      *         *                1    2    Q    1       1       14        280
Sleuan                                                              *       *        '                           1    2               3         69  Iver
coursel
82      1640  2.400    196.8    109.6
1.1  Microutersbed Activity 6roup                   2        10 (1 course
fobilisation (Dusun cadre A                      per group)
1'sbed.Act.6p. leaders)
61lwng kidul                                                      lI'sked Act.6t.  Table 9            2    8   12   30   115        167       1670
Kulon Progo                                                          '    '         '    '            2    4   16   30  115         167       1670
9antul                                                                                                I              3   12   24    92  132   1320
Sleun                                                                                                            5    6    23        34        340  (per
---     ---   course!
500      50       400      200    111.4
1.1  Follow-up 'raininglextension visits            5 (5 visits   10
per year)
6unung Kidul                                                      Dusun           Table lOc)         2    B   16   26    41         93        930
Kulon Progo p                                                                                         2    4   16   18    24         64        64o
Bantul                                                                                     *          1    3   12   13    14         43        430  (per
Slesan                                                              *                *    *                      1    3      3        7         70 dusun per
--year)
207      207?    250    51.75       28.8
1.2  Project Planning I Managewnt (LICMDs)              6          20
Sununu Vidul                                                      Desa            Table 6tal         10   14   35   31               90        900
KlulonProgo                                                         *                                 10    9    3    2              24        240
B0ntbl                        -                                     *                                 4    5    5    1               15        150
Sluan n                                                                              *                4    5    2                     11       1;O  (per
-   --   course)
1.2  Biokekping (KKILKD representatives)                6          10                                                                         140       1400  2.400       336    187.2
1umi Kidul                                                        Desa            Table 6'a)         10   14   35   31                90       900
KIbl Progo                                                                                           10    9    3    2                24       240
Det.l                                                               *                                 4    5    5    1                15       150
SICSMI                                                                               ' 5              4    5    2                     11        llQ  per
-- course)
140      1400  1.200       168      93.6
COM60   T I Sub-totals                                                                                                             1069      11510              953    530.7



trainl4.el SrYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELDPEIINT PROJECT (BAMSU  DESA III                                                                                                            hIEl 2
22.3.90                                                                                                                                                                            Table I
DetaiJed Cost Estimates Project-Assisted Training Activities                                        Pae 2
Course   No. ot             Unit        Source of                                                                     Estimated
COMPlIENT. Course type, (and                     Duration Particip-    Definition          Unit       Physical Quantity (INo. Unitsn        Total No.        Unit    Total Cost
Participant Category)                        (days)   ants/course                    Projections        C----- --------------                         Crst  -----------------
(Annex I'   1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 I45  Corses Partpts.  Dp00             Pp mill  US40000
2.  SLOPE STA8ILISATION TECHINICAL SERVICES
2.1  Microutersted Orientation Course tPLPs)            10       Variable
6unung Pidul                                                       PLP              Table 11            2    6    0   10    15         n.a.        41
KUIon PropD*                                                                                            2    2   12    2       6       P.a.        24
BaKtul                                                              !                                   1    2    e    I        I      n.a.        14
Slewn                                                                                                               1    2             n.a.         3
8:    5'0        41      T3.6
2.1  Nicromatershed Orientation, Refresher (PLP '3 days/yr  Variable
Sunung Kidul                                                       PLP              Table 11                  0   l,   26    41        v.a.
UnIon Progo                                                                                                   4   16   18      4       rn4
Bastal                                                                                                        -   12           it      v.a.        U:
Seantu                                                                                                                   3     3       n.a.         7
072   150       30.3      54.4
2.2  Micronatershed Orientation Course IPPLsl           10       Variable
Sunung Kidul                                                        PpL             Table 12             2    6    0   10    15        n.a.        41
Ktlon Propg                                                                                              2    2   12    2       6       ,.a.       24
6antul                                                                                     *             1    2    Q    I      I       n.a.        14
Sleman                                                               *                                              1    2             n.a.
02   5T         41      73.6
2.2  Microwatershed Orientation. RefresherlPPtLs  3 daysivr  Variable
ounwg KUdul                                                        PPL              Table 12                  8   16   26    41        v.a.        91
Kunon Progo                                                                              *                    4   16   18    24        n.a.        62
Batul                                                                           *                             2*  12   13    14        n.a.        *2
Slemsn                                                                                   .I 1                                   3      v.a.
2.2  Nursery Manageent IfFLsI                            10      Variable                                                                                   I 2    150      30.1      54.4                                              4
Kunag Kidul                                                        PPC              Table 12                  a    8   10    15        n.a.        41                                                                         0'
BnIuo  Proo                                                                           *                       4   12    2      6       n.a.        24
lt ntrl                                                              *                *                       3    9    1       1      r,.a.       14
Slen                                                                                        *                       1    2             s.a.
82    500        01      73.6
2.2  Nurry Ummymmeet, Refresher IPPts)               2 days/Jr  Variable
6me; tide)                                                         PPL              Table 12                  0   16   26    41        n.a.        91
Kulen Proip                                                                                                   4   16   10    24        n.a.        62
Intel                                                                                 *                       3   12   13    14        n.a.        42
Slown                                                                                    *                          I    3      3      n a.          7
202    100      20.2      36.;
2.3  'ricroNatershed Orientation (Kabupaten UDST)    10               4
lune"e   idul                                                      UDST stall                                       4                     1         4
Kalon Progo                                                                                                        4                                4
Dental                                                                                                             4                     1          4
3        12    5Qo          6      10.8
2.4  Technology henu Display IPPUPs and PPSs)             5    Variable
6ununa Kidul                                                       PPUPs  PPSs                           2    6    0    6       2      n.a.        24
Kulnm Progo                                                               *                              2    6    4   10       2      n.a.        24
Ibstal                                                                       *                           1    3    4    2              n.a.        10
Slean                                                                       *                            1    3    4    2              n.a.        10
68    250        17      30.5
2.4  Tecbnology Menu Display Management )PMPs)           S    Variable
Sunung Kidul                                                       PiPs                                  2    2    1                   n.a.         5
Kulon Progo                                                                                              2    1    1    I              n.a.          S
Bintul                                                                                                   2    1          1             P.a.         4
Slenm                                                                                                    2    1          I             n.a.          4
18    250       4.5       8.1
2.4  Iecbnologn mm  hDisplay Workshop IPPUPs.            3          40       'orkshop                                   I    I    I       1        4        1fO   5OO          20     11.1
COWOIENT 2 Sub-totals                                                                                                                     7      1110             2S1.3    426.3



train4.PkIt                                                                YO6YAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELDrlENT PROJECT IBAN6UN DESA 1)                                                 ANNEI 2
22.3 l90                                                                                                                                                                              Tablr I
Detailed Cost Estimates Project-Assisted Training Activities                                          Pa'3
Course   No. of              Unit        Source of                                                                      Estimaten
COICONENT, Course type, (and                     Duration Particip-    Definition            Unit       Physical guantity (ND. Units)         Total No.         Unit    Total CDst
Participant Category)                        (days)   antsicourse                     Projections------------------------------- ----------                Cost  ------------------
(Annei 1)   1990 1991 1992 1993 1594 IQ5  Courses Partots.  Rp0o0   Pp  ill  USS000
3.  RURAL ROADS AND BRIDGES
3.0  Village Road Sang Leadership (approx. 3              3          40
village leaders per desa)
6unung Pru                                                          Participants   Table 6               30   42  105   93                  7        270   12.5        3.4       1.9
KulI  Prgo30   27    9    6                                                                                                                 2         72   12.5        0.9       0.5
Bantul                                                                                                   12   15   15    3                  1         45   12.5        0.6       0.3
Sleman                                                                 *                                 12   15    6                       1         33   12.5        0.4       0.2
3.0  Road Project lIplementatior (PU Ttl                  7          40                                                                              11        4:'
supervisory staff)
6unung Vidul                                                        Staff                                20    7    7    7                1.0         41    210          9       4.8
Kulon Progo                                                                                               16    4    3                    0.7         26    210           5      3.0
Bantul                                                                 *                                  16    3    4    3               Q.7         26    210          5       3.0
Sleean                                                                                                    16    3    3    4               0.7         26    210                  3.0
I.0        119                25      13.*
COMIPONENT 3 Sub-totals                                                                                                                    13        539                30      16.8
5.  COMMUNITY DEVELDPMENT TRAINING AND SUPPORT
5.1  Community Organising IKecatatan staff)                3          10       Kecamatan        Table 3              6    6    6    6                26        260    600         16       8.7
(per course)
5.1  Commnity Organisina Refresher                         I          10       Kecamatan        Table 3                   6    B    6       6        26        260    '?2           5      2.9
(Kecamatan staf )                                                                     Istaggered)                                                           et course)
5.1  Community Organising (Key LKMD & KKLKMD               3          10       Dusun            Table lOlal          5   10   30   15    22          82        820    600          49     27.4
staff Plus dusun cadrp)(targetted at                                                                                                                      (per caursel
dusuns involved in 1 watershed devt.)
5.1  *Potensi ksa' Survey Methodology (Kabu-               2          15       Kabupaten                             4                                4          60    600          2       1.3
pates & W taat   staff)                                                                                                                                   (per course)
5.1  *Potensi Desa Survey Conduct (LKMD staff)             2          10       Desa (2 part-  Table 6(a)            2B   33   45   34               140         280    400         56      31.2
icipants/desa)                                                                      (per course)
5.1  Data Processing (Kabupaten and provincial            30          10       Course                                      I                           1         10 15.000         15       8.4
Staff)                                                                                                                                                    (per course)
COIIPONEPT 5 Sub-totals                                                                                                                   279        1690               143     79.9



ttael.Otl                                                             SYM1AK4B4 UPLAOD ARE4 DE9ELINE1T PRWEtT  AUM    DES4 1i)                                             IIIE 2
22.3.90                                                                   Detailed Cost Estimatn Project-Assisted Training kctivitis                                      Table I
Course  lio. Of            unit       Source of                                                                 IstiXt
COMPlIIt, Cwrs type, (and                     Duration Partico-    Definition          Wit       Pbysical Oeantity (No. Units)    Total No.          Unit   Total Cest
Particiwnt Category                       (days)   antsucoure                   Precttims ----------------- ------------- --------------         tost  ---------------
I4nne  1)  1990 1991 1992 1993 l191 195  Courses PartDts.  RDO00   Re sill  05000
7. IIOVIIIIb. Mlil, COIN. t SUPPONI
7.2.3 ltchoical essintace
Training swialist - lotal                   n.e.     n.a.      Persolmth                      2                                n.S.    A.m.      8975       1S     10.0
Trainiog scialist - ItnIl                   n.A. a    .n.      Person/year                         3                           n.a.    n..          251'0   n      42.0
93     52.0
7.4.1 Creristi  tovarh s                            n.a.     r.a
t_tet  thc                                                     Unit                                I                           n..      w       3 500        4       1.S
Catrctt Prject Training Officer /a                             Persoyear                           1    I    I    I      I     n.a.   n. a.   6000         330    167.1
Sb rt Staff                                                     Pern/year                          1    2    2    2      2     n.a.    n.a.       4S0        4       2.4
309    171.5
7.4.1 Irduua    prtW  D Ogsin lb                      n ..    n.a.
Dtailed Planing for first year /c                               t.   ,                                                         n..    D.a.    15440          15      9.c
fficrouatershed Orlentation Corss /d                            Course                             2    2    I                          f.a.    n,.  5'      25     :;.
Naul _agmt  Courss                                                 *                               2                            n.a.    n.a.     500         10      5.6
TKh  m          Display Coursa le                                  *                               2                           n.a.    n.e.      5000        10      5.6
Villae Sriou  Leadership course                                    *I                                                           Qo.     n..      5000         5      2.9
ee project lmpleetation Coarse                                     *                                I                          n.a.    n.a.      5000         5      2.8
PP Planing Nethodology course /f                                   *                                1                           na.    n.j.       5000        5      2.9
ProjKt hiagmnt Training Courses /g                                 *                               2    2    2    2      7      n.a.    n.a.     5000        50     27.9
fcal t Cosres lb                                                                                   2    2    2    2      2      n.a.    n.a.     5000        50     27.9
1 4Na nt Iafo-eation Systee Course                                 *                                     I         I            n.a.    n..      5000        10      5.6
Coputew applications                                                                                                            n                5000         5      i .
190    106.1
7.4.2 PIP P3imm   Itooloe  /f                          6          20
Provincial,    ts   /ob      i                                  Participant                        10   10                         1        20    300         6      3.3
ae tines staff Ii                                        *                             5    5                       0.5         10    300         3      i.7
aopaten,            Ap.ofice  j                                                       .                 40                         2        40    390        12      6.7
.. re t ey ihals stff /Jj                                                                  40                          2        40    300        12      6.7
7.4.2 Pnjst lw_t trungu                                13         20rOD
Provincil, iin b            /i*                                                                         20   20   20    20         4        E0    650        52     29.0
Key Dia staff ii                                                                           10   10   10    10          2        40    oso        26     14.5 S
Kieptem,  .wITEuIRh.Ofice It                                                                            40   40   40   40          a        160    650      104     57.9
lily finae  staff /n                                                                       40   40   40    40         8        160    650       104     57.9
7.4.2 itber SP cal  ose  /h                         Veriable   Variable
minil,  lWE /hbset li                    lan. 13)    lav.10)          '                                      10   10    10         3        30    650      19.5      10.9
e  limos staff  i*                                                                                5    5     5       1.5        15    650      9.75      5.4
Kahpetam, WlflAJDee.office TI                                                                                20   20    20         6        60    650        39      21.7
y Dms staff l                                                                                    20   20    20         6        60    650        39     21.7
7.4.3 l_t xttite Sytem                                 6         20
PVUint IC,DWPUAIh              i                                                                        20        20               2         40    300       12       6.7
e lines *staff /i                                        .                                  10        10               1        20    300         6      3 3
tabupaten,  IWPIDA/epe.1ftce /j                                                                         40        40               4         s0    300       24      13.4
e Pleast  atff i0                                        *                                  40        40               4        B0    300        24     13.4
7.t.3 C_ompte  apllcutiom                              30      Variale
Previecial,lAPPIIAIhleeb  Ii                                                                            10   10                   n.a       20    500        10       5.6
*terylieesstaff li                                                                           5    5                   n.c       10    500         5      2.8
Kabuate,  lIlIhiA poffice lj                                          *                                  I 8 E           9        n.a       32    500        16      8.9
Kel Dima$  tafflI                                        *                                     8       @     8        n.e       32    500        16      8.9
UENlT 7 Sub-totals                                                                                                                55     1,029            1.132    630.0
Is Fmll-tiw  private contract Train  Specialist
lb traisiag Prem desi   to le vadertab    by eristing govrnmnt trinirg istitutions, USls, and/or unaniersites. Nortking agreemnts/contracts muld be rneotiated and
mitored by tbe contracted Projtct Training  ftticer. Unit costs bonn are indicative only. tbey are based on an avere of 6 staff weks of profesional tin
required to deign a tpical course. tourr   to be provided by  ANKSES ould use existing training materials, and/or be diseloed by technical assistne.
IC      proposed in tmn 7 of Feb. 1990 Appraisal lission Aide-Nesoire. Estimate includes 6 wets of lcal training consultant tiee. 6  ets of local staff time. 3 ratuw
JktlTog airfare, and uterz.ls/puoblcations costs.
2d2 courses 11 initial and I refresher  tfor PLPs, 2 course  for Pns: and one course for (buopaten UDST staff (in Ml
re bOe course for PfPUs d PPSs and I course for hs
/f Training of provincial and tabuptttn staff from 8PPE.DA  Sebmilds, and be dineses in annual and aediui-term  Planning methodologies. Courses moid utilise materials
md traini fro the USAID-supported Provincial Deelopmnt Program  (PIP) projects
/9 Variou  short course, awrgg 2 unes in duration  covering projtct financial mnaent. monitering and evaluation. staff suovision stills. evironmntel
analyis, irnstitutional capity analysis, etc. Staff mould receive one  such course  tab year.
Ib ISeialised courses ir scth subjects as fminnial n     aaan t, eniroumntntl iact assessent, research methodoloes  report writing, office  anagmnt. English,
etc. for relevat staff. kctual cours  lengths  ould vary.
Iit R M   txl  ai  and sebsi heads; ke   APPEDA secretariate staff; key staff from bover n s Seretaro ate; hey staff fro  DAES Tkl, Dines Pertanian Tk 1,  hNiS,
PD Tb! San ^IT.
Ii ElfiN  It viang   sebsi  eads  key WPEDA sertariate staff  key  erupatis office staff: plus tny staff fro  P.U. Tkil, IIDES 7611. SSUT, Siwrt t11. BIS A DPs.
Staff 1n  im  It, plus  ey staff fro  releant agnie  (aWoN. 101



trainM4.&,                                                          YO9TMKrf UPtLAD AREA DEVELIPEINT PROECT (BIU            DESA 11)                                    UINEI 2
22.3.90                                                                                                                                                                Table I
Detailed Cost Estinates Project-Assisted Training ktivities                                   Page 5
Course   No. of           Unit        Source of                                                                Estimated
CPFINENT, Course type, (and                  Duration Particip-    Definition        Unit      Physical huantity (No. Units)      Total No.        Unit   Total Cost
Participant Category)                    Idays)   ants/course                  Projections--------                                            Cost ------------------
fAnnex 1)   190 1991 192 193 1994 1995  Courses Partpts.  Rp000   Rp sil 11US 000
9.   EA DIELPFEU1 PLAIIN6 & SUPPORT
9.3 INen Rnource D"elopant Overheads                n.a.       n.a.
Training Speciast (Locl)                                       Person/month                       6                         n..       n.m.     8975       54      30.0
Administration                                                 Luspue                             I    I    I    I      I   n.a.      n..    15000        75      41.8
129     71.8
9.3 Rgional Dvelomt and Planning                     30          20      Persons                           20   20                         2        40   2250       90      50.1
9.3 Public Policy Evaluation an  Planning            14         20       Persens                           20   10                        2         30   1050       32      17.5
9.3  Policy Studies on Poverty Alleviation           30         20       Persons                           20        10                 1.5         30   2250       68     37.6
9.3  City Planning and Urban Affairs                 21          30      Persons                                20   20                  1.3        40   1575       63      35.1
9.3 Area Selection and Identification Systes         14          20      Persons                                20                         1        20   1050       21      11.7
9.3  Environmntal ProtKction and  anagement          10          30                                             20   20                  1.3        40    750       30      16.7
9.3  Project Design Ad Evaluation                    14          30      Persons                                20   10                  1.5        30   1050       32      17.5
9.3 Project  naemnt Systm                            14          30      Persons                                20   10                  1.5        30   1050       32      17.5
9.3 NIS Training                                     14          20      Persons                                20   20                    2        40   1050       42      23.4
9.3 Administratio  Planing ad OWrations              14          20      Persons                                20                         1        20   1050        21     11.7
9.3 Lan d e ad Z.img                              Variable        6                                              6                      n.a.         6   5400        30     16.7
9.3 Decentraiistion                               Variable        6                                                   6                 n.a.         b   5000        30     16.7
9.3 Staff Field Second ent                            too         1                                              2    2                    4         4   3000        12      6.7
CHOII 9 htotals                                                                                                               19.2       336              630    350.9
6RID TOTAL, ALL CWO      S                                                                                                       : 1443  16214          3,138  2,034.6
Note: Total Participants iludes double-
counted refreosr course participants



train4.klI                                                               YO6TAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPltENT PROJECT IDANSUN DESA Ill                A M XE  2
Table 2
Summary Analysis ot Participation in Project-assisted Training
Village             4o. of Participants, by category linitial courses only)
-------                 ----------------------------------        TOTAL
Lead agency and type                       leaders &                   Kabupaten                              Provincial      National    ------------------
of trainmng                               farmers   BINAS   SBRLKIT             Key Dinas    BAPPi/Bup    Key   BAPPEDAi    BRMW0D            N       17
Dinases 6ubsei
NDWES IlK 11)
Planning I flanage m  t                      1400                                                                                            1400
Community development                        6400                                                                                            6400
Sub-total                            7800                                                                                            7800         68
B111DS (ITl)
Comtunity Organising                          1080                                                                                           1080
Potensi Desa  Surveys                         280                                      60                                                     ;40
Data processing                                                                          a                      2                               10
Subtotal                             1360                                       69                     2                             1430         12
PUBLIC  MORNS T  11
Villae Road 6ang Leadership                     420                                                                                             420
Road Project loplewntation                                                               119                                                    119
Subtotal                                    420                                     119                                                     539          5
APED  TlK I
Technical                                                250            85               9                                                     344
Planning I Nlnageant                                                                   260         *260        65        130                   715
HIS and Computer                                                                       112         112         30         60                   314
Subtotal                                              250            85             381         372        9q         190                  1313         12
Technical                                                                                                                             106       106
Planning & Hanagemnt                                                                                                                   190      190
H.I.S. iComputer                                                                                                                       40        40
Subtotal                                                                                                                          336       336          3
TOTAL                                      9580       250            85             569         372         97        190         336    11478         100
Total village leaders and firmers                                                                                                          9580         83
Agency staff, Kabupaten                                                                                                          1275
, Provincial                                                                                                         287
National                                                                                                           33       1
Total                                                                                                                       198          17



train4.wnl                                                                             YD6Y1KMRIA UPLAND REA KEVELOPtlENT PtRWECT (PANSIN DES4 III                                                                             AII     2
2Z2..90                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -able 
Detailed Analyi;s of Participation in Project-assisted Training                                                                            Page 1
Uo. of participants, bG typeCof traailng            No. of participants, by categorylnitiial cours- onlyl                                  la. Po rticic rtsm by st
COMMIT. Course type, /antd                     Technical       Planning II. . S     ot onIty Dest.         Village         Fabupaten agency staff          Frovincill staff    National       respsmzbiJity, zniTia *Dur9t s only
Participant Category)                   --      -----------I tlgt. Coeputer ------------------        leaders 1       -     --------------         -  ----------              Staff
Initial  Follow-up                   foxtial  Follow-up        (arseros   PNS   SBPLKT  Key DlnasBAnPIBup.  teyDmnasBhPlStbsek  19A152A1           BOW15S   PU   bOA   Tki    b34
1. COIUMITY 3DILIS4TION
1.1  Nicrowaterhed Planning (KKLfDl)                                                      1640                    1640                                                                                160
6unung tidul
Solon Progo
Bantul
Slan
1.1  litrwatersW   ktivity 6roup                                                          5000                    5000 
obilisat ion IDusun cadre I
IIsbed.kt.6p. leaders)
Snung Kidul
talon Prpgo
amntul
Slaun
11 Follow-up trainingittension visits                                                              2070
6eung Kidul
Xalon Propo
bntul
Sinn
1.2  PrOJKt Pluife I inaeem et tL..ADsI                                 1400                                      1400                                                                                1400
Gm" tidul
lim Prop
Banthl
Slin
1.2  bootteepieg (111 represntatinesl                                                      1400                    1400                                                                               1400
l idol
tulen Prope
Sltun
CCIV(llEIIT I Sub-totals                                      1.400             6.400    2,070          7,600                                                                               7,800



trail.l&1                                                                               YOGtYWRIA IPLAD PREA PEVELD'IET PAJEtl  B16   DESA IlI                                                                                     E  2
22.3.90                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Table S
Detailed Analysis of Participation in Project-assisted Training                                                                            Page 2
No. of participants, by type of training            No. of participants, by categoryf initial courses only)                                Ih. Participit, by t gt.
Cl TEUT, Courh type, (and                       Technical      Planing 11.1..    Community Devt.            Village        Itaupatn agency staff            Provincial staff    Rational      responsibility, initial co rs snl
Partics t Category                      ------- ---------  & gt.  Copter -----------                 leaders         ------- -                                               Staff
aInitial  Follorop                   Initial  FolIos-up       farmers   AlIAS   SBPLKT  fey DAnasPPPnup.  KeyDinasW/ubet  (IBAI                    BoomDES   PU    BtPP Tl   NM
2. 9WPE STAIILISATION TECtICAL SERVICES
2.1  licroatersted  rientation Course IBLPsl           82                                                                               82                                                                                  82
8e1en  Kidal
ulon Progo
2.1  Wicrosat         D rientation, Refresher IPLPs1           202
KStlo Prop
festal
Slwn
2.2  Nicraterds   Orientatdi  Course IPPL.              82                                                                   Q2
Ensn Diuel
Soloe Prep
Slin
2.2  Pdcrates     Orientation. Rifrieshr(Pftsl                 202
KIs. Prop
* antul
lital
Slow
2.2   irsey      =|t IPPls                            82                                                                     32
SWl" Prep
Slmm
s1m
2.2  gw    w            smtq b1resbr 11111.                     202
2.3  licratr        Oriestatim  (Dlsoaten UDST         12                                                                                3        9                                                                         12
Omen Kibi
sbl Prop
bob)
2.4  Tecbolop Nine lisplay  PnP  and PPSsI             68                                                                      18                                                                                           he
Colon Prep
Slema
2.4  Technology Nos  Display Ranagsemet (PNPs)         19                                                                      is                                                                                           1
AnIon Prop
2.4   ecKkol   Ne  lsplay "lorshop IPPPs,                      160
11T 2 SeW-totals                            34        768                                                           250       es         9                                                                       3so



traia.lI                                                                            tSiDAKARTA WIMID AREA DEELPIINI PROECT  UmI  OESA II)                                                                              MM  2
22.3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tabil 3
utailed  ulysis of Participation in Proijct-assisted TraIung                                                                         Pan  3I
No. of partitipants, by tip of training           No. of partinppats, y tateorWyinitil cotrt  only)                                  lb  Participants   y at.
C SIN. Courw type, land                       Technical      Plmnnng RII.S. I  Coamity Dent.           Village        Kabapaltn agent  staff         ProVnIal staff    latiol         rponsibility, 1s1ti8  cutose  oaly
Participnt Category                        --------- -    gt. Coeapter -----------------          leaders &------                     ----------- ---------------      Stafl
3. M         ROAS   D s  ES                     Initial Followup                    Initial  Follot-up     lfarers  BIARS   SIRUCT  Key DinasBAPPup. XqvD1insllGubsek  (soft)                  S$S   PU        IPP Tkl  BP"
3.0 Village Rod Bag Leadership (appON. 3            420                                                        420                                                                                      420
villa"  leaders per deua
lulon Prays
slemas
3.0  IbWd Projett laPlmtation IPU tll               119                                                                                   119                                                            119
sopersisory staff)I
turn> Prop
bntul
191110  3 Sob-totals                       539                                                        420                        119                                                            539
5. COURITY KDELOPlET TININGS RD SIRPIRT
5.1  Commity Orgaisiug (teaatan staffl                                                  260                                                        260                                         260
5.1  Co_mlty kpaesin   Refrstther                                                                260
11aatba  statl)
5.1  Commenit; llrvisiag (Key 1      & *InK                                             on                     820
saf tP I" sm cdre)(tarntted at
his  inolmd in Heatershd dnt.)
5.1 -     _-eAnd he. Survey Rothedology (rabo-                                           60                                                60                                                   60
Pta I hKmtta stiff)
5.1   -tu,I he' Strvey Conduwt (LI  staff)                                              2a0                    290                                                                             290
5.1 hot prosia  (Kabkpatue and provincial                                       10                                                          3                  2                                10
COIlIIT 5 Sub-totals                                                   10    1420       260          1100                         68      260         2                               1430



tra2 n4.m1 t"6YARARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPUENT PROJECT (BANAN  DESA 11)                                                                                                                                                               AMEX 2
22.3.90                                                                               Detailed Analysis of Participation in Project-assisted Training                                                                                Table 3
Page 4
No. cf participants, by type of training             No. at participants. by cateqory(isitial courses only)                                   Io. Participants  by qt.
CIUW T, Course type, land                        Technical       Plannng I.I. S.    Community Divt.           Village         Kabupaten agency staff           Provincial staff    National       responsibility, inital courses only
Par'icipant Category)                    ---------- I Pgt.  Compster ----------                          leaders                               -----    ------- - - - -           Staff
7. PRDtVIlCKIAL PLANING.ill  WORD. I suP r         Initial  Follow-up                     Initial  Follow-up       farmses   BIMWS   SBMRLT  Kev DinassAPPLup.  eytinasAPstWubsek  IBDASDAI               BatSDES   PU    BAPP Til   ROM1005
7.2.3 Ttchnical assistancr
Training specialist - local
Training specialist - Int'l
7.4.1 Coordinoation verhelads
Coo  ter eurchase
Contract Proect Training Officer /a
Support Staff
7.4.1 Training Progras Design lb
Detaileo Planning for first year /c
ficromatershed Orientation Courses /d
Nurserry Managewent Courses
Technology Plenu Display Courses le
Village Rad Sang Leadership course
Road Project Implemntation Course
PIP Planning Methodologs course /f
Project lanagement Training Courses Ig
Special COUTSeS lb
Itanagtent Information System Courses
Comnutyr applications
7.4.2 PUP Planning Methoodol y /f
P'ovincial. BPPPED/Subseb 'I                                      20                                                                                                     20                                            20
Key Dinas staff Ii                                   Io                                                                                           10                                                      10
Kabupaten, BAPPEDA/Bup.office 1/                                  45                                                                                at
Key Dinas staff iJ                                   40                                                                       40                                                                          40
7.4.2 Project tatagent Training /
Provincial, BAPPED416ubseh  It                                    Bo                                                                                                     8                                             so
Ke  Dias staff ii                                    40                                                                                           40                                                      40
Kabopaten.  DAPEDPup.office /k                                   160                                                                               160                                                                160
Key Dinas staff 1k                                  160                                                                      160                                                                         160
7.4.2 Other Spcial Courses /h
Provincial, DAPEDALPubsek Li                                      30                                                                                                     30                                            30
Key Dinas staff Ii                                   is                                                                                           15                                                      15
thats,  PAPPEDA/Sup.office /i                                     60                                                                                 60                                                                60
Key ulnas staff /1                                   60                                                                       60                                                                          60
J.4.3 1|mp     t Infcrmation Systm
tmtncial, BllPDR/Subsek II                                                  40                                                                                           40                                            40
Key Dmnas staff 1i                                             20 2^                                                                                                                                      20
Kabd  ten,  BAPPEPAtB9p.office Ii                                          80                                                                       el                                                                 so
Key DOmas staff ;J                                             DO                                                             so                                                                          DO
7.4.3 Computer applications
Provincial. BPPED4/ubset it                                                 20                                                                                           20                                            20
K      snan  staff II                                          10                                                                                 10                                                      1f
Eabopaten.  WPEDA/Dip.o1fice 1J                                             32                                                                       12                                                                S2
Key Divas staff Ij                                             32                                                             32                                                                          32
COWFIIET 7 Sib-totals                                            715       314                                                            372      372         95       190                                          1029
Is Full-time private contract Training SpecilAist
tb Training program desifn tD be undertaken by existing government training institutions. NOs. and/or ueiversities. boring agreetents/contracts mould be neoctiated an
monitored hb  the con rActed Project Training Officer. Unit costs show  are indicative only. They are based on an average ot 6 staff wtes of profestional tine
regUired to design a typical course. Courses to be p,ovided by BtlNDES would use existing training taterials. and/or be developed by technical assistance.
/c As proposed in Annex 7 of Feb. 1990 Appraisal Missinr Aide-flNoire. Estimate includes 6 meks of local training consultant tise, 6 weeks of local staff time, 3 return
Jtt/tog airfares, and eaterials'pubilicaticns costs.
/d 2 courses I1 initial and I refres,er) for PLPs' 2 courses for PPLs; and one course for Fabupaten UDST staff (in PY31
le One course for PPUPs I PPSs  and I course for hPs
/f Training of provincial and abuPaten staff from DAPPEDA, Seimilda, and key dinases is annual and medium-tere planning mthodologies. Courses  ould utilhse materials
end trainers from the LIS4D-sopported Provincial Develveopnt Progras (PDP) projects
/g Various short courses, aveaging 2 weeks in duration  covering project fitancial manageent, monitoring and evaluation, staff supervision skills, environmental
analysis, institutioPnl capalciy analysis, etc. Staff mould receive one such course each year.
/h Specialised courses in such subjects as financial management, environmental impact assessment, research oetthodologies, report writing, office sanageent, English,
etc. for relevant staff. Actual course lengths wuld vary.
II  PPDA Ttt Bidang and setsu heads; key  4APPEDA secretariate staff; hey staff from Governor's Secretariate; hey staff from PANDES Tkl, Einas Pertanian T  1, DIMAS.
P.11. Tkl. and SDRLKT.
Lj In each kabopaten: BAPPEDA Till Bidang and seksi heads  key DAPPEDA secretariate staff; key staff from Pupati s office, plus tey staff from P.U. TklU, BMSPES Tkil,
/t Staff as in ii. plus key staff from relevant aqencies iapproi. It)



tralnl.0a1                                                                               VOSYAaRTA  UPLAND aREA DEYELDPEt P         CT   BA lW DESA II)                                                                             owl
22.3.90                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tabl-;
D.etaled Analysis of Participaticn n   Pro)ect-assisted Trainirm                                                                              Pl5  5
No. of pearticpants, by type of training             No. of particlyants. by categoryinitial courses  nlyl                                  lo. Participaits, by sgt.
CtPNET. tou,se type, land                        Technical      Plansan, 19.1. .    Co umn ty -et.           V-llala     e    atupbaten agency staff          Provincial staff    National       respomsibility, initial course  only
Participant Categoryl                    -- ------- A nqt.  Coipate  ----------                         leaders       i ------------------    --------             -             Staff                - -       - - - - -
Initial  FolIlo-up                    Initial  follow-up       larsers   Bllt45   S8RLIT  Key tanasiAPPVILiv.  VevlDnasWlfSabseo  f?AN0DA3            BA1MS   Pt    EWP Tki   BA1
9. AREA DE9ELOPIEIIT PL41011tS I SUPPORI
9.3  Huun Resource DeveloPnent Overheads
Traingn Specalist ILocall
9.3  Regional Develop ent and Planning                                       40                                                                                                                 40                                        40
9.3  Phblic Policy Evaluation and Planning                                   30                                                                                                                 30                                        30
9.3  Policy Studies on Poverty Alleviation                                  30                                                                                                                   0                                        30
9.3  City Planning and Urban Affairs                     40
9.3  Arna Selection and Identification Systems           20                                                                                                                                     20                                        20
9.3  Environwental Protection and hlanagesent            40                                                                                                                                     40                                        40
9.3  Project  tesign and Evaluation                                         '0                                                                                                                 30                                         30
(4n
9.3  Project tanagnent Systems                                              30                                                                                                                 30                                         30         '
9.3  Nis Trs ie                                                                       40                                                                                                       40                                         40
9.3  3*ulstratin Plannming and Opewations                                   20                                                                                                                 20                                         20
9.3  Land VW  .   Zoning                                  6                                                                                                                                      6                                         6
9.3  ODcentralistion                                                         6                                                                                                                   6                                         6
9.3  Staff Field Secondwnt                                                   4                                                                                                                   4                                         4
CtoET 9 Sub-totals                           106                 190       40                                                                                                       336                                       33
M411D TOTAL, ALL COPPDEPlTS                  909       766     2305       364      7820     2330           9320       250        B5      569       632        97       190          336          9230      539      137       336
=   ==  ==  =::=  := = ====:== ==== =====================:==========_===--===-==========n=======:222=822 =C____  ___ _



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 11
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
("Banpun Desa II")
Technical Assistance
Introduction
1.       Under the project, some 338 staff-months of technical assistance
would be provided to support the more innovative and technically complex
aspects of project implementation. Table 1 provides details of the
proposed individual technical assistance inputs for each component. In
sumnary, the following quantities of technical assistance are proposed for
BANGDA, AARD, rnd Yogyakarta province, respectively (in staff-months):
Internationally       Locally          Total
recruited         recruited
BANGDA                   29                48             77
AARD                     20                  -            20
Yogyakarta Province    101                140            241
Total                 150               188            338
Terms of Reference
2.       Terms of reference for the key advisors and specialists proposed
are presented below. For easy reference, a code number has been assigned
to each as follows, matching the component under which the technical
assistance inputs have been costed:
5(a) Village Development Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor
6(a) Land Use and Water Management Advisor
6(b) Community Development Advisor
6(g) Outreach Technology Assistance
7(c) Planning/MIS Design Specialist
7(e) Area Development Advisor
7(1) Project Training Officer
8(a) Research Methodology Advisor
8(b) Upland AgronomistlSoil Conservation Planner



- 57 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 11
5(a).    Village Development Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor
Role: Advisor to the provincial directorate of Rural Development
(BANGDES Tk. I) for the establishment of a capacity to monitor and evaluate
the village development activities in upland communities financed by the
project.
Reports to: Kepala BANGDES Tk. I.
Main Duties: Over a period of 12 months, to:
(a) assist BANGDES i-. the introduction, assessment, and refinement
of an improved 'Potensi Desal methodology for village data
collection;
(b) review existing physical and financial reporting and
monitoring systems for village projects;
(c) assist in the development of a project-specific monitoring and
evaluation system for village projects, dusun revolving funds,
and village leadership training; and
(d) advise and assist in the establishment of data processing
capabilities within BANGDES Tk. I and Tk. II rnfices,
including the procurement of appropriate equipment, arranging
for the training of relevant staff, development of an
interactive computerized database, and development within
BANGDES Tk. I of a capability to interrogate this database and
produce reports in response to the needs of project managers.
Qualifications:
(a) at least 10 years experience managing or supervising community
development and/or rural and area development programs;
(b) familiarity with Indonesian rural conditions and institutions
at the provincial, kabupaten, and village levels;
(c) demonstrated capability to work flexibly with spreadsheet and
database computer applications;
(d) background in social sciences, with experience in survey
design, conduct, and analysis; and
(e) preferably with working knowledge of Bahasa Indonesia.



- 58 -                    ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 11
6(a).    Land Use and Water Management Advisor
Roles Senior technical adviser to the Upland Development Support
Team Tk. I, based within Dinas Pertanian Tanaman Pangan, Sub-Din
Perlindungan, Seksi Konservasi Air dan Tanah. The UDST is responsible for
the planning, implementation and training of staff within the
Microwatershed Stabilization sub-program.
Reports to: Kepala Dinas Pertanian Tanaman Pangan.
Main Duties: In a series of short visits of 4-6 weeks duration
totalling 17 staff-months:
(a) advise and assist the UDST to further develop strategies and
methods of microwatershed stabilization, including the steps
necessary to plan coordinated water runoff management measures
and farm development, featuring more appropriate land use
options, as well as the most appropriate method of
implementation of these measures;
(b) assist in the identification of selection criteria for the
development of microwatersheds;
(c) assist in the design and delivery of field-based training in
microwatershed strategy and techniques for UDST members and
extension field staff;
(d) jointly with the Communi:y Development Adviser, assist in the
training of UDST and extension field staff in day-to-day
methods of interacting with microwatershed activity groups (of
5-10 farmers) and KKLIMD members participating in micro-
watershed activities within the framework of dusun projects;
and
(e) participate in defining the technical aspects of the Upland
Watershed Systems Action Research Program (through the Upland
Watershed Research Working Group and relevant seminars) and
the slope stabilization elements to be dem'.Lstrated in the On-
farm Technology Display program.
Qualifications:
(a) at least 10 years experience working as an upland
agriculturalist in rural and area development programs;
(b) major experience in land t.se planning and soil conservation;
(c) preferably with experience of microwatershed (3-10 ha)
planning strategies; and
(d) experience working with upland farmers and local comunity
groups.



- 59 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 11
6(b).    Community Development Advisor
Role: Adviser to the Upland Development Support Team Tk. I on
Community Development issues relating to the Microwatershed Stabilization
sub-program. This team is based within Dinas Pertanian Tanaman Pangan,
Sub-Din Perlindungan, Seksi Konservasi Air dan Tanah. The UDST is
responsible for the planning, implementation and training of staff within
the Microwatershed Stabilization sub-program.
Reports to: Kepala Dinas Pertanian Tanaman Pangan.
Main Duties: In a series of short visits of 4-6 weeks duration
totalling 7 staff-months:
(a) advise and assist BANGDES in the design and conduct of
community organizer training for the BANGDES cadre (at the
dusun level), with particular reference to the Microwatershed
Stabilization sub-program;
(b) assist with identification of selection criteria for
microwatershed development activities;
(c) assist with the development of techniques enabling dusun
communities in general, and microwatershed activity groups in
particular, to participate fully in the development planning
of microwatersheds at all stages; and
(d) jointly with the Land Use and Water Management Adviser, take
responsibility for the design and implementation of the
training of the Upland Development Support Team, with
particular regard for community development aspects.
Qualifications:
(a) background in applied anthropology or rural sociology, with at
least five years experience working with small communities;
(b) experience with community development activities in Indonesia;
and
(c) fluency in Bahasa Indonesia.



- 60 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 11
6(g).    Outreach Program Desisn Specialist
Role: Advisor to the technical and extension services for the
design and implementation of the On-farm Technology Display program. This
technique is designed to allow farmers to see the range of available and
innovative farming technology, as undertaken by other smallholder farmers.
Reports to: Kepala Dinas Pertanian Tanaman Pangan.
Main Dutiest During a series of 4-6 week visits totalling 7
staff-months, the Outreach Program Design Specialist would:
(a) advise and assist in developing an appropriate methodology for
the on-farm technology 'menu' displays including: technology
selection procedure; farmer and site selection; display
design; system of farmer visits, etc.
(b) assist in the initial selection of technical interventions for
display;
Sc) assist in the development of the training needs of PPL, PPUP,
and PPS staff involved in the technology displays;
(d) assist in the design of the linkages between the Upland
Watershed Action Research Program and technical and extension
field staff. This would include assistance in the design of
the proposed annual workshops involving research workers,
technicians and extension workers;
Ce) develop a monitoring and evaluation system for assessing the
effect of individual items within technology displays; and
*f) advise on the development of input supply mechanisms to suit
the demand for individual interventions in technology
displays.
Qualifications:
(a) a general tropical agriculturalist;
(b) at least 10 years experience in smallholder extension
methodologies, with particular emphasis on demonstration
techniques; and
(c) a knowledge of Indonesian agricultural research and extension
agencies, and upland farming systems is essential.



- 61 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 11
7(c).    Planning/MIS Design SDecialist
Role: To facilitate the conduct of Institutional Capacity
Analysis (SAKK) workshops with all Tk. I and Tk. II agencies involved in
implementation of the project in order to generate: a basic project
Management Information System (input/output worksheets); data on key
implementation capability constraints; and information regarding key staff
training needs.
Reports to: Chairman, BAPPEDA Tk. I.
Main Duties: Over a period of two months, and working jointly
with a lccally-recruited Planning/MIS Design Specialist:
(a) review the SAKK methodology and workshop documentation
generated during the Joint FAO/BAPPEDA project preparation in
1990, and the project logical framework;
(b) review the project documentation, and prepare draft checklists
of key activities to be undertaken by each of the Tk. I and
Tk. II agencies during the project;
(c) assist in the recruitment of a core team of workshop
facilitators drawn from relevant Tk. I and Tk. II agencics,
and their training/retraining in the SAKK methodology;
(d) supervise the conduct of the necessary SAKK workshops by the
core group of facilitators, ensuring consistency of approach
and presentation of workshop outputs; and
(e) review and summarize the workshop outputs in a written report
and in the form of computerized spreadsheets forming the basis
of a project MIS.
Qualifications:
(a) at least five years experience in participatory planning of
rural and area development programs;
(b) demonstrated skills and experience in use of logical framework
analysis and computer spreadsheet applications;
(c) thorou"h knowledge of Indonesian rural conditions and
institutions at the provincial and kabupaten levels; and
(d) preferably with working knowledge of Bahasa Indonesia.



ANNEX 3
- 62 -                         Page 7 of 11
7(e).    Area Development Advisor
Role: Senior Advisor to BAPPEDA Tk. I and the Governor's
Secretariat in the ongoing planning, coordination, monitoring, and
evaluation of all project activities implemented within the province.
Reports to: Chairman, BAPPEDA Tk. I.
Main Duties: Over a period of two years, and working jointly with
a locally-recruited Area Development Officer:
(a) assist and advise BAPPEDA Tk. I and the Governor's Secretariat
to undertake a wide range of project start-up activities,
especially the recruitment of other advisers and specialists
proposed for technical assistance to the project;
(b) arrange for and assist in the introduction to the province and
kabupaten of annual and medium-term planning methodoiogies
developed under the Provincial Development Program (especially
in Central Java), with special application to the detailed
design of upland development programs;
(c) assist and advise relevant provincial and kabupaten agencies
in the development of a project Management Information System,
based where possible on the use of existing reporting and
monitoring systems, supplemented by input/output worksheets
developed for each agency using the Institutional Capacity
Analysis (SAKK) methodology developed by the Joint FAOIBAPPEDA
Project Preparation Team;
(d) advise and assist in the development of terms of reference and
contract negotiation for, conduct of, and follow-up to, a
management study of BAPPEDA Tk. I and the Governor's
Secretariat;
(e) assist in the preparation of project quarterly and annual
reports and disbursement applications, and the conduct of
Joint World Bank/BAPPEDA annual reviews of the project; and
(f) assist in the preparation for, and conduct of, a comprehensive
mid-term review of the project.
Qualifications:
(a) at least 10 years experience in managing or supervising rural
development projects and programs, including significant
involvement in the Indonesian Provincial Development Program;
(b) fluency in Bahasa Indonesia;
(c) demonstrated ability to work congenially and productively with
Indonesian counterparts in a team context;



- 63 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 11
(d) demonstrated skills in computer applications, especially
spreadsheets: and
(e) working knowledge of project monitoring, evaluation and/or
Management Information Systems.



- 64 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 11
7(1).    Prolect Training Officer (Local)
Role: Direct executive responsibility for the design,
implementation/supervision and evaluation of all project-assisted training
activities for Tk. I and Tk. II agency staff.
Reports to:  Secretary, BAPPEDA Tk. I.
Main Duties: Over the five years of project implementation:
(a) conduct initial and ongoing training needs assessments, and
ensure that the project-assisted training program is
responsive to the key needs identified;
(b) identify appropriate institutions (such as government training
agencies, non-government organizations, universities,
institutes, etc.) for the design and delivery of project-
assisted training;
(c) assist BAPPEDA Tk. I in the negotiation of, and establishment
of clear working agreements with, selected institutions for
the design and delivery of project-assisted training
activities;
'd) prepare detailed annual work programs, and progress and
evaluation reports on the project training activities as
required;
Ce) assist in the planning and facilitation of policy, planning,
evaluation, and other workshops as may be required for project
implementation; and
(f) assist as required in the delivery of project-assisted
training programs.
Qualifications:
(a) at least five years experience in the design and delivery of
staff training programs (both technical and management) in
Indonesia, including at least two years participation in
training aspects of the Inidonesian Provincial Development
Program;
(b) fluency in English as well as Bahasa Indonesia;
(c) demonstrated competence in workshop facilitation and report
writing; and
(d) demonstrated initiative, and orientation toward practical,
field-based, experiential training methodologies.



- 65 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 11
8(a).    Research Methodology Advisor
Role: Advise and assist scientists from AARD's Centre for Soil
Research, to establish appropriate on-farm research methodologies for the
Upland Watershed Action Research sub-program.
Reports to: The Director, Centre for Soil Research, Bogor.
Main Duties: For three months at project initiation, define an
overall research methodology for the Upland Watershed Action Research
program to include:
(a) identification of key social and technical parameters likely
to be effected by the implementation of project activities and
their monitoring at three "laboratory' field sites;
(b) identification and selection of technical and social
interventions likely to be of benefit to the ongoing
Microwatershed Stabilization program; and
(c) advise and assist in the detailed design of the PYl on-site
work program, including specification of skilled and
professional personnel requirements, on-site trial and testing
layout and treatments, farmer-researcher relationships
(including provision of inputs, incentives and compensation),
data collection and processing methods, report preparation and
other methods of result dissemination (including field days
and demonstration etc.).
Qualifications:
(a) at least 10 years involvement in field-based tropical farming
systems research, with a particular bias towards socio-
cultural aspects and participant-observance methodologies;
(b) at least five years experience in designing and overseeing
applied agricultural research programs in developing
countries; and
(c) experience in tropical upland farming systems and slope
stabilization methodologies would be a definite advantage.



- 66 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 11
8(b).    Upland Agronomist/Soil Conservation Planner
Roles The senior advisor to the Upland Watershed Action Research
sub-program to establish appropriate technical interventions for both
physical and vegetative slope stabilization, as well as related crop
improvement and diversification measures.
Reports to: The Director, Centre for Soil Research, Bogor.
Main Duties: During a series of 4-6 week visits, this upland
specialist would:
(a) at project initiation, together with the Research Methodology
Adviser, assist with the development of the overall design of
research methodologies for the Upland Watershed Action
Research sub-program;
(b) assist in the detailed design of the on-farm work program,
particularly important for PY1;
(c) provide insight and advice on the introduction of possible
alternative technical improvements, with particular emphasis
on vegetative soil stabilization techniques;
(d) assist in the design of training programs for extension field
staff involved in the Microwatershed stabilization sub-
program;
(e) assist with the development of the technology display program;
and
(f) assess the technical aspects of the proposed soil erosion re-
survey to be undertaken by BPN, and advise on the introduction
of a modified Inderosi erosion monitoring technique for use in
the field research sites.
Qualifications:
(a) a postgraduate degree (preferably Ph.D), in soil conservation
or related topic;
(b) at least 10 years experience in tropical farming systems and
soil conservation research; and
(c) experienced in upland slope management, with particular
emphasis on smallholder agriculture.



INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (BANGUN DESA II)
Proposed Specialist Services (Technical Assistance)
(Staff-months)
Component/specialist services                            Component    ------Project-Year ------       --Total--          Cat.ll
-----------------------------                               No.       1991 1992 1993 1994 1995        Int'l  Loc         ------
1.  Comnunity Mobilization
2. Technical Support Services
3. Rural Roads and Bridges
4. Kabupaten Planning, Coord. and Support
5. Coumunity Devt. Training and Support
(a)   Village development monitoring and
and evaluation advisor                            5.3           4          6                    10                PS
PS   10
6. Upland Development Support Team
(a)  Land use and water management advisor               6.2           4    5    3    2                14                CB
(b)  Community development advisor (int'l)               6.2           2    2    1    1                 6                CB
(c)  Community development specialist (local)            6.2           5    5    5                             15        PS
(d)  Livestock/fodder specialist (int'l)                 6.2                 2    1                     3                PS
(e)  Livestock/fodder specialist (local)                 6.2                 2    1                             3        PS'
(f)  Tree crops/forestry specialist (int'l)              6.2                 1    1    1                3                PS
(g)  Tree crops/forestry specialist (local)              6.2                 1    1    1                        3        PS
(h)  Rapid rural appraisal specialist (local)            6.2                 6    6    6    2                  20         PS
(i)  Outreach program design specialist (int'l)          6.2           3    2    1                      6                CB
32     41
CB   26     -
PS    6     41
7. Provincial Planning, Coordination and Support
(a)  Management consultants (local institute)            7.1           6    2    2                             10
(b)  Recruitment specialist (local)                       7.2.3        2                                        2
(c)  Planning/MIS design specialist (int'l)              7.2.3         2                                 2
(d)  Planning/MIS design specialist (local)              7.2.3         2                                        2
(e)  Area development advisor (int'l)                     7.2.3        8   12                          20
(f)  Area development advisor (local)                     7.2.3        9   12    7                             28
(g)  Training specialist (int'l)                          7.2.3        3                                 3
(h)  Training specialist (local)                          7.2.3        2                                        2
(i)  Mid-term/PR team (int'l)                             7.2.3              5               5         10
(j)  Mid-term/PR team (local)                             7.2.3              3               3                  6          mm
(k)  Project training officer (local)                     7.4.1        6   12   12   12   12                   54           . X x
35    104
CB   35    104           N
PS   -      -



Component    ------Project-Year ------       --Total--        Cat.I1
No.       1991 1992 1993 1994 1995       lnt'l  Loc        ------
Component/Specialist Services
_____________________________
8. Upland Watershed Systems Action-Research
(a)  Research methodology specialist (int'l)            8             2    1                          3                CB
(b)  Upland agronodist/soil conserv. planner (int'l)   8              3    2    1    1                7                PS
(c)  Socioeconouist (int'l)                             8             2    1                          3                PS
13     -
CB    3     -
PS   10     -
9. Area Development Planning and Support
(a)  Institutional management specialist (local)        9.1           6                                       6
(b)  Development administrative advisor (int'l)         9.1                4                          4
(c)  MIS specialist (int'l)                             9.2           4   12                         16
(d)  MIS specialist (local)                             9.2               12    6                            18
(e)  Computer/technical specialist (int'l)              9.2                2                          2
(f)  Audio-visual specialist (local)                    9.2           1    1    1                             3
(g)  Training specialist (local)                        9.3           4    2                                  6
(h)  Recruitment and procurement advisor (local)        9.4           4                                       4
(i)  Project evaluation specialist (local)              9.4                                6                  6        PS
22     43
CB   22     37
PS           6
Total   S
CB   86    141  227    76?
PS   26     47   73    24Z
Total, all components                                                                                 112    188  300   100?
Yogyakarta Province:                                                                                 77    145
AIRDs                                                                                                13      0
BSAGDA:                                                                                             22      43
/1 CB-Capacity Building; PS-Project Support- PD-Policy Development                                    2       43
0
techass2 .vkl
02120191



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
("Banpun Desa II')
Technical Interventions for the Technology Menu Displays
Introduction
1.       Agricultural extension in the upland areas is based on the
traditional T&V system. Each PPL (BIMAS field extension worker] is
responsible for a particular area or WKPP, which may include varying
proportions of sawah, tegalan and forest. In theory at least, each PPL has
formed 16 groups of farmers within his WKPP, each of which he visits during
the course of a two-week cycle and discusses the latest agricultural
information and advice. In practice apparently, many groups exist in name
only and, since there is no formalized upland program, there is seldom much
of interest to upland farmers with mainly dryland tegalan.
Uplavd Extension
2.       Development programs in DIY have followed the standard national
approach in persuading farmers to change current farming practice. The
Regreening Program of RLKT and Bangun Desa I both employed demonstration
plots [for Regreening of 10 ha, often much smaller for Bangun Desa I], on
which recommended packages of interventions were demonstrated, and which
farmers were expected to imitate. Farmers seldom adopt whole packages,
prefering to take up only those elements of the package that suit their
particular farming system and financial and labor resources. The
demonstration of package technology in large demonstration plots would
therefore appear to be too narrow an approach to reaching significant
numbers of potential new adopters.
3.       Senior BIMAS extension staff at both the provincial and national
level admit that there i. no meaningful program of activities for the
upland areas. As a resalt, an extension worker's activities may be
confined largely to the sawah in his WKPP, with little or nothing
programmed for the tegalan.
Technology Displays
4.       Unlike other upland development projects, YUADP has been designed
on the assumption that increases in the numbers of extension staff
available for project activities are unlikely to increase significantly
during the project period. Any increases that do occur would be largely as



-70 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
a result of redeployment of staff within a kabupaten, as a result of a
perceived success of the project program. This reality has been confirmed
by senior staff of both BIMAS and RLKT. In addition, project activities
would be additional to existing programs, at least until project activities
had proved to be of greater value.
5.       Given a continuing shortage in the numbers of extension staff in
upland areas, and their part-time availability only for project activities,
a change in approach was needed to enable a significant proportion of the
farming population to be reached with as yet unseen technical
interventions. Technology displays have been proposed as an alternative to
the traditional demonstration methodology.
6.       A technology display attempts to provide farmers with a view of
the range of technical interventions which misht be suitable or useful for
adoption in that area. The display has been likened to a 'supermarket' or
*buffet" where interested farmers can see for themselves how well suggested
techniques fit the prevailing agro-economic circumstances. Since
technology displays would be undertaken on average farmer land and would be
farmer managed, visiting farmers would have the valuable opportunity of
talking to the farmer manager himself, rather than to a government
official.
7.       As each upland village is phased into the project program, a
technology display would commence in each village. Entries for technology
display would be decided for each agro-ecological area, during the annual
workshop between the Upland Watershed Systems Action Research Team at the
Centre for Soil Research sub-station in Yogyakarta and the various
technical and extension agencies. Entries for a particular area might, for
example, concentrate on annual crop improvements, demonstrating an improved
quick maturing groundnut variety; several of the improved soya bean
varieties treated with seed dressing to control shootfly and using the
integrated pest management technique involving pigeon pea for podborer
control; and the mulching of soya bean and mung bean with rice straw. In
addition, slope stabilization techniques could be demonstrated, perhaps the
use of vetiver and Brachiaria decumbens [Signal grass] for bench terrace
stabilization, together with possible livestock production improvements.
Each potentially useful intervention would be compared with the farmer's
normal practice, so that the comparison is both easily visible and
assessable by visiting farmers.
8.       It is proposed that PPUPs (Subject Matter Programmers] would take
responsibility for day-to-day display activities, although coordinated by
the PPSs [Subject Hatter Specialists] based at the kabupaten level. PPUPs
are supporsed to spend about 30Z of their time engaged in research and
development activities, but currently have only a small experimental
program. The PPUP would select and discuss the possibilities of holding a
technology display with farmers who satisfy the following criteria:
- full-time farmers;
-   farming to an average standard only;
-   land readily visible and easily accessible by road;
-  willing to follow a demonstration program, with assistance and
compensation from extension staff; and
-  willing and able to be available to talk to visiting farmers
on pre-arranged demonstration visits.



- 71-                        ANNEX4
Page 3 of 5
9.       For each technology display (total 125 displays each year at full
development), several display sites may be selected on the basis of
individual farmer-cooperator's particular interests. For example, a farmer
vith predominantly annual cropping interests might cooperate with food crop
displays, while other farmers nearby, might be asked to cooperate with
displaying livestock interventions. Each village display has been costed
at Rp 150,000 per annum, to include materials and inputs. Each Kabupaten
is provided with a 16-seater transport to bring farmers on pre-arranged
visits. Responsibility for inter-agency coordination will devolve on the
FKPP Tk. II (Forum for Agricultural Extension Coordination), and program
execution would rest with the sub-Dinas Penyuluhan (Extension) in Dinas
Pertanian.
Technical Assistance
10.      A flexible approach to the development of technology displays is
essential, since the technique is untried in Indonesia. A pilot approach
is necessary and build-up of the program follows that of other phased
village activities and is deliberately slow in the early years of the
project. Of critical importance will be the input of the Outreach Program
Design Specialist, with proposed inputs amounting to 7 staff-months during
PYI-3. The TOR for the Outreach Technologist are given in Annex 3.
Possible Ihterventions
11.      A wide range of technical interventions might be considered for
inclusion in the 30 technology displays during the first year of project
implementation. The following interventions might be included:
Maize
- Use of hybrid variety C-1 or CPl-l (352 advantage over
Arjuna);
- Placement of phosphatic fertilizer in the root zone at or
before sowing;
- Use of rice straw mulch for moisture conservation and shootfly
control; and
- Use of split nitrogen dressings.
Upland Rice
- Use of variety Sagi. tolerant to Pyricularia;
- Use of quick maturing varieties (Sentani, Singkarak, 115 days;
Gati and Ranau, 105 days);
- Placement of phosphatic fertilizer in the root zone; and
- Use of split nitrogen dressings.



- 72 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
Groundnut
-   Use of quick maturing, better yielding varieties (Kelinci, 95
days compared to the standard Gajah at 115 days, with 252
yield advantage]; and
-   Increase application of phosphatic fertilizer and placement in
the root zone at or before planting.
Soya Bean and Other Grain Legumes
-   Mulching of soya with rice straw for moisture conservation;
-   Use of beanfly tolerant soya variety Galunggung;
-   Intercropping of soya with pigeon pea for integrated pest
management of podborer;
-   Use of rapid maturing soya varieties (Tidar at 75 days
compared with standard Wilis at 90 days];
-   Use of very high yielding Tainung soya bean variety;
-   Use of higher levels of phosphatic fertilizer in the seedbed;
-   Use of carbofuran or thiodicarb seed dressing for beanfly
control;
-   Use of pigeon ?ea variety Mega yielding over 1,000 kg/ha;
-   Mung beans tolerant to rust and leafspot; and
-   Use of cassava stems as climbing frame for velvet beans.
Grass and Fodder Crops
-   Use of Signal grass (Brachiaria decumbens] on terrace risers;
- Use of vetiver as soil stabilizer on terrace risers;
-   Use of fodder legumes on uncultivable slopes and risers,
including centro (Centrosema] and siratro (Macroptilium];
- Alley cropping with Albizzia, Leucaena, Glyricidia etc.; and
-   Use of Dolochos and quick maturing cowpea as a third cycle of
cropping.
Perennial Crops
-  Manual fertilization of salak;
-   Production of dwarf, rapid maturing pepper;
-   Receatly introduced Indian varieties of cashew;
-   Possible introduction of macadamia nut;
-   Use of siwalan palm for sugar production;
-   Improved varieties of ginger and cardamon;
-   Zanzibar 12 clove variety;
-   High yielding cocoa hybrid from Kalimantan;
-   Development of tea above 1,000 m asl; and
-   High yielding P534 coffee variety.



ANNEX 4
Page   of 5
Cultivation Technique
-   Use of tied ridges on the contour for moisture conservation;
and
-   Mulches of cut vetiver grass or MPTC for moisture conservation
and soil conditioning.



- 74 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
InDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Vangun Desa 11)
Village and Xecamatan Proiects
Background
1.       The Village Development Program which is popularly known as
'INPRES Bantuan Desa" (or Inpres Desa), was initiated in FY1969/1970 with a
Presidential Instruction for Village Development Support. The program is
intended:
(a)   to educate and to motivate village communities to actively
participate in the development of their own villages;
(b)   to stimulate contributions (financial) c_ the village
community to the development of their own villages; and
.c)   to assist development activities initiated, prepared and
implemented by the village community.
2.       Implementation of this program has benefited village communities
throughout the country by:
i)    constructing of village facilities, i.e. production,
transportation, marketing and social facilities;
ii)   improving community skills and capabilities in planning,
implementing and supervising development projects;
iii)  strengthening the 'gotong-royong" and self-reliance efforts
in improving the community's welfare; and
iv)   stimulating the development of economic activities in the
villages.
3.       Although at this stage the program is being successfully
implemented, typically draws contributions from the community at an average
of more than 100Z of the subsidy, there are still poor villages with
limited capability to contribute. In such villages, the scope of projects
is usually limited. This is reflected in the implementation of the INPRES
Desa in Kabupaten Gunung Kidul for FY1988/1989, where the community could



- 75 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
only contribute less than 50Z of the subsidy. (Total government subsidy
Rp 216 million, community contribution Rp 98 million, for 144 projects).
Therefore, it is the intention of the project to allocate addition matching
grants to the poor upland villages.
Objectives
4.       The objectives of the "village projects" activity in the Village
Mobilization Subcomponent (Subcomponent 1.2) is to provide upland villages
with additional matching grants to the existing Inpres Desa allocation, so
that these villages could handle/implement bigger projects, thereby
speeding up the developmenL of the villages. The project would cover all
upland villages as defined in the project description.
Project Implementation
5.       Project Implementation will follow current guidelines (for any
coming fiscal year) issued b'y the government for implementation of the
Inpres Desa program (for example MHA letter No. 412.6/573 dated March 17,
1988 for FY1988/1989, which is acceptable to the Bank).
6.       Preparation and Planning.  With guidance from the Kabupaten
(district) and Kecamatan (sub-district) levels on development policy,
priority, and the selection criteria for the "village projects", LKMD will
initiate and prepare project proposal. The proposal should include the
justification of the project, the cost of the project, contribution of the
community, the estimated benefits of the project, and estimated number of
beneficiaries. This proposal should be included in the annual project
proposal of the village for discussion and approval at the UDKP forum, and
follows the us-.1 review process for all other projects (Rakorbang Tk. II,
Rakorbang Tk. I and Nationpl Consultation - Chart 1). The Bank will
receive the summary of the proposals and the final DIP approval.
7.       Selection Criteria.  To be eligible for loan financing, proposed
village projects should meet the following criteria:
(a)   the project is for public utility or for group _ctivities,
which is beneficial for the comn.mnity, and not solely for
personal/individual/single family benefit;
(b)   the project will st4'.:ulatc economic activities of the
community and will give economic benefit to the community;
(c)   the project will have a heneficial impact on the poverty
target group; and
(d)   the project is technically feasible, and will have assured
sustainability after the subsidy and proj'ct assistance have
ceased.



ANNEX 5
- 76 -                         Fage e   of 4
The project will exclude the cultural, religious and unproductive
investment such as the construction of village offices, monuments, mosques,
etc. The scope of 'ligible village projects is listed in _he Appendix 1.
8.       Funding and Funding Mechanism.  The proposed village projects
eligible for loan financing would be funded through a mix of different
sources as follows:
(a)   Inpres Desa funds from the government;
(b)   community's self-help contribution, which would cover a
minimum 20Z of the project cost less Inpres Desa funds; and
(c)   loan financing 80Z of the project cost less Inpres Desa
funds.
The allocation of funds for village projects would be subject to a ceiling
of Rp 7 million for each village per year, but is not necessarily to be
used for only one project per village per year.
9.       In principle the funding mechanism for the Inpres Desa is direct
from the BRI Branch of the Kabupaten to the Village Head's account, and it
follows the MHA instruction No. 26/1984. But to actually release the
funds, the following procedures should be followed:
(a)   after following the usual planning mechanism, the approved
project should be submitted to the Bupati through
Directorate BANGDES office at the Kabupaten (called DURP -
Daftar Usulan Rencana Proyek - Project Planning Proposal);
(b)   the approved DURP would be signed by the Bupati and copied
to the BRI branch arid would act as an authorization for the
release of funds;
(c)   the BRI would then inform the Village Head that the funds
for Inpres Desa are reaay and have been transferred to the
Village Head's account; and
(d)   the Village Head would then withdraw the funds from BRI
Dranch at the Kabupaten, or at BRI VIllage unit.
10.      The release of funds from the loan proceeds would follow the joint
decree of the Minister of Finance and MinisterlChairman of BAPPENAS No.
048/KMK.012/1989 for special account procedures, and also the procedures
for the funding of Inpres Desa. Therefore, after the SPABP issued and
signed by DG Budget, the signed DURP would be used to transfer the funds
from BRI branch to the Village Head's account as it is with the Inpres Desa
funds. The funds will be administered by Directorate BANGDES office at
Kabupater using statement of expenditures (SOE) procedures (see Chart 2).



- 77 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
11.      Proiect Management.  The Directorate BANGDES offices at the
Kabupaten will be responsible for managing this subcomponent. They will
initiate the planning process and the preparation of DURPs by providing
training to Village Development Cadre (Kader Pembangunan Desa - KDP) and
other village and LKMD officials. The BANGDES office will review and
technically approve the proposal (DURP) before the signing by the Bupati.
The BANGDES office will also be responsible for the supervision and
monitoring of the implementation of the village projects. Beside the
regular reporting system which should be followed for the Inpres Desa
projects, semi-annual and annual reports should be prepared separately for
the village projects by BANGDES office at Kabupaten and sent to the Project
Coordinator at the provincial level, and copied to DG BANGDA, the overall
project holder.
Monitoring and Evaluation
12.      In addition to the regular monitoring of the implementation of the
village projects carried out by the BANGDES offices at the Kabupaten, the
monitoring and evaluation of the village project, particularly on the
impact and the benefit of the village project, is the responsibility of the
Directorate BANGDES office at the Province. Simple and limited monitoring
and evaluation will be conducted annually, and an indepth review will be
carried out during the mid-term review. The basic data to be used for the
monitoring and evaluation is the proposed potensi desa3 data to be
collected for every village, which is being introduced and initiated by
Directorate BANGDES.
Kecamatan Proiecta
13.      A Kecamatan project is a project which will benefit more than one
village where the project will be implemented, for example a water supply
project which will cover two or three villages. Planning and approval
procedures for Kecsmatan projects will follow the planning mechanisms for
the village projects. However, because there are no special funds
allocated from GOI for the Kecamatan projects, the funding mechanism will
follow the usual procedures for the foreign assisted project using special
account. The selection criteria for the village projects will also be used
for Kecamatan projects. Loan financing for Kecamatan projects would be 60Z
of the total project cost, and 40Z will come from GOI budget (National-
Provincial or Kabupaten). BANGDES offices at the Kabupaten would also be
responsible for managing this sub-project.



- 78 -
ANNEX S
Appendix 1
INDNESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND ARLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Banaun Des. 11
LIST OF ELIGIILE VILLAGE PROJECTS
1.       Production Facilities
(a)   Village dams
(b)   Culverts
(c)   Irrigation canal and structures
(d)   Run-off control and soil conservation
(e)   Others
2.       Communication Facilities
(a)   Village streets
(b)   Village bridges
5c)   Rodd drainage
sd)   Others
3.       Marketing Facilities
(a)   Village markets
(b)   Village kiosks
5C)   Village warehouses
sd)   Others
4.       Social Facilities
Ca)   Health and sanitation
(b)   Drinking water supply
(c)   Group land titling
(d)   Others
5.       Other Economic Activities
(a)   Nurseries for food crops, tree crops, fodder crops and
horticulture
tb)   Livestock and fisheries
(c)   Agricultural product processing
(d)   Home industries and small- cale industries
(e)   Skill training and literacy courses
(f)   Others



- 79 -
ATTACHMENT 1
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVEOPMENT PROJK,i
THE REGIONAL PLANING MECHANISM
BAPPWA NATIONAL CONSUTATION   1
Organised by BAPPENAS
a. to dI.m  n  reWw Ob.p popal I
Partlcipsted by:                                           km the Firnces based on the.
On. f Home Affairs                                       (I  deve *p policy In the PELTA
-MIm. of financ                                          (10 cooadiiaHon and synchn
'Other Technical Mlnlt            i                          wnh aer seorol prolet, to aVo
F appedo 6fm th PAlnces                                      aveflap and duplcatn, and
__   fuhJnds owviability.
b. To cgre on the prpoe proied to
be Includ  in the APBD 1.
RAKORBANG TNI/PROV1NCE
Organized by Governor / BappedoI 1 !To dic  the ppopals from KabIupain
Forpoted by:                                                e =wmendation for AP3D U
* Bupans and  apped. 11                               iQ Pin fr APBD I
* Dias Oiciaos al the PruAnce                         110 Proets pr     for APON fund!nW
.    Bangd3   DO BanW des, and                           ft Noarel CI mlthn
DpUYV BAPPENAS
RAX(ORBO  Tk.I1/KABUPATEN
nhgnilsd by Bupcl/BeppW  11
To disus ihe pwpoa fm Kecaiaan
Paricpated by:                                          end puparo:
. ;mob                                                I0  PMWfIoir APBD 11
* Dnos Ofdcal at Kbae n                               III) Peed proped f APBD f undiw
, appedc I and Dit. Songides                          1ii Prje   prope   r APIN funding
co___ _r_ hng TVPrv'nce.
KECAMATAN UOKP METINO
Organied by KIcamomtn Offic
Parlktiped by:                                          to dius I p=           b nn the village
- Yilge Heads and KMD Chioinren                       ond to agr  anproea to be pro.
Dinme OR;cl el Kcamolan                              posed atl-am4ng  /Kupitn.
Bappeta 11 and BaSngdo Offie
ot Kobwpaten.
MLAGE PLANNING MEETING
OvWAit by U4W
Organised by U(MD                   ~~With the guldemn  fimm Kmacaman Olfial
aWn> dwif ct upd  e qa,  * ' 1     '%
* btKH1D mwtibet                                      whll "  an Wi    1 e   to be prpod
* ID mmbw                                             alt Ke oamun     U Dl hSng.
- V,lOap Offia..



- 80 -                         ~~~~~~ATTACHMENT 2
|  j         *1    _ _    _    _  _    _   _
| i'litH                                  'I'



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
-81-
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[BANGUN DESA II]
Upland Watershed Action Research Program
(as agreed with CSR at RSI, 16.2.901
A. PY 0 [1990-91].
Cost
RD '000
1. Establishment of 3/4 man Core Team.
Travel: 12 staff by Rp25.000                      300
2. Establishment of Upland Watershed Research
Steering Committee and Working Group at the
provincial level (Condition for Negotiations]
3. Coordination with Provincial Agencies:
obJectives, scope and scale of PYl
activities and workprogramme.
Travel: 4 staff to DIY, 2 visits                2.000
Per diem: 4 by 2 by 3 days                      1,320
Misc.                                              680
4. Meet with local leaders at Dusun
Nawangan 1, Selopamioro, Bantul, to
discuss researcher/community cooperation.
(costs in 2.]
5. Collection and analysis of benchmark RRA data,
(basic socio-economic/physical data
for Nawangan.
Travel: to DIY, 4 by Rp250                      1.000
in DIY, 6 by Rp5O                        300
Per diem: 4 by 7 by Rp55                        1,540
Local staff: 4 by 5 by Rp25                       500
Misc:                                             200
6. Finalise policy plans for enlargement of



AN14EX 6
-82-                              Page 2 of 3
existing DIY sub-station, or move to Wonocatur.
Prepare detailed plans for civil works, obtain
cost estimates for construction.
7. Prepare detailed TOR for PY1 Technical Assistance,
identify individual consultants, prepare
contracts to be ready for recruitment at project
implementation.
For activities 6 and 7.
Travel: to Jakarta, 5 pers by 2days
= 10 by Rp25,000            250
Per diem: 10 by Rp65,000                          650
Miscellaneous:                                    100
8. Purchase of grass slips, selective planting
of slope stabilisation grasses (esp. vetiver)
at lst field research site,Nawangan,Selopamioro.
Various: travel, purchases, per diem,           5,000
9. Prepare a more detailed workplan for 1991-92,
TOTAL                  13,840
B. PY 1 [1991-921.
1. Briefly review previous upland research activities in
Indonesia.
2. Establish the senior staff Core Team in Yogyakarta.
3. Prepare contracts and tender documents for civil works
construction at existing sub-station site [Jl. Mrlca Baru] or at
Wonocatur, issue contract and oversee wor-s..
4. Prepare temporary office accomodation at the Bangun Desa I TDC
office at Wonocetur.
5. Arrange procurement documentation for purchase of vehicles and
equipment.
6. Advertise and recruit supporting staff for Yogyakarta sub-
station.
7. Finalise the Technical Assistance recruitment procedure
(particularly for the Research Methodology Adviser and Upland
Soil Conservation Plannner] for their early deployment to DIY.
8. Utilising TA above, prepare both short and long term field
trial programme.
9. Organise national workshop on "Slope Stabilisation Technology"



ANNEX 6
- 83 -                           Page 3 of 3
(July 1991?], at which the philisophy of the UWAR programme in
DIY  would  be  presented,   and  discussions  held  on  the
appropriateness of the proposed workprogramme [activity 8].
10. At Field Site 1 [Nawangan 1, Selopamiorol and using the BPN
series of 1:5,000 cadastral maps and 1:12,500 land use maps,
prepare detailed topographic maps of the dusun area.
11. Undertake a detailed soil survey [at 1:1,000 or 1:5,0001 for
the dusun Nawangan 1.
12. Complete selection process for remaining 2 dusun field
laboratory sites; in Kulon Progo and northern Nglipar, and
undertake topographic and soil survey.
13. Undertake Rapid Rural Appraisal of dusuns at the 3 Field
sites, using local Technical Assistance (KEPAS ?].
14. Using data collected during RRA in activity 13 above, adapt
the Inderosi [Erosion index] technique for use on selected sites
within the 3 laboratory areas.
15. Establish village nurseries early in 1991, so as to have
material available [grasses, fodder trees, fruit and estate crop
seedlings] for planting out in 1991/92 wet season.
16. Following approval by the Research Steering Committee at the
provincial level, initiate both short and long term field trial
programme, based on Workshop discussions in activity 9 above.
22 February 1990.



- 84 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDONESIA
YOGYAIhRTA UPLAND ARNA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CBanaun Desa II)
Selection Criteria for Village Roads and Bridge
A road or bridge project should:
(a) serve an existing rural community within the project area
(i.e.. one of the upland villages);
Cb) provide an all-weather surface, macadam, where presently
there is none;
(c) serve an area of predominantly small-scale farmers;
(d) be the only suitable motorable route to the community;
(e)  be at least 2.0 km long unless part of a longer route or
serve a community of 5,000 people;
(f) be within cost estimates (construction and maintenance) which
relate positively to estimated benefits;
(g) not present any major technical difficulty;
(h) not have any land ownership or right of way problems;
Ci) not be the subject of any other proposed improvement;
(j) be acceptable to the concerned parties and committees;
(k) connect to an existing all-weather road; and
(1)  not endanger the environment.



- 85 -                                ANNEX 7
Table 2
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (BANGUN DESA II)
Proposed Design Criteria for Village Roads
4.0 m Standard /a         3.0 m Standard /g
Normal lb   Severe /b    Normal       Severe
Specification               Unit   Terrain      Terrain       Terrain    Terrain
Design speed                km/hr      30-50       15-30        30-50       15-30
Single axle loading /c      tons        2.75         2.75         2.75       2.75
Formation width               m         6.0          6.0          6.0        6.0
Surfaced width                m         4.0          4.0          3.0        3.0
Shoulder width                m         1.0          1.0          1.5        1.5
Macadam thickness A /d          cm     28.0         28.0         28.0       28.0
Hacadam thickness B /d          cm     23.0         23.0         23.0       23.0
Asphalt thickness             cm        4.0          4.0          4.0        4.0
Camber macadam                Z         6.0          6.0          6.0        6.0
Camber asphalt                Z         5.0          5.0          5.0        5.0
Desirable min. radius         m        30.0         10.0         30.0       10.0
Desirable max. gradient       Z        12.0         18.0         12.0       18.0
Absolute max. gradient        1        15.0         20.0         15.0       20.0
Laybys                     no/km        1.0          2.0          2.0        3.0
Bridge width A /e             m         6.0          6.0           -          -
Bridge width B /e             m         3.5          3.5          3.5        3.5
Culvert width /f              m         5.0         *5.0          5.0        5.0
/a  4.0 m standard to be used only where road is to be upgraded to kabupaten
road, or where traffic demands.
/b Normal terrain defined as rolling topography with slopes up to 15 percent,
severe terrain defined as hilly topography with slopes more than
15 percent.
Ic Current public works standard.
Ld Macadam th'!:kness for poor or natural subgrade soils 28.0 m, for good
subgrade soils 23.0 cm.
e  National standard bridge width 6.0 m, recommended width 3.5 m.
/f Distance between headwalls.
I8 To be used on all roads funded under the project except as recorded in
foofnote /a



- 86-                                 ANNEX 7
Tables 3-4
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENIT PROJECT (BANGUN DESA II)
Analysis of Work Plan Submissions
Table 3. Costs By Year (Xp Pillion)
Year of Program
Total
Kabupaten              1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96
Gudung Kidul              1.217       1.064    0.867      1.049      0.749   4.946
Kulon Progo               0.660       0.498    0.476      0.451      0.388   2.473
Bantul                    0.679       0.508    0.492      0.434      0.360   2.473
Sleman                    0.734       0.485    0.401      0.499      0.353   2.473
Total                  3.290       2.555    2.236      2.433     1.850  12.365
3                      26.6        20.6     18.1       19.7      15.0    100.0
Comments:
(a)   The total disbursement by each kabupaten is in accordance with
the budget allocation.
(b)   The relatively heavy expenditure in the first year (26.62)
reflects the purchase of most of the equipment in the first year.
Table 4. Costs By Sub-Component (Rp Billion)
Sub-Component
Total
Kabupaten        Roads  Bridges  Haint.  Bldgs  Equip.  Admin.  Train.
Gudu'g Kidul    2.404   1.048    0.371  0.040  0.576   0.495   0.012   4.946
Kulon Progo      1.481   0.389    0.105  0.031  0.216   0.245   0.006   2.473
Bantul           1.452   0.343    0.184  0.031  0.210   0.247   0.006   2.473
Sleman           1.208   0.699    0.185   Nil   0.127   0.248   0.006   2.473
Total        6.545   2.479    0.845  0.1Oz  1.129   1.235   0.030  12.365



-87-                                  AUINEX 7
Tables 5-6
Table 5.  Costs by Sub-Componeht (%)
Sub-Component
Total
Xabupaten       Roads  Bridges  Maint.  Bldgm  Equip. Admin. Train.
Gunung Klidul     48.61   21.18    7.50    0.81  11.64   10.00   0.25   100.00
Kulon Progo       59.88   15.74    4.25    1.25   8.73    9.91   0.24   100.00
Bnattul          58.70   13.88    7.44    1.25   8.50    9.99   0.24   100.00
Sleman           48.84   28.26    7.48    Nil    5.15   10.03   0.24   100.00
Average       52.93   20.05    6.83    0.82   9.13    9.99   0.25   100.00
Comuentss
(a)   The disbursement by sub-component, being generally within the
guidelines.
(b)   Kulon Progo and Bantul have a higher priority for roads and lower
priority for bridges than the other two kabupatens.
(C)   The maintenance percentage for Kulon Progo at 4.25  is substan-
tially less than for the others but still adequate for the
necessary maintenance.
(d)   The equipment needs for Gunung Kidul is a reflection of the
greater need for institutional building.
Table 6. Length of Roads Proposed (km)
Year of Program
Total
Kabupaten             1991192   1992193   1993194   1994195  1995196
Gudung Xidul            14.5      10.5       14.5      11.0    10.5       60.5
Kulon Progo             10.0       7.5       15.0      14.0      9.0      55.5
Bantul                   4.0       3.1        3.5       4.0      3.5      18.1
Sleman                  11.0       4.0        6.5       5.2    12.0       38.7
Total                39.5      25.1       39.5      34.2    34.5      172.8



- 88 -                                ANNEX 7
Tables 7-8
Table 7. Average Unit Cost of Road (Rp Yillion/km)
Cost of        Length            Unit Cost
Kabupaten               Roads           Proposed      (Rp milliion/km)
Gunung Kidul           2404.37            60.5             39.742
Kulon Progo            1480.80            55.5             26.681
Bantul                 1451.49            18.1             80.193
Sleman                 1207.67            38.7             31.206
Total               6544.33           172.8             37.872
Conments:
(a)   The high unit cost for Bantul reflects a very high propor-
tion of earthworks, culverts, and retaining walls.
(b)   The unit cost for Kulon Progo appears to be low but earth-
works are minimal and requires shorter lengths of asphalt
than elsewhere.
(c)   The costs for all roads are estimates only at this stage and
need to be adjusted after detailed design.
Table 8.  Number and Total Lengths (m) of Bridges
Year of Program
1991/92   1992193    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96
Kabupaten                                                _                  Total
No.(m)    No.(M)      No.(a)     No.(m)      No.(m)        (m)
Gudung Kidul    2(26)        1(30)      1(11)        1(52)      1(15)       6(154)
Kulon Progo      2(8)        2(36)      0(-)         1(4)       1(17)       6(65)
Bantul           2(24)       2(13)      1(10)        0(-)       0(-)        5(47)
Sleman           2(42)       1(20)      1(4)         1(30)      0(-)        5(47)
Total        8(100)       6(99j      3(25)       3(86)       2(32)      22(362)



- 89 -                                  ANNEX 7
Table 9
Table 9. Analysis of Upland Villages Affected
There are 140 identified upland villages within the 26 kecamatan.
From the submitted work plans, which identify the villages affected. The
results ares
Kabupaten              No. of Villages    2
Gunung Kidul           19 out of 90  -  21.12
Kulon Progo            12 out of 24  -  50.0Z
Bantul                  8 out of 15  -  53.32
Sleman                 10 out of 11  m  90.92
Total              49 out of 140 -  35.02
Thus 352 of the upland villages can be said to derive some benefit from the
roads and bridges component.



90 -                                 ANNEX 7
Table 10
Table 10. Summary of Equipment Needs
Each kabupaten has submitted lists of equipment required as part
of the institution building sub-component. The individual lists are included
with the five-ye:r work plan in Annexes 2-5 but a summary of both construction
a&nd office equipment needs is:
K A B U P e T E N
Total
I T E H                Gunung     Kulon                             (No.)
Kidul      Progo       Bantul      Sleman
Road Roller                    2           2            1           1        6
Dump Truck                     3           1            -           -        4
Tractor                        1           -            -           -        1
Trailer                        5           -            -           -        5
Water Tank                      5          -            -           -        5
Jeep                           1           1            1           1        4
Pick Up                        4           1            1          1         7
Station Wagon                  1           -            -           -        1
Motorcycle                     13          2            4           3       22
Concrete Mixer                 4           -            1           -        5
Concrete Vibrator              -                        I           -        1
Asphalt Sprayer                 3          -            -           -        3
Plate Compactor                6           -            4           -       10
Handtools                      -           -           LS           -       LS
Theodolite                     3           -            1           -        4
Tape Measure                   -           -            -          6         6
Computer                       1           1            1           1        4
Typewriter                     2           -            -          4         6
Stencil Machine                -           -            -          1         1
Drawing Table                  3           -            -           2        5
Filing Cabinet                 4           -            -          2         6
Furniture                     12           -            -          -        12
Camera                         -           -            -           1        1
Slide Projector                1           -            -          -         1
Cash Box                       1           -            -          1         2
Cost (Rp. Million)        576         216         210         127      1,129



I}tE-     /     K
KCKO',         1$a   tA:1k
;;4 rr1;:1 
$ 0            4    



flI 3SO.~O 1 aJ.V    usI D 4    amli
*    InJa Usm    ma do U3J.UW   33UWS
MOUWAU MOSS                      OSM
*~~~~~N                                  am r  nowx
""ISOM     OYWUS
(dfldO) i WW           1111111m WDAM
____                                    3M~ jO * ~WUU
II                   a               L   -                ,             c
"Dum""  I    amwo
, _ _ n , ~moo"                    g l L
I   l"1                                           01    owfiIsxa| I  I |



ORGANIZATION OF THE
KASUPATEN PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY ( OPUK )
HEAD OF DPUK
OUWLOINO                                    w.m.w._ruJ, u^
.ROADS                    .                 AT                 REGIONAL      1
.   REGULATIONS                                 PLANNING            AND SUPPLIES
CONSTRUCTION      .              jLOINjS   WATER SUPPLY         TOWN PLANNING   J       EW           |
RtESIDIENTIAL.
MAINTENANCE            HOUSING                                REGIONAL PANNII          WORKSHOP
DESIGN  AND
INVENTORY    J                                                                         SUPPLIES 
SOURCE: MuSTER OF lOME AFFARS SISTRUCTION
No. 14 of 0U6. OATED 20 OCTOBER ISIS
1@ 19j



94                                   ANNEX 8
S l! |                                  U @  t |      l|  Table 1
91    ~~~~---------------~    ------- ----  -
21|!1la.                                          3 1s
---'-- - -- ----------          -   -- ----  I
:       9 :                           0
z~~~~a
.4~~~~~~r
i~~;  ..     q S
I                         JII       iiC!
94 C4 ei~~~



INOONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPUENT PROJECT IBANGUN DESA [II
PROJECT COST SUNNARY
(Ip. Million)                (US$ '0001                      I Total
------------     -_- -    -------------------------    I   foreign  8B ss
Local   Foreign  total      Local   Foreign  Total    Exchtngs    Costs
1.   CONIlUITY NOSILIZATION
1.1      WSEN NOSILIZATION
CONMUNITY DEVELOPHENT - TRAINING                                  471.6        -    471.5     248.1        -    248.1           -         1
DUSUN PROJECTS                                                    834.8        -    834.8     439.1        -    439.1           -        2
Sub-Total DUSUN NOBILIZATION                                        1.306.4       -  1.306.4      687.2       -    687.2           -         3
1.2     VILLAGE OBILIZATION
INSTITUTIONAL COSTS                                               739.3   122.2    861.5      388.9    64.3    453.2           14        2
OUSUN REVOLVING FUNOS                                             980.0        -    980.0      515.5       -   515.5            -        3
VILLAGE PROJECTS                                                3.562.5        - 3,562. 5   1.874.0        -  1.874.0           -        10
VILLAGE LEADERSHIP TRAINING                                       480.0        -    480.0      252.5       -    252.5           -
Sub-Total VILLAGE WNBILIlATION                                      5,761.8   122.2  5.884.0   3,030.9    64.3  3,095.2            2        16
Sb-Total COINUNITY NOSILIZATION                                       7.068.2   122.2  7,190.4   3.718.1    64.3  3.782.4            2        1S
2.  SLOPE STABILIZATION TECHNICAL SERVICES
2.1 RUNOFF CONTROL 8 SOIL CONSERVATION/a                                   383.3   125.3    508.6      201.6    65.9    267.5           25        t
2.2 FIAC  PLANNING S DIVERSIFICATION                                       510.1   124.8    635.0      268. 4  . 65. 7    334.0         20        2
2.3 PUJPATEN UPLAND DEVELOPHENT SUPPORT TEAM                               140.0    48.6    188.5       73. 6    25.5     99.2          26        1
2.4 ONFARN TECHNOLOGY DISPLAYS                                             623.0   230.7    853.7      327.7   121.4    449.1           27        2
Sub-Total SLOPE STABILIZATION TECHNICAL SERVICES                       1,656.4   529.4  2 185.8      871.3   278.5  1,149.8          24         6
3.   RURAL ROADS AND BRIOGES                                             8.857.1 3.507.9 12, 365. 0   4. 659. 2 1, 845. 3  6.504. 5    28        33
4.  KASUPATEN PLANNING. COORDINATION 8 SUPPORT SERVICES
4.1    BAPPEDA Tt IL STRENGTHENING                                         433.9   105.6    539.5      228.2    55.5    283.8           20        I
4.2    SEKNILOA TK 11 STRENGTHENING                                        286.5    20.6    307.1      150.7    10.8    161.5            7        1
4.3    RABUPATEN AGENCY STRENGTHENING
EXTENSION CENTERS                                                  155.2    18.8    174.0       81.6     9.9      91.S         11         0
STRENGTHENING OF KABUPATEN DINASES                                 71.3   166.3    237.5        37.5    87.5    124.9          70         1
FUNDS FOR UDKP PROJECTS                                           920.0        -   920.0      484.0        -    484.0           -        2
Sub-Total KABUPATEN AGENCY STRENGTHENING                            1.146.5   185.;  1.331.5      603.1   97.3    700.4           14         4
Sb-Total KABUPATEN PLANNING, COORDINATION 8 SUPPORT SERVICES          1,866.8   311.2  2,178.0      982.0   163.7  1,145.7           14        6
5.  CONNUNITY DEVELOPNENT. TRAINING S SUPPORT
5.1 HUANN  RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT                                            143.4             143.4      75.4       -      75.4           -        0                0
5.2 BATA BASE DEVELOPNENT                                                   78. 1    31.3    109.5      41.1    16.5      57.6         29         0
5.3 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                   106.0   220.9    326.9       55.8   116.2    172.0          68         1               _ .D X
S*-Total COIJNITY KEVELOPMENT. TRAINING 8 SUPPORT                       32t.S   252.2    579.7      172.3   132.7    305.0           44        2



6.  UPtUr  DEVEtOPNEUT SUPPOT  T TEON
6.1 INSTITUTIONAL COSTS                                                      108.9    23.1    132.0        57.3    12.2      69.4          18         0
6.2 fOREIGN .ECNNICAt ASSISTMNCE                                             504.7   667.5  1.172.1       265.5   351. 1    616.6          57         3
S,b-Totel UPtAND DEVELOP1ENT SUPPORT TEAO                                  613.6   690.6  1.304.1       322.8   363.3    686.0            53        3
7.  PROVINCIAL PLANNING. COORDINATION A SUPPORT
7.1      ANAGNENT STUOY                                                      116.1        -    116.1       61.0        -     61.0           -         0
7.2    BAPPEOA TK I STRENGTHENING
INSTITUTIONAL COSTS                                                 304.6    94.0    398.6        160.2    49.4    209.7           24         1
OISCRETIONARY FUNDS                                                1.000.0        -  1,000.0      526.0        -    526.0           -         3
TECNNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                254.6 1.186.4  1.441.0        133.9   624.1    758.0           82         4
Sub-Total BAPPEDA TN I STRENGTHENING                                  1.559.2 1.280.4  2,839.6       820.2   673.6  1.493.7           45         a
7.3    SETNILDA STRENGTHENING                                                178.7    43.0    221.7        94.0    22.6    116.6           19         1
7.4    HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
COORDINATION                                                         250.8     4.1    254.8       131.9     2.1    134.0            2         1
UMAGEMENT TRAINING                                                   426.3        -    426.3      224.2        -    224.2           -         I
CONPUTER TRAINING                                                    so.0        -     80.0       42.1        -      42.1           -        0
Sub-total WUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT                                   757.0      4.1    761.1      398.2      2.1    400.3            1         2
7 .5    LAND USE PLANNING 8 TITLING
MAPPING 8 EROSION SURVEY                                            144.6        -    144.6       76.1        -      76.1           -         0
SYSTEMATIC TITLING                                                  335.2    73.6    408.8        176.3    38.7    215.1           18         I                cn
Sub-Total LAND USE PLANNING 8 TITLING                                  479.8    73.6    553.5       252.4    38.7    291.1            13         1
7.6    PROVINCIAL AGENCY STRENGTHENING
KANNIL PERTANIAN                                                      19.5       -      19.5       10.3       -      t103           -         0
TK I DINAS                                                           97.5        -      97.5      51.3        -      51.3           -         0
SBRLKT                                                                19.5       -      19.5       10.3       -      10.3           -         0
Sub-Total PROVINCIAL AGENCY STRENGTHENING                               136.5        -    136.5       71.8        -     71.8           -         0
Su.b-Total PROVINCIAL PLANNING. COORDINATION 3 SUPPORT                   3.227.3 1.401. 1 4.628.3   1. 697.7   737.0  2.434.7            30        12
8.  UPLAND NATERSHED SYSTEN ACTION RESEARCH IAARO)                        4.274.5   568.3  4,842.8   2.248.6   298.9  2.547.5              12        13
9. AREA OEVELOPMENT PLANNING SUPPORT
9.1 MANAGEMENT STRENGtHENING                                                236.7   128.1    364.9        124.5    67.4    191.9           35         1
9.2MANAGMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS                                            213.3   535.6    748.9        112.2   281.8    394.0           72         2
9.3HUNAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT                                               585.2    44.7    629.9       307.8    23.5    331.3             7        2
9.4OPERATIONS                                                               295 8    72. 6    368.4       15i.6    38.2    193. 8          20         1
Sub-Total AREA DEVELOPMENT PLANNING SUPPORT                              1.330.9   781.0  2. 112.0      700. I   410.9  1. 111.0         37         6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                      29. 222.3 8. 163.9 37.386.2  15. 372. t 4,294.5 19. 666. 6        22      100
Physical Contingencies                                                 2.814.0   641.3  3.455.4   1.480.3   337.4  1. 817. 5            19         9
Price Contingencies                                                    5. 708.9 1. 120. 1  6, 829.0   3.003. 1   589.2  3,592.3          16       18
__________  -----   _--_---  -------- ------- --------  ---------  -------                   (D F 
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                       37.745.2 9.925.3 47.670.5  19.855.4 5,221.1 25.076.5             21       128         tJ  X
La  In project description:  Microwatershed Stabilization.



rBWA WM 1u        A UEWWN   MECT I(NM  KSA 11)
Proit Cinunts bu Year
Totlh lnludirc Continggroies                      TotaIt Illud,re Coinhovwra
lRP. fillimn)                                        (S1 '1000
199  1        1992   1993   1       1995            1n9 Total   19  199    1992    9  1   19    Tota
-_=                                                               P    =   ,,,-_--,,_ __
1.    IRUUlTy NOSLILATIUN
1.1      NM   IUIIZATIIIN
nIlTT VEWPNENT - RMLINS                                     -   17.2    40.3  134.4  126.2  316.9   635.0    -    9.0   21.2   70.7    6.4  166.7   334.0
MOM PRJECTS                                                 -   14.7    37.3  110.0  179.0  654.7   94.6    -    7.7   19.6   57.9   93.6  344.4   M.2
Su*b-Total MlMMOBILIZATION                                     -   31.9    77.6  244.4  304.2  971.6 1,629.)    -   16.8   40.8  129.5  160.0  511.1   957.3
1.2      VILtUE MILIZATIO
I6TITUtlif COSTS                                            -  150.3   316.0  257.5  23;.3  139.0  1,101.0    -   79.1  166.2  135.5  125.4   73.1   579.2
IUSUM W   VLYJNS FMS                                        -  233.5   275.2  375.3  293.6         - 1t167.7    -  122.8  144.8  197.4  149.2         -   614.2
VILULASPOCTS                                                -  250.2   545.1  947.2 1,251.1 19251.1  4,244.6    -  131.6  286.7   mB.3  659.1  659.1 2,232.9
UIUlAGE LEAlRHP TRAINING                                    -   96.6   142.0  205.3  164.4         -   59.4    -   45.6   71.7  109.0   86.5          -   311.8
Sub-Total VIlLLAG NILtiNTIUN                                   -  720.7 1t218.3 1t785.4 1937.3 I,390.0 7,111.7    -  379.1  6f2.1  939.2 19019.1  731.2 3,7C1.0
Sub-Tot3l COWINITY NGILIZATION                                       752.5  2.356.0 2,029.7 24241.6 2,361.6 8.711.4    -  395.8  713.3 1,067.7 1,179.1 121'.3  4.53.93
2.   StNE STABILIZATION TECHICALI SERMIMS
2.1  RUOFF CONATROI I SOII CUSYTIIN                                  -   38.7    70.9  187.9  160.5  222.1   679.9    -   20.4   37.:'  39.6   24.5  116.1   37?.
2.2  FZ PLIING S DIVERSIFICATIO                                      -   49.9    95.4  229.2  19.l  271.1   9c4.8         -   26.3   50.7  170.6  104.6  147.&   444.4
2 - 3  iWATEN WM  IEWEIM   SpM9T   EANI                              -    3.4      9.6  140.?   45.8   50.1   249.0    -    1.8    5.0   73.7   ?4.1    1.4   1iI.0
2.4   IFI TEO6OGy DISAyS                                             -   88.6   278.2  240.0  225.9  233.0  1t115.7    -   46.6  116.3  126.3  115.7  17'.6  596.9
SubTotal SIWE STUILIZATIN  TECDICAL SERICES                       -  180.6   453.   797.2  681.4  776.3  28W.5    -   95.0  238.8  419.4  358.5  408.4  1520.0
3.   RMSt RooS me  IRIDES                                            - 4.096.2 3,343.0 3091.7 3,552.8 2r..1.7 16,935.4    - 27154.9 1,759.5 1,626.4 1868.9 1.50.1  9909.7
4-   LKAnIE  PIMIIs. ocnOInno I SUmI  SEwimES
4.1      WPM1X it 51TIENZINS                                         -  104.2   264.6   99.0  104.2  110.5   6W2.6    -   54.3  139.2   52.1   54.8   58.1   359.1
4.2      iNO       nK 11 STlENEIIl                                   -   59.6   109.0   70.6   73.5   77.9   309.6    -    1.9   57.4   37.1   38.6   11.0   204.9
4.3      WWMO AIMC STIENIINB
EXEIT51 CEINTERS                                            -       -   112.7  119.1       -       -   231.7    -       -   59.3   62.6        -      -   t21.9
SIEJIBTINIINIF a KWAlTEN D1SES                              -   16.8    38.0   68.6   94.1   97.7   315.2    -    8.8   20.0   36.1   49.5   51.1   265.8
FtOS FOR lili PUiOTS                                        -   71.5   143.0  262.1  309.8  309.8 1,096.2    -   37.6   75.2  137.9  163.0  163.0   576.6
Sub-Total WWALTEII DICT STRENGTHENINI                          -   88.3   2S3.6  449.8  403.9  407.5 1 643.1        -   46.4  154.5  236.6  212.4  ?14.4   864.3
Sub-Total KAWATEN PLMINt aIDDINATION I SUPPORT SERVICES           -  251.1   667.3  619.3  581.6  595.9 2 715.2    -  132.1  351.0  325.8  305.9  313.5 1429.3                     It f 
5.   CINITY  WENT, TRAINING I SIIRT                                                                                                                                                    x  D
_ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _____                                                              tD~
5.1  HMI RESI DUEWGPT                                                     39.7    30.1   52.2   36.8   20.5   In.3    -   20.S   15.8   27.5   19.4   10.8    94.3                            >
5.2  1TAlAI DNEEIJT                                                  -   64.5    19.9   16.5   17.6   15.6   137.2    -   33.S   10.5    8.7    9.2    9.8    72.2                     o  w  c
5.3  TECOCAL ASSISTIU                                                -  121.1    17.7  203.9   19.9   21.1   383.9    -   63.7    9.3  107.3   10.5   11.1   201.9
t..4..i                  r                 I                  -  2m.4    67.8  M2.7   74.3   60.3   700.4    -  118.5   35.7  143.4   39.1   31.7   36.4



6.    UFLU  UEilWT  hPPI TIM
6.1  INSTITUTIINK COSTS                                               -   73.1    15.6   29.5   31.2   12.6   162.3    -   38.5    8.3   15.5   16.'    S.7    85.4
6.2  FIMEIIRN1 T    CIg ASSISTICE                                     -  295.7   438.2  351.8  204.9   25.6 1,366.2    -  155.6  256.8  185.1  107.8   13.4   718.7
Sub-Total UID IlELEIIT StiEURT TEAM                               -  368.    504.1  381.3  236.2   39.2 1,528.5    -  194.0  265.2  200.6  124.2   20.1   804.1
7.    PRWIIICl nAmING, CMIN3TIu : SU1PRT
7.1      TUflENT Sll                                                  -   76.2    31.7   27.9        -      -   135.7    -   40.1   16.7   14.7          -      -    71.4
7.2      7AW M TX I STNENTIEIING
INSTIIITIIUII CO S                                          -  156.0   12,4   73.9   72.0   76.4   503.7    -   32.0   66.0   38.9   37.9   40.2   265.0
DISCRETIINMT   FIIDS                                        -  239.3   239.3  238.3  238.3  238.3 1,191.5    -  125.4  125.4  125.4  12i.4  125.4   626.1
TEOIICII ASSISTIIC!                                         -  551*3   727.3   30.2    3.2  267.5 1,629*6    -  m.0  3W2.6   42.2    1.7  140.7   857.2
S ltal WPE6A 1 I STREn11ENINB                                  -  945.6 11Mfll0   3e4  313.6  532*?  39324*7    -  4n7.4  573.?  20644  164.9  306.3  1,748.9
7 .3     SETILEDA STRlREII   s                                       -   27.9   110.9   46.4   49.2   52.2   236,5    -   11.7   50.3   24.1   25.9   27.4   150.7
7.4       Nm RESUIECE  EWLIFT
CINATIPh1ON                                              16*2   92*2    62*9   47.6   50.5   46.4   315.8  8.5   48.5   33.1   25.1   26.6   24.'   166.1
6ENAIEENT TRAINING                                          -    5.1   119.6  135.9  144.1  152.7   557.3    -    2.7   62.9   71.5   75.8   80.3   M.2
CNU'TER TRAININ                                             -       -    58.0   19.6   10.7   11.4    99.8    -         -   30.5   10.3    5.7    6.0    52.5
Sub-Totol MIM  hECE  FELWIFIENT                             16.2   97.2   240.4  203.2  205.3  210.5   97V.9  3.5   51.1  126.5  106.9  106.0  110.7   511.9
7.5      LAND USE PLMUINI   3 TITLING 
HPAING I EROSIOE SIWY                                     2.0  171.2      1.9    1.?    1.8    1.7   lIP.2  2.0   90.1    0.9    0.9    1.6    6.9   9".
SYSTEIIATIC TITLING                                         -   90.9   153.5   95.2  100.9  107.0   547.4    -   17.8   80.7   W.1   53.1   U.3   MU.0
Sub-Total LAND USE PLMING I TITLING                          2.0  262.2   155.2   96.9  102.7  108.6   m.7  1.0  137.9   81.7   51.0   54.0   57.1    t?.0
7.6     PROVINCiAL AECr  STUENGTIEN1T1
KAUlL PERTANIAN                                             -    4.4      4.7    4.9    5.2    5.6    24.9    -    2.3    2.5    2.6    2.1    2.9    13.0
TR I DINAS                                                  -   22.0    23.3   24.7   26.2   27.8   124.0    -   11.6   12.3   13.0   11.8   11.6    65.2
SNllKT                                                      -    4.4      4.7    4.9    5.2    5,6    24.8    -    2.3    2.5    2.6    2.8    2.9    13.0
SubTotal PROIAI L AM   STR         ING                         -   30.8    32.6   34.6   36.7   30.9   173.6    -   16.    17.?   1tP.?   19.3   20..          91.3
SdtTotal TUNTCIA KNIRIIING, COORINATION  ISUPPORT              18.1 1   .8 2,661.?  301.4  707.5  Mt.4 5621.1  9.5  757.4  171.:  ':1.6   V7.?   V?.0    2.9%.9
8.   w     A ATESIE  SYSTFn ArTIII RESEARCR (MD)                  14.5  9.t1  1,610.9 1201.9 14194.1 1212.2  6/05t.81  7.6  110.9  347.3  612.1  603.1  637.6  3,114.0
9.   MA  EtWlFIINT PLAIING  II9T
9.]. IMh6AEMENT STRENYTWNING                                       4.1  128.5   225.5   38.0   l13    14.2   423.8  2.1   67.6  118.6   20.0    7.1    7.5   M.9
9.2   1ElT IJwrImNIuO  SYSTEMS                                    33.3  151.7   546.2   35.5   13.4   14.2  834.3  17.5   79.0  297.3   45.0    7.1    7.5   444.1
9.3 NIM   RESIRBCE [EWLIFINT                                         -  181.0   329.6  205.3   20.1   21.4   756.4    -   95.2  172.8  10D.0   10.6   11.2   397.9
9.4  WI T1uS                                                       6.8  190.2    43.7    4.0   29.   1 07.3   461.7  3.6  100.0   23.0   44.?   15.4   56.7   242.?
SATotaI ARA DE8LLOPIElNT PLMINNG 9991T                         14.2  65t.3  1,143.9  412.8   76.4  157.6 SAl   23.3  342.6  601.7  217.2   40.2   32.9 1,387.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              76.8 8784.9 10,806.6 9,69.1 9,26.0 9,046.1 47,670.5 40.4 4621.2 5635.7 5,054.2 4,96.4  ,758.6 259076.5                     x
Feiutys 13. 1991 12:33



INOONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPhENT PROJECT (BANGUN OESA III
SUNNARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMARY
IRp. Million)               1US$ 000                        I Total
__  ___    __      ___ _--   ----_--------------------  S Foreign  Be$
local   Foreign  Total     Local   foreign  Total    Exchange    Costs
1. INVESINENT COSTS
A. FURTHER PREPARAT ON COStS                      80.2        -    80.2       42.2       -     42.2           -        0
8 CIVIL WORKS
8ui ldings                                    387.5    43.1    430.5      203.8    22.6    226.5          10        1
Roads and bridges                           6. 316.5 2. 707. 1 9.023.5   3.322.7 1.424.0  4. 746. 7      30        24
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                          6.703.9 2,750.1  9.454.0   3.526.5 1.446.7  4.973.2           29       25
C. VEHICLES
4x4 wheel-drive                               153.9   359. 1   513.0      81.0   188.9    269.9          tO         1
motorcycles                                   251. 1  586.0    837. 1     132. 1   308.2    440.3         70        2
Pick-up Truck                                  t2.0    28.0     40.0        6.3    14.7     21.0         70         0
Nini-bus                                       31.2    72.8    104.0       16.4    38.3     54.7          70        0
Sub-Total VEHICLES                               448.2 1.045.9  1.494.1      235.8   550.2    786.0          70        4                               q0
0. EQUIPMENT AND fURNITURE
field equipment                               388.4   906.2  1.294.6     204.3   476.7    681.0          70         3
Office equipment                              111.9   111.9    223.8       58.9    58.9    117.7          SO        1
tab equipment                                 164.0   164.0    327.9       86.2    86.2    172.5         50         1
Office furniture                               67.8    17.0     84.8       35.7     8.9     44.6          20        0
Information technology                         15.1   135.9    151.0        7.9    71.5     79.4         sO         0
Sub-Tot*l EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE                747.2 1,334.9  2,082.1      393.0   702.2  1,095.3          64        6
E. LANO TITLING ANO SURVEYS                      328.6        -   328.6      172.9       -    172.9           -        1
F. IECHNICAt ASSISTANCE
1. Specialist Services
Foreign consultants                        621.2 3,033.0  3.654.2     326.8 1,59B.5  1.922.3          83        10
Local consultants                          552.8       -   552.8       290.8       -    290.8           -        I
Sub-Total Specialist Services               1.174.0 3.033.0  4.207.0      617.6 1,595.5  2,213.0          72       if
2. Studies                                    288.0       -   288.0       151.5       -    151.5           -        I
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 1.462.0 3,033.0  4.495.0      769.1 1,595.5  2,364.5          67        12
G. PROJECT-SUPPORTED COURSES
Courses for village leaders                 1.452.6       -  1,452.6      764.1       -    764.1           -        4                              t a)
Training for project staff                  tl88          -  1.18.        G09.        -     0.                                                         '
Workshops                                     376.0        -    376.0     197.8       -    197.8           -        1                              9'  X
Publications                                   38.4       -     38.4       20.2       -    20.2            -        0                                    oD
Suib Total PROJECT-SUPPORTED COURSES           3.025.8        - 3.025.8   1.591.7        -  1.591.7           -        8



R. FUNDS
BangDes dusun agriculture project               834.8        -    834.8      439.1        -    439.1            -        2
Hamelet revolving funds                         980.0        -    980.0      515.5        -    515.5            -        3
Inpres Desa projects                          3.562.5        -  3.562.5   1,874.0         -  1.874.0           -        10
Kecamatan Projects                              920.0        -    920.0      484.0        -    484.0            -        2
Discretionary funds                           1.000.0        -  1,000.0      526.0        -    526;0            -        3
Research Funds                                1.260.0        -  1,260.0      662.8        -    662.8           -         3
Sub-Total FUNDS                                  8.557.3        -  8.557.3   4.501.5         -  4,501.5            -       23
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                             21.353.2 8.163.9 29.517.1  11,232.6 4.294.5 15.527.2              28       79
If. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES
Supervision                                    177.2        -    177.2       93.2        -     93.2           -         0
Staff allowances                             1,585.2        -  1,565.2      833.9        -    833.9            -        4
Sub-Total SALARIES                              1.762.5        -  1.762.5      927.1        -    927.1            -        S
B. OPERATION AND hAINTENANCE
0
1. Field trips                                                                                                                                     0
Travel alloannces                          491.9        -    491.9      258.8        -    258.8            -         1
Fuel                                       481.3        -    481.3      253.2        -    253.2            -         1
Sub-Total field trips                          973.2        -    973.2      512.0        -    512.0           -         3
2. Maintenance                              3,047.5         -  3,047.5   1.603. 1        -  1,.503.I          -         8
3. Office seWplies                           1,329. 5       -  1.329,5      699.4        -    699.4           -         4
Sub-Total OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE             5.350.2        -  5.350.2   2,814.4         -  2,814.4                    14
C. OTHER
Meetings                                        97.2        -     97.2       51.1        -     51.1           -         O
Reporting                                       31.3        -     31.3       16.4        -     16.4           -         0
Surveys                                         10.8        -     10.8        5.7        -      5.7           -         0
Translation                                      3.6        -      3.6        1.9        -      1.9           -         0
Adninistrative Costs                           613.5        -    613.5      322.7        -    322.7           -         2
Sub-Total OTHER                                   756.4        -    756.4      397.9        -    39,.9           -         2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                               7. 869. 0      -  7. 869. 0   4.139.4       -  4,139.4            -       21
Total BASELINE COSTS                                29.222.3 8.163. 9 37.386.2  15. 372. 1 4.294.5 19, 666.6          22       100
Physical Contingencies                            2.814. 0   6A1.3  3.455.4   1.480.3   337.4  1,817.6             19        9
Price Contingencies                               5.708.9 1.1  .1  6.829.0   3.003.1   589.2  3,592.3              16       18                           ^ 1 t
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 37.745.2 9.925.3 47,670.5  19,855.4 5,221.1 25,076.5              21       128                          0 0  fit
Fe-------r ----ar------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 7
February 7. 1991  13:58                                                                                                                                    1r4



INDOOESIA
YOGYAUAR1A UPLAND AREA DEVELOPNET PROJECT (BUM  K11SA Il)
Financing Plan by Project CoXfnmnts
IUSS I 00I
Governmwtt of
Morld Bank      Indor*sia        Total
-- - --------^  -------------  ---------------             Local (Excl.  Duties 3
aount  I    mount    1        Amount          F ew. Exch.    Taxesl      Taxes
1. CONMUNITY NIBILIZATION
1.    WUSUN NOBILIZATION
CONHUNITY DEVELOPMENT - TRAINING                                 28. 9 85.0     50.1  15.0     334.0   1.3            -         283.9       50.1
DUSUN PROJECTS                                                   470.9 90.0     52.3  10.0     523.2  2.1             -         470.9       52.3
Sub-Total DUSUN MOBILIZATION                                        754.8 88.1    102.4  11. 9     857.3   3.4           -         754.8      102.4
1.2   VILLAGE MOBILIZATION
INSTITUTIONAL COSTS                                              185.8 32.1    393.4  67.9     579.2   2.3         78.6         431.2      69.4
OUSUN REVOLVING FUNDS                                            552.8 90.0     51.4  10.0      614.2   2.4           -         552.8       61.4
VILLAGE PROJECTS                                               1.451. 4 65.0    781.5  35.0   2.232.8   8 9           -       2. 009.6     223.3
VILLAGE LEADERSHIP TRAINING                                      267.5 85.0     47.2  15.0     314.8   1.3            -         257.5       47.2
Sub-Total VILLAGE MOBILIZATION                                    2.457.5 65.7  1.283.5  34.3   3.741t0  14.9         78.6       3.261.1    401.3
Sub-Total COMMUNITY NOBILIZATION                                     3.212.4 69.9  1.385.9  30.1   4.598.3  18.3         78.6       4.016.0      503.8              C>
2. SLOPE STABILIZATION TECHNICAL SERVICES
2.1RUNOFF CONIROt 3 SOIL CONSERVATION /a                                 46.4 13.0    311.3  87.0      357.7   1. 4       84.7          236.8      36 2
2.2FARN PLANNING S DIVERSIFICATION                                       82.6 18.6    361.8  81.4      444.4   I.8        84.3          310.8      49.3
.K  AUPATEN UPLAND DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT TEAM                               6.0  4.6    125.0  95.4      131.0   0.5        31.8           87.8      11.4
2. 4ONFARN TECHNOLOGY DISPLAYS                                          128.4 21.9    458.5  78.1    586.9   2.3          149.9         378.3      58. 6
Sub-Total SLOPE STABILIZATION TECHNICAL SERVICES                       263.4 17.3  t.256.6  82.7   1,520.0   6.1        350.7        1.013.7     S55.5
3. RURAL ROADS AND BRIDGES                                            6.082U  1 58.3  2.826.5  31.7   8.908.7  35.5    2.384.3        6.302.9     221.5
4. KABUPATEN PLANNING. COORDINATION S SUPPORT SERVICES
4.1   BAPPEDA 1K 11 STRENGTHENING                                        42.2 11.8    316.9  88.2      359.1   1.4         67.3         253.5      38.3
4.2   SEKNILDA TK 11 STRENGTHENING                                       21.3 10.4    183.6  89.6      204.9   0.8         13.5         165.8      25.5
4.3   KABUPATEN AGENCY STRENGTHENING
EXTENSION CENTERS                                                 98.4 80.7     23.5  19.3      121.9   0.5        12.2           97.6      12.2
STRENGTHENING OF KABUPATEN DINASES                                   -    -    165.8 100.0      165.8   0.7       113.0           36.2      15.6
FUNDS FOR UDKP PROJECTS                                          519.0 90.0     57.7  10.0      576.6   2.3           -         519.0       57.7
Sub-Total KABUPATEN AGENCY STRENGTHENING                            617.4 71.4    246.9  28.6      864.3   3.4       125.1          652.8      86.4
SUb-Total KABUPATEN PLANNING, COOROINATION 3 SUPPORT SERVICES          680.9 47.7    747.4 52.3   1.428.3  5.7          206.0        1.072. 1    150.3
5. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT, TRAINING I SUPPORT
5-1HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT                                            80.2 85.0      14.2  15.0      94.3   0.4            -          80.2      14.2             DIEX
5.2DATA BASE DEVELOPMENT                                                  13.5 18.8     58.6  81.2      72.2   0. 3        t9.7          45.0       7.5             F     Go
5.3TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                  142.3 70.4     59.7  29.6     201.9   0.8        130.4          54.1      17,4             o
Sub-TotaI CONMRNITY DEVELOPMENT. TRAINING I SUPPORT                    236.0 64.1    132.5  35.9      368.4   1.5       150.1          179.3      39.0



6.   UPLAND DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT TEAM
6.1  INSTITUTIONAL COSTS                                                     34.3 40.2     51.t  59.6       85.4   0.3          14.3          60.5       to 6
6.2 FOREIGN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                            646.8 90.0     71.9  10.0      718.7   2.9        393.8          253. 0      71. 9
Sub-Total UPLAND DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT TEAM                                681. 1 84.7    122.9  15. 3     804. 1   3.2       408.2          313.5      82.4
7.   PROVINCIAL PLANNING. COORDINATION 6 SUPPORT
7.1     MANAGENENI STUDY                                                     58.8 82.3      12.6  17.7      71. 4   0.3            -          64.5        6.9
7.2    BAPPEDA TK I STRENGTHENING
INSTITUTIONAL COStS                                                 33.7 12.7    231.2  87.3      265.0   1. 1        59.9           177.0      28.0
OISCRETIONARY FUNDS                                                564. 1 90.0     62.7  10.0      626.8   2.5            -         564.1       62.7
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                               764.3 89.2      92.9  1e.8      857.2   3.4        700.8          70.3       86. 1
-------                                                             _
Sub-lotal BAPPEDA 1K I STRENGTHENING                                1.362.1 77.9    386.9  22.1   1.748.9   7.0          760.7         811.4       176.8
7.3    SETNILDA STRENGTHENING                                                 8.2  5.4    142.5  94.6       150.7   0.6        27.7          108.5       14.6
7 .4    HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPNENT
COORDINATION                                                       106.0 63.8      60.2  36.2      166.1  0.7          2.6          143.0       20.5
MANAGEMENT TRAINING                                                249.2 85.0      44.0  15.0      293.2   1.2            -         249.2       4.3                I
COMPUTER TRAINING                                                   44.6 85 0       7.9  15.0       52.5   0.2            -          44.6        7.9
Sub-Total HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT                                  399.8 78.1    112.0  21.9       511.8   2.0          2.6         436.8       72.3
7.5     LAND USE PLANNING S TITLING
MAPPING 6 EROSION SURVEY                                            85.3 90.0       9.5  10.0       94.e   0.4            -          85.3        9.5
SYSTEMATIC TITLING                                                 163.5 56.8    124.5  43.2       288.0   1.1         46.7         212.2       29.0
Sub-Total LAND USE PLANNING 6 TITLING                                 248.8 65.0    134.0  35.0       382.8   1.5         46.7          297.6      38.5
7.6    PROVINCIAl AGENCY STRENGTHENING
KANNIL PERTANIAM                                                        -    -     13.0 100.0       13.0   0.1            -           11.7        1.4
TK I DINAS                                                             -    -      65.2 100.0       65.2   0.3            -          59.0        6.2
SBRLKT                                                                 -    -      13.0 100.0       13.0   0.1            -           11.7        1.4
Sub-7otal PROVINCIAL AGENCY STRENGTHENING                                  -    -     91.3 100.0       91.3   0.4            -82.4                  8.9
Sub-Total PROVINCIAL PLANNING. CO1RDINATION 8 SUPPORT                  2.077.6 70.3    879.3  29.7   2,956.9  11.8          837.7        1.801.2      3180
8.  UPLAND NATERSHED SYSTEM A4CION 'ESEARCH IAARDI                       1.303.8 40.9  1.880.3  59.1   3.184.0  12.7          346 4        2.497.9     339 7
9. AREA DEVELOPMENT PLANNING SUPPOR.
9.1 MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING                                               165 6 74.3      57.4  25.7      222.9   0.9         74 3          121 4      27 3
9.2 mANIAGMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS                                         362.6 81.6      81.5  18.4      444.1   1 8        313.5           88.4      42 2
9.3 HUMAN RESOURCE OEVELOPHENT                                             297.1 74.7    100.8  25.3       397.9   1.6         25. 7         321 6      50 6
9.4 OPERATIONS                                                             105.6 43.5    137.3  56.5       242.9   1.0         45.6          179 3       17 9
________   ----  -------     -----  --------     -----  ----------  ------------  --------     ?7 F 
Sub-Total AREA DEVELOPMENT PLANNING SUPPORT                              930.9 71. 2    377.0  28.8   t.307.8   5. 2        459.1          710.7      138.0           OQ jo z
lotal Disbursement                                                       15.468.2 61. 7  S.608. 4  38.3  25.076.5 100.0     5.221. 1      17.907.2   1.948.2                 x
/a In project description: Microwatershed Stabilization.



INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IBANGUN DESA II)
Financing Plan by Swuary Accounts
(U0$  000)
Goverrment of
World Bank      Indonesia        Total
-------------  -------------  --------------               Local (Excl.  Duties 8
Amount   2    Amount    X     Amount    I    For. Exch.      Taxes)       Taxes
1. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. FURTHER PREPARAtION COSTS                      38.4 85.0       6.8  15.0      45.2   0.2            -          38.4       6.8
B. CIVIL NORKS
Bui ldings                                    232.5 80.0     58. 1 20.0      290.6   1.2        27.5          234.0      29.1
Roeds and bridges                           5. 362. 8 80. 0  1. 3#00 7 20.0   6t 703. 5  26. 7  1. 878.4   4.825. 0         -
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                          5.595.2 80.0  1.398.8  20.0   6.994. 1 27.9      1.905.         5. 059.1     29.1
C. VEHICLES
464  heil-drive                                   -    -    327.9 100.0      327.9   1.3       226.1           69.0      32.8
Motorcycles                                       -    -    575.5 100.0      575.5   2.3       393.2          124.8      57.6
Pick-up Truck                                     -    -     24.6 100.0       24.6   0.1        17.0           5.1        2.5                         I
Nini-bus                                          -    -     64.5 100.0       64.5   0.3        44.5           13.5       6.4
_ -   ----  -------   -----  --------   -----  ----------  ------------ _
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                   -    -    992.4 100.0      992.4   4.0       680.7          212.4      99.2
O. EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE
Field equiprmnt                               747.0 90.0     83.0  10.0      830.1   3.3       573.8          173.2      83.0
Office equipment                              136.5 90.0     15.2  10.0      151.6   0.6        73.0           63.4      15.2
Lab equipment                                 196.2 90.0     21.8  10.0      218.0   0.9        105.6          90.6      21.8
Office furniture                               47.4 90.0      5.3  10.0       52.6   0.2         10.0          37.4       5.3
Informtion technology                          89.8 90.0     10.0  10.0       99. 8   0. 4      89. 8          -0. 0     10. 0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE              I 216.9 90.0    135.2  10.0   1.352.1  5.4         852.3          364.6     135.2
E. LAND TITLING AND SURVEYS                      210.2 90.0     23.4  10.0      233.6   0.9            -         210.2      23.4
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Specialist Services
Foreign consultants                      1.943.9 90.0    216.0  10.0  2.159.8   8.6       1.782.2          161.7     216.0
Local consultants                          325.2 90.0     36.1  10.0      361.4   1.4           -          325.2      36.1
Sub-Totel Specialist Services               2.269.1 90.0    252.1  10.0   2.521.2  10.1       1. 782.2        486.9     252.1
2. Studies                                    160.0 85.0     28.2  15.0      188.2   0.8            -         160.0      28.2
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 2.429.0 89.7    280.3  10.3   2.709.4  10.8       1. 782.2        646.9     280.3
G. PROJECT-SUPPORTED COURSES
Courses for village leaders                   820.7 85.0    144.8  15.0      965.5   3.9            -         820.7     144.8         
Training for project staff                    660.7 85.0    116. b  15.0     777.3   3.1           -          660.7     116.6
workshops                                     208.1 85.0      36.7  15.0     244.8   1.0            -         208.1      36.7                          0 cdc
Publications                                   20.1 85.0       3.5  15.0      23.7   0.1            -          20.1       3.5                          1f
_-        301_ 7 _307



H. FUNDS
BangDes dusun agriculture project               470.9 90.0      52.3  10.0      523.2   2.1             -          470.9      52. 3
Namelet revolving funds                         552.8 90.0      61.4  10.0      614.2   2.4             -          552.8       61.4
Inpres Dess projects                          1.451. 4 65. 0    781. 5  35.0   2,232. 8   8.9           -       2.009. 6     223.3
Kecamotan Projects                              519.0 90. 0     57. 7  10.0     576.6   2.              -          519. 0     57. 7
Discretionary funds                             564.1 90.0      62.7  10.0      626.8   2.5             -          564.1      62.7
Research Funds                                  710.8 90.0      79.0  10.0      789.7   3.1             -          710.8       79.0
Sub-Total FUNDS                                  4,268.9 79.6  1.094.6  20.4   5,363.4  21.4               -        4.827.1      536.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                             15.468.2 78.5  4.233.1 21.5  19.701.3  78.6          5, 921. 1     13,068.2   1,412.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A SALARIES
Supervision                                        -    -    118.4 100.0       118.4   0.5             -          100.6       1?.8
Staff allowances                                   -    -  1.076.7 100.0   1,076.7   4.3               -          915.2      161.5
Sub-Total SALARIES                                    -    -  1. 195.0 100.0   1. 195.0   4.8             -        1,015.8      179.3
S. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
-                                                                                              o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1. Field trips
Travel allowances                               -    -    333.4 100.0       333.4   1.3            -          283.4       50.0
fuel                                            -    -    366.5 100.0       366.5   1.5            -          365.5          -
Sub-Total Field trips                              -    -    699.8 100.0       699.8   2.8             -         649.8       50.0
2. Maintenance                                     -    - 2.095.8 100.0   2.095.8   8.4                -        1,886.2     209.6
3. Office supplies                                 -    -    879.5 100.0       879.5   3.5             -         791.6       88.0
Sub-Total OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                   -    -  3.675.2 100.0   3,675.2  14.7               -        3,327.6      347.5
C. OTHER
Meetirns                                           -    -      64.5 100.0       64.5   0.3             -           58.0        S.4
Reporting                                          -    -      20.8 100.0       20.8   0.1             -           18.8       2.1
Surveys                                            -    -       6.5 100.0        6.5   0.0             -            5.9       0.7
Translation                                        -    -       2.1 100.0        2.1   0.0             -            1.9       0.2
Aninistrative Costs                                -    -    411.0 100.0       411.0   1.6             -          411.0          -
Sub-Total OTHER                                                  505 0 100.0      505.0   2.0             -          495.6        9.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                      -.375 2 100.0   5.375.2  21.4                       -       4,839.0      536.2
Total Disbursemnt                                    15,468.2 61. 7  9.608.4  38.3  25.076.5 100.0       5.221. 1      17,907.2   1.948. 2                           0 3
tD I-A 1a
February 7. 1991  13: 58                                                                                                                                             0% C



INDONESIA
TOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPHENT PROJECT (BANGUN DESA 11)
Financing Plan By Disbursement Category
(US$ ' 000)
Government of
World Bank       Indonesia         Total
-------------  -------------  --------------             Local lExcl.  Duties 8
Amount   %    Amount    %       Amount    S    For.k Exch.      Taxes)       Taxes
A. Civil Works
Buildings                                          232.5 80.0      58. 1  20.0     290.6   1.2          27.5         234.0       29. 1
Roads and bridges                                5. 362. 8 80.0  1 340.7  20.0  68 703.5  26.7       1. 878. 4     4.825.0           -
Sub-Total Civil Works                               5.595.2 80.0  1. 398.8  20.0   6.994. 1  27.9       1. 905.9       5. 059. 1     29.1
B. Vehicles                                                -    -    992.4 100.0      992.4   4.0         680.7          212.4       99.2                       1
C. Equipment
Office equipment and furniture                     469.8 90.0      52.2  10.0      522.0   2.1         278.4          191.4      52.2
Field equipment                                    747.0 90.0      83.0  10.0      830.1   3.3        573.8           173.2      83.0
Sub-Total Equipment                                 1.216.9 90.0    135.2  10.0   1.352.1   5.4           852.3          364.6      135.2
D. LAND TITLING AND SURVEYS                           210.2 90.0      23.4  10.0      233.6   0.9             -          210.2       23.4
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES
Local and Foreign Consultants                    2.429. 0 89.7    280.3  10.3   2.709.4  10.8       1.782.2          646.9      280.3
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES          2 429.0 89.7    280.3  10.3   2,709.4  10.8         1, 782. 2        646.9      280.3
F. Courses                                          1 709.5 85.0    301.7  15.0   2, 011.2   8.0              -        1.709.5     301.7
G. Funds                                            4,307.3 79.6  1 101.3  20.4   5.408.6  21.6               -        4. 865.5     543.1
H. Renurrent costs                                         -    -  5. 375.2 100. 0   5.375.2  21.4            -        4,839.0      536.2
Total Disbursement                                   15. 468.2 61. 7  9. 608. 4  38.3  25. 076.5 100.0    5.221.1       17.907.2   1.948. 2
February 7. 199t  13:58
m  X4
'-  c



- 106 -
ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Bangun Desa II")
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                                          Project
and Semester          Profile /a          Semester    Cumulative   Cumulative
(US$'000)    (US$'000)          2
1991   1                   0                  0              0            0
2                  2                500            500          3.2
1992   1                   4                500           1000          6.4
2                  8                851           1851         11.3
1993   1                 15                1795           3646         22.3
2                 23               1935           5581         34.2
1994   1                 31                1935           7516         46.0
2                 38               1590           9106         55.8
1995   1                 45                1590          10696         65.5
2                 52               1468          12164         74.5
199v   1                 60                1468          13632         83.5
2                 68               1346          14978         91.7
1997   1                 76                 550          15500        100.0
2                 84
1998   1                 92
2                100
/a Standard disbursement profile for Indonesia, Agricultural Projects,
Semester after Board approval, CODDR April 22, 1988.
Disbursements are expected to be faster than profile as this is the second
area developn.ent project in Yogyakarta province which would accelerate
project implementation.



ANNEX 10
- 107 -                           Page 1
INDONESIA
Yogyakanta Upland Area Development Project (Bangan Desa II
Project Implementation and Coordination
1.       Details of the organization and management design, the way in which
project activities would be allocated to particular agencies and the
mechanisms which would be used to coordinate these activities, are described
below. The components are described in clusters corresponding to the three
levels of government involved, i.e., national, provincial and districts.
National Level
2.       Overall responsibility for implementation of the project would rest
with the Director General of Regional Development (BANGDA) in the Ministry of
Home Affairs. The Project Director, responsible for the overall planning,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the project, would be the Director
of Area Development in BANGDA. A national Project Steering Committee (for
policy matters) and a national Project Technical Committee have already been
established and would be chaired by Director General of BANGDA in the Minister
of Home Affairs (details in Appendix 1).
3.       The Director General of BANGDA would assume responsibility for the
implementation of Component 9, Area Development Planning and Support, which
would strengthen BANGDA's institutional capacity. The Director General's
Secretariat would be responsible for the Management Strengthening, Management
Information System design, and Human Resource Development subcomponents. The
fourth sub-component, Operations, would be under the responsibility of the
Directorate of Area Development.
4.       BANGDA would participate with World Bank staff in an annual project
review, which would assess progress in project implementation and agree on
detailed work programs and budgets for the forthcoming year. BANGDA staff
would also play an active part in the conduct of the mid-term review of the
project (para. 5.10).
5.       Component 8, Upland Watershed Systems Action-Research would
implemented by Agency for Agriculture Research and Development (AARD), of the
Ministry of Agriculture through its Center for Soils Research (CSR) at Bogor
CSR would oversee the construction of new research facilities on the site of
the existing Soils Research substation in Yogyakarta. Pending the formal
establishment of the station, the program would be undertaken initially in DIV
by a CSR project unit the project unit and the new facilities would be
upgraded into a full CSR research station by April 1, 1993.
Provincial Level
6.       The Governor, DIY, would be responsible for the components to be
implemented at the provincial level. He would appoint a P--iect Coordinator
within BAPPEDA Tk I to act on his behalf in day-to-day ove aig . of these
components. A Provincial Steering Committee would be appointed to coordinate



ANNEX 10
- 108 -                          Page 2
project activities in the province and among districts. This committee would
be coordinated by Secretary of the Province (Sekwilda) and chaired by Chairman
BAPPEDA Tk I details are in Appendix 1. Under the Provincial Steering
Committee, two coordinating bodies would be appointed: (a) a Technical Team,
chaired by the Project Coordinator, responsible for coordinating project
planning and implementation within the province (details in Appendix 1); and
(b) a Working Group for Watershed Systems Action-Research, meeting as
necessary to oversee the annual research program and advise on the
dissemination of research results.
7.       Component 7, Provincial Planning, Coordination and Support Services,
would be the responsibility of BAPPEDA Tk I. It comprises a wide range of
staff functions in support of project activities. Certain staff functions
would be allocated to divisions (Bidangs) within BAPPEDA Tk I; others to
relevant bureaus (Biros) within the Governor's Secretariat; land-use planning
and systematic titling services would be allocated to the National Land Board
(BPN). Supervision and technical guidance responsibilities for components
implemented at the district level would be allocated to the office of the
local representative of the Ministry of Agriculture (Kanwil Pertanian), and
to the relevant technical Agencies (Dinas) at the provincial level. Project-
specific staff development (training) activities for all implementing agencies
within the province would be coordinated by a full-time contract Project
Training Officer within BAPPEDA Tk I (Annex 3, TA 7(1)]. The Project
Coordinator within BAPPEDA Tk I would have access to discretionary funds,
designed to facilitate the engagement of outside agencies (including
nongovernment organizations) for the conduct of special studies, surveys and
other support activities (para. 3.27).
8.       Component 6, Upland Development Support Team (UDST), would be under
the responsibility of the provincial food crop agency (Dinas Pertanian Tk I).
The team would be comprised of full-time seconded staff from Dinas Pertanian
Tk I, BANGDES X, sub-office RLKT, and provincial estate crop agency (Dinas
Perkebunan Tk I). Staff from other agencies would be seconded to the team on
a part-time basis as required. The provincial UDST would provide planning,
training, and implementation support services to district staff involved in
planning and implementation of the proposed microwatershed stabilization
subprogram. The provincial UDST would also liaise closely with the Upland
Watershed Systems Action-Research team, and would assist in the design and
evaluation of the proposed program of on-farr. technology displays. In project
year 3 of the project, the functions of the provincial UDST would be
decentralized to three districts. (see para. 11).
9.       Component 5, Community Development Training and Support Services,
would be under the responsibility of the Provincial Directorate of BANGDES.
The component would include support for the community mobilization activities
in the districts; coordination of training and orientation activities for
staff and community leaders; assisting with the introduction of an improved
data collection methodology in upland villages; and the development of a
database to support community development activities.



ANNEX 10
- 109 -                             Page 3
Activities within Districts
10.      All project activities implemented within each districts would be
under the overall responsibility of the relevant district administrator
(Bupati). The Bupati would appoint a Kabupaten Project Coordinator within
BAPPEDA Tk II to act on his behalf in oversight of these activities. On
behalf of the Bupati, the head (Camats) of each of the subdistricts
(kecamatans) included in the project would oversee activities within their
kecamatan on a day-to-day basis. The Camat's staff would also prepare plans
for the kecamatan projects to be financed by the project, and would implement
these on behalf of the Bupati. They would also be intensively involved in the
development of medium-term development plans for the upland areas within their
kecamatans.
11.      Component 4, Kabupaten (District) Planning Coordination and Support
Services, would be under the responsibility of BAPPEDA Tk II. This component
would consist of a range of staff functions, to be allocated to divisions
(Bidangs) within BAPPEDA Tk II and to relevant bureaus (Biros) in the Bupati's
office. (Setwilda Tk I). Construction of three new extension centers
(para. 3.24) would be undertaken by district BIMAS staff. The component would
provide supplementary mobilization resources to other kabupaten agencies.
These resources would be allocated at the discretion of the Bupati, in order
to improve the capacity of the respective agencies to support the village
projects. Allocations would be included in regular budget request for the
forthcoming year. Kecematan projects would be planned and managed by Camats
on behalf of the Bupati.
12.      Component 3, Village Roads and Bridges.  Public works agency (Dinas
PU Tk II) within each district would take responsibility for the village roads
and bridges component. PU Tk II staff and village leaders would receive
training in labor-intensive road maintenance techniques. PU Tk I and BAPPEDA
Tk I staff would be involved in motoring activities in the districts.
13.      Component 2, Slope Stabilization Technical Services, would be under
the responsibility of district food crop agency (Dinas Pertanian Tk II). It
would manage a decentralized Kabupaten Upland Development Support Team (KUDST)
from project year 3 of the project in Gunung Kidul, Kulon Progo and Bantul
districts. The limited UDST services required in Sleman district would
continue to be provided by the provincial UDST or by the Gunung Kidul KUDST.
In close liaison with the district BIMAS staff and the rural extension centers
(BPP), the Dinas would also coordinate a program of on-farm technology
displays in each upland village. These would be undertaken by subject matter
programmers (PPUP) at each BPP, supported by subject matter specialists (PPS)
from BIMAS at the kabupaten level. Microwatershed activity groups mobilized
by BANGDES Tk II staff, would be advised on runoff control and soil
conservation by government conservation offices (PPL) from sub-offices of
RLKT, and on farm planning and diversification by field extension workers
(PPL) from BIMAS. The day-to-day activities and work programs of the subject
matter programmes (PPUP), government conservation offices (PPL), and field
estimate workers (PLP) would be coordinated by the heads of the relevant BPPs,
to which the PLPs would be seconded under the authority of the Bupati.



- 110 -                           ANNEX 10
Page 4
14.      Component 1, Community Mobilization.  BANGDES Tk II in each district
would be responsible for implementing this component. It would consist of two
subcomponents: (i) village mobilization, to be implemented in each of the 140
upland villages in the province; and (ii) hamlet mobilization, to be im?ple-
mented in selected dusuns only, as a crucial first activity for the watershed
stabilization subprogram. At the village level, BANGDES staff would supervise
the introduction of an improved methodology for collection of village statis-
tics ("Potensi Desa"); they would train the village planning councils (LKMDs)
in improved situation analysis and planning methods; they would assist the
LKMDs in the planning of village projects and manage the budgeting and
financing of such projects (in a manner similar to the ongoing INPRES DESA
program). BANGDES staff would also introduce and monitor the expanded dusun
revolving funds to be financed under the project. Within those villages
selected for inclusion in the microwatershed stabilization subprogram, BANGDES
staff would assist in the selection of hamlet to be targeted. They would
arrange for the training of hamlet councils (KKLKMD) in microwatershed
planning; and the training and support of selected residents as specialized
hamlet cadres. These hamlet cadres, with appropriate community organization
training and with supervision from the BANGDES staff working from the Camat's
office, would organize microwatershed activity groups for participation in the
project. BANGDES staff would assist in coordinating the timely visits of
field and soil conservation staff (PPLs and PLP) from the rural extension
centers. They would also assist the hamlet boards (KKLKMD) to plan and manage
hamlet projects, especially by arranging for timely technical support from
PLPs and PPLs through use of existing coordinating mechanisms in the
appropriate subdistrict office.



ANAnE 10
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 5
MINISTRY OF ROME AFFAIRS
Ministerial Decree No.: 410.05.250 dated September 8, 1989 on:
The Establishment of Steering Committee for Yogyakarta Rural Development
Project II.
1.       Terms of Reference for the Steering Committee are:
-   To give guidance in the implementation of the YRDP II, and the
preparation for its handling over to Yogyakarta provincial
government in due time.
-   To give direction/assistant for the successful preparation and
implementation of the project.
-   To solve problems/issues arises during the preparation and
implementation of the project.
-   The committee is responsible to and under the Minister of Home
Affairs in line with the existing law and regulations.
2.       Members of the Committeet
Chairman : Director General BANGDA
Secretary: Director of Area Development, DG BANGDA
Members  s - Deputy V BAPPENAS
- Director General BANGDES, MHA
- Director General Cipta Karya, MPW
- Director General Foreign Monetaire, MOF
- Director General Budget, MOP
- Director General AARD, MOA
- Governor of Yogyakarta SR
- Chairman, BAPPEDA I, Yogyakarta
- Director for City and Regional Planning, MPW
- Chief, Bureau Regional II, BAPPENAS



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 5
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS
Ministerial Decree No.: 410.05249 dated September 8, 1989 on: The
Establishment of Technical Committee for Yogyakarta Rural Development
Project.
1.       Terms of Reference for the Technical Committee ares
-   To carry out the preparation of the YRDP, including to provide
guidance for the improvement of the study result.
-   To provide guidance in the planning and implementation of the
project, and to carry out monitoring and evaluation of the
project.
-   To prepare periodical reports on the implementation of the
project for the Steering Committee.
-   To carry out other tasks related to the implementation of
project activities.
2.       Membership of the Technical Committee
Chairman : Director of Area Development, DG BANGDA
Members : - Chairman, BAPPEDA I, Yogyakarta
- Chief, Bureau of Regional II, BAPPENAS
- Chief, Subdirectorate of Regional Planning, MPW
- Chief, Subdirectorate of Swadaya, DG BANGDES
- Chief, Subdirectorate of Backward, Critical and
Minus Region, DG BANGDA
- Staff, Bureau of Economic and Spatial Development
BAPPENAS



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 5
GOVERNOR OF YOGYAKARTA SPECIAL REGION
Governor's Decree No.: 79/TIM/1990 dated November 29, 1990 on:
The Establishment of Provincial Steering Committee and Technical Support
Team for Yogyakarta Upland Area Development Project.
1.       Membership of the Steering Committee:
Responsible Officer  : Acting Governor of Yogyakarta SR
Coordinator           s Sekwilda, Yogyakarta SR
(Secretary of the Province)
Chairman I            s Chairman BAPPEDA I DIY
Chairman II           s Assistant II to the Sekwilda, DIY
Secretary I           s Secretary of the BAPPEDA I, DIY
Secretary II          s Head of Provincial Development Bureau
Members               s - Assistant I to the Sekwilda, DIY
- Assistant III to the Sekwilda, DIY
- Assistant IV to the Sekwilda, DIY
Chief, Kanwil Land Board BPN, DIY
- Chief, Kanwil MPW, DIY
- Chief, Kanwil MOA, DIY
Chief, Kanwil Ministry of Forestry, DIY
- Chief, Kanwil BRI, DIY
- Chief, Directorate BANGDES, DIY
- Chief, Dinas Public Works, DIY
C Chief, Dinas Food Crops Agriculture, DIY
- Chief, Dinas Horticultural Crops, DIY
C Chief, Bureau of Finance, Setwilda, DIY
2.       Membership of Technical Support Team
Chairman       : Head of Economic Division, DIY
(Project Coordinator)
Secretary       Representative of the BAPPEDA, DIY
Members        : - Head of Research Division of the BAPPEDA, DIY
- Head of Social and Culturea Division of the
BAPPEDA, DIY
- Head of Physical Infrastructure Division of the
BAPPEDA, DIY
- Head of Statistics and Reporting Division of the
BAPPEDA, DIY
- Head of the Village Administration Bureau,
Regional Secretariat, DIY



ANUNE 10
ADpendix 1
Page 4 of 5
- Head of the Regional Office of BRI, DIY
- Respectlve Project Managers concerned consistlng
of3
- Upland Development Support Team under the
Provincial Agrlculture Servlce, DIY
- Community Moblilzation under the
Directorate of Rural Development, DIY
- ProvincLal Planning, Coordlnation and
Support Servlces under the BAPPEDA Tk. 1
- Human Resource Development under the
BAPPEDA Tk. 1
- Budget and Financial Management under the
ProvincLal Finance Bureau, Regional
Secretariat, DIY
- Implementation Control and Support Services
under the Provlnclal Development Bureau,
RegLonal Secretariat, DIY
- Upland Watershed Systems Action Research
under the ARD.



ANNDC 10
Aippendix 1
Page 5 of 5
Decree of the Governor of the Special Province of Yogyakarta
,80TIM/1990 of November 29, 1990 on: Establishment of Working Group on
e;nd Watershed Systems Action Research:
Advisor               s Head of Regional Office of the Ministry
of Agriculture, DIY
Chairman              i Head of Research Division of the BAPPEDA,
DIY
Vice Chairman         a Project Manager of Upland Watershed Systems
Action Research Component
Secretary             i Head of Soil Research Station
Members               a - Representative of the Regional Office of
the Ministry of Agriculture, DIY
- Representative of the Regional Office of
the Ministry of Forestry, DIY
- Representative of the Provincial
Agriculture and Food Crops Service, DIY
- Representative of the Provincial
Horticulture Service, DIY
- Representative of the Provincial
Livestock Service, DIY
- Representative of the BIMAS Secretariat,
DIY
- Representative of the Sub-Balai RLKT
- Representative of the Gadjah Mada
University
_ Representative of the AARD Ministry of
Agriculture
- Representative of the Soil Research
and Agroclimate Center
- Representative of the Livestock Research
Center
- Representative of the Food Crops Research
Center
- Representative of the Component 2 and 6
- Member of the Working Group



ANNEX 11
- 114 -                                             Table  1
INDONESIA
YOGYAY%ARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Models
Financial Prices (Annual)
('.n Rp.)
Croppitng sear
Unit     I to 2     3         4        5        6         7        8        9      10 to 30
0utputs
Haizet dre grain             Kg           175      175       175      175      175       175      175      175       175
Rice, drv Padde              Kg           190      190       190      190      190       190      190       190      190
Cassava, fresh root          Kg            45       45        45       45       45        4S       45       45        45
Groundnut, drv  in shell     Kg           560      560       560      560      560       560      560      560       560
Banana                     Stalk        2,000    29000    2,0000 ,000    2,000    20    2M000    2000   2M000
Coffee, drv bean             Kg         1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1f500    1,500    1s500    1,500
Avocado, fresh fruit         Kg           300      300       300      300      300       300      300      300       300
Fue!lood                     e3        5000   5000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000   5S000    5w000    5,000
Grass todder, fresh          Kg            10       10        10       10       10        10       10        10       10
Inputs
Urea                         Kg           180      200       220      235      252       270      288      306       324
TSP                          Kg           195      214       234      254      279       293      310      330       350
KCL                          Kg           185      205       226      241      259       277      296      315       333
Rice seed                    Kg           220      220       220      220      220       220      220      220       220
haize seed                   Kg           200      200      200       200      200       200      200      200       200
6roundnut seed               Kg           650      650       650      650      650       650      650      650       650
Grass slips              '000 slips   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000 O10000   10,000
Cassava cutting             '000        29000    2,000    2,000    2P000    29000    2,000    2,000    2,000    29000
Pesticide                    KG        10,000   100000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,'0,0   10,000   10t.00   10,000
Banana sucker             Seedling        100       100      100      100       100      100      100      100       100
Coffee seedling            Seedling       150      150       150      150      !50       150      150      150       150
Leuc./Glr. seedling       Seedling        50       50        50       50       s0        50       50       S0        50
Avocado seedling          Seedlins        400      400       400      400      400       400      400      400       400
Labor
Unskilled labour         Persondav      1,500    19500    IFs00    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1'500    1,500
August 23, 1990 19:10



- lU' -                                    Annexil
Table 2
INDONESIA                                          Page 1 of 3
YOGYAKARTA l'PLAND AREA DEVELOPt4EINT PROJECT
Crop Models
YIELDS AND INPIUTS
(Per Ha)
1.  Caesava                                           Existing
Techtnologs    kmy Technolodu
Unit      I to 30    1       2   3 to 30
Yield                     Kg          4.000   4.500  S.000   5.500
Dperating
Inputs
[frea               Kg             20      20      30      40
tSP                 Ks             20      20      20      20
Cassava cutting    '000            12      12      12      12
Lahor
Unskilled labout Persondwy         40      43              50
2.  Maize, Cassava
Existing
Tectuology            NM Teholoi
Unit      I to 30    1       2       3       4   5 to 30
Main Production
Cassava fresh root        Kg          5.000  5500   60000  6h50    7.000   7r130
Naizeo drsi grain         Kg            600    650    700    750    750    I
Operatins
Inputs
Urea                   Kt             50      60      75      75      75      7S
TSP                    Kg             25      35      50      50     5e      i0
11aize seed            Kg             25      25      25      25      25     75
Cassava cutting       1000            10      10      10      10      10      t0
Labor
Unskilled labour    Perundes         14.    145    155    U60    165    165
3.   Casaav ia. ize,
Rice/Grotmdnuts                                 Existing
Toesloiw          Ob  Teelolog,
Unit       I to 30    1      2       3 4 to 30
alin Production
Naize. dre grain              Km              0 0 go00    900    9e
Rice, drs Paddy               Kg            90o   1.000   low50   I.loo   .1l50
Cnssava. fresh root           Kg          5.000  5.50   600   65D0   7.000
Groautdrut dir  in shell      Kg            400    450    500        O    600
Operatirn
Inputs
Urea                       Kg            100    120   123        140    in
TSP                        Kg             60      75      so     'i    to
asize seed                 K11            25      25      25      25     25
Rice seed                  Kg             35      35      35      35     35
Cassava cutting           l00             10      10     to       10     i0
6roundnut s.d              Kg             60      60      60      s0     60
Labor
Ubskilled labour        nrsadW           310    325    335    340    362
-- ---       - --- --- -       ----      - - - -- -- -------------~



- 116 -                                       Annex  11
Table 2
Page 2 of 3
4.  Grass                                            Existing
TecholoUw      Now TochnoloUw
Unit       I to 30    1      2    3 to 30
C:==C-Cu    _-:1z:u no        asszug:u  e:zswr
Yield                     Kg          5,000   8 000   150000   15.000
Investment
Inputs
Urea                Kg              -      40        -        -
TSP                 Kg              -      40
Labor
Unskilled labour Persondav          -      30        -        -
Operating
Inputs
Urea                Kg              -       -       50       S0
TSP                 Kg              -       -       50       50
Labor
Unskilled labout Penrsda           12      20       25       30
5.  Coffee/Fuewood
intercropped                                    ExtinJ
Terrnolo *              New Tedvnologw
Unit       I to 30    1      2       3      4    5  6 to 30
Main Production
Coffeet dry bean           Kg              -       -       -    200  400  500    600
Fuelwood                   e3              -       -       3       6    7    7         8
Cassava, fresh root        Kg              -   *u125  3M000   1,625    -    -          -
Maize, drn grain           Kg              -     462    325    162    -                -
Investment
lnPuts
Urea                    Kg              -      40       -       -    -    -         -
TSP                     KU              -      40       -       -    -    -
KCL                     Kg              -      20       -       -           -       -
Coffee seedlins      Seedling           -   1000     200       -    -    -
LeucfGlvIr. seedling Seedling           -    800       B0       -     -    -        -
Labor
Unskilled labour     Persondaw          -     120      12       -    -    -         -
Operating
Inputs
Urea                    Kg              -      45    7.5       79   do   60        60
TSP                     Ks              -      26      65    52.5   40   40        40
KCL                     Kg              -       -      20      30   30   30        30
Pesticide               KG              -       -     1.5       2    2    2         2
Maize seed              Kg              -    10.8   12.5    6.3    -    -           -
Cassava cutting        '000             -     7.5       5    2.5    -    -          -
Labor
Unskilled labour     Persondaw          -     109   97.5    120  100  120    140
----- ---- ----- ---_   -    -- --  -   ---- __  --- --- -- -_  -   -* _ _ -_ _ _ _ -* _ _



Annex 11
- 117  -                                          Table  2
Page 3 of 3
6.   Avocado
intercropped                Existinl
Technologw                                      New Technolosw
 
Unit        I to 30    1        2        3      4     5      6       7       8        9       10    11 to 30
~~~~~~c=::===== -==CZ=::r=======::_,:. ==,==   :2C  :::c: ====ZC  :=:=:=cg      C=C ==ccS= ==: ...........................................aus
Main Production
Avocado, tresh fruit          Kg                -       -        -        -    -   400   600   19000   Ir800   24600   29600    3#200
Cassava' fresh root           Kg                -   4t125   3,000  1625    -         -      -       -
Maize, dry grain              Kg                -     462      325      162    -      -      -       -        -
Investment
Inputs
Urea                       Kg                       40        -        -    -      -     -        -
TSP                        Kg               -       40        -        -    -      -     -        -        -
KCL                        Kg               -       40        -        -    -      -     -        -        -
Avocado seedl.ng       Seedling             -      100       20        -    -      -      -       -
Labor
Unskilled labour       Persondaw            -       30        3        -    -      -     -        -
Operating
Inputs
Urea                       Kg               -       45    77.5    58.8   40        -     -        -
TSP                        Kg               -       26       75    37.5   25    25    25         25       25       25      25        25
KCL                        Kg               -        -       25       25   25      -     -        -        -        -        -        -
haize seed                 Kg               -    18.8    12.5        6.3    -      -     -        -        -        -        -        -
Cassava cuttins           '000              -      7.5        5      2.5    -      -     -        -        -        -       -
Labor                                                                                                              I
Unskilled labour        Persondav           -      109   107.5        70   30    40    50        60       70       BO      90        95
7.   Ba-ana
intercropped                            Existins
Technology                        New TeUcIoIov
Unit      I to 30   1        2       3      4    5       6      7    8  9 to 30
__=- =uzrsaus aC,g2  C      ccs *      =   a 55-  =        "
Main Production
Banana                   Stalk            -       -    300    700  900  900  I,OO   900  600    400
Cassava. fresh root       Kg              -  4,125   3,0OO  I625    -    -          -    -    -         -
Maize, drv grain          Kg              -    462    325    162    -    -           -     -    -        -
Investeent
Invuts
Urea                   Kg              -    100              -      -             -     -    -        -
TSP                    Kg              -    120       -         -    -    -       -    -    -         -
KCL                    Kg                    120                              -               -       -
Banana sucker       Seedling           -    800      90                             -                 -
Labor
Unskilled labour    Persondaw          -      9O      8                                       
operating
Inputs
Urea                   Kg              -      45   137.5  118.8  100  100    IvO  tvO   100    100
TSP                    Ks              -      26    145  132.5  120  120    120  120  120    120
KCL                    Kg              -      -      120    120  120  120    120  120  120    120
Maize seed             Kg              -    18.8   12.5    6.3    -    -          -    -    -         -
Cassava cutting       '000             -    7,5       5    2.5    -    -          -    -    -         -
Labor
Unskilled labur    Persnd              -     109   107.5    100   90       95       100   1 o 100    100



- 118 -
Annex 11
Table 3
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UWLAN AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (BANOW DESA Il)
SUMMARY NET INCOME OF CROP MODELS
Without Project/2       -----------------At Full Development--
Before               After    Before                 After                    Increase In
Crope/i       Cost of   Cost of   Cost of  Cost of   Cost of        Cost of                 Net Present
(Interplanted)   Labor      Labor/A   Labor    Labor      Labor/3      Labor    Incremental      Value/4
---kg/h------                    -----   -Re  Oh/h*-        -- -----              X
1. Cassava          143        60        83      204          76         129          46            47
2.  Cassava    )
;   280       210        70      388         248          141         71            72
Maize      ?
3.  Cassava    )
Maize          636        486       170      880         643         387         168            73
Rice       ?
Oroundnut ?
4.  Grass            s0        18        32      116          46          71          89           111
5.  Coffee/6   )
)     -         -         -      877         200         877           -             -
Fu-lwood m3)
8.  Avocado/6         -         -         -      961         148         809           -             -
7.  Banana/6          -         -         -      688         150         638
/1  For different soil types.
/   In Year 10.
/8 All labor costed.
/4 At 10% over 10 years.
/6 Replacing gradually cassava and maize.



- 119 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(*Bangun Desa 11)
Economic Analysis
1.       Two separate economic analyses was carried out for the Project
activities: for soil stabilization and on-farm technology displays,
inclo ing the components and sub-components: 1.1 Hamlet (Dusun)
mob-.ization; 2. Soil Stabilization Technical Services; and 6. Upland
Development Support Team, and for village roads and bridges (component 3).
Soil Stabilization On-Farm Technology Displays (Table 1)
2.       Benefits.  Two models were established, based on crop models given
in Annex 11 to quantify the effects of micro-watershed improvements and on-
farm technology displays. About 500 micro-watersheds would be improved
under the project covering 2,500 ha and benefitting about 4,000 farmers.
The stream of benefits was delayed by one year to allow for the completion
of the water run-off control measures. About 60,000 farmers would be
exposed to annual on-farm technology displays and related extension service
activities. Of these 20 percent or 12,000 farmers are expected to adopt
the improvements to farming practices (Annex 4). These adoptions are
expected to start in project Year 2 and to teach 12,000 farmers in Year 6
with a build up of benefits on individual farms over five years from start
of adoption.
3.       A recent reportl/ estimated the loss of soil fertility in the
critical uplands of Yogyakarta at 4.7 percent p.a.. For this economic
analysis, however, it was assumed that yields would remain stable without
the project. The farm-gate prices (early 1990 constant) used for inputs
and outputs do not reflect the improvements expected from the upgrading of
1/ Indonesia, Forest, Land and Water: Issues in Sustainable Development,
World Bank, 1989.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
the road network. For farm inputs and outputs a conversion factor of 1.0
was applied, with the exception of subsidized fertilizer (CF 1.82).
Incremental labor requirements were costed at the ongoing wage rate in
these areas (representing off-farm income foregone) and a conversion factor
for unskilled upland based labor of 0.7 was applied. The incremental farm
family benefits include only the basic crop improvements and exclude
additional benefits from improvements of home gardens, livestock and off-
farm activities. Fodder crops were valued at farm-gate prices.
4.       Investments.  The costs for Hamlet (Dusun) Mobilization, Run-off
control and soil conservation, Farm Planning and Diversification, Kabupaten
Upland Development Support Team, Provincial Upland Development Support
Team, and On-Farm Technology Displays (early 1990 constant) include varying
elements of upland based unskilled labor. Therefore, an aggregate
conversion factor of 0.85 has been applied. Because of an anticipated
effect of the work of the foreign consultants for the Provincial Upland
Development Support Team beyond the Yogyakarta province only 50 percent of
their costs were applied here. While it is expected that after the Project
the micro-watershed developments and on-farm technology displays will be
continuously expanded, neither the costs for maintaining the achieved
development standards have been included.
5.       Under these conservation assumptions the economic rate of return
is 12.0 percent over a 30-year period. Cost could increase by 10 percent
and benefits could decrease by 9.1 percent to maintain an economic rate of
return of 10 percent the assumed opportunity cost of capital in Indonesia.
Village Roads and Bridges (Table 2)
6.       Benefits.  Village roads and bridges would affect 49 of the 140
project villages. Benefits would come from reduced transport costs for
inputs and outputs, better access to markets in the rainy season, less
spoilage during transport, and improved production through better extension
coverage. Further benefits would come from easier access to services
(health, credit) and to employment outside the village, and from the
stimulation of non-agricultural activities in the villages. In line with
studies on the impact of rural roads in Bangladesh and the Philippines2/
these aggragate benefits were assumed to improve farmers net income by 10
percent.
2/ Developmental Impact of Rural Infrastructure: Bangladesh, Raisuddin
Ahmed, Mahabub Hossain, IFPRI, Washington, 1990.
Rural Roads Evaluation Report/Philippines Provincial Development,
USAID, 1978.



- 121 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3
7.       Costs.  The following elements of project costs were excluded from
the calculation: (a) improvement of bridges, as this would be required
without the project to maintain the benefits from the existing roads; (b)
equipment, as its depreciation is part of the costs of road construction;
(c) training, as it would produce benefits beyond the project activities;
and (d) maintenance, as the maintenance requirements of the improved roads
would not exceed those required for the existing roads. To the costs of
village roads construction, including 15 percent physical contingencies, an
aggregate conversion factor of 0.865 was applied based on the assumption
that cost of equipment, material and public works staff would amount to 55
percent of total costs and rural unskilled labor to 45 percent (CF 0.7).
8.       Under these assumptions, the economic rate of return for the
village roads and bridges component for 30 years would be 14.8 percent. A
cost increase of 45 percent or a benefit decrease of 31 percent would
reduce the ERR to 10 percent, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
Indonesia.



DCWMIA
YO07AKARTA UPLAND AREA OBVa.GPMET PRJC  Qw11ngun Dews 110)
Nkcrowaerstwd S,tabilIization ond On-Peru TachnloIo Display
Celcquletion of Internal Econom ic Rat, of Return (Ap million)
1    2    a    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   it   12   13   14   15   16   17   16   19   20   21   22   23   24 25-8026    27
A. eCMIC UENE!TS
1. W4crowatershed Stabilimmtion
Expected benefits per siecroetrsraAd          0.3  0.3  0.5  0.8  1.0  1.2  1.2  1.3  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2
Phasing of microest.ralse" (No. per y,r.)       0    5    15   48   90  348
Total empcted benefits: from P7  ()             0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              0    0     0    0    0
P.2 (5)               1.5  1.8  2.5    4    5  5.8  6.2 6.275 6.19S 5.97 5.925   5.9  5.96  6.01  6.01 6.01  6.01  6.01  6.01  6.01  6.01  6.01 6.01  6.01  6.01  6.01 6
PY3 (13)                    4.5  4.5  7.5   12   IS  17.4  15.6 16.62 16.56 17.91 17.77  17.7 17.66 16.03 18.08 18.03 18.03 18.03 18.03 18.03 18.03 16.03 18.03 16.03 10.03 16
PY4 (45)                         13.5  13.5 22.5   36   48 52.2 33.8 56.47 .S.75 83.73 53.32 83.1 83.64 54.09 54.09 34.09 54.09 54.09 54.09 54.09 54.09 54.09 54.09 54.09 54
Py5 (90)                                 2?   27   45   72   90 104.4 111.6 112.9 111.5 107.4 106 6 106.2 107.2 106.1 106.1 108.1 106.1 108.1 106.1 106.1 106.1 108.1 108.1 lot
PTO (545)                                   105.3 103.5 172.5  276  345 400.2 427.8 482.9 427.4 411 9 408.8 407.1 411.2 414.6 414.6 414.6 414.6 414.6 414.6 414.6 414.6 414.6 41.
Total A.1                                  0   1.5     6 20.5   52 68.5 101.8 140.6 167.0 185.2 192.6 192.5 186.9 184.4 183.6 13.8 185.4 1N36I.3 186.3 186.3 1816.3 138 .3 18831111.8 18.3 11581.3 13811.3 lb
2. O,,-Fwrm Tectnologa Disp lay Subcomponent         0    is   98  204  348  499  635  703  748   76   786  736  736  78   786  786   76   786  756   786  786  786  786  756   786  786  736                        
TOTAL ES@UC 0WITS:                       0.0  18.5 106.0 224.5 400.0 563.5 736.8 848.8 915.1 941.2 940.6 9481.5 944.9 940.4 939.6 959.9 941.4 942.3 942.3 942.3 942.3 942.3 942.3 942.3 942.8 942.3 942.3 Q4:
NrE PREU4T VALLIE AT 106               5.431
8. ECMIC CosT.
Financial Costs:
Osusn eobilIimatuon                            28   63  1I"   243  772
Runoff control & aoilI cosearvation            33   SO   148  118  154
Fare planning and divwrs.eficstion             48   78  178  148  189
Ksbupatan Upland Development Support Teams      3    8   110   33   35
P,ovincial Upland De.slopemnt Support Taai    251  230  190  115   21
On-Fore Technology Diaslay                     77  229   18   252  161
Subtotal                                 4T,  666  1006  935  133
TOrTAL ECONOIC COST: (CF.85)             371   568  85W  79  1132  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  40   400  400  400
NET PRE4T VALIJE AT 106                4.949
C. NET EW@4C 8BFrTS CA-U)                         -371  -55   -781  -571  -732   166  33Y  444  515  541  549  549   845  540  540  540  541  842  542   5  542  542 5 42  542  542  542 . 542                       34
0. INTEN01. ECOPUC RATE OF fRETI*                 12.03
Note: Conversion factor for ufakUk lePd uplsnd labor is 0.7 of Pew rats end for fort;Iiiga 1.82.
PILE: 70011I (Lotus)
17-Oct-GO"
03:14 PR1)



*                             - 123 -                      ANX  12
i   - I  ^          3 
^~~ !!i'   
11 '|1 
a   o           i gi.
l i ! X I
U!                ||        i(



INDONESIA                                                    ANNEX 13
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Bangun Desd 11)                            Page 1 of 4
Project Implementation Schedule : Overview of Key Activities for Project Stdrt-up
(Coiponent
Code           Key Actions, by component and sub-component                                         1991                        1992
JanFebMar AprMayJunJuiAuqSepOctNovDec JanFebMar
--1-1--1--1-1----1-X----1-1----1--1--1
A.    UPLAND PRODUCTIVITY AND STABILIZATION SUB-PROGRAM
<- PYO->   <-      ---- PYl  ---------   <_ PY2 ->
1.    COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION (BANGOES Tk II)
1.1   Dusun Mobilization
1.1.1 Community Development Training
a. Designi KKLKMD Microwatershed Planning Course                                                               :XXXXXXXXX:
b. Design Microwatershed Activity Group Mobilization course                  ::XXXXXXXXX:
c. Traln, and assist dusun leaders to plan dusun projects                   ::         :XXXXXXXXXXX:       ::
1.1.2 Dusun Projects
d. Identify 5 dusuns for pilot Microwatershed development                                                      :XX
b. Microwatershed Activity Groups formed                                     :       ...                            XXXXX:
ir each pilot dusun                                                   :
c. 5 dusun councils prepare dusun project plans                             : :      .:XXXXX
d. Implement first 5 dusun projects                                                                                       :X>
?.    SLOPE STABILIZATION TECHNICAL SERVICES                                      :
?.I   Runoff Control and Soil Conservation (SBRLKT)
2.1.1 Istitutional Costs                                                          :
a. PLPs provide planning assistance to pilot dusuns                          :             :XXXXXX
b. PLPs provide implementation assistance for pilot dusun                   :  :            :    :    :    :XXXXXXXXXXXXXX>
projects
2.1.2 Technical Training
a. Send PLPs to Microwatershed Orientation courses                          : ....                                  XX:
b. Send PLPs to Technology Menu Display courses                                        :  :XX:                :  :
2.2   Farm Planning and Diversification (DIPERT Tk II)                            :
?.2.1 Institutional Costs
a. PPLs provide planning assistance to pilot dusuns                          :      .:.:XXXXXXXXX:
b. PPLs provide assist. to implement pilot dusun projects                   :>: :::.:
?.2.2 Technical Training                                                            :
a. Send PPLs to Microwatershed Orientation courses                          : ....                                  XX:
b. Send PPLs to Technology Menu Display courses                             :  :         :  :  : : XX:
c. Send PPLs to nursery management training                                 :              :XX :: ::
6.    UPLAND DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT TEAM  (DIPERT Tk II)                             :
6.1   Institutional Costs                                                         ::
a. Recruit full-time members of team                                        :  :       :  :XX:
b. Complete detailed planning of first pilot Microwatershed                 :         ..                        XXXXXXXXX:
c. Complete detailed planning of four further pilot                         :  :.:XXXX>
Microwatersheds for PYI                                                :  :
6.2   Technical Assistance                                                        ::
a. Recruit short-term Land-use and Water Management                         :  :    XXXXX:  :
Adviser, Community Development Advisers, and Outreach                  :  :
Program Design Specialist                                              :  :
b. Land Use and Water Management Advisor in place                           :  :.                            :XX
c. International Community Development Adviser in place                      :         ::   :  :  :  :  :  :XXXXXX:
8.    UPLAND WATERSHED SYSTEMS ACTION-RESEARCH  (AARD)                            :  :
8.1   Research Facilities Construction                                            ::
a. Complete detailed plans for civil works                                  :  :    XXXXXXXX: XXX::
8.2   Research Program                                                                        :  :  :
a. Establish Upland Watershed Systems Action Research Steering              :  :    XX:  :  :  :  :  :  :  :
Committee and Working Group (condition for negotiations)             :  :       :  :      :::    :
b. Establish core team                                                        :      XXXXX:     X::: :                 :
c. Complete collect. of bench data for pilot Microwatershed                 ::       XXXXXXXX:        :  :    :
d. Complete selective planting of slope stabil. grasses                     ::         :XX: ::  :::   :                :
8.3   Technical Assistance
a. Technical Assistance for PYl:
Prepare detailed Terms of Reference and advertise                  :  :    XX: ::                             ::
Receive and review proposals                                       :  :       :  :XX::
Complete contract negotiations                                     :  :       :::       :XX:     :      :       :
Technical assistance in place                                      :  :.:.:XXXXX                              :



INDONESIA                                                 ANNEX 13
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Bangun Desa 11)                        Page 2 of 4
Project Implementation Schedule : Overview of Key Activities for Project Start-up
C)fIl)opnent
Code           Key Actions, by component and sub-component
1991                      1992
JanfebMar AprMayJunJulAugSepOctNovOec JanFebMar
IM    UPIAND COMMUNITY DLVELOPMENl SUB-PROGRAM                              - PYO -     < K---- - !      ---------      -PY2
I     COMMUNIIY MOBILISATION (BANGDES Tk II)(Continued)                       :  :
I.?   Villaqe Mobilisation                                                               ::X       ::       ::.
d. "Potensi Desa  survey in PYI villages                                           :XXXXX::
b. Assist LKMD and kecamatan staff to monitor and support                          :XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX>
village project Implementation                                      :  :
1.I .1Institutional Costs
a. Participatory planninig of village projects in PYI villages          :  :       :XXXXXXXX:   :  :  :
I.Z.Z Dusun Revolving Funds
a. Creation/expansion of dueun revolving funds In PYI villages                     :XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
1.?.3 Village Projects                                                                           :   :   :   :   :
a. Funds provided for PYI village projects                              :  :       :   :   :XX:
1.2.4 Village Leadership Training                                                                :   :
a. Training of village and dusun leaders in project                                :  :   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
planning and dusun revolving fund management                        .  .
SIOPE STABILISATION TECHNICAL SERVICES (Continued)                      :
?.1   On-farm Technology Displays (BPP)
a. Outreach Program Design Specialist in place                            :                              :XXXXXX:
b. Prepare detailed program design                                                :              :  :   :XXXXXX:
c. Install technology displays in all PYI villages                                                             XXXXXXXA
2.1.1 Dinas Pertanian Tk II
z.1.2 Dinas Perternakan Tk II
2.4.3 Sub-Cabang RLKT
2.4.4 Technical Training
a. Design Technology Display training program                             :     XXXXXX  :         .
b. Deliver Technology Display training program                          .                  : *  XXX   .
5     COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT TRAINING & SUPPORT SERVICES (BANGDES TKI)           :
5.1   Human Resource Development
a. Complete design of Community Organising courses for                              :   :XXXXX:
kecamatan staff and village leaders                                              :  :  :
b. Deliver training to PYI village and kecamatan leaders                           :   :  :   :XXXXXXXX:
c. Finalise methodology and training materials for "Potensi             :XXXXX
Desa" survey training                                             :  :
d. Deliver "Potensi Desa" training to Tk II and village staff                   XX:
5.2   Database Development
a. Develop an interactive data base for village-level data              :. . .           : ::XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX:
5.3   Technical Assistance
a. Village Development Monitoring and Evaluation Adviser:               :
Prepare detailed Terms of Reference and advertise              :  :   XX:
Receive and review proposals                                   :          :XXXXXXXX:  :  :
Complete contract negotiations                                 :  :       :  :      :XXXXX:
Adviser in place                                               :  :                      :  :   :XXXXXX:
C.    RURAL ROADS AND BRIDGES SUB-PROGRAM                                     :  :
3.    RURAL ROADS AND BRIDGES (PU TKII)                                       .  .
3.1   Road Construction                                                       :      :   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  >
3.2   Bridge and Culvert Construction                                         :      :   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX >
3.3   Road Maintenance                                                        :      :   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX >
3.4   Institutional Costs                                                     : 
a. Complete detailed design of first year work program                XXXXXXXX .          .      ..      .



I NIONI S IA                                                  ANN(X "
YO0YAKARIA UPI AND ARI A DV1tt 01l INI P lRO.I( I (I. IOr Lit D (",,I II)                Page 3 of 4
Project Implemerntation Schedule: Overview .,f Key A, . ivite>,  . PIojvct 'tart-up
i 'Ilent
(1,           Key ALtions, b) componeut and sub-iomponent                                          1991                        199?
-------------------------  ii etbM!prFliMyJunJiulAuigSepOctNovl0er Jani ebMar
-  I-  I-- '  I--I-- I- 1-- 11 --1-+ I  --+I -- I--I---- I    - I-I
1'.       INSIIIUIIONAI DtVtlOPMtNI SUB-PROGRAM
- l'Y   -  < <   - ---   PYI -PY
1.    KA13UPAIIN PIANNING, COORDINAIION & SUPPORI StRVICIS
1.1   BAPPIDA Ik 11 Strengthening (BAPPEDA Ik 11)                                  :  :
a. Brief PYI villdges and kecdmatans on pidnninq guidelinies                 :       x:        :     .
b. Select village and kecamatan projects for PYI                                :     t.
P. Prepare medlum-term devt. plan for each PYI kecamatanll                              ::xxXxxxx::
d. Prepare detailed  input/output worksheets for eaCh dgeilly                :        IA:
1I.    sl IWlI)A Ik 11 Strercgtheiilng (Sf IWIIDA 1k 11)                           :  :
1. I   Kablipaten Agen y Strengthienilng                                                           :      :    :  :
1.I I tevnion Centers.,
1. Prepare pldits and budget,. for new Rural Ixtenisionr  Centet.                                     :XXXXX:
1.1.' Strenqthening of KdbUpatenl agencles                                         ..
a. Identi fy priority  needs for agency strengthening foe r:                                             :
service delivery to upland village projects
ti. Proside strengtlieniirig  i-esources to selecte(d agerd les              :  :   I           XX:.:: 
i I,3 I tuds for Kecamatani (UDKP) Projects
a. Provide funds for kecamatan projects                                      :  :              :  :    : XX:
/.   iPROVINCIAL PLANNING, COORDINATION & SUPPORI SERVICES
/.I   Manragenment Study (BAPPEDA Tk 1)                                            ;
a. Management study for BAPPEDA I/Sekwilda 1:                                :
Draft terms of Reference and advertise                                         :XX         : :
Prepare short list and clear with Bank                                ::          : :
Receive and review proposals                                        :          ::   :XXXXX:       ::
Clear review with Bank                                              :  :       :  :  :  :  :XX:
Complete contract negotiations                                              :       :: :::   :XXXXX:
Undertake management study                                          :.:XXXXXXXXXX >
1.7   BAPPEDA 1k I Strengthening (BAPPEDA Tk 1)                                    :
/.?.I Institutional Costs
a. First meeting of Provincial Steering Committee                            :  :XX
b. Complete project negotiations with World Bank                          XX::                     :      ::
c. Prepare and issue project implementation guidelines                       :  :XXXXXXXXX:     X:
d. Undertake detailed planning (SAKK workshops) of Tk I and                     :       :XXXXX:       :
fk IT agency programs and MIS design                                                            :      :             :
e. Ccmplete analysis and identification of upland villages                   : :        :   XX9:
f. Finalise guidelines for village and kecamatan projects                    ::         ::   XXX ::  :
1.7.? Discretionary Funds
1.2.3 Technical Assistance
a. Recruit local consultant for pre-recruitment/procurement                  ;  ;    XX      ;     .
b. Recruitment Specialist in place, and undertakes                            :     :      :XXX
pre-recruitment activities for technical assistance
c. Recruit Area Development Adviser (foreign):                               :
Draft terms of Reference and advertise                              :       XX: ::                             :  :
Receive and review proposals                                        :  :       :  :XXXXX:         :    :
Complete contract negotiations                                      . *.       *       : * XX:         ,       . 
Adviser in place                                                             .      ;             : .  ;XXXXX  XXXXXX >
d. Recruit Area Development Officer (local):                                 :
Draft terms of Reference and advertise                              :  :    XX :
Recelve and review proposals                                                   :  :XXXXX:
Complete contract negotiations                                      ::                   ;XX:;;;                  ;
Officer in place                                                    :                  :: :  :XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX >
e. Recruit short-term local Training Specialist                              ::      XX:
f. Local Training Specialist in place                                        .            :XXX
g. Recruit full-time local Project Training Officer                                            .
Draft terms of Reference and advertise                                 ;    XX:        ;;;;;;;;                ..
Receive and review proposals                                                   :  :XXX
Complete contract negotiations                                      :  :       ::   :XX        .
Officer in place                                                    :                  :   : XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX >
h. Recruit short-term Institutional Planning and Assessment                  :XX:    XX: ::           '.
consultants to help prepare detailed agency work programs               ;  ;       :  :  :  :  :  ;  *
i. Institutional Planning and Assessment consultants in place                ::         :  :XXXXX       .
j. Recruit International Training Specialist to assist in                                  :XXXXX:  :
preparation of detailed first year training program                      .           .
k. International Training Specialist in place                                                                *   XX XXXXXX
7.3   SETWILDA Tk I Strengthening (SETWILDA Tk I)                                  ;
a. Prepare guidelines for project implementation, financial                  ::       XXXXX:          :.
management, and monitoring                                              ::                                          ::
b. Appoint Project Coordinator and project Pinpros                           .  .    XX:  *  *         .
7.4   Human Resource Development (BAPPEDA Tk I)                                                                    .
7.4.1 Coordination
a. Complete review of training proposals and training needs                  :  :XXiXXX:  :  :         .
b. Negotiate with agencies/NGOs for design of PYI courses                    :  :       :XX:          :.
c. Design first year training program                                        .  .       :XXXXX::
d. Design Technology Oisplay courses                                         ;        XX:  :             ;.
e. Deliver lechnology Display courses                                        ::         :  :XX:  :XX: ::  :
f. Design Microwatershed Orientation courses                                : :         :  ::       ::   : XX: :          :
g. Deliver Microwatershed Orientation courses                                .  .       .         .XX:
7.4.2 Planning and Management Training                                                                             :
a. Design Planning & Mgt courses for PDP planning methodologies              ;  ;         : ;XXXXX      .
b. Deliver Planning and Management courses                                   :  :.         .      .       .      . XX:
7.4.3 M.I.S. and Computer Training                                                     .



INDONI SIA                                                   ANNEX  13
YOGYAKARIA UPIAND ARIA DfVIIOIMINT PROJECI (Iariguin Dos%a 11)                          Pdge 4 of 4
Project Implementation Sc.hedule: Overview  of Key Activities for Project Start-up
oIilp(melit
Key Actloris, by component arid sub-component                                        1991                        1992
.,--------------------------------------                         JdniebMar Ap rMayJunJulAu? SepOctNovDec JanFebMar
--1 --1---  I--1--1--1- --1--1--1--1--  --1--1--
O.    INSIIIUIIONAI DtVEIOPMENT SUB-PROGRAM (Cont,)                              - PYO ->   <-PYI---------                       PY2
PROVINCIAL PtANNING, COORDINATION & SUPPORT SERVICES (Cont.)                       :       :     :::           ::
'.s   aInd-use pidlitiling and titling  (i3PN)                                        :
.').,I Mppinq and Frosion Survey
a. Complete pilot erosion survey for Desa Selopamioro, Imogirl   XX:
b. Coniduct erosion survey in all other Landfornm Class II!                  :  :        :XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX:
uil land viiI ages
5.Z Systematic litlir:ig
a. Implement pilot systematic land titlinig program ini PYI                  : :         :         :XXXXXXXXXXXX
pi iot dusuns                                                             :
lrovirn( ial Agency Strenigthening (BAPPIDA IKI)                             :  :
a. Iieritify priority agency needs and prepare budget requests             XX::                      :
.6. I Karnwi I Pertanidnlar
/6.? XK I Dinas Dinas                                                                        XXXXXXXX     X
.6.3 Sub-Balai RLKI
*1.    ARIA OEVELOPMENI PLANNING & SUPPORT (BANGDA)
u,.1   Mandgenrent Strengthening                                                    :  :
d. Conduct initial management iniproveinent workshops and                    :  :XXXXXXXXX:       X:::           ::
meetings                                                                              ::        :
b. Conduct management improvement workshops with assistance                  ::          :         :XXXXX:  :XXXXX
of institutional Management Specialist
c. Conduct joint review of BANGDA component with World Bank                    :        :  :XX:.
review mission                                                          :  :
9.?   Management Information System Design                                          :  :
a. Complete comparative study of MIS systems                                 :  :    XXXXX:  :  :
b. Determine information/data needs for all agencies                         :          :  :XXXXX:         ::
c. Design appropriate Management Information System                          :  :       ::   :  :XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
9.3   Human Resource Development                                                    :  ::                          :   :   :
a. Prepare detailed staff training program                                   ::                   :   :XXXXX:
b. Commence in-house staff training activities                                       :        :: ::: :  :XXXXX
9.4   Operations                                                                    :
a. First meeting of National Project Steering Committee                      :  :XX
b. Issue project policy guidelines                                             :      XX::  :  :  :
c. First meeting of National Technical Committee                               :      XX:     ::
d. Undertake pre-recruitment activities for technical                         :         :XXXXX:     X:
assistance required in PYI                                              ::            : 
e. Provide implementation assistance and coordination                        ::       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
services for provincial project activities                              :  :
9.5   Technical Assistance                                                          ::
a. Recruit Pre-recruitment and procurement adviser:                          :           :
Draft terms of Reference and advertise                              ::       XXXXX:          :.
Receive and review proposals                                        ::         ::  :XX:  :  :    :
Complete contract negotiations                                      ::         :::  :XXXXX:
Adviser in place                                                       :       ::::: :   XXXXX
b. Recruit local Institutional Management Specialist                         ::
Draft terms of Reference and advertise                              ::       XX:     :
Receive and review proposals                                        :XX:       :  :XX::
Complete contract negotiations                                      ::         ::   :XX:          :       :
Specialist in place                                                 :           :         :XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
c. Recruit Management Information Specialist                                 :           :
Draft terms of Reference and advertise                              :  :    XX:  *
Receive and review proposals                                        :  :         : ;XX:
Complete contract negotiations                                      ::         ::  :XX:
Specialist in place                                                 :           :       ::   : XXXXX:
e. Recruit local Training Specialist                                         :           :
Draft terms of Reference and advertise                              ::       XX:     :::::                     .  .
Receive and review proposals                                        :XX:       :  :XX:
Complete contract negotiations                                      ::         ::   :XX:      :
Specialist in place                                                 :           ::::   :XXXXXXXX:
JANUARY 31, 1991



- 128 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
("Bangun Desa 11)
Documents on Project File
1.       Appraisal Documents
1.1     Detailed Project Cost Tables
1.2     Farm Budgets
1.3     Working Paper on Project Management and Implementation,
1990
1.4     Working Paper BANGDA
Strengthening Component, BANGDA, March 1990
1.5    MARD Research Component, AARD, October 1989
1.6     Working Paper, Rural Roads and Bridges, Mr. M. Clapham,
1990
1.7     GOI Funding Mechanism
2.       FAO World Bank Cooperative Program,
Preparation Team Working Papers.
2.1     Aide Memoire - World Bank Mission; March 27 - April 14,
1989
2.2     Summary of project oojectives, components, and sub-
components
2.3     Logical Framework (Fifth Draft)
2.4     Upland Agricultural Experiences in Java (Working Paper 1)
2.5     Institutional Capacity Analysis (Working Paper 2)
2.6     Roads and Bridges (Working Paper 3)
2.7     Summary of Decision Process for the Selection of Project
Areas



- 1i9 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 3
2.8     Watershed Systems Action - Research Component (Working
Paper 4 (a) AARD Report and (b) Consultant's Report)
2.9     Improving Upland Extension (Working Paper 5)
2.10    Agriculture Development Proposals (Working Paper 6)
9.11    Watershed Development Strategies (Working Paper 7)
2.12    Land Use Planning (Working Paper 8)
2.13    Project Cost Estimate (Working Paper 9)
2.14    Community Mobilization
Project Feasibility Study by Unisystems P.T. Utama and
ENEX of New Zealand Inc.
3.1     Main Report
3.2     Appendices
3.21    Appendix I: Land Use Survey and Evaluation Report
3.22    Appendix II: Financial and Economic Cost Support
Tables
3.23    Appendix III: Socio-Economic Survey of 360
Respondents: Main Conciusions, draft only
3.24    Appendix IV: Adaptive Research
3.25    Appendix V: Agricultural Extension
3.26    Appendix VI: Credit
3.27    Appendix VII: NGO's Active in DIY
3.3     Working Paper Annexes
3.31    Annex I: Crops and Fishery Component
3.32    Annex II: Livestock Component Working Paper
3.33    Annex III: Small Industry Component
3.34    Annex IV: Roads and Bridges Component
3.35    Annex V: Water Component
3.36    Annex VI: Health Community Component
3.37    Annex VII: Community Participation Development
Component
3.38    Annex VIII: Farm Technology Development Component
3.39    Annex IX: Marketing
3.3.10  Annex X: Land Titling Component
3.3.11  Annex XI: Organization and Management Project



- 130 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3
Indonesia, Village Development Project
4.1     World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report No. 2994-IND, 1980
4.2     Working Paper C-14-2, Economic Evaluation of Village
Projects
4.3     Economic Impact of the Project
Special Study, Project Preparation for Rural Development Stage II,
Yogyakarta, Directorate General for Regional Development (BANGDA),
Regional Development Agency (BAPPEDA) and Gajah Mada University,
Yogyakarta, 1988.
An Overview of the Yogyakarta Rural Development Project, Component
Completion Reports, Regional Development Planning Board (BAPPEDA),
1989.



- 131 -
YUADP/  anOI                                                                              INDO NESIA
annex /f chart 1                                  ~~~~~~PROPOSIED YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECTCH R                                          1
Relalooship with Exiting Governmnt Structur                                         CHART    1
D.G.                                            al.ono.       I.PROJ. .H.OLDER 
_ D.G AARD    ........                     STEERING                                D.G       D
N     (Minl A,aric.i                                 Comn i                                                 r
A
T
0        n or
N     Sa Research
A
DII. yogyo.P.r.iame.
....       .....           Team.
P                       I AcfoQn Koeann  Ii SETWI
R                       IWorking Group              |  To 
V            .   ~~~~NonnDeplt.oAmteociesl   R  laqnal OFes                                             IProSerics  iDirecteroles
0~~~~~~~~~~
N         e ,.     #                                                                                                  _ i orc  #
Itaiexdst      I S         n I               .                                   _hI I
C  I Yo;..--                                                                                                          ACW*
A
cooriom0
- U P ATI        ........... ........ F       =,
K
A
B
E
N
[J   I   ltab. rNlic s   ,Knbus>plen  I   Aulonomous                              Aubno~Lieus                    om
.. br ASr,Extension
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ & Consevatio
rI-DDFr F-                   .....           C A M A ITR<.d11
K                                                 |Kec.* De,l  &I                                              I Ka ~. Apencr
E
AC                                                                                                                17I-
A                                                                                 v  
A
N
LEGEND                                  |                                           Gf  HEAD    - *    .*_                     P1-L |              PPLs |
UDST   =UPLAND DEVELOPMENT                                            'i
SUPPORT TEAM
=xPropsedNew Projed                  A                            I g
[|        I #     Primaryr ,Work Unit b(or                                                        ll
Project Irxplemelntatbn                E_
|=Cornmornd line                        H                                                   I
I   ...... . t C=,1.;a=  ?9d              ....... I                        M ,   _         1     DUSUN HAD|
CaOtdnrJlOn lne        IE                       r0ID           l                                                 Formner GraUS i    Parmer Gra,sI
T               g ~~DuunD7v.J



COMPROG7                                                   YOGYAKIARTA UPL.AND AREA DEVEtOPMENT PROJECT 1CRong.n C- ff')
1 1.2.90              6.*Ion ,.*oNeOn M.b.p,ogo. -apooeh. sob-COMnPon...e  0nd L'.l. of Gomw.nnn
UPLA.ND PRODUCTIVITY AND                               UhPLAND CC UNITY  LEEO, PMENT                                                                                        INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMNIN
STABILIZATION                                                                                                       VILLAGE ROADS AND BRIDGES
I. COMPONENTS IMPILEMENTED WITHIN LACH Of 4 K.ABUPATENS
1.COMMUNITY MOBIUSAIION 1BANODES Tk RI                                                                3 . RURAL ROADS AND BRIDGES.- ....4. XARUPATEN PLANNING. COORDINATION i
[Pobik Work6 Tk II[                                   SUPPORT SERVICES IBAPPEDA 1k 11)
1.1 DUSVJN MORIUSATION                                     1.2 VILLAGE MOBILUSATtON                                3.1 ROAD CONSTRUCTION                                      A.1I BAP'PEDA 1k I STIEENGTHENrNG
.1.1 Co.n~n;Py D.velopo..n  Tmi.i.9                        1.2.1 h'Io,hA-.nI -at.                                 3.2 BRIDGE AND CUI.VERT CONSTRUCTION                       4.2 SETWILDA Tk l STRENGTHENING
1. 1.2 Dn,.. p.eict,                                       1.2.2 Dane. -.,onnn  (nd.                              3.3 ROAD MAINTENANCa                                       A.3 IEARUPATEN AGENCY STRENGTHENING
1.2.3 V1610. r.*chI                                    3.4 INSTITUTIONAL COSTS                                    4.3.1 Enf-oio  -o.,-
1.2.4 VIlla8. EeoJsrnl.p tr.ininq                       3.4.1 Bo1dd,ngs                                           4.3.2 Str.ntlne;%n of Kobn~pw-oq*K 9~n
_________-______________  ~ ~     .. -            3.4.2 Eq.ipmnen                                           4.3.3 F.nd,  IK--f- m tn UDKP; pnnj.n
3.4.3  A n . n n o_                                        _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _
3.A.4 Troin.ng
-2. SLOPE STABIJSATION TECHNICAL SERAICES (Dioco Pvlonlon IFP. 1k Ml
2.1 RUNOFF CONTROL AN4D SOIL CONSERVYATION /a   ~2.4 ON-FARtM TECHNOLOGY
2.1.1 Imfiklimlno  a.%                                        DtSPAYS (BPN3
2.1.2 Tec6knol Tmiintg                                     2.4.1 Dk. Fenorklo  1kBA
2.2 FARM P'LANNING AND DIVERSIFICATION                      2.4.2 DIe.. Pen.makoa 1k II
2.2.1 Inltatkokol cOth                                     2.4.3 SuIi.Cbonq ELK?
2.2.2 Tnknkol Io.W.9n                                      2.4.3 1nk6wl T.niin.
2.3 KABUPATEN UPLAND DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT
TEAM
2.3.1 In.0mIonol con's
2.3.3rT@ hlo  tkaining                            - J_   _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
I. COMPONENTS IMPLEMENTED BY PROVINCIAL AGENCIES                                                                                                                                                                                               I.
-6. UPlAND DEVILOPMENT SUPPORT TEAM.                        S. COMMUNITY DEVLOPMAENT TRAINING                                                                                 .7. PROVINCIAL PLANNING. COORDINATION I           -
(Dims, Penionion T.P. Tk IJ                               SUPORT SERVICES IBANGDES 1k )                                                                                     SUPPORT SERVICES IRAPTEDA Tk I]
6.1 INSTtTUIIONAL COSTS                                    s.1 H umAN REsouRCE DEVELOPMENT                                                                                    7.1 MANAGEMENT STUDY
6.2 TECHNICA  ASSITANCE                                    5.2 DATABASE DEVLOPMENT                                                                                            7.2 RAPPEDA Tk I STRENGTHENING
5.3 TECHNICA AS.SISTANCE                                                                                            7.2.1 I- rlNsn.,  nay,
7.2.2 DI,nntio.,y Inod,
7.2.3 T-hnk.1n OtoNOn-
7.3 SETWILDA Th I STRENGTHENING
7.A HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
7.A.1 Condncnon
7.4.2 Pigning -nd  -9ogon  tmli.ng
7-4.3 M.I.S nod n-  ~,r.. rin
7.5 LAND-USE PLANNING AND TITUNG
7.5.1 Mopping & enotin  %.mye
7.5.2 SpiontoK firilog
7.6 PROVINCIAL AGENCY STRENGTHENING
7.6.) IKon.4i PerIonio-
7.6.2 Ik I Di-,n Din-
7.6.3 Sn.66o6, RLKI
RI. COMPONENTS IMPIMENTED BY NATIONAL AGENCIES
-.0..... UPLAND WATERSHED SYSTEMS ACTI.                                                                                                                                       ....9. AREA DEVELOPMENT PLANNING & SUPPORT........
RESEARCH IAARDI                                                                                                                                                                   IRANGOAJ
B. 1 RESEARCH FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                         9.1 MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING
8.2 RESEARCH PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                          9.2 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM0
B.3 TECHNICAL ASSITANCE                                                                                                                                                            DESIGN
9.3 HUMAN IEEsou.aC DEVLOfPMENT
/a  Inproject description:                                      Microwatershed Stabilization.                                                                                   9.5 OPERHIATIONS NC



yrdp2.05                                                                            INDO NESIA
revised,02/90
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
N       AGENCY or AGRIC.                                       IDIRECTORATE GENERAL
a     RESEARCH and DEV.            Notional Pmoed cREGIONAL DEVELOPAA"
o                                  Technical Team  j|___
P                                                                    GOVE RNOR
r                                I rovineicl riqect
o                                Steenrg Committee _ _     _      PPEDAl/EWILDAT
v                                                              I    Comnent 7
n                                        t
c                                                     Team
in Yonla   _    |Watenshed SyitemnDrcod  tBNDS                                                         TnmnPnmTQ
-.            _ _ _      _ _ __.. --. -_-.-.-----------  -..------ - .-.-.-. . -..-. -    --- .-----....        .    ...-----...--.-.                      .--...-------------
aK                                                     BUATI__
P                                 teik       ife                 APD  I         DI
a
a                                                                                              Kau Pten CUNee W       |  Dinas Pertanion         D o
n                                                                                               of  BANGDES            T         Penen Tk.I
cmpova  Ad.  ese66Cmon   1  |   Comlonen 2    7   Con 
r o KabuaUen UDST               T
-- -- -- - -     - -- - -    -    -- -- -- - -    -     - - -- -- --   -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - .... .  - -- -- -- - -- -- -  - -- -- - -- -- -- - --   - --- -- -- -
K                           BUPATI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/  : -' \                                                                     (BANGUN DESA 11I
JAWA  TENGAH
7                          s/  )Project Area                                                                                            Ele-vtions in meters:
Lendform Classes                                       2900
'                          .    .......   ...- .l Xempel  oTuri  cngkingo                                               Isohyets in mm/yr                                       1000
\.~~~~~~  /  /  --'..                                               Reads ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500
''\\z~~~~~~\*\  ~~~~~'J(    /  ,  \~~~~~~~~Sleasae:  \ ~~~~~~~~Railroads20
/ <N25fr4'    XS        .                      .   \Gmplot                                           Subdistrict (Kecasmatonl Beundareis                     0
I  B,rer~~~~~~~~~ Gaplik,- ~~~~~~~~District (Kaluapoten) Boundaries
*,SN'\Q  ~~~~~            A      Se-peg0an                                           \     J AW\'A                                   Province BoundariestedrmCaes
0Mets    y          ,;   5 L E  A  $                N  GA  H              0            ,      :                         Kf}<                              l *nonUosori P (5% slope)
f9:,\&  '  .' . .t s P  --    / y   9   ( /  (   i  yr.  t~>:        rom  oenai                                                     KILOMEOeSt                               I/as)    Uestla,le Upleds (ci5% slope)
alas E-onice Plans
''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TN A                                                                   0 ^<X  1"i                             15          20                   Krst(Lan ofa tousad hlls
\.e(g'ul .,  "15o%slop., nternally drained
O G O 1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         F                                                                             (vv) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Volcanic Soil Drionssa
S :DE   _          I                                                                                                            . '                  v            \                                       "G O' 
j ~    ~~      ~~                     ye'oiUNedEt                                                        Z.      |                           .         .*  Teu |fp1~ea  e' J7
5'>^"e                                                       eman                           _ ed y  v.
'pssce                              Pleret~       
/Noglipor~         
nio  n-                                 I Be T)'                                                      e                                                             2,000
'-'- SULAWESI   I-IA-N'vAa  I t_t t_ t ,  t'                                        _         .                  _    __7
i                                             i                                                                                                                    1 ,             .   :,.T  . XLed h  i a
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                                                                        nos 0  Bri
a                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r Llr
BRUNEi                                                                                                                            1epugLiur  dae' 
11 A I AYS I A~/                               Snde
IRIAN~
JAWA ~ ~ ~ ~      ~           ~            ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~          ~          ~          ~          \              AATNA



