FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAI. BANK FOR RtECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 85a-IRN
APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A POPULATION  PROJECM
IRAN
April 23, 1973
Population and Nutrition Projects Department
This report was prepared for offi2ial use only hy the Flank Group. It miiay not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorizatiun The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completenmss of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 U.S. Dollar      '   68.17 (RlM)
1 Rial             e   0.01467 U.S. Dollars
1,000 Rls               14.67 U.S. Dollars
1,000,000 Rls           14,669 U.S. Dollars
MEASURES
1 m2                   1.20  .sq yd.
10.7('. so. ft.
1 km2                 0.38 so. mil.es
1 hectare        -    2.47 acres
The Iranian Financial Tear is March 21 - March 20.  For con-7enience, the
nearest Gregorian year is used in this report. Thus 1971 is March 21, 1971 -
March 20, 1972.
ABBREVIATIONS
CPM      = Critical Path Method
ECAFE    - United nations Economic Cormrission fcr Asia and the Far East
FP        - Family Planning
GDP      = Gross Domestic Product
GNP      = Gross National Product
ILO      = International Labor Organization
IOSS      - ImrFrial Org<,ni7ation for Social Services
IUD      = Intra-Uterine Device
KAP      = Knowledge of, Attitudes Toward, and Practice of Contraception
MCH       = Maternal and Child H-ilth
NiIOC     - National Iranian Oil Company
PAM      = Project Architectural Manager
PPCU       Population Project Construction Unit
RLSS      = Red Licn and Sun Society
RTC      = Regional Family Planning Training Center
sIn       = Social Insurance Organization
UIN'     = United Nations
UNFPA    = United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF   = United Nations Children's Fund
WHO       = World Health Organization
CYP      = Couple Years of Protection
GLOSSARY
Behyar   = Assistant nurse-midwife
CBR      = Crude Birth Rate: The number of live births in a year
per thousand population
CDR      = Crude Death Rate: The number of deaths in a year per
thousand population
CPR      = Crude Participation Rate: The proportion of the labor
force to the total population
IMP      = Infant. Mortality Rate: The number of infant deaths in a
year per thousand live births
ASFR        Age Specific Fertility Rates: The number of live births in
a year per thousand females -n specific reproductive age
cohorts (i.e., 15-19, 20-24 etc., up to 45-49)



GIDSSARY (contd.)
T7R        - Total Fertilioy Rate: The number of live births experienced
by an average female completing her reproductive eycle
2FR        - General Fertility Rate: The number of live births in a year
per thousand fana.es aged 15-49
YASFR      - Marital Age Secific Fertility Ratess Age apecific fertility
rates for mar-ied women
Sex Ratio a The number o;' males per hundred females
Dependency
Ratio    - The number of children aged under 15 years and old persons
aged 65 years and over per haundred persons in the 15-64 age group
LAbor
Force     - The number of persons employed and seeking employment for pay
or profit for the production of goods and services.  It inclades
unpaid f&mily workers
Agricultural
Land      - Includes arat_-e land, land under permanent crops and permanent
meadows and pastures; unhsed but potentially productive lsnd is
excluded
Ost n      - Major province
Farfi-ndarikol
M i4nor province or governorate



IRAN: BASIC DATA
G'eneral                                                           1966    1972*
Area. .  .  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1,648,000 km2
Populstion - midyear (in milliois). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26.0   31.0
Density per Km2. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . .. 16.0   19.0
Proportion Urban (percent) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39.0   43.0
Demographic
Crude Birth Rate (per thousand) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . 47    415 - I6
Crude Death Rate (per thousand) . ..    .      .  .   . .  . . . . . . .  8  LS - 16
Population Growth Rate (percent).                                    2.9   2.9 - 3.1
1'opv '.tW n in Age Groups (percentages)  0 - 1 ..6.4   46.8
15 -64 . . . . . . . . .   50.2   50.1
65 .3.4 3.1
S,ex Ratio                      . .    .   . .   . . ,    . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107  106
Dependency Ratt40,,,,,,,,,.....,,,, . . ..99  100
Females Aged 15-4 (million) . . . .    .        . . . . . . . . .    5.4    6.5
of which percent married.     .  .    . . .   . . . . .    . . . . . 80.8%    NA
Mean Female Marital Age (yrs)..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . .  18.6  NA
Social
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30%    35 -40%
Literacy Rate, 10+ years: Urban . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . 49%        NA
Rural.    .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . .  4%  NA
School Enrollment: Primary (millions) . . . . . . . . . .  . .  .  2.38    3.42 (1970)
(September in     Proportion in Age Group 6 -1 . . . . . . . .   53%    65%  (1970)
each year)       Secondary (millions) . . . . . . . .  . . . . . 0.58    1.01 (1970)
Proportion in Age Group 12 - 17. . . . .  . . .  17%     26%  (1970)
Econom.ic
Labor Force (in millions).    .       .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   . . . . .   7.8    9.2 (1971)
Unemployment Rate:  Seasonal. . .-   .       .  .  .    . . . . . . . . .  5.8%   s %
Seeking work. . .  .   . . . . . . . .   .    3.8%   (
Proportion of Employed Labor in Agricultural Sector*                47      40
GNP at Current Market Prices (billion Rls).   .         . . .       503 1,149
Growth Rate of GNP at corstant prices 1966-72 .11.6%
GNP Per Capita at Current   - Rls . . . . . . . . . . . . .19,300 34,800 1/
Market Prices      US Dollar equivalent.     .    .  .    .    255   510 -
Growth Rate at constant prices 1966-72       8.6%
Family Planning
Family Planning Services (Monthly Average):
Pill cycles distributed kthousands) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23.7 (68).2( 277.3.3
IUDs inserted (thousands).          . . . .  .   .  . .   .  . . . . . . 1.0 (68)2/  1.3 2
Condoms distributed (thousand dozen).         . . . . . . .                    l. 1
Total FP patients seen (thausands)..                     . .       .1 (68)J 291.8 3/
M Unle -s otherwise mentioned.
/ US$h60 at exchange rate prior to 18 February, 1973.
2' Latter half of 1968.
3/ First quarter of 1972.



IRAN: APPRAISAL OF A POPUIATION PROJECT
TABIE OF CONTETS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                                i - ii
I.   INT IOWTCTTON ..                                                          1
JI.   DEMOGRAPHIC AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGRO(TND ....................           1
III.  HEALTH AND FAMI4LY PTANNT1WG SERVTCCS .-                                   L
A. Background ...... 4
B. Organization ..............................................           5
C.  Family Planning Services ............................-..             7
D. Staff ...................................                             9
E.  Service Statistics, Evaluation ard Research. ............           11
F.  Budget .........................................                    12
G.  Foreign Assistance .*----.........................---...            13
IV.   T   F Tr...T.        .. ...............  '............'                 13
A.  Management Study .........................................    15
B. Health Centers .........................-                            15
C. Study of Rural Health and FP Services .....................    16
D.  Regional Family Planning Training Centers .................   16
E.  Behyar Training Schools ...................................   17
F.  Transport ................................................    18
G. Preparatory Nutrition Study ...................8 ...........    l
V.   IMPLEMENTATION, COSTS, PROPOSED FIN{ANCIN  AND DIS131            ..TS.   19
A.  Implementation ..............................9.............    39
B. Costs ................................................    20
C. Proposed Financing ........................................   21
D.  Disbursements .............................................   22
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ...................................    22
VII.   AGREEMEITS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION........... ..............   23
This report is based on the findings of sa appraisal mission which
visited !a&n from August 21 to September 18, 1972 and subsequent
visits in December 1972 and February 1973. The appraisal mission
consisted of Messrs. H.M. Jones (Chief of Mission), T.I. Kim
(Deputy Mission Chief), M. Kato, M. Hossain and G. Dolenc from the
Bank as well as Mr. D. Shoesmith (architect) and Dr. G. Sambasivan
(WHO) as consultants. Mr. G. Zaidan of the Bank was with the mission
during its first week and Mr. G.B. Baldwin was with the mission during
the last ten days of 6Lscussions with the govermnent.  Tne appraisal
mission was followed by visits to Tehran by Mr. A. Berg anm. Mr. D.
Shoesmith for one week in December, 1972 and by Messrs. G. Zaidan and
D. Shoesaith from February 5-11, 1973.  This report was prepared by
M-t' H.M. J.nes on the basis of contributions by mission members and
with the cooperation of Mr. Shoesmith in particular secti.ons.



TABIE OF CONTENTS
-2-
ANNEXES
1. United Nations Fund for Population Activities Aasistance to Iran
2. Demographic and Socjo-Economic J'Akground
Table 1 - Population Structure by Age ani Sex
Table 2 - Smoothed Age Distribution of Settled and Unsettled
Pcpulations
Table 3 - EstiLmtes of Age Specific Fartility Rates, 1965
Table 4 - Po-.-:at±on Projection Assuming Declining Fertility
and Declining Mortality
Table 5 - Population Projection Assuming Constant Fertility
and Declining Mortality
Table 6 - Population Projections by Various Agencies
Table 7 - Percentage of Employed and Unemployed to Labor  Force
Table 8 - Sectoral Distribution of Employment
3. Organization Chart - Ministry of Health
4. Organization Chart - Df.visioa of Family Planning
G. Health Delivery System
Table 1 - Nurior of General and Special Hospitals and Beds by
Agency, March 1972
Table 2 - Health Ce-ps Women by Assignment and by Province
Table 3 - Location of Proposed Regional FamiLly Planning Training Centers
Table 4 - Distribution of Physiciarns AA Urban and Rural Areas of Iran,
1969-70
Table 5 - Training Facilities for Medical and Paramedical Personnel 1972
Table 6 - Types of Health Centers by Province, by End of Fiftli Plan (1978)
Table 7 - Proposed Staffing Pattern of Health Centers for the Fifth
Plan (1973-78)
Table 8 - Health Budgets for 1970/71, 1971/72, and 1972/73
Table 9 - Estimated Expenditures of the Government Health Sector for
the 'ear 1972/73 by Province
Table 14- Buwget Allocations for the Health Centers of Ten Randomly
Selected Counties 1970/71
Table 11.- Development Budget Allocations for Health for Ifanian Years
1350 and 1351 (March 1970 - March 1972)
Table 12- Development Budget Allocations for Shaverbtan Health Centers
for Ten Randomly Selected Counties by Items, for the Year 1971/72



TABLE OF CONTENTS
-3-
ANE2NES
6. Family Planming Services
Table 1 - Distribution of Average Montlly Recipients of Various
Family Planning Means by Agencies for All Provinces in 1970-71
Table 2 - Family Planking 'Uinics by Agency and Province, Mazvh 1972
Table 3 - Family Planning Results April 1968 to May 1972
Table 4 - Monthly Average of Family Planning Performance in All
Reporting Clinics, 1968-72
Table 5 - Monthly Family Planning Performance end Pill Continuation
in an Average Clinic
Table 6 - Distribution of Average Monthly Recipients of Various Family
Planning Means by Provt- o for All Agincies, 1970-71
Table 7 - Development Budget Allocations for Family Planning for the
Fourth Five-Year Plan
Table 8 - Family Planning Persornel, March 1972
Table 9 - Qualif'Icationa of Family Planning Personnel, Marchi 1972
7. Outline Temms of Reference for an Organization &._ Management Study
8. Location of Proposed Health Centers and Associated Data
9. Schedule of Aceommodation-
10. Rural Health Study
11. Nutrition Study
12. Pro.iect Implementation
13. Schedule of Impleuentation ard Quarterly Expenditures
14. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
7138 - Ministry of Health
7139 - Division of Family Planning
MAPS
10227 - Population Project Family Planning and Health Centers
10387 - Population Project Conat7:wction Contract Packages



IRAN: APPRAISAL REPORT OF A POPUlLATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CO-NCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a population project in Iran for which
a Bank loan of US$16.5 million is proposed. During its preparation and
appraisal, consultations have been held with the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities (UNFPA) and the Population Council, at headquarters
and in the field, to ensure that external assistance to the national
family planning program would cover all important activities requiring
support, and that Bank assistance would not duplicate existing or planned
assistance programs. The UNFPA signed an agreement with the Government in
November 1971; the Bank project is designed to compiement this assistance
to meet the major areas of need in Iran's national family planning program.
ii.       Iran has a population of 31 million which is expanding at a
rapid annual rate estimated to be 3.0% in 1972.  If the full benefits of
an expanding economy are not to be dissipated, the growth rate of the popu-
lation must be curbed. The Government is aware of this problem and has
given strong sipport to a national family planning program, established
in 1966 under the aegis of the Ministry of Health. Since then, substantial
progress has been achieved, but a larger and more effect, a effort is needed
to meet the expanded targets that have been set for the Fifth Plan (1973 - 77).
iii.      The Bank project would consist of:
a. a study of the present organization and management of the
national program, with a view to making and implementing pro-
posals that will enable the Government to carry out its
expanded program;
b. the construction, equipping and furnishing of 78 county
health centers; they will provide functionally and administra-
tively integrated preventive and curative health services,
including maternal and child health, and family planning clinics,
in one physical complex; they will be situated in the capital
towns of counties which are strongly rural in character and
will be the focus for the extension of health and family
planning services into adjacent rural areas; a study of the
best ways in which this can be achieved is included in the
project; housing will be provided for essential staff;
r, a study of the delivery of family planning services to
rural areas;
d. the construction, equipping, and furnishing of 9 regional
family planning training centers, to provide for the training
of an expanded number of Health Corps women (conscripted
solely for family planning duties) as well as the in-service
training of medical and paramedical staff, involved in the
national program;



- ii -
e. the construction, equipping, and furnishing of 7 multipurpose
behyar training schools to provide adequate facilities for
improving the quality of training; and
f. the provision of 150 vehicles to improve the mobility of
motivators, assist the delivery of family planning 3ervices
in the catchment areas of the county health centers, and
provide transport for the training centers.
iv.       While the app- aisal mission was in Iran, the Government asked the
Bank to finance a nutrition project. During a subsequent visit by a Bank
staff member in December 1972, it was agreed that preparatory work was
necessary and that it could best be done by a technical study to be included
in the proposed population project. This project, therefore, provides
for a preparatory feasibility study for a possible subsequent rutrition
project.
v.        The total project cost is estimated at US$33.4 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$9.2 million. The Bank loan would
be US$16.5 million , and the Government contribution US$16.9 million.
Retroactive financing of the fees of the executive architects in an amount
not exceeding US$250,000 equivalent from February 1, 1973, is recommended.
vi.       Overall project responsibility  will be that of a Project Coordin-
ator who is expected to be the Deputy Minister for Population and Family
Planning in the Ministry of Health. Day-to-day technical supervision of
the realization of the physical components of the project will be carried
out by a Project Architectural Manager (PAM). The PAM, whose initial appoint-
ment will be a condition of loan effectiveness, will head a Unit with an
accountant and thz aecessary technical personnel.
vii.      Civil works contracts would be awarded and vehicles procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. Equipment and furniture would be obtained by competitive
bidding locally where a large number of overseas suppliers arerepresented.,
viii.     In conjunction with the assistance programs of the UNFPA and other
foreign donors, the project components will make a substantial contribu-
tior a the realization of the family planning objectives of the Fifth
Plan. It is hoped that the project will provide the Gaernment and the
Bank with the information and experience needed to pre:pre for a second,
more comprehensive population project. The information and recommendations
of the management study are essential to the structuring of an effective
organization to mount and administer the Government's expanded population
and family planning prograrm.  The project providespart of the physical
service infrastructure and vehicles required to expand the national program
to smaller urban and rural areas. A study will provide an analysts of the
most effective ways in which this could be accomrlished.
ix.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15.5 million
equivalent to the Government of Iran for a term of 25 years, including a five-
year grace period.



IRAN: APPRAISAL REPORT OF A POPULATION PROJECT
T. IITRODUCTION
i.01      To assist the expansion of its national family planning
program during the first two years of the Fifth Plan (1973-77), the
Government of Iran has r.aquested Bank financing for a population
project.  The request followed the publication of the UN interagency
report on Population and Family Planning iis Irar. in Ap^:il 1971, w4th
its reference to the possiblity of Bank assistance. Discussions with
Bank staff members followed, and an inventory of the national family
planning program's manpower, facilities and services was prepared in
March 1972. A mission visited Iran in August - September 1972, to
appraise the proposed project. This was followed by visits to Tehran
in December 1972 and February 1973.
T1, 0s2  14efore the Bank started its appraisal of the proposed project,
the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) signed an
Agreement (see Annex 1) with the Government in Novembe- i971, which
provides US$1.6 million equivalent to support several activities in
related areas, in particular:
a. pilot projects, covering the delivery of mate':nal and child
health services, and a postpartum program;
b. communications, transport ar.d training for family planning;
c. a management advisor to assist in prograrm management; and
d. nt'i-govern=ental family planning activity.
While the Bank's project as in preparation, consultation was held with
the UNFPA; the compGnents of the Bank project complement those of the
UNFPA Agreement and together they support different priority areas
within the national program. Activities are being closely coordinated,
particularly in the area of management which is basic to both Projects.
Agreement on the substance of a management study has been reached between
the Government, the Bank and the UNFPA.
II. DEMOGRAPHIC AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
2.01      With an area of 1,648,000 km2, Iran is the fourth largest
country in Asia, and has the tenth largest popTulation. It covers a wide
divtersity of topography and climpte, ranging from the h-:id, sub-tropical
Caspian littoral to the dry, hot plains fronting the Gulf of Oman, some
1,500 kilometers to the south. In 1972, the population of Iran was
estimated at 31 rillion. Topography and availability uf water are the



-2-
two most important factors underlying population distribution which is
very uneven. Whilst the mean density is 19 persons per km2, nationwide
it varies from over 300 per km2 in some counties along the Caspian
coast, to 2 per 1a2 over most of the southern and eastern part of the
country. There are about 111 persons for every km2 of agricultural
land. About half a million people are nomadic. An estimated 43%
of the population live in urban areas, and of this, about one-third
live in Tehran. The remainder live in small towns and some 66,500
villages.
2.02      Most of the available demographic data (discussed in Annex 2)
derives from the censuses of 1956 and 1966. They indicate that the
natural growth rate of the population is high and will continue to rise
unless fertility is moderated.  The intercensal annual growth rate
(1956-66) was 2.9% and since then has risen to an estimated 3.0%;
at this level the population will double in ab.vt 23 years. This high
growth rate results from a conJunction of high fectility and relatively
low mortality. The crude birth rate is estimated to be about 45 per
1,000 persons.  1/ Fertility data are scanty, but the general evidenre
indicates that an average of about 7 children are born to each woman
completing her reproductive cycle. Marriage is both u.:iversal and
early, the minimum legal age of marriage bein£ 15 years, and the mean
female age at marriaga 18.6 years.  Whilst fertili,y :ha  been sustained,
mortality 1-as declined from an estimated crude death rate of 24 per
1,000 persons in 1956, to 18 in 1966 and to about 15 in 1972.
2.03      The population problem is compoundBd by the youthful. character
of the population. The proportion of those under 15 years increasced
from 422 in 1956 to 46% in 1966 anid an estimated 47% in 197i; the
corresponding percentage in the Uilted Kingdom is 23%, in Japan 24%, and
in India 41%. In the rural areas, about 48% are under 15 years. This
young age structure, coupled with a mortality rate that is expected
to decline because of improved haalth services, will tend to sustain
the high natural growth rate for at lei.st 10-15 years Lo come, even
if there is a moderate reduction in fertility. The estimated depefndency
buiLden {i.e., children aged under 15 years, and old people aged 65 vears
and over, ner 100 persons in the 15-64 age groups) is 100, which is
very high compared with rates of 81 for India, and 85 for Ird'onesia.
2.04      If fertility remains unchanged and mortality continues to
decliale, a population cf about 61 willion and an annual growth rate of
ab*;ut 3.9% couid bc expected in 1991, by which year the Government has
set as its la3g-tern objective a 1% growth rate. The c.fects of family
planning and ar alteration in social attitudes, as a result of increasing
urbanization and industrialization, are expected to moderate fertility.
But it is difficult to assume an annual decline in fertility greater
than 2% throughout the 1970s and 3% in the 1980s. Under these assumptions,
a pop-alation of about 52 million and an annual growth rart of 2.4Z
could be expected in 1991; therefore, the long-term objective seems to be
very ambitious. The Ministry of Hea'lth has set as its target a reduction
1/ It should be noted that different birth rates are accepted for planning
purposes by different government departments. The Plan and Budget
Organization accepts 46 whilst the Ministry of Healt'i uses 48 per 1,000.



-3-
of the crude birth rate to 40 per thousand by the end of the Fifth Plan.
Tnis appears feasible, but means more thar. doubliag the estimated present
number of 500,000 continuing users of contraceptive methods (incl::d!ng
those not covered by the official program) by the end of the Fifth Plan.
Stated in another way it implies that, by 1978, about 15% of all -.,omen
in the reproductive age group (15-49) should have contraceptive coverage
corpared with che current rate of aJout i%.
2.05      The economy of Iran has expanded considerably since 1964, due
in part to the succeosful administrative reformq of the early 1960s and
to fast growing oil revenues. The Plan and Budget Organization has
estimated the 1972 GNP at current market prices at Rls. 1,149 billion,
or US$16.8 billion equivalent. Per capita GNP is about US$510 equ4valent.
The anrual GNP rate of growth at constant prices is about 11.6..  The
changing structure of the economy .s reflected in the shift of employment
from the agricultural to the indtustrial sector. The percentage of the
economically active population engaged in agriculture fel.l from about
56% in 1956 to 47% in 1966. Over the same period, the proportion of those
engaged in manufacturing and construction rose from IS9% to 25%.
2.06      Iran is, however, faced with several p 'blems which will be
aggravat d by the high population growth rate and an unbalanced age
structure,.. There are serious limits to agricultural development and
the capacity of the land to provide a livelihood for the growing
population. Scarcity of water is the most important single constraint
in developing the potential of land suitable for agriculture, which
comprises only a quarter of the total land area. The growth of the
agricultural sector has been slow (2.9% per annum during the Fourth Plan,
1968-72) and its contribution to GNP has declined relatively.
Symntomatic of the incroingly difficult life in the rural areas, where
per capita real incomes have risen little, if at all, is the fast rate
(almost 7% per annum) of urban!zation. Current levels of govervLneut
expenditure, though increasing, are uot adequate to cupe with ircreasing
demands for better general and technical education, health and social
services, housing, and agricultural extension needs.  The Fourth Plan
provided for an increase in the number of primary Lchool pupils
(aged 6-11) from 2.9 to 3.7 million, representing 93% if that age
group in urban areas and 55% in rural oreas. By 1978, assuming constant
fertility and decliring mortality, there will be about 6.3 milliol;
children in the 6-11 yc-r age group, and by 1991 about 10.8 million.
The consequences in terms of additional reqv4.rements for classrooms and
teachers are obvious.
2.07      The Plan and Budget Organization eseimates the current labor
force at about 9.2 aillion and anticipates a net addition of about
1.4 million during the period of the Fifth Plan. Although there does
not appa&r to be a serious unemployment problem at present, the situation
could deteriorate if fertility remains at its current high level. The
impact of a declining fertility rate would not be felt Ln the labor
market, however, for at least 12 years, si .ice 12 is the minimum legal
age for work in Iran. There would, hoc,ever, be some inprovement in the
_.



-4-
dependency ratio before that time, allowing more resources for investment
thar would otherwise be available and, hence, better employment
opportunities. Corresponding to the assumed decline in fertility
ind-cated In para. 2.04, the dependency ratios would be 88, 78 and 66
in 1980, 1990, and 2000 respectively, whereas with constant fertility
they would be around 97, 104 and 107 for corresponding periods.  Comparing
the implications of these assumptions, the population in the age group
15-64 would hardly begir. to show any difference until the mid-eighties
and the difference would be about 0.5 million in 1991 and 3.5 million in
200P. At a current participation rate of about 60%, this would imply
additional job req'Mirements of about 300,000 by 1991 and about two million
by 2'00Q.  These ;r- significant additional burdens when one considers that
agr_culture will   t be able to absorb much more labor in the future, and
that currently it needs an investment of about US$15,000 to create a job
in manufacturing.
III. HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
A. Background
3.01      The demographic problem and its predictable consequences have
been recognized by the Government, which is committed to a policy of
fer-ility moderation. In 1966, the Government invited the Population
Council to send tn -idvisory mission to assist the Ministry of Health in
devclopir.g a fanr    a ?enning program.  Later that year, the Government
off:cially inaugru-,ted an action progran with the appointment of a
Deputy Minister for Population and Family Planning in the Health Ministry,
and the convening of the first Family Planning Council. Conceived as an
integral part of the national development effort, it aims to promote
"the physical,mental and econcm c welfare of families and in consequence
that of society."
3.02      The first three years of the program were devoted to the
est^blishment of an organization, and the development of communications to
increase public awareness of the population Droblem and improve understanding
of the available methods of fertility control. Recognition of the long-term
economic implicatins of a rapid population growth rate, prompted by
ana'v'- of the '"66 census data, led to the adoption of a more aggressive
po-0 ation policy oy the Government in May 1970. In January 1971, this
policy was expressed as the need to reduce the growth rate to 1% per
annum in about twenty years. In mid-1971, an UN interagency mission
reviewed the country's family planning efforts and made recommendations on
the future conduct of the program. The objective of the program now being
prenared for the Fifth Plan is a reduction in the birth rate from 48 to
40 ner thousand.
3.03      Strong support from the Shahanshah, cobnled with support from a
number of religious leaders, has ensured that there is very little overt
opposition to the program, although restrictions ar.d prejudices exist
against certain fom-s of birth 14-mitation.



-5-
B. Organization
3.04      Responsibility for planning, organizing and carrying out
population and family planning activities rests with the Ministry of
Health, as part of its wider responsibility for the general supervisicn
of all medical and health activities and for formulating the necessary
regulations and standards. Its functions also include thie provision of
public health services, (including maternal and child hea. th (MCH),
nutrition, control of communicable diseases, etc.) the management of
special hospitals, and specific disease campaigns, and research
coordination. The organization of the central departments of the Ministry
of Health is shown in Annex 3. Responsibility for general medical care
services is being transferred to quasi- and non-governmental agencies.
They include other government departments, as well as the 'imperial
Organization for Social Services (IOSS), the Red Lion and Sun Society (RLSS),
the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC), and the Social Insurance
Organization (SIO).  An importauit function of the Health Ministry is the
coordination of the health work of these agencies.
3.05      At provincial level (ostan and farmandarikol, nf which there are
22), Directors General of Health Services function as the representatives
of the MiniErry of Health. The next level of health service unit is
in the cot.nty Ksharestan, numbering 145) with a Director responsible for
health services.
3.06      The Men's Health Corps is an important adjunct of the healthi
services. Formed in 1964, it consists of physicians and graduates from
colleges and high schools who have elected to serve in the health field
in discharging their two years compulsory national service. It functions
as a unit directly responsible to the Minister of Health with its own lines
of command, logistic support and supervisory echelons to its 30 advance
bases and 397 field units in the rural areas. The Women's Health Corps
consists of physicians and graduates of colleges and hagn schools who
serve for a two year period to qualily for further employment. They are
used exclusively for family planning work, their r-zruitment, training
and employment being the responsibility of a speciAl bureau of the Family
Planning Division.
,.07      The Family Planning Division of the Ministry of Health is headed
by a Deputy Minister for Population and Family Planning who is responsible
for planning, evaluating, supervising and coordinating activities in this
field. Its organization, shown in Annex 4, consists of three directorates
dealing with technical services, maternal and child health (MCH), and research
and planning.  A zommittee for technical matters and another for research
have recertly been established to advise the Division. At provincial
level, Directors General of Health are assisted by Directors of Family
Planning.



-6-
3.0O      The major service aspects of the program are closely linked to
the health and medical services system of the Health Ministoy, but the
other government, quasi- and non-government crganizations by which health
ser.-ices are provided also have responsibilities in implementing the
nat:onal famnily planning program. For this purpose, a High Council for
Coordination has been established to ensure the coordirated involvement
of these agencies, 12 of which are directly represented on it. The task
of coordinating the activities of over 20 agencies is, however, at once
both important and difficult.  Although eacha organization is involved,
to . greater or '.es,3er extent, in the delivery of services, they have
made ether imTcor a-- contrib'itions.  The TOSS is a major agency for
fam::Iv planning  v_-'ces in ru'al areas, whilst the RLSS, through its
tra'ning facilitics, has been an important source of nurses, rmdwives
and behyars for the Health Ministry. Health and Family Planning Services
are described in Annexes 5 and 6.
3.09      The Government has recognized that the present organization of
the national program may be inadequate to meet the management challenges
po'ed by the change of policy in 1971, and the multiplicity of delivery
cha-.nels which will be used to ncet the new targets. In addition to the
pro'hlems of coordination, there are other problems which will have to be
faced. In the personnel field, the varied range of salaries, allowances
and conditions of P2rvice is creating problems of recruitment and
administration,  n  uncertainty in career Drospects.  A comprehensive
tra'ning program   st be prepared which is directly related to manpower
req:irements.  Tne effect of a centralized management system on the one
hand, and the considerable autonomy of county health directorates on the
other, has resulted in communications problems, the most serious of which
is -he presently negligible part played by the latter in planning
activities.  Difficulties result in part from differing systems of
budgetary control which operate simultaneously, and from the lack of
clearly defined responsibilities in policy making and coordination on the
one hand and the execution of the program, including the delivery of
ser.'ices, on the other.
Plarnning
3.1r      Planni-  for development Is done primarily in the context of
pre-arat4on for five-year development plans, which broadly define policy
pri   cies and action targets, and authorize development expenditures
ove: the five-year period.  In the health field, the pre.,ration of plans
is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Health and the "lan and Budget
Organization, the initiation of the planning process resting with the
Ministry. Because of decentcalization and the multiplicity of sponsors;
of health and medical programs, only about 80% of all health expenditures
budgeted in the Fourth Plan were allocated to the Ministry. An Inter-
Ministerial Committee for Long Range Planning was established in the Plan
Organization in 1971 to review the existing state of the health sector and
make projections of the health and medical needs of the nation over the
next twenty yea--s.  Ft was subsequently charged with preparing the Fifth
Pla'  (1973-77) a  a basis for the  or.g Range P;an.  Although better
coordination has been an important by-product of its work, the mechanism
for policy coordination could be improved.



-7-
3.11      In respect of Health, the major concern of the Fifth Plan is
with the development of the network of public health services and has two
primary objectives. Firstly, the facilities to be built during the Plan
period will physically, as well as functionally and administratively,
integrate the several facets of the puolic health program in cau  complex.
Secondly, the health network in each county will be systematized by
establishing a uniform administrative and referral system.
3.12      The Plan provides for the construction of the following types of
urban health centers:
a. 52 Tvye I centers in Tehran, provincial capitals and towns
with a population of more than 160,000;
b. 30 Type II centers in smaller provincial capitals;
c. 32 Type III centers in county capitals with a population of
more than 40,000; and
d. 78 Type IV centers in county capitals with a population of
less than 40,000; and
e. 366 Type V centers which will be urban subcenters to Types I,
II, and III.
This will provide for new facilities for the existing 140 urban health centers
and facilities for an additional 418 new centers by the end of the Plan. Of
these, the Type IV centers are being given the highest priority by the
Government because they are situated in the capitals of rural-oriented
counties, and will form the basis of the expansion and consolidation of health
services in rural areas.
3.13      In rural areas, first priority is being given to upgrading the
1,100 existing centers, and second priority to the construction of 500-600
units bring the total number of rural health centers, with at least one
physician in residence, to about 1,700. To provide qualified staff for the
planned expansion of both rural and urban facilities, medical and
para-medical personnel will be increased from 24,000 to 35,000 between 1973
and 1978, an increase of 45%.
C. Family Planning Services
3.14      By March 1972, there were 1,657 family planning clinics.  These
clinics do not function as autonomous i!nits but are the family planning
service points of facilities such as hospitals, health centers, dispensaries,
and maternity hospitals. About 66% of the clinics are located in health
centers or dispensaries; 5% are attached to general and maternity hospitals:;
and 30% are attached to statictmobile health centers, most of which are
operated by the Men's Health Corps. Included in the last are 37 mobile
units run by provincial health staff exclusively for family planning
activities which work out of static clinics as places of referral. Their



-8-
effectiveness remains to be evaluated, but when the establishment of a
rural health center network is complete, their activities should be
integrated with those of the main county health centers. The Ministry
of Health and Men's Health Corps together operate about 70% of the family
planning c_inics  the TOSS some 15%. with the remainder run by other
government deDar-.:rsnts and private agencies.  Details of their distribution
by agency and pre;'nce are found in Table 2 of Annex 6.
3.15      Family planning services provided by the Government are regarded
as an integral part of MCH activities and are provided at any time the
clinics are open (for 6.5 hours, six days a week). Motivators employed
by the national program (who include social workers), and Health Corps
women, as well as paramedical staff, particularly behyars, give family
planning information to clients at the clinic and hopefully motivate them
into acceptance of a contraceptive method. In areas in which Health Corps
women and field w"rkers are operating, community met ings are held and
home visits made but this type of activity is still limited. The mobile
units of the Men's H4ealth Corps, whlich are extensions of their static
health centers, '?-e staff trained in family planning but their contribution
so 'ar has beer  --ginal, only about 5% of the total number of clients were
served by such units in 1971. It is said that rural women are reluctant
to accept family planning services from male staff, but this does not
appear to apply to general health activities.
3.16      The program is mainly clinic oriented and almost exclusively
dir?cted towards women. Clients have to go to clinics for services,
check-ups, and for contraceptive supplies. The average number of family
planning clients in a month, in clinics reporting activities, was about
34,000 in 1968; it rose to about 107,000 in 1969 and is currently estimateA
at around 400,000, excluding an estimated 100,000 oral contraceptive
acceptors in th- o-ivate sector.  Most of this expansion has come through
an extension of -'ices to more clinics rather than an intensification of
the program in ea:3ting cl~nicswk In mid-1968 there were only about 200
clirics offering family planning services; by 1970, theze were over 1,300
and in March 1972, 1,657 clinics. The numb-er of clinics reporting family
planning activities has been consistently lower than this number (88X in
March 1972); it is on the basis of returns from these clinics, however,
that calculations and observations of performance have bieen made. The
avv Sge number of clients seen in a month per clinic has fluctuated between
200 and 300 since 1969 and is now about 250. There has been a decline
in the average number of new clients attending clinics from over 50 per
month per clinic in 1969 to about 34 in 1972.
3.17      The cont-aceptive methods offered by the family planning program
include oral cor--rceptives, IUDs and condoms, of which the first  are
the most popular -nd!or the noF.t emphasized method. About 80-90% of new
acceptors take oral contraceptives, while TUD insertions account for only
abcut 3-4%.  Sterilization is v_ctually non-existent.  Abortions cannot be
offered by the program without violating existing laws. Amendments which
would allow abortion and clarify the present ambiguities in regard to
sterilization are, however, being considered by the Government.



-9-
3.18      One of the problems facing Iran's family planning program is :Lhe
high rate of contraceptive discortinuation. During the three years 1969-71
over a million new clients were brought under the progran; but the number
of old clients visitdog the clinics every month in the first three months
of 1972 was only about a quarter of a million. Whilst existing service
statistics do not permit accurate estimates to be made the general
indications are that between 10-20% of acceptors drop out of the program
every mouth.
3.19      In 1971, the Central Province accounted for almost 29% of all
acceptors, followed by Esfahan, Khorasan, Fars, Gilan, and East Azerbaijan,
each having about 7% of the total acceptors. In 1971, the proportion of
married women aged 15-49 covered by the national program was highest in
Yazd (about 12%) followed by the Central Province (about 6%). The coverage
was lowest in Ilam (bel-w 1%) and Kohkiluyeh (about 1%). The average for
Iran was approximately 5% in 1971.
D. Staff
3.20      The training effort of the Family Planning Division has been
largely directed towards the staff of the health services, particularly
that of the Ministry of Health. Courses include the socio-demographic
as well as the medical and health aspects of population and family planning.
They range in leneth from intensive courses of 30 days for doctors and
para-medical staff to 2-3 days of educational lectures for teachers,
extersion workers, and members of the Literacy Corps. Some 200,000
participants have been trained in the last 5 years. They included 2,500
medical and para-medical personnel, and 2,500 Health Corps women. In
addition, some 52,000 members of other revolutionary corps, 24,000
teachers, and 38,000 employees of industrial organizations, as well as
government officials and community leaders, attended family planning
lectures. Medical and para-medical staff directly concerned with managing
clinical contraceptive services have been trained in Tehran. Other
participants were trained in provincial capitals, but only 4 provinces -
Central (which has 2 centers), Khuzestan, Esfahan, and Khorasan - have
active training centers. These 5 centers occupy unsatisfactory, rented
premises; in other provinces, courses are run on an ad hoc basis wherever
accommodation can be found. Equipment and books in the centers are
quite inadequate. All family planning training is carried out by part-time
instructors, under the general direction of the provincial family planning
director. Health Corps women are also trained at the previncial level;
their training course lasts 6 months and includes 180 hours of practical
work.
3.21      Because they are, at present, very clinic-criented, the develop-
ment of the family planning delivery services depends heavily on medical
and para-medical personnel. There are 7 medical schools graduating about
600 students annually; their curricula have recently been revised to
include family planning and population dynamics. There is no shortage ii.
the supply of doctors, but many emigrate and the majority prefer to work in



- 10 -
urban areas, giving a very unbalanced doctor/population ratio  throuohout
the country. For Tehran, other urban areas, and rural areas, the ratios
of doctor to population in 1970 were 1:900, 1:4,300, and 1:7,200
respectively.
3.22      The shortage of nurses and midwives is particularly acute.  As
of March 1972, there were only some 4,000 nurses and 1,300 midwives
(570 of whom were also qualified as nurses), registered in Iran. At
present there are 18 nursing schools graduating 665 students annually,
and 7 midwifery schools with an annual out-lurn of only 145 midwives.
Family planning  _ included in the curricula of both types of schools.
At least 60% of the nurses and midwives are required for service in
in-patient institutions to maintain adequate staffing levels, leaving
a serious shortage in the public health field for the development of
health and family planning services.
3.23      In response to this shortage, the Government has taken several
related steps which include:
a. reduction of the training period of midwives from 3 to
2 years;
b. the cstablishment of 8 new nursing schools and 4 new
miewifery schools in the Fifth Plan;
c. introduction of a 9 months training course for rural
midwives selected by their villages for work in their
villages; and
d. emphasizing the training of behyars, including the
establishment of 28 new schools during the Fifth Plan
period.
3.24      With regard to family planning, this shortage makes the behyar
the key figure in service delivery, intensifies the demand for effective
in-service training in family planning, and increases the need for
efficient supervision. Some 9,500 behyars, who are the equivalent of
au-1iltary/assistant nurse-midwives in India or Indonesia, are presently
registered. There are 48 behyar schools producing about 1,400 graduates
annually, 15 of which are operated by the Government. Three types of
behyar are produced - for work in hospitals, public health services and
in midwifery. The transfer of general hospitals to quasi- and non-
governmental agencies has reduced the need for behyars specialized in
hospital duties. The distinction in the second year of specialization for
public health and midwifery behyars is somewhat arbitrary. Both factors
have caused the Ministry of Health to produce curricula for the training
of multi-purpose behyars.
3.25      Health Corps women are the main source of family planning field
workers. After six months training they are assigned to health centers
and mobile family planning units where they do full-time work in



motivation, follow-up, and the supply of contraceptives. In September
1972, there were some 1,000 women in the Health Corps and a further 480
in training. As they are young and uamarried, their impact as motivators
may not be great at present, but thev perform a useful function and the
long-term effect of their involvement in family planning is bound to be
substantial. To date, nearly 300 women have been employed as field
workers on completion of their pe-iod of conscription. There are also
some 350 social workers involved in face-to-face motivation on a full-time
basis.  In addition, government extension services, the literacy Corps,
and rural community institutions participate in the information and
motivation program. Mass media, including television, radio, and the press,
have not, as yet, been fully exploited as agents of family plinning
Information.
E.  Service Statistics, Evaluation and Research
3.26    Service statistics are derived from records collected at all
family planning clinics. They consist of registers and car, for either
oral contraceptive acceptors or IUD insertions, and their completion is
usually the responsibility of a behyar or H&slth Corps conscript. Each
clinic makes a monthly return of clinical activities, personnel and an
inventory of contraceptive supplies to the statistical office at provincial
level. With the assistance of ECAFE, a program was organized in November
1971, to train at least one staff member at provincial level in basic demo-
graphy and family planning evaluation techniques. Provincial offices are
now staffed by one of these trainees and one or two statistical assistants.
Their work mainly consists of consolidating clinical returns for transmittal
to the central office in Tehran. The central evaluation unit has a staff of
7, and is assisted by a UN demographic expert. There is an urgent need to
provide more trained staff. With Population Council assistance, tabulation
machines are on order but at present there is no concrete program of activities
in data processing. The publication of statistics is no- decentralized and
uncoordinated, being left to the initiative of each prov:!nce; only a few
(such as Gilan and Esfahan) publish them with any regularity. Service
statistics on a national basis are not available in published form and
are not readily available in any form.
3.27    Among institutions conducting demographic and family planning
research are the Institute of Social Research, the School of Public Health,
and the Institute of Public Health Research, all of which are attached to
Tehran University. Their programs include analyses of the results of the
1956 and 1966 censuses, family structure and change, abortion, and popula-
tion growth and economic development. The Universities of Esfahan and
Pahlavi (Shiraz) also participate in research and training in the national
family planning field. Among studies in progress are those on the cultural
influence on fertility behavior, evaluation o~ selected family pLanning
clinics, and characteristics of drop outs from the family planning program.
Coordination between the Ministry of Health, other government departments,
unisersities, and rural institutions is achieved through the Research



- 12 -
Committee under the chairmar.ahip of the Deputy Minister for Family Planning.
The Committee has funds available to support re3earch activities in both
private and public sectors. Other funding agencies for research activities
include the Population Council, JSAID through contracts with United States
universities, the Plan and Budget Organization, and the Ministry of Health.
3.28    There are no clearly defined links between program operations and
evaluation and research. Evaluation activities are virtually confined to
occasional small studies of attitudes towards and knowledge and practice
of contraception (KAP studies), and the calculation of contraceptive con-
tinuation rates from the data on the clinic cards of program dropouts. If
fully exploited, clinical records, which appear to be well maintained despite
inadequate suDervision, could provide valuable information for program manage-
ment. Among several managerial weaknesses, the lack of systematic procedures
for evrluating program components in relation to defined objectives is parti-
cularly serious.
F. Budget
3.29    Government financing of the health sector, including family planning,
is derived from the Ordinary Budget (including Special Revenues drawn from
10% of all county taxes which county administrations are requ'red to make
available for health purposes) and the Development Budget.  The Ordinary
Budget finances regular, well established activities, whilst the Develop-
ment Budget is used to stimulate the provision of services and activities,
such as family planning, because they are of critical, national importance.
In FY 1972/73, the totEl budget allocation for health - both Ordinary and
Development -- was US$200.7 million equivalent, an average cf US$6.50 per
capita. In spite of an overall increase of about US$31 million over the
previous year's allocation, the proportion of the health sector within the
allocation for Social Affairs declined slightly. From the total allocation,
the Ministry of Health received 78% of available funds (US$151.9 million
equivalent), the remainder being allocated to quasi- and non-governmental
organizations, ioundations, and universities. Of the Ministry of Health's
allocation, 53% was drawn from the Ordinary Budget, 39% from the Develop-
ment Budget and 8% from Special Revenues.
3.30    Allocations for family planning have been rising in both relative
and absolute terms -- from US$0.55 million equivalent at the start of the
Fourth Plan (1968) to US$9.2 million equivalent in its final year (1972).
Th_se funds are allocated totally from the Development Budget and are used
to supplement delivery services financed by the Health Ministry, in addition
to paying for information, evaluation and research, and other activities
which specifically promote and support the national program. Some 40% of
the family planning budget is allocated to staff salaries and allowances,
about 25% to contraceptive, medical and administrative supplies, and about
15% to grants-in-.id for quasi- and non-governmental agencies. Of the
remainder, the largest items include provision for rental of buildings
and maintenance, travel expenses, and contracts for publications, and
research. In FY 1971-72, 94% of the allocation for family planning was
disbursed, which, in comparison with other healtl. programs, was a satis-
factory performance.



- 13 -
3.31    As the Health Minietry is the primary agency for the delivery of
family planning services, the fact that it derives its funds fromn two budgets,
each with its own accounting system, creates difficulties in planning and
executing the national family planning prog-r'm. Serious management problems
are created by this dichotomy and efficient financial control is very diffi-
cult. Personnel policies and salary ranges are not comparable, those of the
Development Budget being more attractive. The management of the Ord4nary
Budget is presently somewhat inflexible and unlikely to stimulate improve-
ment of performance of the health delivery system.
G. Foreign Assistance
3.32    Since its advisory mission in 1966, the Population Council has
continued to provide assistance to the national program. the Council
has had a resident adviser in the Ministry of Health since 1967, and also
has an information and education adviser stationed in Esfahan in connection
with a family planning communications project.  It has provided consultants,
fellowships and travel grants, contraceptive supplies, and data processing
equipment. The Farah Pahlavi Maternity Hospital in Tehran participates in
the Council's international postpartum program. Through the UNFPA, the UN
is providing the services of two demographic advisers. The UNFPA also funded
the 1971 evaluation of the national program by a UN interagency mission. In
November, 1971, the UNFPA signed an agreement with the Governmeit for the
expenditure of US$ 1.6 million over a 17 month period. The agreement (see
Annex 1) included several pilot projects for family planning programs at
proviikcial and county levels, and support for transport, training activities,
and a manpower survey as well as prepa-ations for the 1976 census. WH0 is
providing assistance for a pilot project in health delivery services in
West Azerbaijan, which has an MCH/family planning component. In addition
to commitments for MCH and nutrition projeLts, UNICEF has earmarked
US$468,000 to be spent between 1972 and 1974 on the establishment of a
Transport and Equipment Organization for the Ministry of Health. The
Swedish Government has provided printing equipment and contraceptive
supplies. Foreign assistance commitments for family planning totaled
some US$300,000 for the calendar year 1972.
IV. TEE PROJECT
4.01    The project has been framed in the light of plans for the develop-
ment of the national family planning program, and tho:e aspects of the
health services which immediately contribute to the delivery of family
planning services. Its composition takes into account other foreign
assistance, particularly that provided by the UNFPA. It is designed to
accelerate the implementation of parts of the Fifth Plan and to provide
the Government ard the Bank with information and experience of the
national program to prepare a possible second population project. The
Government has 1lso asked the Bank for assistance in developing a
nutrition project; to provide for the necessary preparatory work,
this project makes provision for a technical feasibility study.  The
project will be completed within three years of loan signing.



- 14 -
4.02      From its initial development in the major urban areas, the national
family planning program is expanding its activities into the smaller urban
and rural areas.  The Bank project will assist this transition in four ways:
a.  it provides technical scs4stance to ensure that the national
organization and administration is adequate to plan and zarry
out the expanded program at the central, provincial and field
levels;
b. it includes new physical facilities and related studies which
will provide technical and administrative bases from which the
program can be expanded into rural areas;
c. it provides new training centers and schools which will hel?
in improving the quality of training of family planning workers
and behyars; and
d. it provides vehicles to improve the mobility needed for the
expansion of services and their supervision.
4.03      In summary, the project consists of the following components:
a. a management study of the national 'amily planning program to
include the formulation of proposals for its future development
and an organization pattern suitable for that purpose (US$250,000);
b. the construction and equipment of 78 Type IV health centers
with staff housing for 2 doctors and 8 behyars at each center
(US$20.3 million);
c. a study of the delivery of family pl;nning services to ural
areas (US$50,000);
d. the construction and equipment of r regional family planning
triining centers with dormitory and classroom accommiodation for
resident Health Corps women and post-graluate trainees (US$7.9
million);
e.  the construction and equipment of 7 multipurpese behyar training
schools, each with dormitory and classroom accom.odation for 60
studeuts and teaching staff (US$4.0 million);
f. the provision of 150 vehicles, for family planning work at
county level health centers and for training centers and behyar
schools (US$0.8 million); and
g. a preparatory study for a possible, subsequent nutrition project
including a pilot provincial project and bread fortification scheme
(US$150,000).



- 15 -
A. Management Study
4.04      A major objective of the project is the long-term improvement of
the organization and management aspects of the national family planning
program. This requires a thorough examination of the existing organization
and its functioning. The project therefore makes provision for a management
study by an expatriate consulting firm or group, to be assisted by a small
number of Iranian advisors. Acting as a focus for innovation, it would
define the principal management functions necessary to translate available
resources into program objectives, specify alternative ways in which these
functions could best be organized within the central government structure,
and ensure that the most feasible and acceptable system is implemented
expeditiously.
4.05      The study will be made within the. first year of the project, it
will propose specific procedures and recomendations for review, and provide
for the implementation of the recoemmendations. Outline terms of reference,
agreed between the Government and the Bank and UNFPA, are in Annex 7.
The Government will make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for carrying
out the study and wili provide the Bank with copies of the final reports
and recommendations resulting from the manaigement study, and thereafte.r
review the recommendations with the Bank.
B. Health Centers
4.06      The project provides for the construction and equipment of 78
T,,e IV health centers. These centers, listed in Annex 8, will be situated
in towns which serve as county adm'tnistrative centers. The towns have an
average population of about 17,000 and a tributary, dominantly rural, popu-
lation of over 100,000. At presert, all 78 towns have some kind of health
services, including an administrative unit, and in 53 towns these services
have already been administratively integrated. In many towns, however, the
physical facilities for these activities are now scattered in several build-
ings which are old, or otherwise inadequate; 68 centers occupy rented
quarters. The new facilities will provide for the physical as well as
functional and administrative integration of public health, family planning,
MCH, and ambulant curative services.  This will improve the utilization and
supervision of staff. Each center will include accomodation for a demonstration
and training room for about 30 persons. These would have first priority in
the deployment of the staff that is being recruited specifically for health,
population and family planning education. There will also be basic support
units such as a public health laboratory and minor surgery, pharmacy, and
x-ray units. The standard staffing pattern will comprise 28 technical and
11 administrative staff. The clinics, including that for family planning
and MCH, which form part of the multifunctional complex, will be open for
300 days a year with daily sessions of 6.5 hours. Daily attendance is estimated
at 100 persons, of whom 25 would be catered for in the MCH/FP clinic. The
new buildings, properly equipped and staffed for the delivery of family
planning services, would be able to cater for an annual total of some 585,000
family planning clients, more than twice the number served in 1971.
Housing will be provided, in the same compound as the center-, for 2 doctors
and 8 behyars. Housing in small towns is difficult to find and is one of
the main factors contributing to the serious imbalznce in the distribution of
medical and paramedical staff. A schedule of accommodation is given in
Annex 9.



- 16 -
C. Study of iRural Health and FP Services
4.07      The 78 Type IV health centers to be constructed are to be located
in the administrative centers of counties which are predominately rural.
To ensure that optimum use is made of these facilities a study of the
delivery of MCH and family planning services to the rural areas is required.
The study will review existi.  facilities and suggest ways in which the
county health centers can .upport and supervise MCH and family planning activi-
ties. It is hoped that the results cf this study, and the experience gained,
will be used in the preparation of a second population project. The
government will enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, providing
for technical assistance in carrying out the study.  An outline of the
objectives of such a study are given in Annex 10.
D. Regional Family Planning Training Centers
4.08      This project component provides for the construction and equip-
mcnt of 9 Regional Training Centers (RTCs) with accommodation for Health
Corps women and postgraduate trainees. Although family planning training
is carried on in all provinces, there are only 5 active family planning
training centers in 4 provinces (2 centers in Tehran), all of which are
locaced in rented premises.  The training of Health Cr_ps women is also
conducted at provincial capitals, again in rented accommodation. With the
recent introduction of a law allowing the Health Corps women to be trained
and posted anywhere in Iran, rather than limiting them to their province
of residence, family planning training policies have been reviewed. It
is now proposed to bring the two major training efforts together and regiona-
lize the training centers. In Tehran, the number of students in high
schools and universities is such that the ^enter will have classroom and
dormitory accommodation for 200 Health Corps womexi, and for 60 other trainees
(48 of whom will be resident). The remaining 8 provincial centers vill hAve
accommodation for 100 Health Corps women and 30 other trainees, (24 of whom
will be resident). All centers will include practical training facilities,
a library, and an exhibition area. A schedule of accommodation is et
Annex 9. The RTCs will operate under a full-time directorate with teaching
staff drawn as required from Health Ministry ataff, universities and quasi-
government agencies such as the RLSS. The provincial centers will be located
in Esfahan, Rasht, Ahwaz, Kermanshah, Shiraz, Mashad, Tabriz and Kerman.
4.09      The RTCs will be used for the in-service training of medical,
para-medical and other wcrkers engaged in family planning and for training
Health Corps women as family planning field workers. In addition, the RTCs
will carry out family planning and population education activities among
-roups such as the Literacy Corps, schools teachers, and community leaders.
By the end of the Fifth Plan, the number of family planning clinics will have
been increased from about 1,700 to 2,500. The minimum number of clinical
staff dealing directly with family planning should be about 7,500 -- including
1,000 doctors, 1,000 nurses, 500 midwives and 5,000 behyara. With classes
of 20 - 30 trainees, and courses of 2 - 4 weeks, each center will be engaged
in training family planning clinic staff at least 23 weeks annually. To
provide short orientation courses for other medical and paramedical personnel,
RTC facilities will be used throughout the year. The present bi-annual
intake of 500 women for the Health Corps will be increased to 1,000 in 1973;



- 17 -
whilst one cadre is in training, 3 cadres (3,000 women) will be in the
field completirng their 2 years service.
E. Behyar Training Schools
4.10      The project will provide new facilities for 6 existing behyar
schools and I school scheduled to open in 1973. The training scnools
selected for the provision of new buildings are being or.rated in rented
premises which are inadequate; the school scheduled to s.art this year
will also have to use similarly inadequate, rented accomnodation. The new
facilities will have dormitory and classroom accommodation for 60 students,
and 6 full-time tutors. A schedule of accommodation is at Annex 9. The Tehran
schools will be located at Ahwaz, Kermanshah, Khoy, Bandar Abbas, Sanandadj
and Khoramshahr. It is hoped that the first three will each be located
on one campus with a RTC.  All scLools will be located as closely as possi-
ble to Tvajor health centers to facilitate practical training.
4.11      The Mini3try of Health now operates 15 behyar training schools
with an annual output of about 340 behya's in threc_ .:.ferent categories -
behyar midwives, public health behyars, and hospital behyars. As a result
of its policy rof transferring general hospitals to quasi- and non-goverrmental
agencies, the Ministry will require fewer hospital behyars. But it will also
lose those behyars who were trained in non-governumental schools for employ-
ment by the government. Plans for the development of piblic health service
facilities, with their emphasis on the behyar as the key paramedical worker,
indicate that, in addition to the 2,000 behyars already eoployed,
about 4,000 behyars would have to be employed by the Governrment by the
end of the Fifth Plan. The distinction -n the second year of training in
the curricula of public health behyar and midwife behyar is somewhat arbitrary
and the Government proppses to train a m-ultipurpose behyar for work in the
integrated health centers. The facilities to be constructed by the project
will be used only for the training of such behyars. The Government has
given an assurance that a new curriculum to train multipurpose behyars
will be prepared, in consultation with the Sank, and introduced not later
than June 30, 1974. The Ministry plans to increase the number of behyars
employed by all agencies in Iran by some 6,000 during the Plan per4o,a.
This figure will be met by building new schools and expand..ng existing schools.
The annual intake of 4 of the schools included in the project wili, be increased
from 20 to 30 students annually; the others already have such intakes. This
will not be substantial in terms of the number of graduates required, but
it will be sufficient to meet about 80% of the requirements of the 78 Type
IV health centers by the end of the Fifth Plan. The Ministry should put
priority on the recruitment of multipurpose behyars for these Type IV
hLealth centers to demonstrate the effectiveness of integrated health services,
and to provide guidelines for the improvement and expansion of multipurpose
behyar training.



- 18 -
F. Transport
4.12     The project will provide 150 vehicles for the national family planning
proRram. Of these, 124 will be for work at county health centers and 26 for
us~ at RTCs and behyar training schools. The Ministry of Health now has over
2,200 vehicles, but only 131 (including 37 mobile units) are exclusively used
for family planning activities. They are used primarily for administration
and program supervision at central and provincial levels. Efficient, econom-
ical transport is imperative for the administration and delivery of family
planning information and services. In Iran, mobility is essential to cover
a population which is widely dispersed over a vast and, for the mnost part,
rugged country.  A- present, the effectiveness of family planning field
wor- at county level is dependent on the availability of one of the 3 or
4 vehicles assigned for a variety of other purposes to each health center.
Vehicles specifically allocated for family plenning are required for home
visits and service deliveries in villages which are on average 30 kms apart
and often over 100 kms, from heailth centers. As the majority of acceptors
use oral contraceptives, follow-up vi:;its to improve and sustain continua-
tion rates are extremely important.
4.13      Under the 1971 UNFPA agreement, the family planning program will
receive 186 vehic os, of which 25 will be for specific pilot project acti-
vities, and 15 for information purposes. The Bank project will supplement
the 32 vehicles to be supplied under the agreement for training purposes,
(to a scale of 2 minibuses and 2 four-wheel drive vehicles for each institu-
tion), and the C vehicles already in operation at the 6 existing behyar
schools covered by the project. T'his means that a further 26 four-wheel
drive vehicles will be needed for the RTCs and behyar training schools. A
further 78 vehicles of the same type will be provided for use at the 78
Type IV centers to be constructed under the project. In addition, another
46 will be supplied for family planning work at the health centers in the
capital towns of the remaining counties in Iran, excluding those which also
function as provincial capitals and which will be supplied by the other
vehicles provided under the UNFPA agreement. The total project provision
of 150 vehicles represents a manageable expansion in terms of the Ministry
of Ilealth's capaci.y to absorb and maintain the increase.  With UNICEF
assistance, the Ministry will implement Li new organization -- the Department
of Transport ard Zquipment Maintenance -- providing for the repair and ser-
vicing of fleet ehicles on a regular basis throughout the country.
G. Preparatory Nutrition Study
4.14      In preparation for a possible, subsequent nutrition project, provi-
sion is made for a nutrition study component estimated to cost about
US$150,000. In May 1972, the Plan Organization prepared a draft Coordinated
National Food and Nutrition Policy and Plan, which has been accepted in
principle by the Government. Based on the draft plan, the preparatory study
would focus, in particular, on developing: (a) a pilot province to test
the effectiveness of specific nutrition policies and plans, including consumer
and producer incentives directed to greater bread consumption, and several
forms of ½nstitutional feeding; and (b) a national bread fortification
program by determining appropriate nutrient levels, their quantity and origia



- 19 -
(local or imported), and necessary equipment; other staples, in particular
salt and sugar will also be examined to determine whether they are also
appropriate for fortification.  In addition to those primary objectives,
the study will also pay attention to nutrition education, production of
weaning foods, a long-term analysis of nutritional requirement, and manpower
training needs. The study would be undertaken by a working group over a
period of six to nine months, and supported by foreign consultants for whom
provision is made in the project costs. Specific advisory services will be
required in food technology, food engineering, nutr-ition planning, and nutri-
tion education. Terms of reference for the preparatory study are being pre-
pared by the Government based on the outline in Annex 11. The Government
will make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for carrying out the
nutrition study, and will provide the Bank with copies of the final report
of the study and thereafter review the recommendations with the Bank.
V. IMPLEMENTATION, COSTS, PROPOSED FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Implementation
5.01      Overall project responsibility will be that of a Project Coordin-
ator who is expected to be the Deputy Minister for Population and Family
Planning in the Ministry of Health. Day-to-day technical supervision of the
realization of the physical components of the project will be carried out
by a Project Architectl:ral Manager (PAM), who will be responsible to the
Project Coordinator. The PAM will head a Unit, to be established in the
Ministry of health, with an accountant and the necessary technical personnel,
including a full time representative from the Ministry of Housing and
Development. The initial appointment of a full time, quatified and experi-
enced PAM is a condition of loan effectiveness.
5.02. No complex technical problems are foreseen in connection with the
architectural program and it is not necessary to retain architectural con-
sultants. The architectural work will be divided by geographical region.
Executive architects will be retained, after pre-qualification on the basis
of their experience in health facilities, architectural talent and manage-
ment ability, on terms and conditions mutually acceptable to the Government
and the Bank. To provide day-to-day supervision of the construction, clerks-
of-works will le appointed by the Ministry of Housing and Development, but
will work at the direction of the executive architects. Because of the
widespread nature of the construction program scheduling, by means of the Critical
Path Method (CPM) or a similar method, will be essential. An overall project
schedule will be prepared by a consultant who will also he responsible for
amending it, as necessary, during the life of the project. Detailed scheduling
for individual project facilities will be the responsibility of the execu-
tive architects, who will also be required to use a similar construction
scheduling system to monitor progress. The project will be completed in
early 1976. A construction schedule is at Annex 13.
5.03      Of the 94 sites required, 40 have been tentatively selected.
The Government has given an assurance that it will acquire not later than
six months after loan signing, all land and rights in land required for the



- 21 -
Breakdown by Functional Category
Rials (in millions)            U,S.$ (in millions)
Item          Local   Foreign      Total    Local   Foreign    Total   Percentage
Health Centers
and Housing        1033.8   346.7      1380.5     15.2      5.1       20.3       60.8
Regional Training
Centers            401.6   136.9       538.5       5.9      2.0        7.9      23,6
Behyar Schools        197.3    75.4       272.7      2.9      1.1        4.0       12.0
Vehicles                o.8    47.7        54.5      0.1      0.7        0.8        2.4
Technical Assis-
tance                 6.8    20.5        27.3      0.1     0.3         0.4        1.2
Total                1648.4   628.5      2276.9     24.2      9.2       33.4      100.0
5.06      Construction cost estimates are based on recent bid awards.
Each location has been analyzed and allowances made as necessary for
provincial cost variations and particular difficullies due to remoteness
and to climate dnd terrain. Equipmertt end furniture cost estimates are
based on the recent experience of the Ministry of Health and are reasonable.
The estimates and work include a 10% construction contingency for unforeseen
works and quantity changes, an allowance for price escalation of 7% per
annum, and a 15% design contingency. Those for vehicles, eqj-pment and
furniture include a 10% contingency for quantity changes and an allowance
of 7% per annum for price escalation. The overall contingency allowances
amount to 28% of total project costs.
5.07      The foreign exchange component of US$9.2 million equivalent
represents about 28% of total project costs. It has been calculated as
30% of civil works, 20% of the cost of equipment and furniture, 95% of the
cost of vehicles, and 75% of the costs of the studies of management,
nutrition, and rural health service expansion.
C. Proposed Financing
5.08      The project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$16.5 million,
and a Government contribution of US$16.9 million equivalent. The Bank loan
will cover slightly under 50% of the total project costs, including the
foreign exchange component of US$9.2 million and local costs amounting to
US$7.3 million equivalent. This reflects the high local currency component
of social sector projects of this kind. The Bank's assistance in covering
about 50% of the total cost of this social oriented project by providing
some local currency financing would help to ensi're that the Government keeps
up the momentum of increasing allocations necessary for family planning.
It would also ensure adequate emphasis being given to the institution of
arrangements required to support the massive efforts needed to achieve
the family planning targets of the Fifth Plan. The loan would have a term
of 25 years, including a five year period of grace. Provision for the
government contribution and the recurrent costs of facilities, staff and
vehicles is made in the Fifth Plan.



- 22 -
D. Disbursements
5.09      The loan would be disbursed to meet:  a) 50% of total costs for
civil works; b) 100% of the CIF costs of directly imported vehicles or
100% of the ex-factory price if manufactured locally; c) 50% of the total
costs of equipment and furniture; d) 100% of the total costs of technical
assistance and e) 50% of thie total costs of professional fees.  Retroactive
financing of the fees of the executive architects, in an amount not exceed-
ing $250,000 equivalent, from February 1L 1973, is recommended.  Undisbursed
funds would be available fcr cEncellation. A disbursement schedule is at
Annex 14.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project, covering a period of three years is designed to
accelerate the implementation of parts of the Fifth Plan and to provide
the Bank with the information and experience of the national program to
prepare a possible second population project. The Government has also
asked the Bank for assistance in developing a nutrition project; to pro-
vide for the necessary preparatory work, this project makes provision
for a technical feasibility study.
6.02      The present program is recognized as having serious organizational
and administracive shortcomings which the Government knows must be overcome.
These shortcomings are partly administrative and partly a result of the
multi-disciplinary nature of the population problem; a national population
program to be fully effective requires the active participation of several
governmental and non-governmental units in a coordinated fashion.  No single
locus of responsibility presently exists in Iran for planning, coordinating,
supervising and evaluating the program to be executed by at least six
government and some twenty non-government agencies, and no institution,
below the Prime Minister's office, has overall authority for ensuring that
participating agencies implement the Government's population program in a
coordinated fashion. Thus a thorough management study is needed to meet
this problem. Such a study will also address itself to the problems of
coordination and execution of the population and family planning program
at the field level. This is important as the national program expands
from urban to small urban and into rural areas over the coming years.
G.03      Taker. in conjunction with the assistance programs of UNFPA, the
project components will help to accelerate the extension of family planning
services to the smaller towns and rural areas. The health centers will
provide the inecessary technical and administrative bases from which services
can be delivered and supervised. Mobility is essential and vehicles are
included to facilitate motivation and supervision. More and better staff
are critical to such an expansion and the project provides for the training
of family planning workers and for an improvement in the caliber of that
class of paramedical staff -- the behyar -- who vill be the most closely
involved in family planning work at health center level.
6.04      The project will also provide information on the most effective
met<ods of extending the delivery of health and family planning services



- 23 -
from the health centers into the more rural areas. It is hoped that this
and other information, as well *as the experience obtained, will lay the
grovndwork for the development of a second, more comprehensive population
project.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
of Iran on the following points:
a)  The Government will make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank for carrying out the management and nutrition studies,
and will provide the Bank with copies of the final reports
of the studies and thereafter review the recommendations
with the Bank (paras. 4.05 and 4.14);
b)  The Government will enter into arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank providing for technical assistance in carrying
out the study of rural health and family planning services
(para. 4.07);
c)  A new curriculum to train multipurpose behyars will be prepared,
in consultation with the Bank, and introduced not later than
June 30, 1974 (para 4.11) and
d)  Not later than six months from loan signing, all land and
rights in land acquired for the construction and operation
of the facilities included in the project will be acquired
by the Government, which will also provide promptly, as
needed, connecting roads and all necessary services (para. 5.03).
7.02      A condition of loan effectiveness is the initial appointment of
a full time, qualified and experienced Project Architectural Manager
(para. 5.01).
7.03      Subject to the assurances described above, the proposed project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$16.5 million equivalent for a term of
25 years, including five years of grace.



ANNEX 1
Irant United Nations Fund for Population
Activities (UNFPA) Assistance to Iran
In November 1971, a Project Agreement on Family Planning was signed
between the Government of Iran and the UNFPA. It provides Us$1.64 mllnion,
with a government contribution of US$1.23 million. The project components
consist of:
1. A xaternity-centered_proach to fam4y planning
The main objectives of this project component are:
a. the development of family planning (FP) activities and services as
an integral part of maternity care, initially at maternity hospitals;
b. the promotion and strengthening of maternal and child health (Mai)
care in maternity hospitals, in order to make MCH and family planning
mutually supportive and to establish a continuity of family care; and
c. the evaluation of performance to judge the expansion of MCK/FP
activities to all maternity institutions in the country and, ultimately,
to domiciliary midwifery ser'vicds.
Five hospitals and eight attached MCH/FP clinics have been selected
to participate in this project: Firoozabad Hospital, Tehran; Motamed HospitAl,
Esfahan; Bistopanje - Mhahrivar Hospital, Mashad; Rabht Maternity Hospital,
Rasht; S&veh Maternity Hospital, Saveh.
The project is to be executed by the WHO and the UNICEF jointly, at a tQtal
cost of US$3 11,000.  The IPPF will provide meadical kits for KCH/FP clinics.
2. A pilot projeot: A comprehensive  ailylni            o      i      oe
urvince (0stan)
The government has selected Khuzestan as the province for this project.
The objective of the component is to employ and evaluate different  approaches
and methods to increase the acceptance of family planning and the continuous
use of contraception. The projec' will include closely supervised management
of FP servA.ces, including IUD insertions and sterilizations offered in hospitals.
The promotion of FP will be supported through intensive mass communicoation,
group arid face-to-face education, and the training of opinion leaders as well
as various categories of medical and paramedical personnel.
This project is partly based on the experience gained from the communica-
tions and operations research project conducted in Esfahan Province jointly by
the Ministry of Health and the Population Council. The experience gained from
the project in Khuzestan should serve as a basis for implementing comprehensive
FP programs in other provinces of Iran.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
The project will be executed jointly by the WE0, UNSSC0, NICBF, UN and
the Population Council, at a  total Cost of US$246,000.
3. A palot project: A comprehensive CCR/FP prograa in a model county
The main objective of the project is to demonstrate an effective
approach to FP in a rural setting by the development of integrated hCH/FP
activities. The county chosen is Saveh, near Tehran.
Further objectives of the project are the introduction of a reliable
system of pregnancy identification, provision of prenatal, natal and post-
natal care, local training of rural midwives, and stimulation of local
initiative in upgrading rural clinics.
The executing agencies are the .WHD ad the UNICKF and the total project cost
is estimated at US$260,000, almost eveily split between the UNFPA and the GDI.
4. Assistance to family planning training activities
(i) Assistance to current training needs
The objectives of this project are:
a. strengthening of training for instructors and supervisors in the FP
progsam by providing the directors of the training centers and the provin-
cial program directors with adequate knowledge Of human reproduction, family
planning and population cdnamics;
b. strengthening and expansion of training activities of FP training
centers; and
c. familiarizing different categories of personnel with specific con-
cepts, techniques, and procedures related to family planning.
To achieve the described objectives 60 man month& of fellowships for trmin-
ing abroad will be made available, particularly for the personnel in key posts.
The training of 10-12 obstetricians is also envisaged, providing training in
abortion techniques, manageaent of health aspcts of abortion and contraception
after abortion. Flnally, a seminar for approxixate)y 50 participants will be
organized. The proposed title is "Problems of Abortion Including Aspects of
Abortion Techniques." In addition to this, the overall training scheme of
medical, paramedical, and non medical personnel in various aspects and activities
related to 'ivnoan reproduction, family planning and population dynamics will be
strengthened and expanded.
(ii) Comprehensive long-term planning to meet future training
reouiremen :s locally, qualitatively and cuantitatively
The basic objectives of this component of the project are:



ANNEX I
Fage 3 of 5
a. assessment of the availability of various categories of trained man-
power and manpower currently under training for the family planning and pop-
ulation program;
b. estimation of manpower requirements over the next five years in the
context of the overall development program of the country;
c. surves of the current capabilities and potentialities of universities
and other institutions;
d. identification of steps necessary for development and revision, and the
revision of teaching methods and aids; and
4               e. strengthening of coordination of national training and research
activities.
The project will be execCted by the WHO, UN and UNICEF, at a cost of
$183,000, of ihich $156,000 will be provided by te UNFPA.
5. Support to research relat6d to the family planning program
The objectives are:
a. initiation, support and coordination of research related to
human reproduction, and FP programs; and
b. strengthening and development of the research capacity in related
fields in various institutions in Iran.
In particular, the project will provide for development of steroid
horr.ione laboratory servites, a research reference library and development
of research related to human reproduction in all suitable institutions,
which should include private as well as governmental organizations.
With the help oft.the Ministry of Health, the main executing agency
for this project will be the WHO. The cost is estimated at $400,000, of which
75% is provided by the UNFPA.
6. Communications in support of family planning and population programs
The project objectives are:
a. evaluation of the existing communicatior, program;
b. development of a long-tern comprehenuive comsunications program and
strategy on the basis of a short-term experimental. study;
c. training of key personnel;
d. provision of orientation in FP communicationsto leaders in the field
of mass communicati.ons and



AENU 1
Page 4 of 5
e. strengthening of the F? training programs.
To this end a central coordinating body will be constituted, incluoang
all governmental and non-governmental organizations interested in the field
of FP coamunications.
The project will be executed by the UNESCO, at a cost of $324,000, of
which one half is provided by the UNFPA. The Hodel Province Project will
be utilized by the government as its first principal laboratory for opera-
tiona research on family planning commnnications. In addition to this, a
"workshop for training in the integrated use of messages integrally relating
family planning to welfare and development will be organized by the governmept.
Part of the equipment to be used in the project will be provided on the basia
of earlier commitments by the SIDA.
7. A central management unit of the Family Planning Division of the
Hinistry of Health
The UNFPA and the government have decided to includs this component
in the project in order to secure effective management and supervision for
FP activities covered by the terms of agreement. The basic activities
of the unit will be operatims research, data collection and progress
reporting. To this end a project coordinator, assisted by a program
officer, will be appointed by the Ministry of Health and experts on
evaluation will be provided by the UNFPA. The management unit's main
task will be to provide effective coordination among the various com-
ponents and agencies; the unit will hot have technical responsibility
for operating project components, but will be an effective channel for
obtaining fund clearances with the UNDP.
8. Intercensal preparations
The objective of the project is to devise a system of determining,
within acceptable limits of accuracy, the ages of individuals comprising
Iran's population who do not have exact birth records. This will include
developmantal work Xa order to provide guidelines for investigators,
selection and training of project personnel, field work and, finally,
laboratory wDrk to finalize the data collected in field. The project
director will be assisted by two UN demographers.
The primary user of the developed system of age determination will
be the Iranian Officer of Civil Registration.
The cost of the project is estimated at $53,000, predominantly financed
from the UNFPA funds.
9. Support to the family planning transport requirements
The project providing for vehicles in the largest in the whole agres-
nent. It makes provision for 109 vehicles, as a support to the MCH/FP
activities at a cost of $295,000 for the UNFPA. In addition, vehicles
are tto be provided for the nodel province, the model county Communications



ANNEX 1
Pa8  5 of 5
ProJe(..t and the Maternity-Centered FP Project, as well as a certain number
of vehicles from the previovs agreements between UNICEF/NFPA, which number
77 vehicles. The total number of vehicles (186) is to be provided at an
overall cost of $1,041,000.
The vwcAles w.Lll be maintained by the Transport and Equipment
Maintenance Organization (TEKO), which will be establishad as a part
of spara'te project executed by the government and the UNICEF. The
project should help better utilization and maintenance of the Ministry
of Health's fleet of vehicles.
10. Assistance to Non-Governsental Organiaations
The project includes a UNFPA contribution of $200,000 as support
to non-governmental organizations.  Project details have not yet been
developed.



AMNEX 2
Page 1 of 17
Irans DEXDGRAPHIC AND 90CIO-E(0 NOMIC BACKGROTND
1.       Iran has a short history of c-nsus taking, the first one being in
1956. The vital registration syt'um is poor and well-conduoted surveys on
a national scale were almost urknown till the mid-Eixties.  As a result,
Iran's irventory of demographic data is poorer than many other devek1ping
countries.  The next census is still four years away, and improvement in
the vital registration system within a few years is unlikely. There is an
urgent need at this point in time for a well-conducted demographic survey
designed to give national estimates of some essential demographic parameters
with sufficient accuracy.  3Ince Iran does not have an abundance of weil-
trained demographers and statisticians, such an effort would call Aor con-
siderable technical assistance from multi lateral and bilateral agencies
involved in demographic and statistical activities.
2.       The ceinsuses of 1956 and 1966 are the main sources of demographic
data. Both censuses suffer from various degrees of underenumeration and age-
distortion. An analysis of the age and sex itratcture indicates conserrvative
estinates of a 2-3% underenuneration in 1956 and 1% underenuneration in
1966.
3.       The first demographic survey was conducted by the former Department
of Public Statistics in 1959. The results were not published, as the quality
of data turned out to be rather poor. A second survey in 1963 was also poorly
conducted, and failed to give national estimates of various demographic para-
meters. The only worthwhile demographic survey so far was carried out by the
Institutue for Social Studies and Research, Tehran University, in 1965-66.
It was based on a sample of about 5,000 married women in four different rural
areas and about 3,000 married females in Tehran. Results for the rural areas
have been published in French, but those for Tehran are not yet published for
lack of funds. The Tehraa University survey is the only one which has provided
estimates of age-specific fertility rates (ASFR) for urban and rural areas.
4.       Registration of vital events in Iran is the responsibility of the
General Department of Statistics and Civil Registration under the Ministry of
Interior. The system seems to have a better coverage of births than deaths;
for instance the registration data gave a birth rate of 40.6 and a death rate
of 5.6 per thousand in 1970 whereas the expected rates at that time were around
46 and 16 respectively. On the whole, registration data cannot be seriously
considered for purposes of demographic analysis until significant improvements
are made.
Population Size and Spatial Distribution
5.       The population of Iran, according to the censuses, was 18.955 million
in 1956 and 25.789 million in 1966, including both settled and unsettled pop-
ulations. The estimated population in mid-1972 was 31 million. Topography
and availability of water are the two most important factors underlying pop-
ulation distribution which is very uneven. The mean densitiy is 19 per kn2,
which is lower than that of neighbouring Pakistan (79 per km2), Turkey (h8 per km2),



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 17
and Traq (21 per Hw). Nationrwide, densities vary from over 300 per 1cm2 in soA
counties along the Caspian Coast, to the almost uninhabited great sand and salt
deserts, md to much of he southern and eastern parts of the country where den-
sities are only 2 per km?. The density of population per kin of arable land is
about 120. About half a million people are nomadic. An estimated 43% of the
population live in urban areas, and of this about one-third live in the capital
city of Tehran. Thn remainder live in small townB and some 66,500 villages.
Religions and Languages
6.       About 99% of the Iranians are Muslims, of which 90% belong to the         -
Shiah sect of Islam, the rest being Sunni. Non-Muslim minorities oonsist
of Jews, and Zoroastrians as well as Armenians, Assyrians, and some other
Christians. About three-fourths of the Iranians speak iarsi and/or various
regional dialects of Farsi. The next major language is Turkish, spoken in
Azerbaijan e-id the northeast. A small proportion speak Arabic, Armenian,
Syriac or Pushtoo.
Age-Sex Distribution of the Population
7.       The broad age-structure for different sexes and urban and rural
regions as obtained from the two censuses are shown in Table 1. The propor-
tion of the population under age 15 changed from 42.2% in 1956 to 461 % in 1966.
Such a change is rather unexpected in view of a consistently high fertility
in the last few decades, and lends support to the view that underenumeration
in younger age groups was higher in 1956 than in 1966. The recorded sex-ratio
in the two censuses, 103.6 in 1956 and 107.2 in 1966, are also inconsistent and
suggest the possibility of differential coverage of the sexes in the two censuses.
This notion is further confirmed by a consistently high sex-ratio ir all the age
groups in 1966. Age-distribution is further distorted in both the censuses by
a strong tendency among   people 20 years of age or older to state their ages
in multiples of five.
8.       The age-sex distribution of the population in 1966 (Table 2), as
adjusted for underenumeration and age distortion by the Statistical Center in
the Plan Organization,. improves the picture, but still retains many of the
noted imbalances.
Migration
9.       International out and in-migrations are cuite low and tend to cancel
each other out. Iran's population may therefore be considered to be closed
for the purposes of demographic analysis; and it is anticipated that the situa-
tion will persist in the near future. There is, however, oonsiderable internal
movement of p-pulation. Not counting the half a million nomads and other people
with no fixed abode, there were, in 1966, about 3.4 million people (about 13.1%
of the s6ttled population) who had moved away from their county of birth; of
these, about two-thirds had moved to a different province. The mainstream of
this movement has been from rural to urban areas. In 1956, 31.4% of ths
population were in urban areas, in 1966 the proportion increased to about
39.1%, and is currently estimated at around 43%. The intercwnasl



ANN3X 2
Page 3 of 17
growth rate of the urban population (L.bont 5.5%) was almost twice
as high as the natural growth rate of the tetal population (2.9%.)
Underlying this rapid urbanization there is both a push by a stagnant
agricultural sector and a pull by a. rapidly expanding industrial sector.
Most indications are that the urbarisat'on rete !its oontinued unabated since
1966 and may have risen to about 7 per cer't at present. A few key cities,
with their surrounding industrial Thc tions, have been tne main poles of
attraction in this rural-uroan migration pr-,'ess.  Among   them, Tehran is
in the forefront.  Its population increaded from about 1.5 million in 1956
vo about 2.7 million in 1966,indi.cating a growth rate of over 7%.
Currently, Tehran is estimated to have about 4 milli-- people, which is
about a third of the total urban population and about an eighth of the
total population of Iran.
Mortality
10.      Because of the differences in their completeness and coverage of
various age-sex groups, the censuses of 1956 and 1966 do not peimit accurate
estimates to be made of mortality rates. Two broad oonclusions derived by
the 1971 UN Interagency Mission from an analysis of the data are, first, the
life  expectancy at birth for females is about 3-4 years more than that for
males; and, secondly, the joint expectancy of life at birth was around 51 in
the mid-censal period, i.e. in 1961. A joint life expectancy of 51, however,
is not fully compatible with other characteris ics of the population at that
time, namely, an infant mortality rate of about 150, and an expected crude
death rate (CDR) of about 17 or more. Studies done at Tehran University
estimate joint life expectancy at birth to have been about 51.5 years in 1965,
which appears to be more consistent with the other parameters; and allowing
for a gain of 0.5 year in a year, the estimated life expectancies at birth in
1966 are 50.5 for males and 53.5 for females. An appropriate mccel life
table (Coale and Demeny'R West model) corresponding to these leveis of life
expectancies indicates a crude death rate of about 16.
11.      The infant mortality rate currently estimated at about 120 in rural
areas and 80 in urban areas, and 102 for Iran, is high. The integrated MCH
and family planning programs which have been developing at a fast rate will
continue to have an Impact on infant mortality. This, coupled with a con-
tinuous expansion of health facilities, and control of diseases, will continue
to improve the mortality situation rapidly in the next 10-15 years, after
which the gaia in life expectancy will gradually begin to decline. Annual gains
in life expectancies according to the following scheme seems tenable:
a. 0.6 yr. when life expectancy is between 50 and 60.
b. 0.4 yr. when life expectancy is between 60 and 65.
c . 0.2 yr. when life ex-ectancy is between 65 and 70.
Fertility Levels and Trends
12.      There ia a real dearth of fertility data in Iran.  National estimates



ANNEX 2
Page L4 of 17
of age-specific fertility rates do not exist. Fertility levels are, there-
fore, usually expressed in terms of the CBR whlich are derived from inter-
censal estimates of the natural growth rate and mortality levels. Various
eqtmates of the CBR have been made ranging between 45 and 50 per thousand.
The current estimate of the Ministry of Healtal is 48 and that from the Plan
Organization is 46.
13.      Marriage is universal and early in Iran.  The minimum legal age
for marriagL. ta 15 years and the mean marital age for females was 18.6 years
in 1966. Only 1.3% males and 0.8% females remained ever unmarried at the
age of 50 in 1966, as compared to 9.0% males and 8.0% females in France in
1954. In 1966 asout 45% females in the age group 15-19 were married, the
proportion being higher in rural areas (b0.4%) than in urban areas (38.8%).
14.      The onlr  available source of information on ASFR is the study by
Tehran University mentioned earlier. Estimates of marital age-specific ferti-
lity rates (MASFR) are available from this stur'" separately for four rural
areas and Tehran city. They are adjusted by the 1966 census estimates of the
proportion of wo_sn married in the relevant agu groups ln order to obtain the
estimates of ASFR. For a combined estimate of Iran, tha relative weight appor-
tioned to Tehran and the rural areas was 1.10, based on the considerations
that Tehran being by far the biggest city in Iran has special -:etropolitan
characteristics which will be missing in most other cities, especially if
they have smaller than half a million population; secondly, Tehran has a very
high sex ratio in the age groups 15-45 compared to the rural areas. The MASFR.
and ASFR are showA in Table 3. The estimated total fertility ratio (TFR) was
7.2 in 1966, indicating a GRR of 3.5; the genieral fertility rate (GFR) for
age groups 15-49 was estimated at 2.25.
15.      Fertility trends will be influenced by the effects of family planning,
which exerts a direct inrf-ence on the birth rate, and also by socio-economic
factors which indirectly tend to moderate fertility. The national family
planning program has expanded rapidly in the last few years and the government
is de&ermined to strengthen it and provide for its expansion to rural areas.
The number of women visiting family planning clinics currently exceeds 400,000,
and there are a further estimated 100,000 women who purchase contraceptives
Driv-tely. The government 's long-term population objective is to reduce the growth
rate from the currently estimated annual level of 3% to about 1% in 1291.
This appears a-bitious and is discussed further in paragraph 21. The Fifth
Plan target set by the Ministry of Health is to reduce the birth rate from
its estimAted level of 48 (which compares with a level of 45 considered more
probable by this report) to 40 by 1978. To achieve the latter target, about
15 of the 7.9 million women Lho would then be in the reproductive age group
(25-49years) would require contraceptive coverage, compared with the
currently estimated 8% coverage. This would mean that by 1978, the national
program and private sector would need to cater to an average of about 1.2 million
clients each month. Giwen that the national program's management will be
improved and that its plans for expansion are pursued effectively and vigorously,
a reduction oz the birth rate to 40 by 1°78 is not an unreasonable target.
This would imply an annual average addition of about 140,000 continuing con-
traceptive clients over the period. It represents an annual moderation of
about 2% in fertility.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 17
16.     Tran has been undergoiag a structural change in the economy -- fr-m
'*sr i-^A1stri<lizjd state.  Tnereased oil revenues and foreign investments are
contributing to a very high rate of growth of the GDP. The effects of these
developments will be a rapid expansion of urbanization, accompanied by a pro-
bable improvement in the social serv-ices primarily in the health and education
sector, as well as an increase in the participation of women in the labor force.
All these factors will tend to change social values from a tradition-bound state
to a more liberalized one, where peonle vw'l1 tend to marry late, where abortions
and steriliza"ions will no longer be tPboo, and a smaller family will becofe a
social norm. The possibility of liberalizing abortion laws and offering abor-
tion as a pirt of the family planning services will certainly be strong points
in favor of a declining rate of fertility.  The overall effect of these socio-
cultural changes would be the creation of an atmosphere more conducive towards
family planning and decl4ne in fertility through factors beyond family planning.
17.      Taking account of current fertility levels, the p:'cEsent age structure,
and the possible efforts of farily planning and socio-economic change, the
following is the perhaps an optimistic but possible trend in fertility for Iran
for the period 1966-2000.
i.  1966-1968 constant fertility;
ii. 1969-1971 1% decline in fertility annually;
iii.  1972-1981 2%    "       "     "         "
iv.  1981-1991 3%   It      "      " 
v.  1991-2000 14%   If
?opullation Projections
1S.      Iran's future population growth rate will be influenced by its
young age-structure, an exp.nding family planning programr, and social and
cultural changes brought about by an expanding and transitional economy.
3.9.     As a result of a consistenly high level of fertility for the last
few decades Iran has a very young age-structure; currently about half the
population are below age 15. Conseouently, while the total population is
grow-ing at a rate of abolut 3%, the nimbFr of females aged 15-49 is growing
at the rate of 3.5% and those in their most reproductive ages, viz. 20-35
years (about 3.]. million) are increasing at over 4.0 per cent annually.
The irp!lications are that the CBP will increase even if feztility remains
constant.  To hold the CBP. constant, however, about 30,U03 wonen in the
reproductive age group need to be effectively covered by contrnception
every year, before acceptors over that figure can have any effect on the
birth rate..  This additional burden, which the age structure imposes on
the country's family planning efforts, has been takern inito account in
estimating the effects of family planning on fertility trends (see parn. 1b).



AINEX 2
Page 6 of 17
20.      Projection of the population of Iran into the future is difficult
and essentially subjective for lack of adecuate basic data, in addition to
the usual problems of cuantifying the anticipated demographic effects of the
family planning program in particular, and socio-economic changes in general.
Population projections on the basis of the assumed trends in fertility and
mortality declines as discussed above, and usir.g the age data of the 1966
census as adjusted by the Iran Statistics Center, are shown in Table 4. For
comparative purpcses, projections are also made with constant fertility and
declining mortality (Table 5).
-1.      Table 6 gives a comparative picture of population proJections done
by various Iranian- and intermational agencies for selected years. As most
of these projections indicate, the long-terr objective of achieving a one
percent growth rate by 1991 appears to be virtually impossible. The effect
of the age structure will continue to keep birth rates at a consistently
high level throughout the decade of the eighties. A grow.th rate of about
% by 1991 seems plausible. Lower rates may be achieved but would
recuire much gIeater efforts in family planning and improvements in the
social scene which cannot be clearly perceived now.
Labor Force and EHmployment!'
The data on employnent ar' related issues derive main'- from the
two censuses, and the surveys done by .he Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
(1964, 1969) and Iran Statistical Center (1968). These data are not always
strictly comparable because of differen.es in the scope, coverage and defini-
tions adopted in these censuses and surv3ys. For instance, the 1956 census
adopted a "usual status" definition on employment whereas the 1966 census
followed the "current status" approach. Table 7 shows the size and distri-
bution of the labor force by employment status in urban a.eas, rural areas
and Iran.
3.      According to the censuses, the labor force was 6.1 million in l956
and 7.8 million in 1966, showing an increase of about 28% over the period;.
the corresponding population increase was about 36%. The crude participation
rate_/ declined frcin an estimated 32.2% in 1956 to an estimated 30.2% in 1966.
t%rhen rural and urban areas are considered separately, it appears that partici-
pation rates declined only marginally in rural areas but substantially in urban
.reas.  Between the censuses the urban labor force increased by about 47 percent
compraring to population increase of about 69%; the crude participation rate
declined from about 31.9% to about 27.8%.  Mleanwhile in the rural areas labor
force '7"n!reased by only about 19% compared to a population increase of about
21%; -he crude participation rate declined marginally from 32.2% to 31.8%.
Two broad conclusions emerge.  Firstly, the pattern of life in rural areas
does not seem to have changed very much, with agricultural output, population
and labor force all growine at a similar rate.  The rnther stagnant state of
1/ Labor force is the number of persons employed and seeking employment for
pay or profit for the production of goods and service.. It includes unpaid
family workers.
?/ Crude Participation Rate is the proportion of the labor force to the total
population.



AMNEK 2
Page 7 of 17
affairs in the agricultural sector has caused the excess population to mnve
to urban areas. Secondly, the decline in the participation rate in urban
areas is a reflection of the increase in educational opportunities, and old
age benefits, and may also indicate an increasing difficulty to absorb
migrants from the rural sectors into the urban labor force.
2h.      Between the censuses the male participation rate in ages 10 and
over declined from about 83.9% to about 77.0%; it was lower (about 69.2%)
in urbar areas than in rural areas (82.6%).  The participation rate among
ferales 10 years old and over increased from about 9.2% in 1956 to about
12.5% in 1966. As in the case of the males, the rate was higher ()4.2%)
among   rural females than amongst urban females (9.9%) in 1966.
2<,      According to estimates made by the Plan and Budget Organization,
Iran appears to be close to a state of full employment; there are only about
1;00,000 workers (h.3% of the estimated labor force) who are underemployed,
while open unemployment is very marginal. The overall rate of unemployment
is estimated at below 3% at present.  This represents a significant improve-
ment in the employment situation since the last census when about 3.8% of
the labor force was recorded as unemployed and seeking work. 5.8% seasonally
unemployed and about 11.1% underemployed (i.e., worked for 25 hours or less
in a week).
26.      Table 8 gives a seetoral distribution of the employed labor force.
The structural change in Iran's economy is reflected by a gradual shift in
the sectorql distribution from agricultural to industries.  In 1956, 56% of
emploved labor was in agriculture. This fell to h7% in 1966, whereas the
proportion in manufacturing and transport industries increased from 19% to
?5%. The difficulties of the agricultural sector in providing jobs at a
rate commensurate with the natural increase of population may be further
aggravated in the future by the introduction of modern technology in
agriculture.  Increasingly more people will shift to urban areas seeking
jobs  nd straininc  the urban facilities, and higher investnents will be
necessary to provide jobs and facilities in the urban sector.
27.      The Pl-n <ad Budget Organization estimates the current labor
force at about 9.? million and anticipates a net addition of about 1.h
million during the period of the Fifth Plan. Jobs for these new entrants
to the labor force and fuller employment for those who are currently under-
employed would have to b- fouind primarily in manufacturing, construction
and services. According to recent ITO estimates, with the existing state
of technology, manufacturing industries may be expected to provide 300,000 -
t00,0X)O additional jobs during the Fifth Plan. Although Iran does not appear
to have a seriou:s -unemployment problem at present, the situation could de-
teriorate if fertility remains at its current high level.  A declining trend
in fertility will improve~ the situation by releasing resouces for higher
social investments in future.  Its impact would not, however, be felt in
the next 10-1V years as the entrants to the labor market for that period
are already born. However, the differences will accelerate rapidly after
that neriod.  If fertility declines as envisac-ed under the assumptions
made in nara. 17 of this Annex, there would be ahout half a million less



ANNEX 2
Page Bof  17
in 1991, and about 3.5 million less in 9000, in the working age groups, (15-64)
than the projected sizes of these groups assuming constant fertility and de-
elining mortality Pt the same time references. How many of them would be
seeking jobs would derend on the expansion of educational opportunities,
arn1 changes In social rcjstoms influencinrv the female participation rate
in the labor force. However, assuming that the crude participation rate
will be the same as at present, the number of additional job-seekers might
be aa many as 136 thousand in 1991 and about a million in 2000, if fertility
did not decline.
The Fconomy and Income Distribution
28.       Among the developing countries in Asia, Iran has a relatively
high estimated per capita GNP of ahout TJs$510 which is higher than that in
India ($110), Pakistan ($55), TDrkey ($350) cnd Traq ($310). The boom in
the Iranian economy began in the mid-sixties following the successful
administrative anr social. reforms in the early sixties, and was marked
bv rapid increases in oil revenues and manufacturing output.  Retween
1966 and 1972 the annual rate of growth of GNP at factor costs was about
12% in constant prices. The corresponding growth rate of per capita GNP
is estimated at around 9% in current prices.
29.      One of the major constraints, however, in Iran's future eoonomic
and social progress arises from the relatively poor performance of the
agricultural sector which, at about 2.5% annual growth rate over the last
decade, has failed even to keep up with the population growth rate. This
has resulted in a deterioration of the rural-urban income balance, and
large scale rural-urban shifts in population. If stagnation in agriculture
continues, not only will the employment and income situation ceteriorate,
there will be food shortages and a general stagnation of other sectors of
the economy.
10.       Reliable data on income distribution are not available in Iran.
However, one can deduce from the data on expenditures collected by the Bank
Markazi and the Iran Statistical Center that income distribution is very
unequal and has not shown any significait Improvement during the last decade.
The 30% of the population with the lowest incomes account for only about 8%
of total consumption, while the 30% with the highest incomes account for
about 68% of total consimption. Data for urban areas fram Bank Markazi
show that disparities between the poorest and the richest have increased
although the middle has been filled up by an emerging middle class. Neither
has the situation improved in rural areas, where proportionate expenditure
on food consumption remained stable at about 67% during the 1960s.
The ratio of per capita income in urban and rural areas increased frmu an
estimated 5:1 in 1959 to about 6:1 in 1969.
31.       It is being increasingly recognized that high disparities in
regional and/or sectoral incames are not conducive to a sustained growth
of the economy. The current and future planning in Iran, therefore, has
to give important consideration to measures that ameliorate the existing
situation. Greater social investments in rural areas would obviously be
one way of distributing the incmae to the rural areas. The proposed
project which provides social inafrastructure to semi-urban areas, forming
the springboard for future rural activities, is one move in this direction.



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 17
Literacy and Education
32.      In spite of considerable progress with the literacy program during
the last decade, education has yet to spread.to rural areas. The literacy
rates in 1966 for the populatior.. 10 years of age and older are about h9% in
urban areas and 14% in rural areas.  The discrepancies between the sexes are
aleo large, 40.1% literacy rates for males as against 17.9% for females over
7 years of age. Enrollmente in schools have been rising rapidly. The estimated
enrollments in primary education rose from 2W.38million in 1966 to 3.42
million in 1971 indicating a growth rate of about 8% per annum. Enroll-
ments in secondary education rose from 0.58 million in 1966 to about 1.05
million in 1971, showing a growth rate of about 13% per annum.
33.      Although enrollments have increased fairly rapidly both in urban
and rural areas in recent years, the enrollment rates in the relevant age
group (6-11 for primary, 12-17 for secondary) are much lower in rural areav
compared to urban ares. In 1970-71 the enrollment rates were about 39% in
the primary age group and 55% in the secondary age groups in rural areas.
This compared with about 94% in primary and 49% in secondary age groups in
the urban areas.  This tends to confirm the observation that a declir.  in
the labor force participation rate in urban areas may have been partially
due to increased educational opportunities.



ANNEX 2
TABLE 1                       Page lOof 37
Irani   Populatiokn Structure by Ate & Sex
1956
(percentages)
Age Group           Urban Regions               Rural Regions         Iran
Both     Male    Female    Both     Male     Female    Both
Sexes                      Sexes                        Sexes
0-14         40.2    40.t   40.2        43.1     43.4    42.8        42.2
15-64         56.3     56.5    56.2      52.7     52.3    53.2        53.8
65 & +         3.5      3.4     3.6       4.2      4.3       4.0       4.0
100.0   100.0  100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0
1966
(percentages)
Age Group           Urban Regions              Rural Regions          Iran
Both     Male    Female    Both     Male     Female    Both
Sexes                      Sexes                        Sexes-
0-14         44.1     43.7    44.5      47.4     48.4    46.8        46.1
15-64         52.4    52.8    52.0       48.5    47.5      49.2       50.0
65 & +         3.5      3.5     3.5       4.1      4.1      4.0        3.9
100.0    100.0   100.0     100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0
Sources:  (1)  Amani, M. "Overview of the Demographic Situation in Iran",
Taheran University, 1970.
(2) UN Demographic Year Book, 1970.



ANNEX 2
PWge 11 of 17
TABLE 2
Iran: Smoothed Age Distribution of Settled and
Unsettled Population, 1966         -
g        ~~~Both Sexes               Male                  Fgmale             Sex
A&e Group            No.         %          No.          %           No..         %      Ratio
All ages        26,047,000    100.0    13,478,000    100.0    12,569,00o    100.0    107.2
0- 4 years     5,040,000      19.3      2,580,000      19.1      2,460,000      19.6    104.9
5- 9           3,962,000      15.2      2,043,000      15.1      1,919,000      15.3    1o6.5
10-14           3,088,000      11.9      1,598,000      11.8     1,490,000      11.8    107.2
15-19           2,520,000       9.7      1,305,000       9.7      1,215,000      9.7    107.4
20-24           2,071,000       8.0      1,072,000       8.0        999,000       7.8    107.3
25-29            1,762,000      6.7        910,000       6.8        852,000       6.8    106.8
30-34            1,571,000      6.o        812,000       6.o        759,000       6.o    107.0
35-39            1,349,000      5.2        696,000       5.2        653,000       5.2    106.6
40-44            1,092,000      4.2        569,000       4.2        523,000       4.2    108.9
45-49              859,000      3-3        448,000       3.3        411,000       3.3    1090.
50-54              735,000      2.8        387,000       2.9        348,000       2.8    111.2
55-59              611,000       n.3       325,000       2.4        286,000       2.3    113.6
60-64              490,000       1.9       262,000       1.9        228,000       1.8    114.9
65-69              394,ooo       1.5       213,000       1.6        181,000       1.4    117.7
70-74              262,000       1.0       134,000       1.0        128,000       1.0    104.7
7>+                241,000       0.9       124,000       0.9        117,000       0.9    105.6
/ Population aged 65 and over has been split into age groups 65-69, 70-74
and 75+ on the basis of UN projections.
Sources Statistical Center of Iran, Plan Organization.



ANKEX 2
Page IM of 1 7
TABLE 3
IRAN: Estimates of Age Scecific Fertility Rates, 1965
RURAI2/                     URBAN              Weighted-i
Age Group                 Percent                      Percent              Average
MASFR  marriedY   ASFR   MASFR  marriedy   ASFR             ASFR
15-19              316     49.4      156.1    330      38.8       128.0      153
20-24              360     88.3      317.9    360       71.4      286.2      315
25-29              359     95.5      342.8     240      91.7      220.1      330
30-34              295     95.9      252.9      170     92.8      157.8      270
35-39              227     94.6      214.7      150     91.0      136.5      207
40-44              151     89.8      135.0      60      85.7       51.4      127
45-49               51     84.o      42.8       2oLV   77.6        15.5       40
Total Fertility Rate                   7.46                         4.98    7.21
General Fertility Rate
1/  Four rural areast Hashtroud, Kazerwu   Shahsavar and Torbat Heydarieh,
2/ Urban-riral weighted 1:10.
3/  Estimates from 1966 Censuis.
4/ Estimated from proportions in rural areas.
Abbreviations:   ASFR - Age Specific Fertility Rate/s; MASFRs Marital Age
Specific Fertility Rate/s (See Glossary).
Source:  Tehran  University Survey in 1965, by J.C. Chasteland, M. Amani and
others.



TA=  4                                                    2
IRANt POMUXTrff.thMCTI0N                                        WTof 37
ASSUMING D3CLININ0 FERTILITY
AND DECLINIW0 )BRTALTrYA
(thousands)
1966       1971      1976     1981      1986      1991      96
(JuLr 1)               25781      29848    34518    39876    45829    52058    58573    64013
MALES        13331       15338    17654    20326    23316    26173    29781    32559
FEX~ALBS     12t50       14509    16864    195i9    22512    25585    28791    31L53
CRBUD I RTH RATE
(PER 2VUSAND POP.)    26.1         h4.6      41.5      39.6     35.7      32.0     29.9      28.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE
(PER THOUSAn POP.)    17.6          15.1      12.6      10.7      9.0       7.8      7.1       6.7
GROWTH RATE (%)           2.65        2.95     2.88      2.89      2.67     2.42      2.29     2.15
TOTAL FERTLJTY RATE    7.205         6.991    6.319    5.712    L.905    4.212    3.B80    3.512
LIFE EXECTANCo AT BRTH
(IN YEARS)
MALE          L7.20       49.70    52.70    55.70    58.70    61.10    63.10    64.70
FIMUTS        50.00       53.00    56.00    59.00    61.20    63.20    65.oo    65.80
AGE DISThIBUTIC
(JANUARY 1)
TOTAL        25413       29407    34020    39299    45217    5Uh28    57903    6332h
0- 4          9117       5359      5993     6664      7317     7650      7980     833?
5- 9         3866        b6h4      5108     5768      6467     710       7513     7776
10-14         3013        3811     4588      5057      5720     6L22      7108     7415
15-19         2459        2959      3753     1529      5003     5669      6375     6957
20-24         2021        2397      2895     3684      4459     4937      5606     6153
25-29         1719        1959      23314    2830      3611     4388      4870     5415
30-34         1533        1661     1901      2275     2770      3551     1322      4669
35-39         1316        1473     16oj    18h6        2220     213       3487     1153
14549         1065        1256      14141    1518      1791     2163      2652     3250
145-149        838        1W7       1194     1352      1489     1731      2098     2464
50-5          ?717         780      943      1126     1282      lh20     1658      1937
55-59          596         650       713      869     1045      1197      1333     1507
60-64          478         519       572      633       779      944      1088     1187
65-69          384         391       430.     h79       537      668       81S      922
70-74          256         285       294      329       372      423       531      630
75+          235         255      285       310       351      403      168       552.
1/ For aosuvptio.3, gee text.
Source: IBRD.



TAU 5                                       -Page U4 of 17
N si PO          }"AI POWTnq
ASSUMIrG COTAxT  FDRTIIATY
AND D F rINus MaORWT AWT
1966      1971      1976       1981       1986       1991       1996       2000
TOTAL POPUIATICO
(JULY 1)           25781      29901.    35089      41785      50373      61104      74375      87255
HALES      13331      15366    17944       21295      25627      31083      37846      44437
FEMALES    121450     14536    17145       20489      24746      30020      36529      42817
CRUE BIRTH RATE
(PER THW5AND POP.) 46.1        45.9      46.5       47.6       47.8       47.3       46.9       46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE
(PER THOUSAND POP.) 17.6       15.2      13.1       11.3        9.7        8.3        7.3        6.6
GROWTH RATE (%)      2.85       3.07      3.34       3.64       3.81       3.90       3.96       4.02
TOTAL FERTILM  RATE 7.205      7.205     7.205      7.205      7.205      7.205      7.205      7.205
LIFE EIP TA1TNCT AT BIRTH
(IN YEARS)
MAULE     47.20      49.70     52.70      55.70      58.70      61.10      63.10      64.70
FEMALE    50.00      53.00     56.00      59.00      61.20      63.20      65.00      65.80
AGE DISTRIBUTICN
(JANUARy 1)
TOTAL    25413      29442     34504      41024      49412      59913      72901      85500
0- 4     4917       5395      6444       7927       9832      12015      14606      17155
5- 9     3866       4644      5141       6198       7689       9602      1179h.    13828
tSn-'h    3013       3811      4588       5089       6146       7636       9546      11273
1)-19     2459       2959.    3753        4529       5035       6092       7579       9082
20-24     2021       2397      2895       3684       4459       h969       6024       7170
25-29    1719       1959      2334       2830       3614       4388       4901       5713
30-34    1533       1661      1901       2275       2770       3551       4322       4679
35-39    1316       1473      16o4       1846       2220       2713       3487       4153
40-44    1065       1256      1414       1548       1791       2163       2852       3250
45-49     838       1007      1194       1352       1489       1731       2098       2464
50-54     717        780       93.       1126       1282       Li20       1658       1937
55-59     596        650       713        869       1045       1197       1333       1507
60-64     478        519       572        633        779        944       1088       1187
65-69     384        391       430        479        537        668        816        922
7C-74     256        285.      294        329        372        423        531        630
75+     235        255       285        310        351        403        468        552
I/ For asaumptims, see text.
Source: IBRD.



AN=C 2
Page 15 of 17
TABLE 6
IRAN - Population Projections by Various Agencies
(in tbousands)
Agency                A8sumptions   1970      1972      1977      1980     1990      2000
ISSRs
'Whasteland A       1         28743    30618    36100    40016
Amani      B        2         28628    30380    35281    38610
Puech      C        3         28628    30422    35630    39306
ISSRs
Maroufi             4         29242    31345    37270
Borzorgi
ISGt
A                     5          29146    30921    35845    39195    52816
B                     6         29416    30831    35204    38160    49608
c                     7         29146    30771    34743    37219    45425
PO                        8          29371    31169    36025
UN
medium                  9          28358    30187    34209
low                    10          28200    29800    34400    37400    48100    58700
IBRD                     11          28980    30739    35527    387X9    50800    64013
Assumptions: 2
1.    Constant fertility, low decrease in mortality.
2.    Moderate decline in fertility, moderate decline in mortality.
3.    Moderate decline in fertility and rapid decline in mortality.
4.    Constant fertility, moderate decline in mortality.
5.    Constant fertility, slow decrease in mortality.
6.    Slow decline in fertility, slo8i decrease in mortality.
7.    Rapid decline in fertility, decrease in mortality.
8.    Mbderate decline in fertility, rapid decline in mortality.
9.    Decline in fertility, decline in mortality.
10.    Rapid decline in fertility, decline in mortality.
11.    Rapid decline in fertility, decline in mortality.
Abbreviations:   ISSR:  Institute of Social Studies and Research, Tehran  University;
ISC:  Statistical Center of Iran; POs  Plan Organization.
Sources:  Tehran University, Statistical Center of Iran, Plan Organization and
United Nations.



TABLE 7
Percentage of 'mployed and Unemployed to Labour Pbrce
R U R A L                             U R B A N                            T 0 T A L
Unemployed                             Unem loyed                            Unem loyed
Year    Employed  Seasonal  Seeking  Total  Employed  Seasonal  Seeking  Total  Employed  Seasonal  Seekingj Total
Period                        Work       /                          Work    I./  .                       Work      L
(1)       (2)        (3)       (4)     (5)      (6)        (7)       (8)     (S)    (10)        (11)     (12)    (13)
1956      98.2     -          1.8     100.0   95.5       _          4.5     100.0   97.4       _         2.6    l03.0
,Nov)                                 (4.2)                                 (l.m)                                (6.1)
1964.     95.4     _          4.6     (4.°i°   90.8      _         9.2      (2°0)°  93.9       -         o.0, 
(Feb.                                 (4.4)                                 (2.0)                ~64'
Sept)
1966      88.2     8.7        3.1     100.0   94.3       0.8        4.9     100.0   90.5       5.8       3.7    1OG.0.
(ilov)                                (5.0)                                 (2.8)                                (i.° 
1968      90.1     8.0        1.9     100.0   94.8       1.9        3.3     100.0   91.8       5.9       2.3    100.0
(March                                (5.1)                                 (2.8)                        '       (7-9)
1968 to
Feb '69)                                                                                                     . 
1969 /   90.4                 1.6     100.0   94.5                  5.5     100.0   97.0       _         3.0    10D.0
(May                                  (4.6)                         .       (2.6)                                (7.2)
,June)            1_                _  _         _   _   _   _
11/.      Figures in brackets relate to the total size of the labour force in millions
2.1      Unemployment rate for 1964 seems to be exaggerated -about 40% of the unemployed
were roported to be in the age group 10-14 years.
3.1       Figures for the unemployed in 1969 relate to the age groups 12-64 years while
figures for other years refer to 10 and over.
0
Sources   IL0.



ANNEX 2
Page 17 of 17
Table 8
Sectoral Distribution of Employment
Sector                           Percentage Distribution of Bployent
1956 (Nov)            1966 (Nov)
(1)                             (2)                   (3)
1.  A&,icu.ture etc.             56.30                 47.50
2.  Mining and quarrying          0.42                  0.37
3.  Manufacturing                13.81                 18.24
4. r^nstruction                   5.68                   7.16
5.  Electricity, water,
gas & sanitary services      0.20                   0.74
6. Trade and Commerce             6.01                   7.76
7.  Traisport, storage &
communication                3.52                   3.15
_.  Services                     11.09                  13.12
9. Activities .:ot adequately
described                     2.97                  1.96
Total               100.00                 100.00
Total Emnloyment (millions)       5.9                    7.1
Sourcet ILO.



IRAN
ORGANIZATION CHART - MINISTRY OF HEALTH
MINISTER OF HEALTH
Secrwity
Medil Inurance                                          Medical Centr
of Civil Employees                                   For Rlmarch Training
Ifntitute of           _                            Pastru tntitute
Food h Nuti8ion                                        Narcotis CowroI
H"eth Corps
|                    __               l                                            *                                            |                        x~~__
Provincial Health              H"eth &Priomntory
Astnqinis,on sIrPI On                                            Dart-nts                   Mdical Car                                     Affairs
__~~~~~~~~~F _                                 .                      _   .
Poputnion                Wornan's
A~~ninistration    ~ ~                  OuW Health            Eradication        So~cial                             Legalt                                        Int=rnati l
i.ntl Health
NursngL i &dMwifry
TB. Control 
Erironrw.ntal HHalth                                                Pblnnint & Profrnins
Public Heath         I                                            Technk  Etducetion
Mdical Services                                                  Organization k Methods
Public Health Labortor     |                                          Health S Vital Statistics
Phannw cul" Control
Food & Coutks  Control
WeuVd aek  ?71MR



IRAN
ORGANIZATION CHART - DIVISION OF FAMILY PLANNING
MiNISTER OF HEALTH
|Teclinical Committee                    Daputy Minister
For Population &                                    I High Council fo, Coordination
~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ~of FamilyFhlnning
arhCo_t                                Family Platnning
POpulation Affairs  EZi;s Hcealtor                                    Red Lion & Sun Society
Population Aftai  Corps Aff airs   Imperial Organization for Social
Services
Social Insurance Organization
Rural Insuranoe Organization
i U1                                                                    ]                               Institute for tthe Protection of
Director                         Director General                        Director                           Mothers & Children
General Technical  Research & Planniny  Generai MCH                        NIOC Health Services
Ministry of Health
(Under Secretary Tech. Affairs!
Women's Organization
iran Family Planning Association
Motivation &                                     l                                    1                   Armed Forces Health Servires
Corn nunication                  ;      Planning   |                 t  Maternal Health                     Gendarmerie Health Services
_91-                                 l                                    IPolice Force hekhh Services
Facultv of Public Health
Tehran University
i Clinical Services B|                                                                                                              - 12
World Bank 7t38U2Ri



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 28
Iran:   Health Delivery System
A. Organization
1.       The Ministry of Health is responsible for the general supervision
of all medical and health activities and for formulating the necessary
standards and regulations. Its functions also include:
a. the provision of public health services, including
maternal and child health and family planning,
nutrition, environmental sanitation, and the control
of communicable diseases;
b. the management of special hospitals for leprosy,
tuberculosis, and mental disorders;
c. specific disease campaigns, such as malaria control;
d. training of technical staff;
e. research coordination; and
f.  coordination  of the work of agencies with responsibilities
for health care systems.
Since the introduction of the administrative reforms in 1963, there have
been significant changes in government policy with regard to the delivery
of health services. Among the most important were the transfer of
jurisdiction of general hospitals to nuasi- and non-governmental agencies.
Of equal importance was the decision to decentralize operational respon-
sibilities and vest then with Health Councils at provincial and county levels.
The Third Plan (1963-6)   laid down the base for the development of health
services as a component of social and economic planning.  T,e objectives of
the Fourth Plan (1968-72)   were to evaluate improvement ana provide at
least the minimum services required to meet the essential health needs of
Iran.  The major concern of the Fifth Plan (1973-77)   is with the continued
development of the public health network.
2.       The Ministry of Health is headed by a Minister who is supported
by two  Deputy Ministers.  It has five directorates concerned
with health and medical care, family planning, administration, parliamen-
tary affairs, and planning and progranming. An outline of the central
organization of the Ministry is given in Annex 3. At the provincial level
the Directors General are the Ministry's representatives on the Health
Council and are responsible directly to the Minister. Directors of Health
Services are the Ministry's representatives at the county level.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 28
3.       In addition to the Health Ministry, a variety of health
services are delivered through government departments, ouasi-governmental and
non-governmental agencies. The former include the Ministries of
Labor and Social Insurance, Education, Cooperatives and Rural Develop-
ment, and the Armed Forces. (See Tables 1 and 8.)
4.       The Minis'ty of Labor is responsible for the Social Insurance
Organization (SIO) which provides health coverage for 739,809 employees.
The recent extension of insurance benefits to dependents of employees
brings the total population under this scheme to 2,959,236, representing
about 10% of the population of the country. Since 1970, the SIO has
established family planning services with a director in charge and
70 clinics with personnel trained in family planning. In 1971, next
to the Ministry of Health the SID served the largest number of family
planning acceptors. The pediatric and well baby clinics run by the
organization facilitate contact with women for family planning counselling
during their postpartum period. The Deputy Minister for Population and Family
Planning in charge of the Family Planming Division serves on the SI0 committee
for the development of family planning services and there is close coordination
between the SIO aT.d the Ministry of Health.
5.       Of the quasi-govemmental and private agencies, the Red Lion and
Sun Society (RLSS) and the Imperial Organization for Social Services
(IOSS) are the most important. Started 50 -rears ago for energency disaster
relief work, the RLSS has, during the past 25 years, expanded its activi-
ties to include medical care through hospitals and clinics and the train-
ing of nurses, midwives and behyars. The recent transfer of most of the
hospitals of the Ministry of Health to the RLSS has imposed a severe
strain on the personnel and financial resources of the Society. Many of
these hospitals will need drastic structural and organizational changes
before they can reach the acceptable standards of the RLSS hospitals. So
far, the main role of the RLSS in the family planning field has been the
training of nurses, midwives, and behyars needed for the program. However,
in view of its own training needs to staff the additional hospitals trans-
ferred to the Society, this source of supply of trained personnel to man
the health centers undertaking family planning activities cannot be expected
to continue. The RISS is represented on the High Council for Co-ordination
of Family Planning and has the prestige and reputation in the country for
its record of service and efficiency of organization. The main sources of
funds of the Society are from private donors, subscriptions from members,
speci^l levies on public transportation and parcel posts, and from treatment
fees from patients.
6.       The IOSS was founded by the Shah in 1947 and funded from revenues
of the properties at the disposal of the Sovereign. The organization started
by building dispensaries in rural areas, and later founded nursing schools,
hospitals, and a center for distributing pharmaceutical products. Since 1965
the Directors General of Health in the provinces have functioned as Managing
Directors of the IOSS provincial branches. The IOSS is represented on the
High Council for Co-ordination of Family Planning. It operates 251 family
planning clinics which are situated in small towns and rural areas.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 28
7.       The Men's Health Corps is also an important adjunct of the
Ministry of Health in its delivery of health services. It was created
under Imperial decree in 1964 "to propagate the physical well-being,
cure diseases and promote public health in vlllages and districts lacking
in health facilities." The Corps consists of physicians and graduates
from colleges and high schools who have elected to serve in the health
field as part of their two-year obligatory national defense service.
Their training, which takes six months, covers besides military subjects,
technical aspects related to their specific duties in the heelth field.
The Health Corps functions as a unit, directly responsible to the Minister
of Health, with its own direct lines of command, logistic support and
supervisoryc-2helons frtm the center to its 30 bases in the provinces and
397 field units located in villages. Each unit consists of a physician,
two aids and a driver. They are provided with accommodations in the clinic
buildings, specially constructed for the purpose in the villages.  A unit
works for two days in a week from its center and the remaining four days
from sub-centers serving groups of villages and covering a population of
approximately 10,000. The functions of these Health Corps units include
outpatient treatment, sanitation, nutriticml, and HCH and family gianning.
Whilst the Health Corps is the main agency for the provision of oral con-
traceptives and condcma in rural areas, its role in motivation is mainly
limited to men. There is a plan, hwever, to assign a Health Corps woman
to each center to facilitate the extension of family planning services to
wcoen.
8.       The Women's Health Corps consists of college and high school
graduates who serve for a period of two years. At prescnt there are
approximately 1,000 of them in service (see Table 2) and 500 under train-
ing. The vast majority of them are high school graduates. Their recruit-
ment, training, and employment are the direct responsibility of the Division
of Family Planning. After six months training they are assigned to health
centers and mob'le teams.  As full-time family planning workers, their duties
include the maintenance of family planning records, motivation and follow up
of family planning acceptors to ensure a continuous and regular supply of
contraceptives. In addition to their duties in the family planning clinic,
one of their major functions is home visiting to follow up those oral con-
traceptive acceptors who have failed to attend clinics to replenish their
supplies. Along with trained women social workers, they are expected to
play a major role in motivating wo.men in family planning. However, as the
large majority of Health Corps women are young and unmarried, their actual
impact in promoting family planning at present is not great. But the long-
term effect of involving such a large number of young women in family planning
activities is bound to be substantial. The government plans to increase the
recruitment of Health Corps women to 1,000 per annum and decentralize their
training in nine r-'gional centers, (See Table 3.)
B. Staff
Doctors
9.       In March, 1972, 8,729 doctors were registered in Iran.  Table 4
shows the distribution of doctors in urban and rural areas in 1970. At



ANNEX 5
Page 4 fo 28
that time, the overall ratio of doctors to people was 1: 3,750, but this
disguises a very uneven distribution.  In Tehran, where 46.5% of the
doctors lived, the ratio was 1: 900, in other urban areas 1: 4,300 and in
rural areas 1: 7,000. Almost one fourth of the doctors, however, are
specialists, and, not surprisingly, 90% of them live in urban areas. The
distribution problem of doctors between urban and rural areas does not
appear so severe if the ratio of general practitioners to population is
taken; in Tehran it is 1: 1,500, in other urban areas 1: 5,700, and in
rural areas 1: 8,600.
10.      There are 7 medical schools in Iran producing about 600 graduates
annually.  (See Table 5.)  The Tehran University School of Medicine takes
300 students each year, and an additional 300 are taken by the 6 remaining
schools.  Two more -edical schools are scheduled for establishment during
the Fifth Plan. In addition to the distribution problem, the drain of
medical graduates abroad for study and work is also a serious problem.
Of those who graduated between 1960 and 1969, it is estimated that 35% are
abroad. Partly designed to attract doctors back to Iran, the government
has introduced a scheme whereby low (2%) interest loans are made to enable
doctors and dentists to build their own surgeries and clinics. The National
Council of Universities, which coordinates teaching and research methods,
has recently revised the medical curriculum to include elements related to
family plarning and population dynamics. The School of Public Health in
Tehran University offers a one-year MPH course, with major studies in
population dynamics and family planning for medical graduates and holders
of masters degrees in the social sciences. M'ost of the provincial family
planning directors Are graduates of this course.
11.      During the period 1940-56, when there was a severe shortage of
doctors, particularly in rural areas, about 500 behyars (officers of health)
were recruited. They were high school graduates who were given concentrated
rural health training for h years, before being employed by the Ministry and
posted to small towns and villages where they had to serve for at least a
years. The schools at which they were trained were subsenuently upgraded
to medical schools. More than half the behyars received further training
and graduated as fully-trained doctors, while some still continued working
in rural clinics.
Nurses and Midwives
12.      In Iran, there are 18 nursing schools which produce 665 graduates
each year.  (See Table 5.)  Six of these schools are run by the Ministry of
Xealth and produce 170 graduates annually. A three-year training period is
provided for high school graduates. Eight more nursing schools are planned
to be built during the Fifth Plan. There are now 7 midwifery schools with
an annual output of 1h5 midwives.  Because of the shortage of midwives, the
training period has been cut back from 3 to 2 years, after 12 years of basic
education.  During the Fifth Plan, 4 more midwifery schools are planned to
be established.
13.      In March 1972, there were some 4,000 nurses and 1,300 midwives
(570 of whom were also cualified as nurses) registered in Iran. In response



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 28
to the midwifery shortage, a new scheme was started in 1970 to train rural
midwives. The candidates are girls with 6 years of schooling, drawn from
rural villages and selected by the authorities of their village. After a
9-month training period at a rural training center, they are provided with
a midwifery kit and licensed by the Ministry to work in their own villages.
At present, there are 14 rural midwife training centers with an annual
intake of 280 students.  Periodically, rural mnidwives report to the county
health authorities. In Gilan province, the provincial health authorities
have recently instituted a scheme to pay incentives to rural midwives for
family planning acceptors based on the continued use of contraceptive
methods by the acceptor.
Behyars
14.      "Behyar" literally means "health helper" and the position is
eouivalent to that of auxiliary/assistant nurse-midwife as used in India
.and Indonesia. Behyars receive two years of training after nine years of
basic education. In the second year of training, behyars specialize in
hospital work, public health, or midwifery. There are about 9,500 behyars
registered in Iran; 5,000 are presently employed. There are 48 behyar
training schools with an annual intake of about l,4O00students. (See Table 5.)
Of these, the Ministry operates 15 and plans to open another school in 1973.
According to the projections for the Fifth Plan, 28 additional behyar schools
are to be established in the period 1973-78. Because of the policy of trans-
ferring general hospitals to quasi- and non-governmental agencies, and the
somewhat arbitrary curricula distinction between public health and midwife
behyars, the government proposes to develop a curricula to be used in train-
ing a multipurpose behyar.
C. Public Health Delivery System
15.      At present, public health services are delivered through a wide
variety of facilities. There are curative clinics or dispensaries for
ambulant patients, maternal and child health and family planning clinics,
units for communicable disease control, as well as administrative units,
which are usually scattered throughout a town, often in unsuitable buildings.
Sometimes theve units are attached to institutions such as maternity centers,
or general hospitals; often they are independently established. They vary
considerably in facilities and staff, and are divided now into three urban
classes and one rural class. Although not all are physically integrated,
some of these units have now been functionally integrated into 140 health
centers which offer the following services:
a. curative cure for ambulant patients;
b. maternal and child health, and family planning services;
c. communicable disease control;
d. administration.
Distribution by province is  hbown in Table 6.



ANNEX 5
Page b of 28
16.       The basis for the present health network was laid in the Third
Plan which initiated the policy of transferring responsibility for miedical
care delivery from the Ministry to cuasi- and non-governmental organiza-
tions to enable the former to concentrate on preventive health functions.
The Ministry subsequently transferred most of its hospitals (retaining
only those for specialized treatment and research) to the RLI&  in urban
areas, the IOSS in rural areas, and to health councils at county level.
In addition, the government has constructed hospitals with a view to
transferring them to such organizations and has also provided credit on
easy terms to groups of private doctors and health councils to establish
new hospitals.  Tle Ministry continues to provide outpatiemt medical
care, particularl.T in rural areas. Thus the Fifth Plan is primarily con-
cerned with development programs for the public health network (its chief
responsibility) and has limited its role for curative programs to policy
guidance, supervision, and funding leaving detailed programming to non-
governmental initiative.
17.       The specific targets for various health facilities and their
distribution are derived by:
a. defining a population unit of 40,000 for urban areas and
60,000 for rural areas in terms of health staff requirements;
b. calculating the number of units for each administrative
area; and then
c. assessing the optimum grouping of staff and facilities
for each area, taking into accoumt factors sunh as
population distribution and existing health facilities.
The new facilities will provide for the physical integration of several
existing health programs, not including Health Corps units and the
Malaria Eradication Organization. In both urban and rural areas, these
health centers will prvide services for environmental health, communic-
able disease control, outpatient medical care, and maternal and child
health, and family planning.
18.       Urban health facilities are to undergo a major reorganization.
The number will be increased from the present 140 to 558 health centers
by 1978 and their classification will be more elaborate. Five basic
types will be developed:
Type I  : ior Tehran and large provincial capitals;
Type II : for smaller provincial capitals;
Type III: for large county capitals with a population of
over 40,000;
Type IV : for smaller county capitals with a population
of less than 40,OOO; and
Type V  : which will be urban subcenters to Types I, II, & III.
The proposed distribution of types is shown by province in Table 6
With the present distribution for comparison. Table 7 shows the planned
staffing pattern for each type of health center. Estabiishment of the



ANNEX5
Page 7 of 28
78 Type IV centers has top priority since they are being located in the
capitals of rural-oriented districts and will form the base fcr further
consideration and expansion of the health network in rural areas.
19.       Rural health services are now provided by three different
agencies -- the Ministry of Health, the Heklth Corps, and the IOSS, which
have respectively 540, 350 and 260 clinics staffed with at least one
physician. An increase of Health C6rps units was planned during the
Fourth Plan period but failed because of difficulty in conscripting
doctors and no inc nase is planned for the Fifth Plaf-.  During the
Fifth Plan, priority will be given to upgrading the -xisting Ministry
and IOSS clinics into integrated rural health etnters; they will be
provided with additional staff and equipped with a vehicle for semi-
mobile operations. The staffing pattern will then be 1 doctor, 2
behyars, 1 sanitarian, 1 janitor, and 1 driver. The average population
covered by these centers will be about 8,000 persons. In addition, the
Ministry will build about 550 silmlar units, increasing the number of
rural health centers to 1,700 which will have at least one doctor each.
The locations of these new centers will be chosen to provide the maximum
coverage in conjunction with the existing clinics. The government will
asj.ist the IOSS in upgrading its clinics by providing the rqqired staff.
D. Development Planning in the Health Sector
20.       Planning for d-velopment is done primari-ly in the context of
the preparation for five-year develnpment plans, which broadly define
policy p-iorities and action targets, and authorize develorment expen-
ditures over the five-year period. Within the plan's framework, itd
objectives are delineated in a series of development projects. Projec'.
priorities and financial allocations are the subject of an annual review.
21.       The preparation of development plans is carried out Jointly
by the Ministry of Health and the Plan Organization, but the initiAtion
of the planning process (and the primary responsibility for health planning,
in theory) rests with the Ministry. Within the Ministry the planning
function is the responsibility of the Department of Planning and programming
under a Deputy Minister for Population and Family Planning.  The plan proposals
of the various departments of the Ministry are revised and integrated into a
coherent plan by an Interdepartmental Committee headed by the Deputy Minister.
In addit -)n to ongoing activities financed from the Ordinary Budget, this
Committe  also approves annually projects which will be firanr.ced from the
Developm it Budget controlled by the Plan Organization, and also reviews the
status o  iurojects under implementation.  The Plan Organization assists the M-iistry
througho- . this process in forwulating policy objectives and sector priorities
from the viewpoint of macroeconomic development needs. In addition, it
examines prpposed programs and projects to ensure that they form coherent
investmrnt programs compatible with the plan objectives and that they are
technically feasible. The Plan Organization, which is the only institution



ANNEX 5
Pa-ge Tof 28
concerned with the entire sector through its sectorwide development funding
responsibl7ity, also examines development projects submitted by quasi- and
non-govenimental organizations active in healthl and medical services. Due
to thes decentralization and multiplicity of agencies concerned with health
and medical programs, development health expenditures incurred by the
Ministry fonm only part (53% for the Fourth Plan) of the total development
investment in health and medical services. The Development Budget finances
both the capital and current expenditures of development projects.
22'.      The present plaining process for the health sector leaves rocm
for considerable improvement, both ni terms of procedures and manpower.
At present, planning coordination, both horizontal and vertical, is in-
adeo'uate.  Although there is a mechanism for policy coordination at a
hiigh level between the Ministry and other health delivery agencies, it
does not function effectively. The Plan Organization, through its funding
functions, attempts to coordinate the programs of the various organi.'ations
but since it is not an implementing organization and its influence and con-
trol are limited, it is a difficult task.  Within the -Ministry, thert. is a
peculiar dichotomy of centralization and decentralization which results in
poor coordination between those re8ponsible for planning in Tehran and those
responsible for implemenatlioii in the field.  In order to make planning more
realistic and coherernt, provincial health departments, which have virtual
autonomy in the implementation and execution of the health program, mnust
participate to a greater extent than is now possible in the planning process.
To provide constant feedback from the field to the planning authorities,
participation must be on a continuous basis. This would enhance the sense
of cormon purpose and coherence between causes of the existing difflm:lties
in trant. 7 ating pLaas into acrion.
The plainin; capability of the Ministry must be strengthenc by
r ecruiting more oualiftad personnel for the staff work involved in planning,
andJ  y expanding and shaping the pool of information at its dispos:-l tarough
F.t !jies and research.  Most importantly, olanning must be encouraged by the
n.2iagement as its -Insti-rment in managing and admiristering the heal h program.
ItJ 1971, the task force of an Inter-Ministerial Committee for
.ori-PvRnge Planning was established to review the existing state of the
;eai.th eotor and iiake projections of the health and medical needs of
the country over the next ,O years.  The Comnittee represents all the
.la.or health/mcdical institutions, both governmental, quasi- and non-
governu,ental. It has an Executive Committee comprised of the Ministry's
r.puty Minister in charge of planning, the head of Health and Social
Weifare Division of the Plan Organization and representatives of the
med.iical institutions.  The Cormittee was first given the responsiblity
of fonnnilating the Long-Range Plan, which was to provide a framework
fer th- Fifth and subsecuent five-year plans, but it was subsequently
charged with responsibility for I-eparing the Fifth Plan itself.  The
f-4Tnat'oni of this Comnittee represents a considerable improvement in
th process of coordination and should give the Fifth Plan greater
coiI  ;', eand strixture.  Its long-term impact on the plamning process
is yet, to be seen.



ANNEX 5
Page 9 Of 28
E. Health Financing
Allocations
25.       Government policy has been to provide a steadily incre%sing flow
of funds into the health sector, to upgrade the health services, and to
make them available to all the population. This policy was based on
steadily increasing oil revenus . Over the last ten years the total out-
lays for health grew three-fold. Developments during the last three years
were in line with the trend of the last decade. In FY 1970/71, the Ordinary
and Development Budgets of the government together amounted to Rls 239
billion/}. Of this amount, the expenditure on Social Affairs totalled
Rls 49.5 billion, or 20.7% of the total budget. Within the Social Affairs
budget, the health sector accounted for some Rls 9 billion (or 18.1%),
which represented 3.8% of the total budget for the country. In YY 1971/72,
the total budget for the country increased by 32% over the previous year.
The share of the health sector rose to Rls 11.6 billion, which was 17.5%
of the Social Affairs expenditures and 3.7% of the total budget.
26.       The trends oontinued in FY 1972/73 when the total budget increased
to Rls  389 billion, of which the allocation for Social Affairs was 21.5%.
Despite this increase, however, allocations for the health sector again
declined in pn.portion -- this time to 16.5% of the total Social Affairs'
allocation and 3.5% of the total budget for the country. The amount of
Rls 13.7 billion allocated for the health sector represented an allocation
of Rls 442 per capita or US$6.50. Owing to the dispersed settlement
pattern, it is estimated that some 20% of the total population has no
access to medical services, and using a weighted average, the per capita
distribution would be about Rls 550 or US$8.00. The distribution of funds
by source and iten is shown in Table 8.
27.       While organi7ations other than the Ministry of Health receive
funds from either the Ordinary Budget or from the Development Budget, but
seldom from both simultaneously, the Ministry of Health is equally dependent
on both sources.  The relative proportion of funds from the Ordinary BuCget,
however, has declined recently from 60% of the total in 1970/71 to 47% in
1972/13. Over the same period, the share of the Ministry in the total
bddget allocations for the health sector declined from 81% to 78%. This,
again, is a trend which is likely to continue. Funds available to the
Ministry in 1972/73 amounted to Ris 10.4 billion, from a total of Rlo 13.7
billion for the health sector as a whole.
Financial System
28.       The Ministry of Health has to operate on two financial sub-
systems -- Ordinary and Development. The eff 3ctiveness of the financial
/1 Excluding the budget of government-owned companies, public enterprises, etc.



ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 28
system has considerable bearing on the management of health services in
general, and family planning in particular.
Ordinary Budget
29.       The Ordinary Budget of the Ministry of Health mainly covers
higher education, vocational training, curative services, preventive
services, joint preventive and curative services (Health Corps being
the main item), and research and study. Of the Ordinary Budget revenues
available to the Ministry, about 40% are allocated for preventive services
and 35% for curative services. (See Table 9.) As the transfer of cura-
tive services to quasi- and non-governmental agencies continues, a further
decrease in the latter is expected.
30.       The process of determining the annual Ordinary Budget starts
when the Prime Minister forwards a statement of budgetary policies and
guidelines to the Ministry of Health. They refer to the forthcoming
fiscal year, but are based on the targets of.the current Five-Year Plan.
County Health Councils submit th&ir requests to the provincial health
authority,   which compiles one renuest for the whole province.  The
provincial Director General of Health has the power to modify county
reouests according to his understanding of the Ministry's guidelines,
and on his own policy concerning the operation of any particular county.
Because of manpower limitations, which often inhibit effective super-
vision, and a general shortage of funds, the Director General is not,
in practice, likely to make substantial differences in allocations to
counties.
Disbursement Procedures
31.       Once the Ordinary Budget is approved, by main items and by
provinces, the Accounting Office of the Ministry releases funds to
provincial health authorities. In practice, it is difficult to sub-
sidize expenditures under one item with funds allocated for another
item. This restricts the flexibility in the operation of facilities
such as health centers and limits activities or improvements in quality.
Budget Performance
32.       There are several problems in the administration of Ordinary
Budget funds, the most serious of which is the weakness of the auditing
system. The Ministry of Health has its own department to audit Ordinary
Budget expenditures, but its main, and almost sole, task is to check the
correctness of each allocation of expenditure. There is, however, no
detailed accounting nomenclature for items, and this, together with a
serious lack of trained staff, makes the task almost impossible. The
control of stocks of supplies reauires a better management system with
revised procurement routines. Expenditures on personnel comprised the
largest (57.4%) allocation of the total Ordinary Budget for Health in
FY 1971/72. There is little evidence that these expenditures are
properly evaluated in terms of staff performance, and this is a reflec-
tion of the inadecuacy of superftsion. It is not clear how much performance
evaluation is done at the provincial level but no data were available at the
central level of the Ministry.



ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 28
33.       The unsophisticated end product of Ordinary Badget planning
.can be partly explained by the limited manpower available to the finistry
for the evaluation of performance data and comparison with recuests. The
provincial interpretation of county requests has to be taken as the basis
for preparing the Ordinary Budget. Since no performance evaluation is
done at the central level, there is little chance that good performance
would result in an increased flow of resources. And obversely, ppor
performance does not necessarily mean a cut in funds. Table 10 shows
that the allocations for health centers are made with little if any,
relationship to either county population or the number of internals to
health centers, clinics and dispensaries.
3h.       The Ministry's p'anning efforts are strongly influenced by
the fact that the Ordinary Budget is tailored to cover minimum needs,
while the same does not hold for the Development Budget. In the last
decade the health budget has increased substantially, but so has
activity in the health sector. In other words, the growth of the
health sector has been extensive rather than intensive. As the budgetary
allocations for health are declining relative to the expenditures in the
social services, and considering that at least 20% of the population
still has almost no access to medical servicas, this situaLion is not
likely to be reversed. Without a major change in policy, implying a
major shift in the ilteration of budgetary resources, little more than
minimum needs will be covered, and the presently low level of performance
will be maintained. The syndrome could be resolved with improved evalua-
tion of expenditures and, on this basis, selective budget planning. The
concept of minimum budget provision regardless of performance m ust be
recognized as inefficient.
County Revenues
35.       An additional source of funds is the 10% of county revenues
which has to be devoted to health purposes. The contribution is signi-
ficant; in FY 1971/72 it amounted to some 15% of the Ordinary Budget
of the Ministry for the whole county. Its importance, however, varies
from county to county. In case the county fails to provide planned
funds, assistance from the Ministry is possible but the case must be
exceptional. A small portion of county health income is derived from
admission fees, (Rls 20 in most of the country and Rls 10 in its poorer
regions). The fee is not charged to the patients who cannot pay -- an
estimated 20% of all patients seen.
Development Budget
36..      The purpose of Development Budget financing in the health
sector is to provide funds for:
a.  general upgrading of health services;
b. subsidizing the extension of medical services to areas where
segments of the p)pulation until now have been deprived of them;
c. promoting issues of crucial importance for the well-being of
the nation -- like famlly planning or the training of medical
personnel.



ANNEX 5
Page 12 of 28
37.       It was noted above that the role of development funds in financ-
ing the health sector is increasing in importance.  In FY 1971/72 ,he
Ministry's Development Budget listed 30 projects, valued at almost Rls 3
bil1lion. (See Table 11.) They covered construction, maintenance and
equipment of the urban and rural health network, family planning, con-
struction of hospitals and various training activities. In FY 1972/73
the development allocations to the Ministry totalled over Rls 4 billion,
a one-third increase of the pretious year. Moe' of the projects remained
on the list, a major addition being a projeci. covering "Loans for Cor-
struction of Clinics and Hospitals hy Private Groups and Individuals."
The allocations for family planning increased from 13.8% to 15. f%, and
for maintenance of rural health centers from 13.8% to 17.3%.
38.       The expansion or promotion of government financed health
services is usually planned in the context of five-year plans, and
expressed as distinct projects. The major targets and budget colm.iit-
ments are usually determined at the beginning of a plan period and can
be revisc I in the course of plan implementation. After the targets
and commitments have been made for the whole plan period, Development
Budget planning is done by the Plan Organization in terms of annua-
budget ceilirgs. Once the initial targets are met, and the activities
well established, i. is the practice to transfer the financing of
project activity from the Development Budget to the Ordinary Budget.
39.       The process of determining the Development Budget is concurrent
with that of determining the Oriinary Budget. The Ministry of Health
receives  the Development Budget ceilings from the Plan Organ!.zation
approximately 6 months before the start of the fiscal year. Details
of project allocations are elaborated by the Planning Division of the
Ministry of Health and returned to the Plan Organization for approval.
By the beginning of the new fiscal year (in Mccrch), most projects have
received new allocations, but larger allocation projects such as "Public
Health Network" and "Family Planning" are often 3-4 months late. In
such cases, the Plan Organization relea"es funds or the basis of the
previous year's expenditures.
40.       For various reasons, and in spite of the fact that performance
data for Development Budget-financed projects are collected ar-ually
(both by the Ministry and the Plan Organization), most of the p,rojents
are iot evaluated on an annual basis, but on longer periods, and some-
times onny within the time-span of the full plan period. Only recently
has t.ie Plan Organization began to intervene on an annual review of
project activity when project performance was unsatisfactory.
41.       Development Budget funds must be audited by the Ministry of
Health which has an auditing division specifically for this purpose
headed by a chief who is, in fact, appointed by the Plan Organization.
This division only audits the documentation of the Development Budget
expenditures of each province.



ANNEX 5
Page 13 of 28
42.       As noted above, development activit.y In the field is directly
controlled and approved by the provincial Directors General of Health
and so are the related expenditures of developent funds. A serious
weakness of the system is that neither the Ministry of Health nor the
Plan Orgapniation has an effective evaluation capability which would
account for a very uniform allocation of funds for health oLnterw (See
Table 12). Although anmual performance data are in most cases available
in other divisions of the Ministry of Health, they were not available
in the Planning Division where project perfozmance should be evaluated.



ANNEX $
Page 14 Of 28
Table 1
IRANs  Nuwaber of General and Special Hospitals and Beds by Agency,
March 1972
Number         Number          Percentage
of             of                of
Avency                          Hospitals       Beds              Beds
Ministry of Health                  73            9,356          25.7
Medical Schools                     37            5,907          16.3
IOliS                                7             408'           1.1
Ministry of Roads                   12              830           2.3
Social Insurance Organization       16            3,740          10.3
Red Lion and Sun                   164           7,184           19.8
National Iranian Oil Company         5              946           2.6
Private                            120            5,223          14.4
Other Organizations                 31           2,093            7.2
Total                            465          36,178          100.0
Source: Statistical Division, Ministry of Health.



ANNEX 5
Page 15 of 28
Table 2
IRAN: Health Corps Wouen by Aasignment and by Province
Health     Rural Clinics
Centers    in Villages       Others       Total
Central                         113          39              62         211
Gilan                            25          29               4           58
Mazandaran                        3          66               -           69
E. Azerbaijan                    52          11               6          69
W. Azerbaijan                    10          21               -           31
Kermanshah                       68           -                           68
Khuzestan                        55           8                           63
Fars                             59          38               2           99
Kenan                            14          34               -          148
Khorasan                         68          15               -           53
Esfahan                          32          24               -           56
Sistan-Baluchistan               10           -               -           10
Kordestan                        34           -               -           34
Lorestan                         11           5                           16
Chahar MahaL-Bakhtiari            1           _                            1
Ya d                             22           6               1           29
Hamadan                          21           1                           22
Oman Sea                          7           1                            8
Persian Gulf                     11           5               1           17
Semnan                            9          14                           23
Kohkiluyeh                        -           -                            -
Ilam                              -
Total                        625          317             76       1,018
Source: Ministry of Health, 1972.



ANNEX 5
Page 16 of 28
Table 3
Iran: Location of
Proposed Regional Family Planning Training Centers
location     Frovince                                            Population
in 196  Census (1,000)
by Regicn
Tehran       Central
Semnan                                                    5,187
Rasht        Gilan
Mazandaran                                                3, 594
Tabriz       E. Azerbaijan
W. Azerbaijan                                             3,743
Kermanshah   Kermanshah
Kordesta'
Hamadan
Lorestan
Ilam                                                      3,119
Ahwaz        Khuzestan
Kohkiluyeh                                                1,740
Shiraz       Fars
Persian Gulf                                              1,681
Esfahan      Esfai.an
Chahar Mahal-Bakhtiari
Yazd                                                      2,002
Kerman       Kerman
Oman Sea
Sistan-Baluchistan                                        1,543
Mashhad      Khorasan                                                  2,498
Total                                                              25,107



Table 4
Iran:  Distribution of Physicians in Urban and Rural Arets of Iran, 1969-70
No. of                                                                        Po i       /hyiGeneralp; t.
Location     I Physicians    %    Specialists    %        Practi- i%e     Total Populati | Population/Physician
i       ;            s        j ~~~~~~~tioners ;                            Ratio
,        I            S   .   ,.        *       ,                . .I 
Tehran          3,617      46.5    1,433       68.6  1. 2,184     38.3  i 3i277,000                  906
Other Urban
Areas        1,921      24.6       454      21.7    1,467      25.7   8,323,000                 4,33-
Rural Areas     1,768)     28.9       198)              1,570)    36.                               7,191
Health Corps      74)                   2)                472
Total           7,780     100.0     2,087     100.00| 5,693    no0.oC  29,175,0o0                   3,750
1 At present, the Health Corps Organization provides mobile medical services to a rural population of about
6,000,000.
Source:  Ministry of Health.                                                                                         0
co



Table 5
Irani Training Facilities for Medical and Paramedical Personnel 1972
Rural
Doctors              Nurses                Midwives            BeMyars            Midwives
No. of    Annual    No. of   Arnual    N o          iAx         No. of   Xrniuiai     No. of    Annual
Schools  Intake    Sdcools  Intake    Schools   Intake    Schools  Intake    Schools   Intake
Central                        2         350        7        330         3           65         18       66o       1          20
Gilan                                               1         30                                 1        20        1          20
Mazandaran                                                                                       4       100
E. Azerbaijan                  1          50        1         50                                 1        30        1          20
W. Azerbaijan                                                                                    2        50        1          20
Kernanmhah                                          1         30         1           20         (1) 3/ (20)         1          20
Khuzestan                      1          50        2         55                                 5 -    110         1          20
Fars                           1          50        1         30                                 3        90        1          20
Kerriian                                            1         20                                 1        30        1          20
Khorasan                       1          50        2         60         1           15          3        65        2          40
Esfahan                        1          50        2         60         2           45          4       101
Sistan-Baluchistan                                                                               1        20        1          20
Kordestan                                                                                        1        20        1          20
Lorestan                                                                                         1        20
Chahar Mahal-Bakhtiari                                                                           1        30
Yazd                                                                                             1        20
Hamadan                                                                                          1        20        1          20
Oman Sea
Persian Gulf
Semnan
Kohkiluy eh
Ilam                                                        _                                                       1          20
Total                    7         600      18        665         7          1145         48    1,406       114        280
1/ Ww school scheduled to open in 1973.                                                                                         tt
Source:  Ministry of Health, 1972.                                                                                               0



ANNEX 5
Page IV of 28
Table 6
Irani Types of Health_Centers by Province by End of
Fifth PlAz (1978)
Existing    Type I                          Typ               Total
A  B  C Subtotal  II  III  IV  A  B  C Subtotal%
Central                   15  19  -6         25      3    6   5  83  6 35   124   163   29.2
Gilan                     )0   -      -       1      4    1   7   -  3  17    20    33    5.9
Mazandaran                 9   --  1          1      2    6   2   -  2  16    18    29    5.2
E. Azerbaijan             10  -  4  -         4      5    -   5   -17  14    31    45    8.1
W. Azertaijan              7   -1-                   - _       4   -  5   8    13    22    3.9
Kermanshah                 5   -  2  -        2      -    -   4   -  5   -       5    U       2.0
Khuzestan                 10   -  3  -        3      2    3   5   -1h 17    31    h4    7.9
Fars                      11   -  2 1         3      -    2   9   -11   6    17    31    5.6
Kenman                     6   -  1  -        1      -    -   5   -  -   4       4    10    1.8
Khorasan                  16   -  4  -        4      3    4   8   -17  16    33    52    9.3
Esfahan                    9   -  4  -        4      1    1   6   -17   7    24    36    6.5
Sistan-Baluchistan         5   -  -  -        -      1    -   4   -  -   3       3      8    l.4
Kordestan                  6   -  -  I        1      -    -   5   -  -   5       5    11    2.0
lorestan                   3   -  -  -        -     2    2   1   -  -  10    10    15    2.7
Chahar Mahal-Bakhtiari    1   -  -  -         -     2    -   1   -  -   2        2      5    0.9
Yazd                       3   -  -  -        -      1    -   1   -  -   6        6     8    1.4
Hamadan                    4   - 1  1         2      -    2   1   -  5   4        9    14    2,5
Oman Sea                   3   -  -  -        -      1    -   2   -  -   3        3     6    1.1
Persian Gulf               2   -  -  -        -     1    -   1   -  -   2        2      4    0.7
Semnan                     3   -  -  -        -     2    -         -  -   6      6      9    1.7
Kohkiluyeh                 1   -  -  -        -      _    -   I   _  _   -       -      1    0.2
l1am                       1                              1   -                         1    0.2
Total                140  19 23 10       52    30   32  78  83 102 181  366   558  100.0
Source: Ministry of Health, 1972.



of 28
Table 7
Iran:  Proposed Staffing Pattern of Health Centers for the Fifth Plan (1973-78)
Type I              Types               TyPe V
A    B   C       II    III    IV        A    B    C
Physician              20   17  10         8     5       4      3    2    1
Nurse                   5    3   2         1     1       1      -    -    -
Midwife        ,4    3   2                 1     1       -      -    -    -
Behyar                 40   30  20       14    12        8      6    4    2
Sanitarian and Aid    12    7   5          5     4       3      -    -    -
Lab Technologist
and Aid               17   114   9       7      4      2       -    _    -
Radiologist and
Aid                    5    4   3        3      1      1       -    -    -
Other Technical
Personnel             47   36  25       21    11        7      6    4    2
Non -Technical
Personnel            .52   40  24       15    11      13       3    2    2
Total               202  154 100       75    50      39     18   12    7
Source: Ministry of Health, 1972.



Talble 0
IrAn: Saalth lu4ats for 1970/71, 1971/72, sad 1972/73
(In t    iqsn  &Is)
1971/72 (Estimated)
1970-71 (Acrtl)                                                              1972-73 (l9timated)
Ordinary   Special   Delop.                OrdiLary  Special Dvalop-                Ordinary Spcil           Op
Descriptiox                        Budget    IAMOVUe   Seat        Total      )Ud.t   luva         nt        Total      g4et    ave|u          t        Total
I      tCd*                                   Budjtot                         I          18u4"t
2         3                                                                         0         11           1       1 3
Curative Service.                       3,039,524  814 674  1,189,457  5,043,655 3,382,796   966.692  1,970,702  6,320,90  3,929,533  1,024,669  2,609,000    7,543,202
Qtodical College and Hospitals)         581,009    52U826      -        633,U35  680,248    50,800     -         731,04J   794,300      56,200      -          8"0.000
(Fablavi University)                    114,681     -          -        114,681   125,278      -        -        125.278    165,278    -                       165,273
Oiathhad Uaiversity)                     13,568    1,200       -         14,768    4.468      1,207     69.730    75.405      4,468      2.045    100.000      176,503
(Trbrit University)                      80,923    4,680       -         85,603   113,653    11,150    44,35    169,618    132.562      10,350    35,000       177,812
(lafaban University)                     58,353   15,000       -         73,353    86,091     9,825               95,916    122,611     10,000      -          152,611
(Goadi-Shapour DUiversity                50,101    15,000      -         65,010    57,842    14,710     .         72.5i2    68,424      17,274                  09,635
(O.nxtry of De.lth)                   1,711,465   663,669    912,257  3,287,391 1,574,029   802,000  1,384,457  3,760,41   1,745,437    650,000  1,854,000    4,439,437
(7iroug&r ltedical eaarxcb
d Training Center)                     99,486    4,332       -        103,818  131,758      5,000     -         136,758    150,027     6,000      -          156,027
(C.ceral Dertat of
6.iorvtsic.  oo Narcotics)             12,939    55,0OO      -         67,939    17,000    64.000     -          8,0O    11,847      64,000      -           75,847
(Iran National University)               97,040     -          -         97,040   130,262      -        -         130,262    136,520    -           -          136,520
(Itau Lad Lion and Sun Society)          71,700     -         50,000    121,700    71,700      *       153,000    224,700    71,700     -         180,000      251,700
(Iran Rad Lion "ad Suan Society
for LA9rovewnt of standrdi-
atioto of transferred hospitals)         -                   -           -      200,000      _        _         200,000    250,000    -            -          250,000
(Qaerity Orgmnttti- of Medical ad
Treatnent Assiatance)                   1,200      -          -         1,200     5,000      -        -           5,000      7,500                 -            7,500
(institute for Protectiou of
Notbars and Children)                  56,350      -         57,200    113,550    66,350     -        68,700    135,054     78,350     -         180,000      256,350
(Foundtion of Charitable Act)             5,800     -          -          5.80o    6,500       _                    8,5X0     13,000    -           -           13,000
(Society for C    0aiu Agaiost Cancer)    5,000      -         -          5 000    10,000                          10,00      12,000    -                        12,000
(2ibabilitation Society)                 80,000    2,967       -         82,967   100,617     8.000     -         108,617    115,509      ,800       -         124,309
(Fonatimon of QoAee Pahlavi)               _        -        170.000    170,000      -         -       250,000    250.000       -                  250,000     230,000
(Sbabaoo  oaepital for Accidents
And 8urniola)                            -         -          -          -         -                  -            -        50,000     -           -           50, 0O
Prevautive Service.                     1,794,617    56,200    842,964  2,693,761 1,886,779    42,200  1,417,862  3,!146,841  2,003,677    24,000  1.820,000    3.847,677
Ot(iistry of Health)                  1,794,617    56,200    842,964  2,693,781 1,84,779    42,200  1,417,862  3,346,841  2,003,677      24,000  1,820,000    3,847.677
Joint Prsentiwe and Corative Service      553,195      -        332,078    885,273   595,600     -       444,400  1,262,000   639,612      -         890,000    1,529,612
(Ninistry of Health)                    553,195      -       332,078    885,273   595,600      -       666,400  1,262,000    639,612     -         890,000    1,529,6"1
Resarch end Stnuy                          87,354     3,545      4,000     94,o99   101,045     5,000      5,500    111,545    125,631      4.500     40,000      172,131
Tetal               5,712,991   874,419   2,373,089  6,9604"99 6,493,814 1,013,892  4,066,916 11,574,622  7,265,807  1,055,169   5,350,000  13,679,976
ad



4,     '             S.l            w41
tt        ' -        X  y   gy       g
i                                           §  =        ;~~~~~~~ ~~~~ -      00*  4 
'   , '         O U      
X _ t_ >~~.   *" 
a.     099        *" 



Table 9                                    Ffi of 28
Ir.sm   Katiated Sxpenditures of the Government Health Sector for the Year 1972/73 by Prloince
_Ordinary Bdget or the  zistry or Health and 5pecal ReVenue ]J)
(in tbowmuaad Ris)
1 -ca                          ______T __3 __                    C - -  -
5EiESng t Bo>:lui         wrMMIS5IHealth Actiflt es
Pro ra   Training Prog. Ordinaiot Spcl    otal OrdSizy   froF Special   Total
Ordinary Ordinary         Budget    Rkvenue              Budget   Revenue
Central offic. of the
Ministry of Health         --         --          1,9,721        __    149,721  238,380         -_        238,380
Centrl                  17,613    22,352          557,1o06    265,518    822,924   207,700  5,50J          213,200
OGlan                    8,8        3,500          76,924s     31,454    108,378    95,943       _          95,9143
Mamndaran                   -.      7,481         110,870      37,905    148,775  113,918        -         113,918
. Asrbaijan                -        3,677          90,576      94,605    185,181   101,724       --        101,72l4
W. Azerbaijan              --       3,250          54,123      30,000     84,123   83,828        --         83,828
KearabAh                 9,806         --          39,252      88,859    128,111    88,4017      -          88,487
miusestan                  --      11,652          84,451      54,400   138,851   158,235        --        158,235
Fare                       --       3,927         107,029      16,200    123,229  170,353        __        170,353
Iretin                   7,892         __          60,292      77,500    137,882   125,622       -_        125,622
Khoraan                 11,181      2,427         114,880      62,920    207,800   151,566       --        151,566
afan                       __       4,857         102,216      35,686    137,902   111,939       --        111,939
31stwm-Baluchistan          --      7,526          37,572       9,100     46,676  102,340        _         102,3140
Kordeetmn                  _        8,293          53,563       3,966     57,529    72,386       --         72,386
larestan                   --       7,026          27,731       7,692     35,423   52,333        __         52,333
Chahar EhAl-Bakhtiari      --          --          17,295       3,543     20,838    11,480       --         11,480
Tard                                3,000          27,404       4,507     31,911    13,921       --         13,921
Haadan                     --       7,910          314,069     15,289     49,358    45,240       --        145,240
Persian 0. & Omn Sea        -          --          39,256       6,2ji    45,527   33,010  18,500            51,510
Seunan                     --          --          20,963       4,495     25,458   114,157       --         114,157
KohktWih                    -          --           3,503         --       3,503     5,504       --          5,504,
11am                       --          --           6,337         --       6,337     5,61        __          5,611
Total               55,34s0    96,878       1,7435,437    850,000  2,595,437 2,003,677  24,ooo       2,027,677



A=5
go 21 Of 28
Table 9 (contingd)
Irant Etiated   enditures of the Goverruent Health Seotor for th. Tr 1972173 by Proviico
I_rds.na.rY   d~et of the ministry ox  =tlx  n  Sa eoiam  3 veme
(in thousand Ris)
i   6        1          7  . _          6 -- I7-9                             10
Joint Health and                                             Total
Curative Activitie| RHeereh Aotivitie    Oneral     Fr              Fro  9pecial  Grand
(FroI Ordiary        (Frm OrdinarY          Service   Ordinary    Reverne          Total
wastt)               Du&at)                             Budget
cntrai office of the   65,025                    6,9914            278,251    638,371         --          638,371
Ministry of Health
Central Ostan           53,585                   1,1432             33,133    893,221       271,018    1,164,239
aGuan                   20,131                      521             13,214    219,081        31,454       250,535
Masmndaran              23,928                    1,027             12,080    269,481!       37,905       307,389
L As rbaijan            25,8149                  1,361              14,819    238,006        94,605       332,611
W Aarba±jaL              26,205                     569             10,657    17r,632        30,C00       208,632
K reanshah              33,432                     584              11,152    182,713        88,859       271,572
husestan                42,605                     451              14,098    311,492        54,400       365,892
Far$                     34,510                    632              14,076    330,527        16,200       346,727
Kerman                  33,388                     326              12,585    240,105        77,500       317,695
Khoreaan                45,169                   1,089             -17,345    373,657        62,920       436,577
Eafahan                 27,081                   1,309              17,118    264,520        35,686       200,206
Sistan-Baluchiatan      29,946                     697              14,242    192,327         9,100       201,427
Kordeatan               29,369                     367               9,908    173,886         3,966       177,852
Lorestan                26,504                     156               3,928    117,678         7,692       125,370
-hbar Mahal-            20,288                     300               3,29t     52,668         3,543       56,211
hLkhtiari
Tasd                     22,474                    154               5,124      72,077        4,507        76,584
Hanadmn                 23,906                     105               4,391    115,711        15,289       131,000
Peraian 0. & Oman Sea   53,263                      --               8,379    133,908        24,771      158,679
Sinoan                   2,954                       --              3,083     41,157         4,495        45,652
Kohkiluyeh                     __                                    1,419     10,426          --          10,426
n.~ --                                                               1,152     13,500          --         13,500
Total                  639,612                  18,352             503,851  5,063,147       874,000    5,937,147
1/ County Income.
Sources Milagtry of Health, Tahran, Saptmber 1972.



Table 10
Iran: Budget Allocations for the 'lealth Canters of Ten
Randamlz Selected Coauties 1970/71
(in- thousand R1|N}
-   . _                           .         ~~~~~~~~~~~Rls Per
Ordinary Budget  Special  Develop-  Total                  Projected   Total      Capita of  Rla per
County    P[Orsonnel   Other  Revenue  ment      Alloca-               Population  Referrals Allocation Referral
I                  Rnde^+ tg i jnv a                 1 Q7R
Firuzabad       916       300    1,441   6,421      9,078                  85,979     92,810        105        97
Rudbar          758       300      882   6,605      8,545                  94,253     65,927         90       129
Nowahahr      2,435       500    2,554   5,871    11,360                  i40,642     23,385         80       485
Khalkhal      1,190       500       697   6,605     8,992                 169,772   -46,P40t         52       193
Langarud      1,204       600    1,472   5,905      9,181                  85,706     83,388        107       110
Shirrmn       1,063       400       667   6,605     6,735                  60,577    135,304        144        64
Jiroft          663       300    1,362   6,871      9,198                 182,841     16,873         50       545
Abadeh          975       800    1,685   6,555    10,015                  176,478     90,493         56       110
Ferdosw         708       400       302   6,605     8,015                  62,657     91,640        127        87
Paveh           132       300       345   6,821     7,598                 107,54o     85,733         70        88
V Includes health centers, dispensaries and clinics.
Source:  Base Data from Ministry of Health, Tehran, 1972.
PO



MM: De,lt_ueat Wdget Allocations for llIth  for  reian tears
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ %ssn -,As I_M   **aSr h I9X rbI-2
(in tbousaad &I*)
T of total                                                        1 of totl
Dsvtlq_at                                                         Deylo_mat
Project Allocatioe      udgat feo      Actual            VdiltiAtioo     Allocations     3sn et for
Prolect Title                            fr 1350           Healtb          Zav1ituror           (1)            for 1351       wIth
1. rablic E6*lth NItwotk
(Urm) - CcnatroctLom
Sqiict etnd Hiutea   aeo            900,4U                30.6             617,00           90.7          1.144.170          28.1
2. ?.4ly ptanning
(jee table 1)                      4030O0                 13.8             3I1 ,6S         '94.3            630,000          15.5
3. Ul1hereii                            12,300                 0.76              N/A                             20,000           0.5
4. itblavi ro=dastio
Uoopital for Coropky
Diaeee                             250.000                 8.5               a'A                            211.610           5.2
5. Y.  tnteace of the Uban
Curative ad Praventive
svbcautexr  (rum-oi  costs)          24,810                0.54              /1W                             78,483            1.9
A.  mnetaenace  of the Curative
"IpWtOe                            280,105                 9.5               U/A                            391,095           9.7
7. Drnu Cotrol                          12,680                 0.41             rn/A                             13,000           0.32
S. Project for UVrMiLS
1J lsoepitle                        111.358                3.7               3/A                            112.000            2.75
9. Coetructioo of 300d44
Maternity Hospitul La
Uia-mad-Tobran                            0                           .     6.000 fre                     sadad il
the prev1ma                     1350
10. Ccetruction of 2004ed
M4t*=ity Iepital In
g"ht                                54,000                 1.83             54,000          t00
11. Conetruetion of 100-B
Uatetnity HoepiLk in
South To~xea                         10,000                0.34              r/A                           20,000              0.5
12. Maintenance of nIt
T3 Dowpitala                        127,114                4.32              Il/A                         140,000              3.44
13.  Maintmiaace of 40-4d
Hospital in laSi                     66340                 2.16              I/A                           75.000              1.54



DiM:  Dselopwt Budget All4  tiS  for Wealth fag Iranian yesrs
_    _     ~~~1350 *and 1351  ceh 1970Mrch 1972)
1 of Totsl                                                        1 of Total
Der_lcgent                                                          -  Ivel_rot
Project Allocuttions      ligt for        Ac'luaI           UtilaatCtoo     Allocatfoom      budget feo
troitct Title                         for 1350             Iealth      __5X       itur          (lt            ter 1351       Uselth
14.   ajtsaenca of &wral
Health Center                      405,400                13.6             390,621          96.4            705.000          17.33
15. bIhyar Scmo1 etta-b" to
P$blavt rauattz lhmpS&l;
for Coroc#ry DX3t_w                  5,000                 0.17              3/A                              6,300           0.15
16. rKsaiwi of Tcsal,e l
Paaoiwl (hkye r 0 I
uors.)                              86,700                 2.5              86,700         10°°            117,U4              2.33
17. 1&.cetioa of Zwal midwit             22,160                 0.73             21.700         1 97.9           22.896            0.56
16.  Uocatloo of the A4- -
strattm  Yareoml of
the Kfuietry of Helth                4,452                0.20               3/A           f                 5,419            0.13
19. tidwifery Scbwol of Usfaban           4,405                0.14               4,45          |100              2,514            0.06
20. 8ahyer School of corge
(Sad Licn and Soa)                   3,596                0.OLi              3/A                             3,737            0.09
21. load and Ostritloui Iti-t
tote - Tehran (aao4tinietyi
of HeItb)                            4,500                 0.14              VIA                             2,991            0.07
22. Orpbaltes (Red Uo  L  Sun)            7,971                 0.27              U/A
23. AAolecenca Twe                        3,283                 0.11              3/A              6,e OO                          0.16
24. Traluln4 of liotrag  [or Oidra        3,335                 0.U               1/4                             3.745            0.09
25. Trainlig of Sutorx for
adolesc,nte                          3,916                 :;13              NfL                             3,457            0.09       D       l     Prw1 en to Started is 1351:
26.  Lspanaion of the (1rgenxieeLevlopen                                                                                                                     t
26 EDfI of Mntalx tkete1 ± of                                                                       8       t 17,000          0.41         Constructlon of mlros .ptal
for #ental IDev-lopment of                                                                  tcinnb lat                                                  of lchot
atiudren (non-Min, of 7eath)        54,500                 1.85              3(4            D ooetltiwde
27. Workshops far Ulibd (aou-Kin.                                                                    inA 1350    10,000             0.25        Coetruction of aLr-pollutt. study statitoi
of HeIth                             2,240                 0.07              3/A                           318,825             7.4         Loe,s for eonetruction Of clinic  Ad
28.  Equipent fer te 400Sd                                                                                                                      hospitals by priveta pows eod indtvtdmale
General Hospital in TOoa            40,000                 1.36              U/A           ;
29.  Training Isearc h                    1,316                 0.04              N/A                             1,718             0.04
30.  Equipment of kw t i1d1608
of Firowuqr Hospital                 9,150.                0.31              N/A                        -
Total -  2,93J,253                                                       Total  4,067,051                                                                     0



Table 12
Iran: Development Budget Allocations for Shaverbtan Health Centers
for TenWRiCandmySBelFe-Ted.t    ties by tim3, for the Year 1971 72
Item              FIRUZABAD  RjUDBAR  NOWSHAHR  KIAtKXAL  LANGRUD  I SHIRAVAH JIROF'T  ABADEF| FRD0WS  PAVEH
1. Recurrent Costs
1.1 Salaries             2,551      2,9'5   2,551      2,975      2,'75    2,975    2,551   2075   2,575    2,551
1.2 Allowances           1,650      1,200   1,100      1,200        500     1,200    2,100   1,150   1,200    2,100
1.3 Travel, per diem,      650         700     650       700        700        700      650     700      700      650
comunic.
1.4 Rent                   420        420      420       420        420        420      420      420     420       420
1.5 Contracted Services   200          240     200       240        240        240      200      240     240      200
1.6 Maintenance            200         250     200       250        250        250      200      250     250      200
1.7 Medical and Other
S'dppliea            650         700     650        700       700        700      650      700     'i30      650
2.  Capital Costs
2.1 Medical Equipment       50          70      50         70        70         70       £0       70      70        50
2.2 Non-Medical Equip-
ment                  50         50       50        50         50         50       50      50       50       50
Total                6,421      6,605   5,571      6,605      5,905     6,605    6,871   6,555   6,605    6,821
a
OD



ANW= 6
Page 1 of 21
Iran
Fa ily Planing Services
A. Backgromud
1.       Prior to adopting a population policy, the Go-vrnnent of Iran in
1964 secured the endorsement of the religious leaders of the country to
the principles and practice of family planning. This was followed by a
study of the population problez and the need for fanily planning by the
Population Council. Late in 1966, the post of Under ecretary for Family
Planning in the Ministry of Health was created and the first family planning
council compoaed of representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Plan Or-
ganization, and the University of Tehran, was convened. This was the official
beginning of Iran's family planning program which aims to promote 'the
physical, meintal, social, and economic welfare of families and in consequence
that of society." The program is conceived as an integral part of a national
development effort and has the strong support of the head of state who was a
signatory to the 1967 declaration on population subaitted by 27 world leadera
to the UN.
2.       The first three years of the program, 1967-69, could be considered
as the formative period. The main activities during this period were the
aetting up of the organization, the training of personnel, and the develop-
ment of communications to increase the awareness of the public to the pop-
ulation problem and to inform them of the available methods of fertility
control.  Du.ring this period research activities having a direct bearing on
program delivery, evaluation and acceptance of family planning methods were
undertaken by the Ministry of Health, the Universities of Tehran, Esfahan, and
Shiraz, the statistical center of Iran, the Health Corps, the Institute for
the Protection of Mothers and Newborn, etc. Training in faxily planning of
various categories of personnel from physicians to lay motivators became a
major activity of the new division of family planning. As a part of the
orientation course for physicians, seminars on fa=ily planning were conducted
during the 1968 and 1969 Iranian Medical Congresses.
3.       In May 1970, the government decided to follow an even more dynaxic
population policy aimed at stabilizing the population in two decades by
reducing the rate of population growth to 1% per annum. In addition to the
humanitarian reasons for undertaking a family planning program, there was a
greater awareness of the long-term economic implications of population growth,
and this gave an added dimension and urgency to the program. In 19719 at the
request of the government an inter-agency mission of the ZN, UNFSCO and WHO
reviewed the family planning program and made recommendat.'ns. In November
1971, the government entered into an agreement 'itn the United Nations Fund
for Pbpuls.tion Activities (UNPPA) aimed at supporting the government's family
planning effort Uhrough assistance to training, research, communications,
administration, etc. Under this agreement, studies are also planned for asses-
ing the accpe of a maternity center (postpartum) program of family planning
and for evolving methods of delivering family planning services best suited



LINEU 6
Page 2 of 21
to local conditions in a selected province and county. Theae projects
are to be implemnted with the assistance of the appropriate agencies of
the UN system, with the UNDP Resident Representative acting as the co-
ordinator of external assistance.
4.       Even before the government officially embarked on a national
family planning program, individuals and private agencies were active
in fieli. Since 1953, when the first )CH clinics were established,
individual physicians in charge of these clinics have been giving advice
on family planning to suitable oases. Iran's Family Planning Association,
which works in close cooperation wit4 the School of Social Work and the
Ministry of Health, has been a pioneer in promoting family planning through
a general social welfare program. The National Iranian Oil Company has a
progran of family planning for its workers and staff. Its activities in
this field still need to be fully coordinated with those of the Ministry
of Health.
5.       The Women's Organization of Iran, which embraces 68 affiliated
non-political groups and 186 branches through the country, works in close
cooperation with the Ministry of Health. The main role of this organiza-
tion in family planning is in the field of motivation.
6.       Various quasi-government organizations like the Imperial Organi-
zation for Social Services (IOSS), the Red Lion and Sun Society (RLSS),
and the universities are also involved in family planning actiTities.
Althouigh all of them take part, to a greater or lesser extent, in the delivery
of family planning services, their major contribution is oriented to their
main functions and organizational set-up. Thus the IOSS through its extensive
network of rural clinics is a major agency for family planning services in
rural areas. The universities play a major role in training and in re-
search. The RLSS, through its training centers, has been a major source of
supply of nurses, midwives and bebyars for the family planning activities of
the Ministry of Health.
7.       The Population Council was one of the earliest foreign agencies to
be involved in the population problems in Iran and it continues to play an
important role.  Besides the UNFPA-financed projects mentioned above, IWHO
assistance has mainly been in the training of technical personnel and in
bi-i..adical research nn human reproduction.
B. Division of Family Planning
8.        Headed by a Deputy Minister, the Directorate of Population and
Family Planning is one of the five major directorates of the Mininatry of
Health. (See Annexes 3 and 4.) It is responsible for guiding, supervising,
evaluating and coordinating all the activities in this field. There are
over 20 agencies engaged in family planning activities in the country.
These include other departzents of the Govermzent, quasi-government organi-
zations like the IOSS, RLSS and the universities, and private agencies like
the Iranian Family Planning Association, the Women's Organization, and the
Institute for the Protection of Mothers and Newborn. Even with this large



ANNEX 
Page 3 of 21
number of influential agencies engaged in faaily planning activities, the
Ministry of Health weas responsible for delivering over 80% of the total
family planning services in the country. In 3972, a High Council for Co-
ordination with representatives from 13 major agencies engaged in family
planning was set up under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister for
Population and Family Planning to ensure the maximum use of the available
facilities and resources among the various agencies.
9.        In addition to the above responsibilities, the Family Planning
Directorate is directly responsible for the recruitment, training and
employment of Woven's Health Corps personnel who play an important role
in the family planning activities.
10..     The Directorate has 3 rajor units:  a) technical affairs which covers
training, motivation and clinical services; b) research and planning including
evaluation; and c) MCH. Each unit is headed by a Director General. While
the training of doctors and other technical staff engaged in the family
planning program is centered in Tehran and Esfahan, the orientation of other
groups such as the literacy corps, school teachers, the police force, etc.,
is carried out irn the various provinces. The Family Planning Directorate has
also a unit for undertaking population studies.
11.      At the provincial level, Directors General of Health are assisted by
Directors of Family Planning who are responsible for all fdmily planning
activities within the province.  Coordination at the pro-v<acial level is less
complicated than at the center.
C. Family Planning Services
12,      The delivery of family planning services in the national program
mainly utilizes the facilities and staff of the Ministry of Health. Family
planning clinics do not function as autonomous units but are the faaiJly
planning services' points of facilities such as hospitals, health centers,
dispensaries, and maternity hospitals. About two-thirds of the family
planning clinics are located in the outpatient clinics or health centers, and
about 30% of then are static/mobile clinics, mostly operated by the Health
Corps. Less than 5% are attached to general hospitals and maternity hospitals.
About 70% of the family planning clinics are run by the YIinistry and the
Health Corps, serving more than 80% of the fanily planning clients. Besides
the Ministry, about 25 government, quasi-government and non-government agencies offer
family planning services through their health and medical care facilities.
(See Table 1    The distribution of family planning clinics in urban and
rural areas is about 38% and 62% respectively.  Most of the clinics in rural
areas are organized by the Ministry. The liperial Organization for Social
Service (IOSS) operates some 15% cf all clinics, most of which are in the
rural areas; but it accounts for only 3.4% of the total number of clients.
The standard staffing pattern of family planning clinics consists of one
physician or nurse as head of the clinic, 2 behyars as technical staff, and
2 or 3 Health Corps women or social workers as motivators.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 Of 21
13.      Family planning services are regarded as an integral part of MCH
activities and should be provided at ayx time the clinic is open. The
program is still mainly clinic-oriented, i.e., clients have to go to the
cLinic8 for services, for check-ups, and to receive new supplies of contra-
ceptives. The recording system makes it possible to identify the clients
who do not return for their appointments. To the extent that staff is avail-
a-ble, these drop out cases are visited in their homes. Classes in health
education, including family planning, are arranged at the health centers.
Motivators employed by the program (social workers, Health Corps women
and/or family planning -workers) approach clients coming to the centers,
particularly women, to provide information about family planning and con-
traception and hopefully motivate them. Where Health Corps wozen or field
workers are working in community group meetings, individual home viaita
may be carried out, but these as yet are on a limited scale. Mobile Health
Corps teams are extensions of the static health centers to more remote rural
areas. Their main objectives are environmental sanitation and communicable
disease control but they have also received training in family planning.
The contributions to the fwaily planning program made by the Man's Health
Corps have been rather marginal (abo#tm $% of ttal cients in 1971). irobably
because of the reluctance of rural women to accept family planning services
frcm a male staff member. Thirty-seven semi-mobile units a-' in operation
exclusively for family planning activities, but they are woi ng out of
static clinics which will serve as places of referral. The staff of these
units consists of a physician or a midwife, a behyar, two motivators and
a driver. The efficiency of this scheme requires evaluation, but when
the establishment of the rural health center network is accomplished, the
scheme should be integrated into the basic functions of the county health
centers.
14.      The contraceptive methods offered by the family planning program in
Iran consist primarily of oral contraceptives, IUDs and condoms, of which the
former are the most popular and/or the most emphasized method. About 80-90%
of the now acceptors take oral contraceptives while IUD insertions accoumt for
only about 3-h percent. Abortions cannot be offered by the program without
liberalization of existing laws. Sterilization is virtually non-existent and
in the male-dominated Islamic society of Iran is unlikely to be a major method
in the near future. In general, the Ministry supplies contraceptives to all
clinics.  Usually, most of the clinics collect 10 Rials (about US$ .12) per
clinic visit from the client as a service charge. If a client claims
inabi-lity to pay, the service charge may be exempted.
15.      There was a rapid increase in the number of family r-'anning acceptors
between 1968 and 1972. Much of this increase, however, has been through an
extension of services to more clinics rather than an intensification of the
activities of existing clinics. In mid-1968, there were only about 200 clinics
offering familv nlanning services; by 1970 this number had risen to over 1,300,
and by March 1972, there were 1.657 clinics. (See Table 2.) The number of
clinics which report family planning activities, however, is less. It was
not available until April, 1969, and since then has been between 75% and 90%
of all clinics each month. In M c-h 1972, 88% of all clinics reported
activities. It is on the basis of reports from these clinics, that sub-
sequent calculations and observations on performance are made. The monthly



AINE 6
xe 5iof 21
output of family planning clients between April 1968 and May 1972 is shown
in Table 3.  Table 4 shows the average number of reporting clinics per month
and the average rrumber of family planning clients seen in a month. The
former almost tripled bet'een 1969 and 1972, while the latter which was
about 34,000 in 1968 (April-Deceaber) increased to 107,000 in 1969, and to
326,000 in May 1972 (January-May). The increase in the number of
reporting ciinics matches the increase in output over the same period and implies
a lack of improvement in average clinical performance. A clearer picture is
obtained by considering the P.rerage clinical performance month by month in
Table 5. The aver-ge number of patients seen in a clinic varied between 211
and 300 between April 1969 and March 1972, bhowing no marked seasonal pattern
and only a very marginal declining trend. The declining trend, however, is
more pronounced in the number of new patients in a clinic every month. This
was alxmost always over 50 in 1969 and declined to about 34 in 1972. Such a
decline clhould be expected only when a program reaches a highplateua in
acceptanze rates. With only about 8% of the women in the reproduction ages
covered by family planning, the decline in new acceptors is more possibly
due to a lack of promotional activities, rather than a saturation effect in
acceptance rates.
16.      In 1971, Central Province accounted for almost 29% of all acceptors,
followed by Esfahan, Khorasan, Fars, Gilan, and East Azerbaijan, each having
about 7% of the total acceptors. (See Table 6.) In 1971 the proportion of
the target population (i.e. women between ages 15-49) covered by the program
was highest in Yazd (about 12%) followed by Central Province (about 6%).
The target coverage was lowest in Ilam (below 1%) and Kohkiluyeh (about 1%).
The average for Iran was approximately 5% in 1971.
D. Service Statistics
17.      The System;  The family planning service statistics system in Iran
is based on c Iincal records of the clients, which consist of:
a. Daily Registration Book: An entry is made into the book correspond-
ing to every clinical visit by a client, old or new. The entry consists
of the name of the client, her identification number (given by the clinic),
the purpose of the visit and the contraceptive treatment received.
b.  Clinical Record Card (CRC):  For every new clieiQ a clinical record
card (CRC) is made out--a yellow one for oral contraceptive acceptors
and a pink one for IUD acceptors. The front of both cards is identical
and is used for recording socio-demographic and medical information,
including the result of her pelvic examination. The bac'.k of the CRC is
used for subsequent entries, corresponding to revisits or follow-ups,
and is, therefore, different for pink and yellow cards. A white
duplicate of the front of every CRC is sent at the end of each month to
the provincial headquarters while the originals are retained in the
clinic.  If an IUD acceptor had the IUD removed or an oral contraceptive
acceptor did not come back to the clinic for a resupply of pills for



ANNx 6
PVge of 21
three consecutive months, she would be considered a dropout case and her
CRC would be sent to the provincial center for subsequent analysis. This
practice with regard to the definition of oral contraceptive dropout cases
gave rise to some errors in the past. It often turned out that a client
would return to the clinic after an absence of three or more consecutive
months without having been effectively out of the program; for instance,
her husband might have been away during the period. These clients would,
therefore, be recorded again as new acceptors giving r'se to upward
biases in both the estimates of the new acceptors and the dropout rates.
Currently, this practice has changed, and the yellow CRCs are retained
in the clinics even after the client fails to show up at the clinic for
three or four consecutive months. No final decision seems to have been made
as to how long the CRCs should be retained in the clinic in case of
prolonged absence by the client.
18.      At the end of each month every clinic fills out a monthly state-
ment of activities, i.e., the services rendered, and the position of the
clinic with regard to the stock of contraceptive supplies and the staff
situation. These statements, along with the white duplicates of the CRCs
for new acceptors and the original CRCs for IUD dropout cases, are supposed
to reach the prcvincial family planning headquarters by the tenth of each
month. The overall responsibility of record-keeping lies with the physician-
director of the clinic who signs the monthly clinical activity statements,
but the daily registration book and CROs are maintained by the midwife,
or the motivator, and if a Realth Corps wonan is available, her servicos are
usually used. Record-keeping is a part of the basic family planning training
and, as far as the mission could ascertain, the quality and consistency of
the records kept at family planning clinics appears to be adequate.
Data Processing
19.      Data processing is decentralized and the bulk of it takes place
at the provincial level where an evaluation/statistics cell, consisting of
one evaluator and one or two statistical assistants, is entrusted with the
job. Tabtlations are done mostly by hand, with the help of one or two
calculators. A standard list of tables has not yet been prepared; and to
what degree data in a particular province will be exploited, as well as
the regularity and quality of monthly and annual reports for zhe province, will
depend largely on the enterprise and ability of the provincial staff and its
accsssibility to international expert advisory services.
The Central Evaluation Unit (CoU)
20.      This unit in Tehran consists of a Director and seven technical staff
menbers including a punch-card operator and an IBM machine tabulator. The
CEU reports to the Director-General of the Research and Planning Division,
and has overall responsibility for the publication of service statistics
for all organizations.



ANNEx 6
Page77of 21
21.      The central evaluation unit was not very active in 1972, partly
because of the move of the headquarters buidling, and partly because the
Director's post was vacant for almost six months in 1972. During the
mission's visit in September 1972, the UN demographic adviser to the
family planning directorate was temporarily entrusted with the charge
of the unit. A well-defined plan of activities is yet to emerge and
publicatica of service statistics for Iran on a regular basis is an
objective that still remains to be achieved.
22.      There does not appear to be a clear link of comwxnication between
the central evaluation unit and the provincial centers. The whole service
statistics system could benefit from improved leadership and a well-directed
action program from the central headquarters in Tehran. This applies par-
ticularly in the case of evaluation activities.
23.      In conclusion, the following points need to be stresseds
a. The basic quality of statistics collected at the family plan-
ning clinics is adequate, but timely processing of the data
and publication of a set of standard tables on a national
basis are objectives yet to be achieved. These should receive
top priority.
b. The situation wlll possibly improve with the mechanization
of data processing at the Tehran family planning center. In
that case, all data processing activities should be centralized
and the role of the provincial units (which is another overlooked
area at present) should be principally supervisory and
related to special studies. The system should be geared to
getting all the monthly statement activities in at Tehran by
the tenth of each month.
c.  Although the statistics collected now are adequate, there is
room for improvement in the clinical record cards as well as
the monthly activity report, particularly in viw of mechanically
processing the data in the future. Pre-coding these documents
would be desirable.
d.  The Director of the central evaluation uait must be fully
conversant with the techniques of statistics and family
planning evaluation. It would clearly be advantageous if
such a person had a social science background.
E. Contraceptive Continuation Rates
24.      One of the problems facing Iran's family planning program is a
high rate of discontinuation among the acceptors. Over one million new
clients were covered by the program between January 1969 and December 1971,
while the number of old clients returning to the clinica was only about



0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ANNEx 6
Page 8  f 21
a fourth of a mllion in January 1972. The available service statistica do
not perait very accurate estimates to be made, but the general indications
are that between 15-25% of the oral contraceptive acceptors are dropping
out of the ;rogram every nonth.
25.      It will be seen from Table 3 that information on oral contraceptives
is available only on cycles distributed and on new acceptors each month.
Although the normal practice in Iran is to give a woman only one cycle per
visit to the clinic, exceptions are sometimes made, and two or three cycles
are supplied to women who live too far away or have other difficulties in
returning to the clinic every month. As a result, the number of cycles
distributed is more than the number of women visiting clinics. On the
other hand, the actual number of users of pills should be more than the
number of women visiting the clinics since some of them received two or
three months' supply in the previous months. It is fairly obvious that
over a period of time the number of cycles distributed would tend to be
equal to the number of woaen-months of use if the proportion of women
receiving more than a month's supply does not vary significantly.  This
would not be the case if the proportion changed as a result, for example,
of a significant change in the number of new acceptors.
26.      The other problem with the available service statistics is that
of non-reporting clinics. Of the total clinics existing, a variable pro-
portion (between 75-90%) report each month. If it could be assumed that
additions to the reporting clinics consist only of now clinics, which had
no acceptors in the previous month, one could safaly derive estimates of
old clients returning to clinics in a month by subtracting new clients from
total clients. But in practice a clinic that starts reporting in a par-
ticular month may already have been in existence for a few months.
27.      Keeping in view the problem of deficient data, an attempt is made
(see Table 5) to derive a crude estimate of tne monthly pill continuation
rate, by using the performance data of an average clinic and assuming that
the number of cycles of oral contraceptives distributed in a month is equiva-
lent to the number of oral contraceptive users in the same month. The computed
monthly continuation rates have a wide margin of variation &i.d illustrate some
of the data problems discussed. earlier. For example, a spurious rate of over
100% i' .btained in one month which is possibly due to a higher than usual
propurtion of women receiving more than one cycle of pills in that menth, a
view supported by a sudden -irop in the continuation rate in the next month.
The median monthly continuation rate of about 86% implies an annual continua-
tion rate of about 16% but this is probably an underestimate because the rates
thus computed, being based on a combination of old and new acceptors, are
composed of both immediate rejection as well as steady discontinuation.  Since
the former is always likely to be higher than the latter, this rate would be
an overestimate for the first menth and an underestimate in subsequent monthz.
The annual continuation rate based on this average monthly rate would, there-
fore, result in an overall underestimation. If it is assumed that the monthly
continuation rate is 70% for now acceptors and 90% for old acceptors (which
would give a combined monthly continuation rate of 86% if new patients consti-
tute a fifth of the total patients in a month) an annual continmation rate



ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 21
of about 22% is obtained. This is nuch lower than the rough estimate of about
33% made by the UN mission in 1971, but neither can be accurate.  Foth, however,
indicate that continuation rates are decidedly low, and that something Datst
be done to improve the situation before the program shows any significant
demographic impact.
F. Family Planning Targets
28.      While the long-term national goal is to achieve a population growth
rate of about 1% by 1991, the short-term goal set by the Ministry of Health
is to reduce the erude birth rate from the currently estimated level of 48
(MOH estimate) to about 40 by the end of the nert Five-Year Plan in 1978.
According to the Ministry's calculations, to accomplish tnis reduction in
CBR about one z2illion births would have to be averted by covering about
3.6 million women under the program (with the implied assumption that
3.6 CYPsl/ are equivalent to one prevented birth).  The Ministry further
assumes that each woman will visit a clinic approximately nine timos in a
Year so that their target of clinical visits during the next five years is
32.5 million. The basis of this assumption is not fully clarified in supplied
documents, apart from the knowledge that women attending clinic5 often get
more than one Imonth's contraceptive supply.  On the basi3 Oi discussions hold
with the Plan Organization officials, the following emerged 1s a te.ntative
projection of the CYP targets for each year of the next Five-Year Plan.
Year             1973      19714      1975       1976      1977       TCT1L
CYP               430       570        720        880     1,050       3,650
(in thousands)
29.      According to mission estimates) a CPR of about 47 witholit aqy
fertility moderation, would be expected in 1978.  In order to achieve a CBR
of 40 at that time, about 15% of the worLen aged 15-49 would havA to he
covered by an effective contraceptive program. The Ministry's projected
target of increasinig the FP clients to just over a million in 1978 would
imply a coverage of about 13% of the estimated 78 million ferales agad 15-49,
which is a little less than the reqired 15% coverage. However, if ths recent
trend in the increase of the number of family planning acceptors contiries,
it is conceivable that the Ministry's targets  ight be exceeded by tlt end
of the next plan.
G. Famtly Planning Budget
30.      Financing of family planning was started by the 00I at the begin-
ning of the Fourth Five-Year Plan (March 1968), by naking it onc of thc
projects to be finanoed from the proceeds of the Development Padd,et.
1/ CYP a Couple Years of Protection.



ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 21
The only exceptionsare the inputs from the Ordinary Budget, which cover the
salaries of civil servants working on the fauily planning project. These
inputs, however, do not constitute more than 4% of the total budget for
family planning. The initial allocation was 40 million Rials, of which
approximately 10% was allocated for personnel and some 50% used for grants
and aid to the public sector (see Table 7), mainly county health centers.
31.      The Iranian project has enjoyed very high priority, which has been
reflected in steadily increasing allocations.  By 1970/71 the total alloca-
tion for family planning had been increasud to 250 million Riala; of this
amount, over 25% was allocated for personnal expaiditures.  The extension
of the project was reflected in substantially increased a'locations (23%
in 1970/71) for supplies (primarily medical).  For the first tim  since it
started, the purchase of vehicles was approved (14% of the total), while
the delivery of services was stimulated through grants to the public sector.
Recognizing the potential of the private sector in the delivery of services,
funds were also granted to the private sector for the first time.
32.      In the following year--1350 (197]/72)--the resources available
for family planning were almost doubled to 405 million Rials.  This amount
represented 13.8% of the total Development 9udger, allocations for health
and approximately 3.5% of the total government allocatioui' for health.
Personnel expenditures doubled in comparison 'with the preceding year,
totaling almost 1/3 of total project expenditures. Allocations for supplies
doubled as well, constituting nearly another third of the al!ocatlon. As the
government program was gaining momentun, it was considera ! that there was no
need for expanding grants to the public sector and they ....ve remained at about
50 million Rials.  However, the importancea of the private sector in deliv3ry
of fa.aily planning services was becoming wridely recognized and grants were
increased ten-fold in cornpa&i_son with the previous year.  Of the total amount
allocated for the famlly planning project in 1971/72, aLw,,st 9o, of funds
allocated were actually spent.
33.      Allocations for the current fiscal year 1351 (Ma.cch L972/73) were
again increased substantially from hf05 milliorn Rials to 6 ;) million Rials.
The proportions between various categories of allocqtions .cmained almost
uncharged.
34.      At this stage of proJect development, the patterii of expenditures
is (a) over 33% for persomnel (see lables 8 and 9); (b) approxi-
mately 25% for medical and administrative supplies; and (c) less than 15% for
grants to public and private sector.  It does not incl-.e any substantial
capital expanditure, which covers mostly basic equipment and some vehicles.
H. Foreign Assistance
35.      Since the inception of the national family planning program in
1967, Iran has received considerable foreign aid and technical assistance.
The main contributors have been international organizations and agencies,



ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 21
such as the UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO ind Population Council, as well as bilateral
technical assistance.
36.      WHO comitments from its regular budget for the health sector
totaled US$283,000 in 1971. Most of the resources were allocated for
environmental health, public health administration, training and educa-
tion; madicalJ education and fellowships.  The latter two amounted to ore
than 50% of the regular funds comzitted. For 1972 a $310,000 budget is
planned and $338,000 for 1973, covering the sas fields, while providing
for a aoderate expansion.
37.      Comnitments for 1971 by other organizations and agencies, as well
as bilateral coimitJents for health amounted to approximately $200,000,
mostly covering the annual expenditures of the programs which extend over
a nuiber of years. Most of the commitaents provided for fellowships, experts
or advisers in fields such as narcotics control; nutrition and dietetics
(U.S.A.); nursing; including educators, equipaent and fellowships. The latter
was provided by a joint project of the UNDP/WHO.- Other minor projects, i.e.,
donations, were contributed by the governments of the U.S.A., France, Germany
and Sweden.
35.      Comnitmaents for population and family planning totaled $215,000
for the year 1971. These include UNFPA/UN joint programs in the field of
demography, statistics and evaluation (providing for 2 demographers and 1
adviser in demography), the UNFPA/IB.D joint project ( o4rehensive survey
of population facilities) and the UNFPA/UNESCO project providing for 1
consultant for docunentation. Host of these coimitaente are short-term,
terminating in 1971 or at latest in 1972. Early in 1971, a UN/WHO/UNESCO
mission, funded by the UNTFPA, reviewed and evaluated the national family
planning program.
39.      In November 1971, the UNFPA and the Government signed a fatily
planning projoct in agreament. The total amount committed by UNFPA exceeds
$1,600,000 and covers the following:
a. several pilot projects with a maternity-centered approach to
family planning (the WHO as the major executing agency);
b.  a comprehensive family planning program in a model province
(executed jointly by the WHO, UNESCO, and UNICEF);
c. a comprehensive family planning program in a model county (WHO as a
major executing agency, with the UNICEF providing equipment for HCH
centers and transport);
d. training activities, fellowships, etc. (the UNICVIWBD);



-AN=  6
Pag 2 of 21
e, coammunications in support of family planning and population
programs (the UNESCO as major executing agency, with soe
assistance fron the UNICEF);
f. transport (186 vehicles to be purchased by the UNFPA and supplied
through the UNICEF);
g. research support;
h. assistance to non-government organizations; and
i. intercensal preparations.
40.      In 1972, the UNICEF committed US$100,000 for participation in a
government project for producing high-protein foods, supplying most of
the neessary equipment. For the period of the Fifth Five-Year Plan, the
UNiICV has earmarked approximately $2 million, so far mostly not yet
committed, with the exception of $468,ooc, which will be spent during
1972-74 for the establishment of a Trarnport and &luipment MaIntenance
Organization (TEM5). It will be attached to the Ministry of Health.
The Organization will improve the utilization and maintenance of the
Ministry' s increasing fleet of vehleles (including family planning
vehicles).
41.      The Pbpulation Council-'s involvement in Iran started in 1966
when the government invited it to make a survey of tne population probl'im.
Since then, the Council has provided consultants and research grants,
donated supplies, and supported training abroad. To date assistance from
the Population Council exceeds US$1 million. The Council has two resident
advisers in Iran. It is currently providing assistance for a far-ily plan-
ning communications project in Esfahan and a postpartum program at the
Farah Maternity Hospital in Tehran. Incomplete data for 1972 indicate
that the Council's comitx ents exceed US$290,OUO.



AMUEX 6
Page 13 of 21
Table 1
Iran:  Distribution of Average Monthly Recipients of Various
FaxiJ,y Planng Means by Agencies for All Provinces in 1970-71
(percent)
Agencies                   1 9 7 0                              1 9 7 1
Total      Oral                   Tot-al      OrB1
Recipients r:ontra.  IUD  Condo-   Recipients Contra.  IUD   Condom
Ministry of Health   77.8     78.1    67.7    .7         75.9    75.6    67.8   84.3
Health Corps        5.2      5.2       .2     0         14.7     4.9       .2    .8
Ministry of Roads       0        0        0     0          .01       0       .2      0
Railroads            .2       .2       .3     0          .3       .3       .3      0
Social Insurance      2.2      2.2     4.8      0         4.9      5.0     2.5    2.1
Min. of Education      .2       .2       .1     0          .1        .1      .1    .7
in. Coop. Rur. Dev.    0         0        0     0           0        0       0       0
Min. Poter & Water      0        0       .5     0          .3        .3    1.2       0
Amed Forces           1.1      1.1       .8     0         1.5      1.6      1.5    1.2
Universities           .5       .5       .5     0          .3        .4    1.1      .1
Red Lion & Sun         .4        .4    2.0      0          .5       .5      1.6    .8
Charities, Misc.       .9        .9    1.3      0          .5        .5    1.9    .14
Imperial Soc. Serv    2.0      2.1       .1     0         3.4      3.6       0      .2
Iran F. P. Assoc       .8        .8      .8   4.6          .8       .8    3.1    1.8
Inst. Mother/Newborn  4.2      3.>    10.2  Ah.7          3.0      2.9    13.1    5.6
Women's Org.          1.9      1.9      1.7     0         1.6       1.6     1.0    1.8
Nat'l Iranian Oil Co. 1.8      1.8      5.8     0         1.4      1.5      4.2      0
Tobacco                .2        .2      .2     0          .1        .1      .1      0
Steel                  .01       .01      0     0           0        0        0      0
Bank Melli              .4       .3     3.1     0           0        0        0      0
Others                  .4       .4       0     0           .6       .6       0     .2
Total               100.0    100.0   100.0 100.0        100.0    100.0   100.0  100.0
SoLrce:  "The Pbpulation and Family Planning Program in Iran:  An Inventory of Man-
power, Facilities, and Services," by A.A. Paydarfar, Consultant, UNFFA
(March 1972).



Fible 2
Ihan:      tamily Planning Clinics by Agency
and Province, March 1972
National    Social
th                     Wv;:en  Red i. '            Iranian       Insuranue
''!   -''i-    ,tIjS    . r<  @~cr.    afnIJ  MOE O) il (C.     cr-.aiz,t' Ion Others   T )t 31
l'ehran                      -2       -        -      il         2           ]        11       1             25             17       110
Centra,                      69      41       35        6        3           1         1       -              7               1       L6.
Gilan                        42      12       12        2        1           _         _       _              3                        73
Mazandar-an                  50      16       i4                 1           2         -       -              8               -        98
E. Azerbaijan                .6      22       18                 1           1         1       -              -               1
W. Aerbaijan                 .,      :0       1'                 -           i         1       -              2               1
Kermanstiah                          21        8        3        2           2         -       1              1               1
Khuzestan                    39      2J9      14        5        4           1                 6              6               1       105
Fars                         r6      28       17        S        2           5         -                      3               2
Kerman                         ,     21       14        2        1           1         1                       1              2
Khorasan                     70      34       ,1                 1           1         1                       2              2
Esfahan                       3      20       16        3        '           2         _       1               5              -
Sistan-Baluchistan           27      2_       11        3        1           1         -                      1               _        6
Kordestan                    15      20        7        3        -           1         -                      -               -        46
Chahar 'lahl-Bakhtiari  19            9        5        -        -           -                                                         33
Lores,tan                    ll      16                 '        1           1         1                       1              1 
Yazd                          :      12        6        -                    2.        1                       1              t
Hamadan                       ,,     10       10        3        1           -         _                       1              _
oman Sea                              8        2        3                    -         -                                      -
Ilersian Gulf                -       12        2        2        1           1         -
Semnan                       l       12        2        -        _           1         _                       1
Kofbkiluyeh                                                  -         -          -                            -              -          2
I la,a
7.48    '97     231        5       24         25         18       a             70             30    1,6,'
^< uror:  '-,inis.ry  of Heal.ii, TE!hran, Sevtcinber   19,72.



ANNtX 6
%j_e.LT of 21
Table 3
Iran: Fam.lly PLnirlng Results
April 1968 to May 1972
Oril         New
Contra-       Oral
ceptive      Contra-    Condoms
Clients      New       IUDs  1 /   Expnl-                  Cycles        ceptive      Dist.
month     Seen       Clients    InbertS       sionm     Rm2ovais    Dist.  2J    Clients    (Dozens)
Up to march  68                            16,000
Mar'h 21
April 20 168       15,361      2,746           797      31          82          8,588          -           -
HAy          25,398       5,295        1,071       49        126         '2,355          -            -
June         28,735       6,054        1.191       39        105         . ,254          _            _
JUl.y        34,178       8,284        1,221       54        155         21,134          -            -
Aug.         29,466       7,71h          736       32          80        21,327          -            -
Sap.         31,718       7,352          9 15      37        120         23,303          -
Oct.         39,653       9,929          848       28        150         27,691          784          -
NQV.         48,718      10,806          927       40        120         38,451        1,283          -
Dec.         53,844      11,408          937       33         104        43,433        1,768          -
Jan. 1969    67,213      12,688          802       36        181         54,868        4,787          -
Feb.         73,994      16,036          878       65        :68         62,559       10,481
Mar.          89,868     16,634          835       35        156         69,204        9,546          -
Apr.         84,399      20,258          845       57        213         72,501       17,260          -
May         110,073      29,474        1,205       85        277         96,095       26,414          -
Jun.        115,427      28,427        1,094       814       237        101,783       26,982          -
Jul         120,933      26,706        1,093       77        209        106.163       22,938          -
Aug.        118,806      24,413          963       83        172        105,173       20,738          -
Sep.        131,730      24,698        1,178       80        199        115,040       20,266          -
Oct.        120.710      23,847        1,175      134         339      :_5,520        19,110          _
Nbv.        123,664      22,297          983       55        212        Z_,i,78i      18,457          -
Doc.        132,011      24,380        1,079      14         226        11i,476       21,426          -
Jan. 1970   137,592      24,489        1,028       74        211        l2i,479       22,485          -
Feb.        155,804      28,583        1,150       95        249        139,786       27,114          -
Mar.        i56,93^      24,493        1,064       75        157        144,695       20,264        1
Apr.        151,8W7      25,634        1,320      106        243        134,405       22,226        4,411
May         173,819      30,875       1i,534       91        234        154,968       25,660        4,783
Jun.        170,033      26,666        1,137      124        226        150,586       22,162        6,316
Jul.        168,342      26.639          947       92        209        151,95C       2,9L:         5,466
Aug.        167,542      26,9Z7          815       62        160        152,050       22,929        5,240
Sep.        180,052      3C,693        1,049       88        169        162,774       ^'?,o12       5,079
Oct.        183,322      28,544          9L11      61        172        169,509       24,907        4,983
Nov.        186,525      28,500          802       85        184        174,824       ...,567       4,225
Dec.        194,122      29,663          961       76        240        175,902       2v,483        5,424
Jan. 1971   214,1314     32,142        1,149       80        199        201,251       26,849        6,330
Feb.        216,895      32,635        1,156       81        218        201,760       28,755        6,844
Mar.        240,266      35,250        1,275       76        248        235,646       30,097        8,243
Apr.        231,798      36,775        1,220      122        295        ''?,957       31,606        8,168
May         255,316       44,756       1,315       81         338       23,,836       34.241        8,915
Jun.        270,336      40,715        1,400       84        359        25C,252       35,083        9,248
Jul.        263,731      37,466        1,213       64        332        210,717       30,299        9,411
Aug.        253,489      34,732        1,058       83        229        236,101       28,435       10,527
Sep.        263,516      36,644        1,245       89         330       212,172       19,434       11,094
Oct.        269,538      37,915        1,001       80        211        251,628       31,787        9,703
Nov.        272,500      39,082        1,215       98        264        257,553       31,475       10,010
Dec.        286,595       40,723       1,150       80         318       257,057       32,560       12,097
Jan. 1972   291.311      40,1435       1,281       74        290        263,774       31,885       10,3143
Feb.        290,468      36,302        1,244       84        269        277,1466      29,651       11,524
Mar.        293,6614     41,516        1,309       92         302       290,71,8      32,113       12,272
Apr.         358,1439    148,218       2,169      136         286          -          38,618       15,932
May          391,446    59,311        2,556      154         531                     4 1,6,349    11,913
Y   IUD insertions since January 1967 - 72,500 apprOx.
3/  Exclusive of commercial iales which is currently estimated at approx. 100,000 per mOnth.
SOUrCe: Population Council Res. RPep, who regUlarly updates these tables with unpub1ished data from
the Ministry of Health. Data for the last tWo monthe (April and MaY 1972) were obtained
directly from the MiniStry.



Table 4
Iran: Monthly Average of Family Planning Performance in All Reporting Clinics, 1968-72
Average No.                          -jaw New A-captors         New Pill    eptors        MgDs Insert1,e    Condoms
of Reporting               Clients               %Acceptors             WNew                 %New        Distributed;-
Clinics       Y*ar        Seen         No.       seen           No.      AccptrsNo          Aceptors   (Dozens)  _
N.A.         1969J       34,071      7,732      22.7%        1,278       16.5%     961       12.4%       -
44          1969       107,403    22,472       20.9%       18,201       81.0%   1,011        4.5%       -
637         1970       168,825    27,642       16.4%       24,287      87.9%   1,062         3.8%      5,103
973         1971       253,093    37,428       14.8%       30,046      80.3%   1,200         3.2%      9,216
1305         19722/    325,666    45,156        13.9%       35,723       79.1%   1,712        3.8%     12,397
Available data refer to condom distribution rather than to condcm acceptance,
although the latter infoimation is retrievable from clinical reports.
Monthly averaze is based on data for April through December 1968.
3/ Hbnthly average is based on data for the months of January through May 1972.
0
H



0 0 S X; ; ; ~~~~~~~Table 5       
Iran:  Monthly Family Planning Performance and Pill
Continuation Rate in an Avsrae Clinic
t0  - I i   -Total    New FP    _TL1U    Ueiw lii-.       r  i   .         Monthly Pill
FP       Clients    Cycles   Accep£o or       Gor.TLunud       Continuation
Clients                Dist.                 'irom Previcns          Rate
Fil '                     Month           (Percent)
(2)        (3)
0    ,'?! 1 E(1,9    211.0  50.6     181.3       43.2           136.1
264.6      70.9       231.0        63.5          167.5             92.4
Jwt;.          276,1       68.o       243.5       64-.6         178.9             77.4
JtuL.          2o9.3       62.3       247.5      53.5           194.0             1'9.7
Aug*6.U>7@     265.2       54.0       234.8       46.3          185.5             7-.2
6qo.           287.0       53.3      250.6       41!.-          206-4             67.9
C2t .       ;  2S,.!4      50.6      225.0       40.1           164.3             73.5
9v 'f *261.4             47 .1      234.2       39.0           195.2             A60.6
271.1       50.1       243.3      44.0           199.0             85.1
: J-*tl. 1 970  262.1      4h.6     92409         42.8          198.1             51.it
260.2      51.4       251.4      )h.8            202.6              .1.
:  :2'. tt.   0 b"3X3.0  44.9  265.5  37.2       228.3             90.8
26)14.5    44.7       C34.2       38.7           195.5             73.6
299.7      53.2       267.2       44.2           223.0             9- 2
290.7      415.67                 37.9           21).5
:  9 A? .   .,  145.6  2,7.4     37 '          219.5              L 6.
A;D,           26I.6 i42.1            237 6      35, *8         201.8             Y | .3
2 !)   <.4  S42.7     22,S.4 it.                167.9              7I.1
:   Oc.  X 0  236.5 : 3' 6.           21 b.i       2.1         126.6              62.4
lo v.          241.3       3o.2 2,2.2             33.1          193 1 I             .3
243.9      37-3       221.0       3.5.          15.                  1
!t=Z. 19;' ! -   234,'.0  36.5       238.7       31.18         206.9               3.
244.5      36 .8      2 27 .5     32.4           1,5.1             1.?
268.?      39.3       263.0       33.6          2290.4            i(G. b
25  2.8    1 U. 1     232.2       3I .5          197.7             7_ 5
263.5      46-2       242.2       35.3           207.7
. -            2(?5.6     J41.5      253-.1      35.3           219.3
. Tll2I        _ fig69 .4  3'. 3      2h*9       30.9           215.0
254.3      34 .d      236 .!j      28,?.52.3
::  0 5  ,.   o261.9     36.41  2: V) .7        19.3          2221.4            9'.5
* t.           2T.'4.3     35.9       230-3      30.1           208                  .
2,54.4     3-5,       24O.5      *2.4           211.1             h%6
;$! .         2ej5.9      37.8       238.5       `0,2          2G: .3             6 i'
. ! , c 19)72  2 61 .      3 6.2     236.4&      2~  .6         20'. °            ` '.1
251.3      31-4 -  240.0                                           9027 2111.4  95.7
2:32. ;    35e7           ;t.0    276           222L         .7t
230.3      32.1                   25.7
250.0   :     v                  2)037.6  4        -
titotez:  .':  Col. (3   CoI. (3) - Col. (4).
i): d o.n dot^ i f'-l £r,i. lh, >~Irl.3try ai' 1D,t-th.



A*IEX 6
Page 18 of 21
Table 6
Iran: Distribution of Average Monthly Recipients of Various
Family Planning Heens by Province for All Agencies.  1970-71
(percent)
1970                                                       1971
Province                      Total              Oral                                    Total              Oral
Acceptors      Contraceptives       IUDs    Condoms    Acceptors    Contraceotives   IUDS   Cqtdoms
Central                          29.0               28.7          42.3       98.0           28.3               28.6         43.6       20.0
Gilan                              6.7               6.8            1.2       0               6.7               6.8          6.3        5.7
Mazandaran                         6.8               6.9            2.3       0               6.0               6.2          2.2        2.0
E. Azerbaijan                     6.0                6.1            1.9       0              6.3                6.5          3.2        2.8
W. Azerbaijan                      4.6               4.7             .6         .7           4.2                4.3            .8       2.6
Kermanshah                         1.7                1.7           1.0       0              4.0                4.1          1.6        3.3
Khuzestan                          7.8               7.7            5.5       0               6.0               6.0          5.3        6.7
Fars                               ki 2              6.2          12.9        0               6.8               6.6         14.3        9.7
Kearmn                             1.6               1.6             .9       0               1.7               1.6            .7       3.0
Khorasan                           8.5                8.5           3.9       0               7.0               7.1          3.4        5.1
Esfahan                            6.5               6.5           7.7        0              7.6                7.3          9.3       14.6
Sistan-Ealuchistan                 1.5                1.5            .1       0               1.5               1.5            .2       2. 3
Kordestan                          1.0                1.0            .4       0               1.5               1.5                     1
Lorestan                           2.1               2.1            1.2       0               2.0               2.1          1.5         .3
Chahar Mahhal                      1.3               1.3             .4       0               1.3               1.2            .8       2.7
Yazd                                .9                 .9            .2       0               1.4                 .9           .1      12.5
Hamadan                            3.2               3.2            1.2       0              3.2                3.2          1.3        3.0
Semnan                             1.0               1.0             .2       0              1.1                1.0            .2       2.2
Kohkiluyeh                          .3                 .3          0          0                .2                .2          C           .0
Ilam                                .1                 .1          0          0                .2                .2          0           .0
Southern                           1.6               1.6             .5       1.3             1.7               1.7           .2         .4
Unknown                            1.8               1.8           5.8        0              1.5                1.5          4.2         .0
TOTAL                         100.0              100.0         100.0     100.0           100.0              100.0       100.0      100.0
Source: A. A. Paydarfar, Consultant, 'The Population and Family Planning Prograsi in Iran: An Inventory of
Me power, Facilities, and Services," UIMPA (March 1972).



Table 7
Iran: Development Budget Allocations for Family Planning for the Fourti ..".ve-Year Plan
(in thousand Rls)
Iranian Year:         1347              1348            1349           1350           1351
(March 1968-
March 1969)      (1969/70)       (1970/71)      (1971/72)       (1972/73)
40,000            70,000        250,000        405,000         630,000
Salariesl/                                  4,483            21,372         54,754        100,296         206,366
Other Personal Payments
(allowances, honoraria etc.)             2,408              7,890         12,583         26,072          40,000
Travel expenditures (per diem etc.)           800             1,950          6,700         24,435          38,500
Rents (for buildings etc.)                  1,200             1,200          7,680          7,560          24,740
Contracts (publishing, translations,
research etc.)                            2,099             3,068          8,900         10,000          41,000
Maintenance                                   750             1,700          6,944          6,414            7,971
Administrative and Medical Supplies         2,0-Y)            6,072         57,196        123,221         160,000
Vehicles and Other Non-Medical Machinery 6,800                3,500         35,100         12,000          15,000
Office and ?ledical Equipment               1,000               700          7,700          7,500          14,000
Grants to Public Sector (county health
councils etc.)2/                        18,860             28,548         49,725         51,500          54,423
Grants to Private Sectors!/                   -                 -            2,719         26,002          28,(:C
1/ Do not include salaries of civil serv-ts, who are paid from the Ordinary Budget, while family
planning, with the exception of civil servants, is being financed entirely from the Development Budget.
0%
2/Motivators can be paid from these allocations. 
_  Grants mostly to the Red Lion and Sun Society.
Source: Ministry of Health, Family Planning Division, Tehran, August 1972.
___                                                                                                                       L



ANNEX 6
Page 20 of 21
Table 8
Iran:  Family Planning Personnel, March 19721/
1347           1348           1349           1350           1351
1968/69        1969/70        1970/71        1971/72        1972/73
Central Offic.   16              36             116             134           223
Provinces         66             87              616            616         1,334
Total Personnel Paid
from Development
Budget            82            123             732             750         1,557
/ This table does not include civil servants, paid from the Current Budget and
motivators, who are hired and paid by the county health councils.
Source:  Ministry of Health, Family Planning Division, Tehran, August 1972.



ANNEX 6
Page 21 of 21
Table 9
Iran: Qualifications of Family Planning Personnel, March 19721/
qvalification                     Number
Specialists                        24
Physicians                         81
M.A. degree (all categories)       10
B.A. degree (all categories)    191
Nurses and Yurse Midwives          27
High School Graduates             707
Behyars                           102
Others (Elem. Educ.):J            413
total                           1,55?
-/ Health Corps women and civil servants are not included. Every 6 months
500 conscripts are indu:ted into the Health Corps for a 2-year period
at an annual cost of arproximately Rls 70,000,000. As of March 1972,
there were 98 civil servants paid from the Current Budget; the total
expenditure for this purpose for the year 1350 (March 1971/March 1972)
was Rls 23,662,000.
Two hundred are drivers.
Source: Ministry of Health, Family Planning Division, Tehran, August 1972.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5
IRAN
Outline Terms of Reference for a Study of the Organization mnd Management
of the 1ran National Eopulation and pFamily Planin_g progam
Introduction
1.       The national populatic-n and family planning program in Iran was
initiated in 1966, 'oomediate priority being given to starting bhe program.
and generating momentum. This has been achieved. The country's Fifth
Development Plan kas set expanded targets for t! e family planning program;
these will require a larger and broader effort. Even at its present level
of activity, the program is recognized as having serious organizational
and administrative short-comings which the governient knows must be over-
come.  These shortcomings are partly   dinistrative and partly a result of
the multidisciplinary nature of the population problem; a national popula-
tion program to be fully effective requires the active participati m of
several Governmental and non-governme:,tal tnits in a coordinated fashion.
In particular, at the Government level, such a program needs not only the
participation of the Ministry of Health in the provision of family planning
services, and training of red4cal and para-med* :l persouinel, but also the
Ministries of Education and Higher Education for population education, the
Ministry of Information for mass communication efforts, the Ministries of
Labour and Social Afftirs and Cooperation anld Rural Affairs for motivation
in family planning as part of the Government's overall efforts to improve
social conditicns in urban and rural areas, etc. There are also about
twenty public and private agencies involved in implementing the Government's
population program.  No single locus of responsibiJJty prese-ntly exists in
Iran for planning, coordinating, supervising, and evaluating the program to
be executed by these varioui' Government and non-government agoacies; and no
institution, below the Prime M4inister's Office has now overall authority for
ensuring that participating agenciet  implement the Government's population
program in a coordinated fashion. Thus the program's present organization
and managemnt reouirea a thoroug  study to propose forms that will adequately
meet the multidisplinary requirements of the population p.ngram in the con-
text of Iranian conditions.
2.       The study will be conducted within certain assumDtions, the more
important of which are:
a. there will be a single multi purpose agenc5 e§ther within
or outside the Ministry of Health, responsib'e for the
planning and development of the natimnal program.
b. clinic   fami1y planning services will continue to be
delivered both through the clinic system of the reglar
health services provided by the Ministry of Health and
the separate health care facilities of cbher ouasi and
non-government agencies.



Page 2 of
Objectives
3.       The main objectives of the study are tos
a. define the principal management functions (staff and executive)
necessary tc enoble the national family planning program to
meet its objectives;
b. specify the alternative ways in whidh these functions could
best be organized within the overall structure of the goverm-
ment, at the present stage of program development, andreecommend
which appears most suitable; and
c. ensure that the selected managemient system can be and is
Implemented expeditioukly.
Compornents of the Study
4.          The study consists of three stages:
a.  Review of the Present Organization and Management
Practices
A descriptive, critical review of present -nagement
practices, and the organizational framewor4 within which
they operate, should cover the following functional areas:
i.  Policy Setting ari rlanning_processes, both in
the medium-term Ssay - five years) and short-term
tone year), and tne translation of planning pro-
posals into program activities, the achi.voent
of perforx&nue indicators, including both phye cal
units of acti'vtiy, and expenditur   aresUX
ii. Fhe distribution of authority for carrybing out. the
various program activities including responsibility
and authority for continuing supervision of these
activities. The analysis shall include the chain
of command, oy functions or activities, at the
national, provincial (ostan), and county (sharestan)
levels;
It may be useful to think of the first phase takk as being well-defined
and definite; whereas those in the second and third phase. are more in the
nature of suggestions and can only be finalized after the -esults of the
first ph.se are available.  Reasonable flexibllity. should be allowed in
this respect. At the start of the second phase, all parties (the govern-
ment, the cansultants and the Bank) should agree upon how best to proceed.



ANNE 7
Page 3 of 5
iii.  The communication of decisions, as well as technical and
management inrormation, within the Family Planning Divi-
sion (at all levels), between the Division and the Ministry
of Health, and other government, quasi- and non-government
organizations involved in family planning work;
iv.  The deteLmination of manpower requirements, training needs
and facilities;
v.  Personnel management, including recruitment, Lhe definition
of Job responsibiii:Ies, assigiment to field positians,
salaries, and allowances, and staff development policies
(e.g. career ladders, in-service training, joh rotation)
vi.  Financial management, including a review of all
fundjng sources, both internal and external,
budget planning and allocations, and firancial
control systems at all levLls;
vii.  Evabation systems, both s.hort and medium-term
operational evaluation and mediu= to long-term
demographic evaluation, including 'he collection
of input data, its analysis and the clitflow of
results for both management evaluation and infor-
mation nurposes;
viii. Measures to achieve coordination among the various
government, quasi- and non-government agencies
involved in providing support to, and delivery of
fami2y planning services;
ix.  Physical facilities for delivery of services,
Train ig, aominin tration, research, etc.; and
x.  Research program  budget and available facilities
for family planning and associated topics.
b.  Proposals for Management Improvement
The final report will be made available to the government,
in Parsi and English and will include proposals for a new
manageslt-evaluation system, recommendire the most suitable
choice. The proposals should identify;
i.  the functions and location of the central family
planning and policy-making body at'the central govern-
Ment level, as well as its representation (if any) at
provincial and local levels;
ii. the organization recuired to put plans and programs
into effect;
iii. the relationship to the national program of all the
various agencies involved and the machinery required
for ef.ective coordinaticn;



Wae  aof 
iv.  the relationship between the various maingement
functions--policy and planning, administration,
aervice, delivery, evuluation, and research;
v. the organization of a systam ii.volving the ef!f cient
collection ui service statistics and demographic
data for analysis in order to provide:-
(a) an affective, continuing measurement of the progress
of the family ?l wning program for both internal
management and external audiences; and
(b) continuing evaluation of the impact of the program
on fertility levels.
c.  Implementation of the Accepted Proposals
Once the government has ^onsidered the proposals and decided
which are acceptable and feasible, the final segment of the
stucdy will be concerned with implementation.  This will involvse:
i. detail of revised lines of authority;
ii. a summary description of responsibilities for each flunctional
unit and fox- each job within the central structure and each
post directly responsible to the central authority at ostan
and sharestan levels;
iii. manning tables;
iv. budget and planning and financial controls; and
v. service statistics/c aluation systems/reporting systems..
Procedures will 're sstablished and, if necessary, operational
memoranda prepare,, to ensure implementatioa according to a
specific timetabln. These recommendations will also identify
any techaical assistan.^e that the government might require to
implement the proposals.
Implementation of the Studq
5.        B By agreement with the government, responsibility for the
study would be assigned to a non-Iranian firm of management
consultants, or an appropriate institution with considerable
consultanoy experience in management/public administration
and a capability in the health/family planning field.
Selection of the consultants would follow Banrk proceclres,
i.e. the drawing up by the government of a sh-ort list of
qualified contractors, with Bank approval, ths submisaion
of study prcposals by the selected contractors, and t.s
final selection of a contractor, with Bank approval of the



=YzCf 5
terms and conditims of the contract. The consultants would
be expected to use Iranian advisers on a short-term b!asi,
and to sqxatain close liaison w-ith the State Organisation
for Administration and Employment and the Plan Orgunisaticn.
They would also be expected to draw upon the knwlodge and
expertise as recessary of local population experts of ths
UN and ethar population organizaticias in Iran. Regular
consultations during the study and afterwards vill be held
with the UITP Resident Representative and the 1JFPA Coordinator.
b. The study should be oonsidered with a c.eam of three to fives
members, not aIl of whom would necessarily need to be in
Iran at the same tim.e or for the s&me periods. Total
estimated field time is about six morhba, followed bv six
months for report-writing, consideration by Government
and the Bank, and the planning of follow-up "teps.  At
any one time, not more than three persons should probably
be working in Tehran, with olher team members covering
selected provinces and counties; it is estimated that
field work outside Tehran should corer  ';out three provinces
(with selective coverage of one or two counties in eauh such
province) and that eaca province would require vibits of
ab)out three weeks:
c. Estimated cost of the study is:
5 expatriates for 9 months (salary, travel,
subsistence                                        175,000
2 Iranian staff (secretary, admin. asst.)
for six months                                       6,ooo
4 Iranian advisers, 1 month each                       2,500
Report translation and p.inting                        2,000
Overhead and contingency (at 35% approx.)             65,0OC
US$250,500



7ran: Location of Proposed Health Ci-.ters and Aasociazed Data
Population Projected             Present                                         Family Planning Atteods-ce
for 1978                  .Buildiog                                                              T'^tal      D(.ily Average
cation by Province       (A) Whole   (B) Town-              owteeship             New Clients                  Old Clients           Clients   Clients
and Countv           Countj       ship only   B/A-Z   Govt.  Rented    1969    1970    1971            196°    1970    1971       .n '971   in 1971
ntTal Proiv,ce                                                                                (3,140)                    (17,758)
Garnsar                 46,013       7,320       15.9               x       946       524      460      6,012   6,912    5,320    5,780  -    9.3
Tafrest-               114,150       9,800        8.6               x       364       244      348        800   1,144    1,948    2,332           7.8
Khoeevin                81,790      16,409       20.0               x        680      484      380      3,420   3,424    5,872    6,252          20.8
Damavrnd                73,921       8,356       11.3               x       368       468      384      2,256   2,628    3,928    4,312          14.4
Hahallat                56,96:      19,102       33.5               x        280    1.332   1,568       2,484   3,704        690    2,258         7.5
lan                                                                                          (3,258)                     (3G,178)
Astara                  38,273      16,332       42.7               x        276      340      300      1,776   2,652    3,524    3,824          i2.7
Pudsar                 174,181      17,930       10.3               x        512      592      576      3,824   5,872    6,774    7,350          24.5
Rudbar                  94,253       6,368        6.8               x       276       292      312      1,008   1,920    2,772    3,'J4          10.3
Langerud                85,706      26.700       31.2               x       484    1,076       988      4,472   6,004    9,484   10,472          34.9
Sonehsar,              117,071      13,080       11.2               x        300      432      692      1,052   2,844    4,548    5,240          17.5
Tavalesh               153,002       9.095        5.9               x       380       268      388        968   1,968    3,076    3,464           1.5
Finan                  '-f6,840     14,300        9.1               x
:andaran                                                                                       (892)                      (8,816)
Nowshahr               140,642      13,974        9.9      x                 248      296      244      1,308   2,012    1,716    1,960           6.5
Shahsavar              164,675      18,542       11.3               x        668      600      648      3,288   5,232    6,90D    7,548          25.2
Azerbaijan                                                                                   (1,  C)                     (10,928)
Khalkhal                169,772     10,780        6.3               x        212      288      240        528      996    1,296    1,546          5.2
Marahd                 .192,621     30,000       16.0               x         84      t88      876        564   3,668    4,608    5,484          18.3
Sarab                  149,925      26,447       17.6               x        336      348      540      . 768   2,960    3,360    3,900          13.0
Meshginshahr            270,745      13 934        5.1              x        1(80     212               1,084   1,424    1,664    1,768           5.9
Ras:otrud              209,C55       6,143        2.9               x                         (498)
Azerbaijsn                                                                                  (1,544)                      (19,444)I
,Iiaan'ab              226,090      29,088       12.9                        356      644      620      2,112   6,452    7,228    7,848          26.2           1 i
Sardasht                50,789       8,925       17.6                                     
t4aku                  1Z8,167      10,850        8.5      x                176       220      300         .88    400    3,5122   3,812          12.7             ,
Naghdeb                 89,193      16,741       18.8                       680       892      624      3,120   6,104    8,704    9,328         Z'.1            °
~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Iran: Location of Proposed He lth Centers and Associated Data
Populiri-n Projected             Present                                       F, . ly Planning Attendance
for i978                   Building                                                                  Total         Daily Average
Locsttcn by Province        (A) Whole.(B) Town-                  Ownership              New               Clients                           Clients      Clients
ando County           C             ship only   B/A=7   Govt.  Rented    1969    1970    1971            1969    1970    1971         in 1971       in 1971
Keroanshah                                                                                         (1,760)                     (11,764)
Shahabad                163,809       18,299        11.2              x         580      684      548    3,184   3,472   4,608           5,156          17.2
Paveh                   107,540        6,072         5.6              x          16      188      276        58   1,404   1,444          1,720           5.7
Songhor                  86,419       23,919        27.7              x         440      564      384    2,160   3,656   3,568           3,952          13.2
Chnsr-Shirini            83,263       24,651        29.6              x         288      652      552    1,432   3,528   2,144            2,696          9.0
Khuzestan                                                                                           (2,030)                    (11,604)
Masjid-Solcyman           77,028      2Q,956        38.9              x         356      700      828    2,656   4,596   4,404            5,232         17.4
Izeh                    161,478        7,928         4.9   x                    392      224      290       688   2,196   2,428          2,718           9.1
Mahhshahr                73,171       25,720        35.2              x         672      340      336       292   1,784   2,488           2,610          3.7
Sltishtar                97,046       29,000        29.9                        544      444      576    2,344   2,288                   3,064          10.2
Dasht-Mishan            100,203       10,155        10.1              x
Fars                                                                                                (2,326)                    (18,108)
Abadeh                  176,47h       24,626        14.0              x         364      836      368    2,096   3,124   3,124            3,492         11.6
Estahbanat               40,539       28,189        69.5              x         296      122      120       800      240      964         1,084          3.6
Iar                     172,282       28,576        16.6              x
Dar.t                   100,569       20,799        20.7              x         352      520      456    1,312   2,924   4,148           4,604          15.3
Fasa                    103,850       29,538        28.4              x
Firuzabad                85,979       13,512        15.7              x         356      252      150    2,648   2,416   2,644            2,794          9.3
Mamnasani                113,566       8,170          7.2   x                    128       84     548        592      288   4,136         4,784         15.9
Neyriz                    55,522      24,976        45.0              x          248     300      420    1,436   1,756   2,280            2,700          9.0
Marvadasht                91,500      30,500        33.3   x                     524     596      264    2,752   3,584         812        1,076          3.6
Kerman                                                                                              (2,028)                    (11,348)
Rafsanjan               161,394       26,781        16.6   x                    240      260      296        598     624   1,576          1,872          6.2
Baft                     79,713        9,751        12.2              x          56       70       76       236      776   1,188          1,264          4.2
Sirjan                  122,067       30,330        24.8              x           14   1,108      664        452   2,240   4,688          5,352         17.8          V
Bam                      97,198       28,800        29.6              x         340   1,084       848    1,316   2,556   3,344           4,192          14.0          co
Jiroft                  182,841       10,420          5.7             x          120      128      144       522      580      552          690          2.3   
ol M



Iran: Location of Proposed Heaith Centers and Associated Data
Population Proje.,ted            Present                                       Family Planning Attendance
for 1978                   Building                                                                  Total        Daily Average
Location by Province       (A) Whole   (B) Town-               _wkesh iZ_               New Clients                Old Clients             Clients      Clients
and County            Coun.v       ship only   B/A=7.   Govt.  Rented    1969    1970    1971           1969    1970    1971         in 1971       in 1971
Khorasan                                                                                          (5,416)                   (29,612)
Torbat-Jam              167,289      21,634        12.9              x         326      360      388       868   1,232   1,584           1,972          6.6
Esfarayen                76,585      11,133        14.5              x          256      176      32       624   1,188       760           792          2.6
Darehgaz                101,902      16,602        16.3              x          380     652      420       404   3,360   3,960           4,380         14.6
Shirvan                  60,577      16,290        26.9               x      4,220   1,880   1,976   19,720  10,124  10,832             12,808         42.7
Tabas                    44,215      15,307        34.6               x         284   1,054      488        632  11,800   1,160          1,648           5.5
Ferdows                  62,657      16,760        26.7               x         164      348      248    1,620   2,080   1,292           1,540           5.1
Kashmar                  45,905      26,450        57.6       x                 704      904   1,028    2,054   4,684   7,072            8,100         27.0
Gonabad                  77,183      12,635        16.4               x         604      664      836    1,832   2,160   2,952           3,788          12.6
Esfahan                                                                                           (2,004)                    (14,828)
Ardestan                 57,004      10,299        18.1               x         204      268      168    1,468   1,236   1,080           1,248           4.2
Semirom                  42,517      15,524        38.5               x
Faridan                 170,358       8,077         4.7               x         124      208      328       568   1,316   1,128          1,456           4.9
Golpayegan              102,843      27,515        26.8       x              4,104   1,656   1,072    2,300   9,820   9,772             10,844          36.1
Nain                     52,315       9,183        17.6               x         228      324              1,076   1,628   1,744          1,948           6.5
Natanz                   37,355        6,773       18.1               x          84       84      232       280      768   1,104         1,336           4.5
Baluchistan
Iranshahr               128,675       8,348         6.5       x                 552      132      186       816      528   1,268         1,354           4.5
Chahbahar                73,458       6,000         8.2               x
Saravan                  72,610        8,365       11.5               x
Zabol                   202,063      24,900        12.3       x                 252      260      300    1,064   2,432   1,892           2,192           7.3
Kordestan                                                                                         (2,816)                    (14,084)
Bijar                   123,286      18,259        14.8               x          13      164      620        62      748   3,104         3,724          12.4
Ghorveh                 128,296        8,146        6.3               x                  1,'8     288                       1,684        1,972           6.6
Saghez                  120,282      27,642        23.0               x       3,521      424   1,444    1,840   2,176   4,104            5,548          18.5
Marivan                 111,937        6,716        6.0               x         116      236      21f    1,032   1,960   2,392           2,608           8.7
Banelh                   41,717      13,356        32.0               x          24      244      248        85   1,848   2,800          3,048          10.2
0
o4l,



Iran: Location Of Proposed Lealth Centers and Associated Data
Present           _
Building                                                                Total        Daily Avera.ge
Location by Province       (A) Whole   (B) Town-              Ownership              New Clients                Old Clients             Clients      Clients
and County           County        ship only   B/A-%   Ghvt.  Rented    1969    1970    1971          1969    1970    1971         in 1971      in 1971
Chahar MHhal-Bakhtiari
Borujeh                 155,338      23,953       15.4              x         344      416      368    1,780   3,172    4,196         4,564         15.2
Kohkiluyeb
Dehdasht                140,190      22,363       16.1              x                            36                          96         132          0.4
Hanradsn
'Iuyserkan              106,558      18,525       17.4              x         IOC      432      676      220   3,200    5,456         6,132         20.4
Persian Gulf
Borazjan                 94,912      25,446       26.8     x                  430      572     452    1,704   5,108    6,632          7,084         23.6
Oman Sea
Bandar-Langeh           100,337      11,187       11.2              x                           228                          540        768          2.6
Minab                   132,696       8,230        6.2              x          36      176      660      140      820    2,968        3,628         12.1
Semnan
Damghan                  57,657      ',455        35.5              x
Lores tan
Aligudarz               161,451      21,115       13.1              x         348      376     640      2,352   2,016   3,284         3,934         13.1
Y^izd
Ardakan                 63,300       21,300       33.6              x         332      276     800      1,244   1,056   3,020         3,820         12.7



hX9
Page 1 of 6
Iran:  Schedule of Ace-amodation
1. Health Centers
A. Curative Clinic
T0 patients/session
Staff or                                  Total
Subject                    Capacity      No. of Units    Area m2   Area
History taking                  1 Behyar            1       x    12    =  12
Consulting/exam.                1 M.D.              1       x    12    =  12
Treatment                       1 Behyar            1       x    12    =  12
Waiti-ig area                   30 Patients         1       x    45    = 5
Total                 81 m-2
B. Preventive Clinic (T.B./Leprosy/V.D./Trachoma)
20-25 patients/session on appointment basis
Staff or                                  Total
Subject                     Capacity    No. of UJnits    Area m2    Area
History taking                   1 Behyar           1       x    12    =  12
Consulting/exam.                 1 M.D.             1       x    12    =  12
Vacc./treatment                  1 Behyar           1       x    12    =  12
Waiting area                    15 Patients         1       x    25    =  25
Total                 61 m
C. Maternal & Child Health and Family Planning Clinic
20-25 patients per session
Staff or                                  Total
Subject                     Capacity    No. of Units    Area m2    Area
listor7 taking                   1 Behyar            1      x    12    -  12
Consulting/exam.                 1 M.D.             1       x    12    =  12
Treatment                        1 Behyar           1       x    12    =  12
F.P. service                  (1 Behyar Midwife    1        x    12    =  12
(1 Behyar
Waiting area                    15 Patients         1       x    25    =  25
Total                 73 na
D. Ancillaries
Training/demonstration room   30 Seats              1       x    50    =  50
Lab/Specimen taking              2 Technicians      1       x    20    =  20
Pharmacy anc. storage            1 Pharmacist       1       x    12    =  12
X-Ray (inciuding
processing & control)          1 rechnician       1       x    20    =  20
Information and records          1 Clerk            1       x    10    =  10
Sterilizing and clean
supply storage                  1 Behyar           1       x    12    =  12
Staff W.C.s e changing                              1       x    15    =  15



ANNE g
Staff or                             Total
Subject                 Capacity    No. of Units  Area m2  Area
Staff lounge                                       1       x   12  -  12
Soiled utility and
soiled linen holding                              1       x   5   -   5
Janitor closet                                     1       x   5   -   5
Patients' W.C.                                     1       x  20   =  20
Vaccination room                                   1       x  15   =  15
Nutrition distribution
and storage                                       1       x  12   =  12
General storage                                    1       x  15   =  15
Total             a23 
E. Ob. Gyn.
Procedure room                                     1       x  16   =  16
Recover- room (2 beds
& toilet and shower)                             1       x  20   = 20
Utility for supplies and
instruments                                       1      x        =   5
F. Administration
Health Officer                  1 M.D.             1       x  12   =  12
Accountant                      1                  1       x  12   -  12
Personnel                       1                  1      x  12   =  12
Secretary & Typist
;and storage                 2                   1      x  12   -  12
Epidemiology                    7                  2       x  16   =  32
Future District Malaria
Director                      1                  1       x  12   =  12
Future malaria staff
including clerical storage   3                    1      x  30   =  30
Sanitarian                      1                  1       x  12      12
Sanitarian assistants           2                  1       x  12   = 12
W.C.s for admin.                                   1       x  10   = 10
Total             156 m
Grand Total      635 m2
Grossing factor        2
(30%)          190 m2
Gatekeeper         35 m2
Tctal Gross Area bb0 m
G. Staff Accommodation (in separtite bldgs.)
3-Room Apartment for M.D.s                         2       x  70   = 14o
Behyars' Dormitory
Rooms                                    8       x  12   5  96
Kitchen                                  1       x  10   =  10
W.C. & shower                            2       x   6   -  12
Dining and lounge                        1       x  20   =  20
(Car shelteyz for 4 vehicles included              Total            278 eo
in site i~~~~~,rks) ~Grossing factor2
in site -works)                                  20-               55m
20%       5A     3
Total Gross Area 333 m



ANNE
2. Behyar Schools for 60 Stud6nr. Places                            Pagne?of 6
(2-Year Course with Entering Class of 30 Students)
A.  School                             Staff -or                             2
Sub.ject                 Capcity        No. of Units.  Area m       total Area
Director's office                -               1         x       12            12
Tutor's office                       6           3         x       16    -       48
Secretary's office (including
waiting & storage)                  1           1         x       12    a       12
Accounting office                    2           1         x       16    *       16
Class room                          30           2         x       48    a       96
Practical room                      30           1         x       60    n       60
Utility room (attached to
practical)                          1           1         x       10            10
Laboratory                          30           1         x       60    0       60
Conference                          70           1         x      100    m      1CC
Library                             30           1         x       40    -       40
Storage                                          1         x       10    ,       10
W.C. & washing                       6           6         x         3           18
Staff W.C. & washing                 2           2         x        3             6
Tea pantry & servants room           I           1         x       15    '       15
Lockers                              1           1         x        6    -        6
Staff room                           1           1         x       12    -       12
Total of School                521 mZ
B.   Dormitory
Bedrooms                             2          30         x       15            450
Housemother (including
W.C. & shower)                      1           1         x       20    a       20
Infirmary (including
W.C. & shower                       2           2         x        20    -      40
Lounge (active)                     20           1         x       40    -       40
Lounge (quiet)                      20           1         x       36    -       36
Toilets                             10          10         x      3.60   -       36
Showers                             10          10         x      3.60   -       36
Linen                                            1         x         6    -        6
Laundry                                          1         x       12    -       12
Hair dressing                                    1         x        12    -      12
Pantry (attached to
cuiet lounge)                                   1         x        6    a        62
Total of Dormitory             694 m
C.   Services
Geieral store (including
suitcases storage)                              1        x        50    U       50
Kitchen (including food
storage)                                                  x       45            145
Dining (2 sittings)                 40           1         x       60    a       60
Workers' dining                     10           I         x        15    U       15
Laundry                                          1         x       40    a        0



Page4of 6
Staff or                          2
Subject                  Capacity       No. of Units Area m   Total Ares
Ironing                                         1        x    20    -    20
Sewing and store                                1        x    30    -    30
Boiler house                                    1        x    50    -   50
Male workers' lockers
(inaluding W.C. & shower)           6          1       x    10    -    10
Female workers' lockers
(including W.C. & shower)           6          1       x    10    -    10
Caretaker's flat (including
W.C. & shower)                                  1       x    15          15
Total Service Area    345 m6'
Staff accommodatimn                             6        x    35    -   210
Director's flat                                 1        x    70    -    70
Total Staff             280 mz
Total                 1,840 m2
Grossing factor (356) 644 m 2
Total Gross Area      2,4h4 m=



ANNEX 9
3. Regional Family Planning Training Ceaters                        Page 5 of "!
Staff or                          2
'._Dormitory                 Capacity    No. of Units.  Area m       Total Area
Bedrooms                         2           62       x    15    -       930
Housemother (int.luding
W.C. & shower)                  1            1       x    20    a        20
Infirmary (including            x
W.C. & shower)                  2            2       x    20             40
Lounge (active)                 30            1       x    60 o           60
Lounge (quiet - subdivided
by folding partition)          30            1       x    50             50
Toilets                         14           14       x  3.60 o           51
Showers                         14           14       x  3.60             51
Linen                                         1       x    10    -        10
Laundry                                       2       x    10             20
Hair dressing                                 1       x    15             15
Pantry                                        1       x    10    U        10
Mbsque                                        1       x    12    -        12
1-3al                       1,269 m
B.   Services
General store (including
suitcases)                                   1       x    60    -        60
Dining (two sittings)           60            1       x    90    -        90
Kitchen (including food
storage, etc.)                               1       x    75             75
Workers' dining                 15            1       x    25    a         25
Laundry                                       1       x    60    -        60
Ironing                                       1       x    25    -        25
Sewing and Store                              1       x    10    -        40
Boiler kouse                                  1       x    60    a        60
Male workers' lockers
(inc. W.C. & shower)            8           1             12    -        12
Females workers' lockers
(inc. W.C. & shower)            7            1       x    12    .        12
Caretaker's flat (inc.
W.C. & shower)                               1       x    15    -        15
Total                         47L1 m
C.  School
Director                         1            1       x    15    -        15
Assistant director               1            1       x    12    a        12
Staff                            2            1       x    15    '        15
Secretary, storage &
photocopy                                    1       x    20    u        20
/ Fifty rooms for Health Corps cadets and 12 rooms for women participants.



ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 6
Staff or
Subject                    Capacity       No. of Units   Area m2    Total Area
Class room                     50              2    x      80      -      160
Praetical room                 25              1    x      50      -       50
Staff lounge                                   1    x      20      -       20
Staff W.C.s                                    1    x       5      -        5
Storage                                        1    x      15              15
Total                        312 m2
(Conference Room and Library are shared with Training Center)
Training Center
Conference (including
chair storage &
projection)                 120               1    x    170       -      170
Class room                    30               2    x     48               96
Library                        50              1    x      75      -       75
Lounge & exhibition
(will double as
extension to confer-                          1    x      60              60
ence room)
Cafeteria                                      1    x      50      -       50
Materials preDaration                          1    x      30      =       30
Administration offices                         6    x      12      -       72
Secretarial space and
storage                                       1    x      20      -       20
W.C. (male)                                    1    x      10       -      10
(female)                                 1    x      10       _      10
Janitor closet & storage                       1    x       5      -        5
Total                        598 mn2
Grand Total                2,653 m2
Grossmng Factors             928 m2
Total Gross Area           3,581 m2
NOTES
1. It is anticipated that items B & C will be grouped architecturally to facilitate
maximum utilization by both groups of users.
2.  The space program of the Teheran Center wil] be increased to about 7160 m2 gross
to accommodate the greater student body.



AIE  10
iage 1 of 1
Iran- Rural Health Study
1.      Part of the Bank loan will be used to finance the construction of
78 Type Iv health centers. These ar^ situated in counties which are pre-
dominantly rural. The &verage county population, pr.jected to 1978, Is
about 110,000 of which some 19,000 will be living in the administrativs
capital where each health venter will be located. At present, healctn
facilities in the rural areas are provided by clinics establibhed by
'he government, the Health Corps, and the Ixperial Organization for
Social Serv*eos. The physical difficulties facing the delivery of
health and family planning services are considerab1a. It is estimated
that at least 20% of the rural population is beyond the reach of heAlth
services. In the Fifth Plan, the government will give priority to up-
gradi-ag the 1,100 rural centers, and second priority to the construction
o,f 500 - 600 units bringing the total number of rural health centeru,
with at least one physician in residence, to about 1.700. To obtain the
optimun benefit from the Type IV centers, the distribution of their peri-
theral service units (incluaing mobile servi -es) must be plannmd with
-are. The objectives of this study will, therefore, be to:
i.  deternine the number of rural health centers and their
optimum distribution within the 78 counties covered by
the project;
ii.  produce operational memoranda detailing the ways in
whicn the rural clinics can best provide MCH and familv
plaraiing services with support and supervision frao the
county health center; and
iii. provide data and experience for use in the preparation
of a second populaticn project.
The Goverxwrnt will enter in'o arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
providing for technical assistance in carrying out the study of rural
health and fariy planning servicos.



ANNE 11
Page 1 of 2
Iran: Niutrition 
1.      During the visit of the apnraisal mission to Tehran in August/
September 1972, the government, becoming increasingly concerned with the
social aspects of development and the relationships between population
and nutrition, asked the Bank to finance a nutrition project. The mission
determined that further study would be needed before this was possible. As
a result of a further visit to Tehran in December 1972, it was agreed that
a study would be required as a basis for possible Bank involvement. This
study would be based on the work already done by the goverr-zont, particularly
the draft plan 3  for a nutritional policy and plans.  The elements of the
nutrition study listed below are drawn from its principal conclusions.
2.      Malnutrition in Iran is a problem of major proportions, with a
quarter to a half of the population being at risk because of nutritional
deficiencies. Caloric and associated protein deficiencies are the primary
concerns, although serious deficiencies of several vitaxins and minerals
also exist. Because bread plays such a dominant role in the Iranian diet,
the nted to increase bread consumption has appropriately been emphasized by
Iranian officials in an attack on the calorie-protein problem. A nutrition
program that succeeded in raising bread coswmption among the undernourished
suggests need for measures to generate (or tramsfer) income in ways to make
it possible for the needy to obtain the bread and measures to increase the
wheat supply by b;lr a million tons.  The attack on vitamin c1di mineral
deficiencies also might be focused on bread, via fortification of centrally
processed wheat flour; an estimated 75% of the wheat flour is processed
in ten flour mills. Preliminary calculations presented by the Division of
Health and Social Welfare of the Plan Organisation saggest that ths bread
theme approach should be feasible and worthwhile.
3.      The study will also consid3r the feasibility of the following
additional elements:
a.  Nutrition education:  For both mass meeia and more conventional
forms of health/natrition education, the project preparation
study wi.U examine the advantages and disadvantag_s of alternative
media/mes.npes/audiences as well as the effectiver.s-s of nutrition
education as a behavioral determinant in Iran.
b.  Production of formulated food: T.he study will advise on the
appropriatEness at this s        of large-scale production of a low-
cost formulatei food. Study considerations will be similar to
those raised in paragraph 2. Also included would be examinatimn
of alternative forms of distribution (through the market or
public institutional feeding or botl.) and whether production
could better be accomplished with one large plant or several
smaller ones.
1/ Coordinated National Food and Nutrition Policy and Plans, Division of
Health and Social Affairs, Plan Organization, Hay 1972.



Nmll
Page 2 of ?
c. Nutrition planndngs For a more refined understanding of nutritional
atius, the influences on that status, and the relative effectiveness
of alternate interventicns, a longterm analysis is required.  The
project preparation study will provide an outline for such an analysis,
including the design of studies for demand, supply, and price analysis
and the updating and strengthening of food intake data. The project
preparation study should specify who would undertake the work for what
cost and in what time period.
d. Manpower Training: Manpower needs, as roughly estimated in the
draft plan, should be refined in the project preparation study,
aloag with specilicttions for training neads, techniques, and
costs to meet those need;.
For all of the above, the study will examine costs as related to expected
impacts and provide a time frame for the mounting and evaluation of the
activities. The Government has agreed to develop detailed terms of reference
along the above outline.
3.      The proposed study will focus on the feasibility of two elements
in particular of a Dossible subsequent nutriticn projects
a. Pilot Drovince project to tesa +tle effectiveness of interventions
disciassed in the draft plan: The project preparation study will
outline specific policies and programs to be tested (including
ooth coasumer and producer incentives directed to greater bread
con-umption and several forms of institutional feeding and health
center-related nutrition activitiss described in the draft plan),
advise on the selection of the Zrovince for the pilot work, and
examine the size and costs of the several elenents and the staffing-
budgetary implications and administrative mechanisms necessary for
the pilot province activity.
b. Fortification:  Fcr a national bread fortification pr_c eax, the
project preparation study should determine the appro-r;ite nutrients
and the levels of those nutrients required for fortification, the
overall quantity of nutrients needed, the desirability of importa-
tion versus local production of synthetic nutrients (if the latter,
nature and size of required facility, required equipment, peckaging-
storage-transport needs), equipment for metering nutrients into food
staples, and whether production should be in the public or private
_actor. The study will also examine other food staples (with special
emphasis on salt and sugar) that may be appropriate vehicles for
fortification.
4.      The loan will include US$150,000 for the nutrition study which will
require about one year to complete.  The study will be undertaken by a working
group designated by the Plan Organization.  To augment local sra.f, contractual
arrangements will be made by the plan Organization with outside consultants (or
institutions) to provide skills not locally available. An estimate' eleven man
months of external ass4stance will be needed. Specifically required will be
advisor services in fool technology (with special experi6nce in fortification
of food staples), food earineering, nutrition planing, and nutrition education.



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
Irani: ProJect Implementation
1.      To provide a J.ocr, of overall responsibility for coordination of
the execution of the projvot aai liason with the Bank, the Government will
designate a Project Coord'iInator. The Project Coordinator is expected to
be the Deputy Minister for Population and Family.Planning in the Ministry
of Health.
2.      To ensure the proper execution of the civil works couponent of
the project, the Government will establish a Unit, in the )(inistry of
Iealth, to be headed by a fu.L-time, qualified and experi -nced Project
Architectural Manager 0AM).  The initial appointment of a PAM will be
a condition of loan effectiveness. The PAM will be assisted by an
accountant and technical personnei, including a full-time representative
of the Minist'y of Housing and Development. He would work exclusively
for the project and act in a managerial as distinct from an executive
role. The Government will also engage, as necessary, the services of
a sonsultant for construction scheduling, anx prepe: ing and updating
out3ine progress charts in respect of the various activitis required
for the timely execution of the civil works.
Functions and Responsibilities of the PAM
3.      The Project Architectural Manxger will report directly to the
Deputy Minister for Population and Family Planning in the i1{nistry of
Health. The main functions and responsibilities of the Project Archi-
tectural Manager shall include inter alia:
(a)  techrncal supervision of the implementa'tion of Parts A & B
of the Project;
(b)  coordination cf the activities of the executive architects and
the foll'-'-up of the day to day teehcieal activlties of the
agencies concerned with the execution of Parts A & B of the
Project;
(c)  matters cencerning tIw establishment of standards, user require-
ments, eq,Lipment lists, space schedules and the preparation of
schematic and final designs for construction components and
their cost e3timates; and ensuring adherence by the executive
architects and contractors to agreed progress schedules;
(d)  coordination of the system building study;
(e) making reccnmendations on the suitability o' the sites
selected for acquisition;
(f)  collaboration with the various Government authorities
concerned with the execution of Parts A & B of the Project in:



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
(i)   the selection and appointment of the executive
architects;
(ii)  reviewing progress at monthly meetings;
(iii) the selection and prequalification of contractors; and
(iv)  the periodic site inspection of work in progress.
(g)  ensuring that the review and approval by appropriate authorities
and, where required by the Bank, of architectural ard engineering
reports, plans, specifications, equipment lists and other submitted
material relating to the Project takes place at the following
stages:
(i)   schem.tic design;
(ii) final design; and
(iii) working drawings and conbract documents.
(h) participation with the Ministries and other Goverrment agencies
involved in the supervision of bidding procedures and the adjud-
ication and award of contracts in respect of Parts A & B of the
Project;
(i)  preparation and processing of all certificates of payment f6r
suppliers and contractors, copies of which will accompany ap-
plications for ithdrawal from the Lown Account;
(j)  ensurinp the prompt aid timelv orderirg and installation of
furniture and equipment;
(k)  evaluation of progress of Parts A & B of the Project through
the preparation and submission of monthly progress reports to
the Ministry of Health;
(1)  verifyTng, upon completion of the civil works under Parts
A & B of the Project, the recommendations of the uxecutive
archi.ects that the facilities be accepted as having been
completed in acordance with the specifications.
Packaging of Construction Contracts
4.     Contracts will be packages regionally, on the basis of ease of
communication and terrnin, and centered on provincial capitals; the latter
are of course also the regional baBes for builting supplies and labor.
Nine packageb have been delineated. The value of these will be aboat
$2 m$illion each with the exception of Kordestan, and Sistan and Baluchistan;
due to the difficulties of cLate and terrain in these areas the packages
have been increased to about $3 million in order to attraL L appropriately
qualified contractors. The packaging arrangements are cho;n on the S-ip
attached to thia Annex.
In the event of non-receipt of bids for facilities in remote areas,
the goverm3nt would, in consultation with the Bank, negotiate directly
with local contractors.



AN1NEX 15
SrIiEDIILE OF IMPL.1EMETATION AND QUARTERLY EXPENDITURE                                                                                 Page    of 2
QUIARTERS                                                                        4  37                                                        8               9               IS              1             12             13             14
__________________________   ~~~~~~    Desi~   n  , Wr  orkine\R   \  AC                                         N  Jj   J T    LT    0    K     _ _ _ _                        o   i s       - _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _
iT77*7        -                                                                                                                                          Defects   int.
Dfects (p uRpuent an, Furviture  
Techntical Stuwies
[.       -                                              -                  ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P ro    ec   t  Unt
K11                R Is   It 1$   RI.   US$      R.,   4$       R,   IS         R,   L7        R.     L'5$    R,      US S     . R,   s$    R'      1111$   R,     usS    R,;   VI9       R.t   SO.   R,.
F-,                 0.2   17.,                   t)~~~~. 2  17 110.2     7 1  . 1          .9   1.       4.9   1)114.7    -.                          4.89!           4.81~1         4.8
Sit, .ork.. and con-,tr,-tin                                                                    4       57  .3  4.7   373   1.5  1011 9   I5  101.5   IS5                                             10151,  ) .  .    1.8    26.4
Eq,~~~~~ip-,,t ~~~~~~~~~nd f.r.ishing ~~~~                   ~              ~            ~            ~          ~         11.  1.5111.593.4
_______________-    -'---'-4.-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1.0,~~72.7                                                  .,9                         1.4    93.5                                                                  0147i8.5
S'~~ p -V i " iI                                                       0.1     4.2    .           .4.   1.3  I1.8  ((.2    15       0,      10.7 (2         Is.: 102        2    157.2    I.7
o.I    o I       4    ).I     .                           I . II
9',-lhlsI,,..                            I        1~~~~~~~~           ~        ~~~~~~.1   !23.11  0,4  31.9
1.    118. 3   1.6  1107.8  1.      34      05       4     05      34     0.5   134       -.     3        .
.rt,-rLy c..p-on((otrr,_2.                                                                                                                            15 II.2  117.1   0.3    76.6  11 8     5I      14 '9  7.2   1474.4  3. 4 .8 1.I 4.L21 18 3.     158 2    1515.S24    169 8  0 



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
Iran: Project Costs, By Type of Expenditure
RialJs (million5)              us$ (millions)
woreign
Exchange
Percentage     Local    Foreign  Total       Local    Foreign        Total
I. Civil Works
a.Site development    30Q          167.7      72.3    240        2.46      1.06         3.52
b.Construction         30%         719.2     308.1   1027.3   10.55        4.52        15.07
i. Health Centers               (349  )   (149.3)  (498.3)  (5.12)    (2.19)          (7-31)
i1. Staff Houses                  (113.2)   ( 49-1)  (162.3)  (1.66)    (0.72)         (2.38)
iii. Behyari Schools              ( 85.2)   ( 36.1)  (121.3)  (1.25)    (0.53)          (1.78)
iv. Training Centers              (171.8)   ( 73.6)  (245.4)  (2.52)    (1.08)         (3.60)
c.Fees and
supervision          0A        216.8        -       216.8    3.18         -          3.18
d. Furniture and
equipment           20%        230.4       57.3    287.7    3.38        0.84         4.22
TI. Technical Assistance              8.9      21.8      30.7    0.13       0.32         0.45
a. Management Study   70%         ( 4.8)   ( 12.3)  ( 17.1)  (0.07)    (0.18)          (0.25)
b. Nutrition Study    70%         (  2.7)   ( 7.5)  ( 10.2)  (0.04)    (0.11)          (0.15)
c. Rural Health Study 50%         ( 1.4)   ( 2.0)  (  3.4)  (0.02'    (0.03)           (0.05)
III. Vehicles            95%           6.8      40.9      47.7    0.10       o.60         0.70
IV. Contingencies       30%         298.6     128.1    426.7    4.38        1.88         6.26
Total                         1648.4      628.5   2276.9   24.18        9.22        33A.o



ANN3E 14
Pae 1 of 1
Irans  Estirated Disbur3ement Schedule
Cumulative Disbursements at
TBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                         End of Quarter (US$ '000)
1972-73
June 30, 1973                                                   0.20
1973-?'X
September 30, 1973                                              0.30
December 31, 1973                                               0.70
March 31, 1974                                                  1.55
June 30, 1974                                                   5.2.9
1974-75
September 30, 1974                                              8.43
December 31, 1974                                              10.19
March 31, 1975                                                 11.25
June 30, 1975                                                  13.01
1975-76
September 30, 1975                                             14.07
December 31, 1975                                              15.13
March 31, 1976                                                 16.30
June 30, 1976                                                  16.30
1976-77
September 30, 1976                                             16.50



2 %   46              /  ~~~50                     54                        58,612                                            '       '' t
\ \- i3',b,,i,,  /    ,   g                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRAN-
( - ) f-'  9 \                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~POPULATION   PROJECT
>;+ $ v ,,J, t; C a s p . a n ~~FAMvILY  PL-ANNIN13G ANt>4) HEALT-4e CENITFePS -
3e  /  -J1  /- 7 5 e a # \ ^ ciml~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q-v  Plan; ng  Tro,n,ng Cente(s                                       38
) 1- \ 1 9 . s . S<_ . > / * *_ X *9 * r'r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c-  aop.tols|
t-e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"- .,.) t1-" -e s
.   \   H   Xk,  '  ' '-  R*,   '" *   .                             -)         \                     I             '       ,                i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j '
S~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                               2   .  OWX T* S A~        
;  .                                                         ,.                 P~~~~~~~~~~AGANSAKITAN
S~~~:                                                                             ..     .    .. 
j~ ~ ~ ~         ~---                                                                                                          PAU9  K I SAA  TA'
E.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



4 46                               /    0                                  4                                 's                               612
\r,  <\  '. 8oX,  , 4    t      <\                                                                                                         IRAN
(  g BtX-t  D >   z Z r # J /                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POPUI-ATION   PROJECT
e  ^-----;   9 4                     - ,                                                ~~~~~CONSTRUCTION CON'TRACT PACKAGES
3b  /    '0   -'.*       .1   1                                                                 r-._,'                                       *~~       ~~~ Fasl Plop;lo>rg/nlrf  e?rS'^  3
j  ,  >  s -  \ '  | ~~~~~ ~~ * .- . <, . Lo( ',c ol oi Pehs-e 'r;>or.s tB 5 )~~~~~~".'e
"   "'   '-  (  '  -  '  *  \ ' ' r 1 ............. * > ..... * >t-svr6t .01 . 1f)'!.l'Sct P,;
z   X  *   X *  .    X    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                           ;                           X   f a.C! ;C( wrp;>o:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vi o  -3
<    )        ''                                            _ '        .'                         ;                                             .   )0..!Rot
SA D             ,ARAB'                                                ,*.                                                                            :A ti r
N,AIK ISTA
*  ~~~~ ~~ - - _ _ _ rZ~~~~~V.A 



