Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17342
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
PROJECT TO SUPPORT
GRASSROOTS INITIATIVES
TO FIGHT HUNGER AND POVERTY
February 20, 1998
Institutional and Social Policy
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFA:F)
US$1 = CFAF 560 (December 1997)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRON'YMS
AGETIPE                  Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Intdret Public et Economique
(Executing Agency for Public and Economic Works)
AIB                      Association d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base (Grassroots Iniatives Association)
AMPPF                    Association Malienne pour la Protection et la Promotion de la Famille
(Malian Association for the Protection and Promotion of the Family)
AMRAD                    Association Malienne de Recherches Action-D)eveloppement
(Malian Association for Operation Research and Development)
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CCA-ONG                  Comite de Coordination des Actions des ONG au Mali
(Coordinating Committee of NGO Activities in Mali)
CDA                      Community Development agent
CLD                      Comite Local de Developpement (Local Development Committee)
CNIECS                   Centre National d'Information, d'Education et de Communication pour la Sante
(National Center on Information, Education, and Communication in Health)
CRD                      Comite Regional de Developpement (Regional Development Committee)
DNSI                     Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Iniormatique (National Statistical Office)
FASEF                    Fonds d'Action Sociale pour l'Education Familiale (Social Fund for Family Education)
FIAHS                    Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GRIP                     Grassroots Initiatives Project to Fight Hunger and Poverty
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
IDA                      International Development Association
IEC                      Information, Education, Communication
MARP                     Methode Active de Recherche et Planification Participative/Participatory Rural Appraisal
M&E (S&E)                Monitoring and Evaluation (Suivi & Evaluation)
NCB                      National Competitive Bidding
NGO                      Non-Governmental Organization
NGO-CD                   NGO in community development
NRMP                     Natural Resources Management Project
OPAM                     Office de Produits Agricoles du Mali (Agricultural Products Office)
ORT                      Oral Rehydration Therapy
PCAP                     Programme de Consolidation des Associations Paysannes
(Program for Consolidating Peasant Associations)
PHRD                     Population and Human Resources Development
PMO/BGP                  Project Management Office (Bureau de Gestion du Projet)
PNVA                     Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole/National Agricultural Extension Program
PPF                      Project Preparation Facility
PRMC                     Programme de Rehabilitation du Marche Cerealier
(Rehabilitation of Cereal Marketing Program)
SAP                      Systeme d'Alerte Precoce (Early Warning System)
SECO-ONG                 Secretariat de concertation des ONG nationales (National NGOs' coordinating body)
SIM                      Systeme d'Information du Marche (Marketing ]Information System)
SNV                      Dutch Development Organization
UNDP                     United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                   United Nations Children Fund
USAID                    United States Agency for International Developmtableent
ZOPP                     Ziel-orientierte Projekt Planung (Objectives-oriented project planning)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President             : Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                    Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager             : Roger Sullivan
Task Manager                Adriana De Leva



REPUBLIC OF MALI
PROJECT TO SUPPORT GRASSROOTS INITIATIVES
TO FIGHT HUNGER AND POVERTY
Contents
iCREDIT AND  PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................................................i
1. INTRODUCTION                                                                                                 1
2. BACKGROUND                               ...........................................................1
A. THE ECONOMY ...........................................................1
B. POVERTY AND SOCIAL SECTOR PROGRESS .......................................................... 2
C. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND ISSUES AND IDA  EXPERIENCE IN MALI ............... 2
D. ROLE OF THE NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (NGOS) SECTOR  ... 4
E. LESSONS LEARNED FROM IDA'S EXPERIENCE ..................................................... 5
F. RATIONALE FOR IDA  INVOLVEMENT ..........................................................            6
3. THE PROPOSED  PROJECT ...........................................................7
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ..........................................................             7
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..........................................................                     7
C. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION .                     .......................................................... 1 1
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                          .......................................... 12
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                  ................................................ 14
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                           ................................................. 14
B. PROCUREMENT .................................................................................................. 16
C. DISBURSEMENT ...........                                                                          20
D. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING .................................................               21
E. SUPERVISION PLAN ................................................                                 22
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ................................................                             22
G. PROJECT OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES ................................................                     22
H. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..................................................                         23
5. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                      ................................... 23
6. BENEFITS AND  RISKS .................................................                                      25
A. BENEFITS .................................................                                        25
B. RISKS .................................................                                          25
7. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION                                                    ..  26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal and a post-appraisal mission carried out in Mali in June 1996 and March 1997, consisting
of Adriana De Leva (Task Manager), Richard Seifman (Nutrition Specialist), Antoine Simonpietri (Sr. Statistician), Peggy Parlato (IEC
Specialist, Consultant), Annick Lachance (Monitoring and Evaluation, Consultant); Sdydou Idani and Serge Theunynck (Manual of
Procedures, Consultants), Carmen Malena (NGO Specialist, Consultant), Mohamed A. Toure (Operations Officer, Resident Mission), Edmond
Dembele (NGO Liaison Officer, Resident Mission); Fran9oise Genouille (project costing). The Quality Assurance Team included John D.
Clark (NGO Specialist) and Jack van Holst Pellekaan (Lead Specialist, Poverty). Grace Yabrudy (Resident Representative) provided valuable
support. Technical support was provided by Roselyne Leroy and Ghislaine Baghdadi (Language Staff Assistants).



ANNEXES
ANNEX I    SELECTED POVERTY AND SOCIAL INDICATORS
ANNEX II   SUMMARY OF NGO CAPACITY ASSESSMENT
ANNEX III   LESSONS FROM PROJECTS USING PARTICIPATORY APPROACHES
ANNEX IV  LOGICAL FRAMEWORK
ANNEX V    METHODOLOGY OF PARTICIPATORY APPROACHE
ANNEX VI  COMMUNITY-LEVEL SOCIAL MOBILIZATION AND INFORMATION, EDUCATION
AND COMMUNICATION (IEC)
ANNEX VII TRAINING PROGRAM
ANNEX VI  OBSERVATORY ON SUSTAINABLE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
ANNEX IX COST TABLES
ANNEX X    MANUAL OF PROCEDURES (EXCLUDING ANNEXES)
ANNEX XI PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE
ANNEX XII DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
ANNEX Xm  SUPERVISION PLAN
ANNEX XIV MONITORING AND EVALUATION SYSTEM
ANNEX XV ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF TYPICAL SUB-PROJECTS
ANNEX XVI PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS AND PLANS
ANNEX XVII LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
MAP        IBRD 27217



REPUBLIC OF MALI
PROJECT TO SUPPORT GRASSROOTS INITIATIVES
TO FIGHT HUNGER AND POVERTY
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Mali
Implementing Agency: Association d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base (AIB)
(Grassroots Initiatives Association)
Beneficiary:        Targeted rural communities in Mopti and other regions, NGOs,
Observatory for Sustainable Human Development, National Statistical
Office (DNSI)
Poverty Category:    Poverty-targeted intervention
Credit Amount:       SDR 15.9 million (US$21.5 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:
IDA            : US$21.5 million
Government    : US$1.5 million
Project Objectives:
1.    The project objectives are: (i) to improve the living conditions of disadvantaged targeted
rural communities by responding to their priority needs; (ii) to strengthen capacity of
communities in identifying and ranking their priority needs and in planning, implementing and
supervising actions to respond to those needs, in partnership with NGOs and local authorities;
(iii) to strengthen institutional and policy-making capacity at the local and national levels in the
fight against hunger and poverty.
Project Description:
2.    The project has two components: (a) community development; and (b) policy and
institutional support to strengthen local and national decision-making on poverty issues. The
community development component is comprised of community-requested sub-projects,
accompanied by measures to strenghthen community development skills, IEC messages for
behavior change, and relevant training to ensure project sustainability and effective service
delivery. The policy and institutional support component will strengthen the effectiveness of
decision-makers at the national level by improving the quality and relevance of integrated
poverty data and data analysis.



ii
Project Benefits/Risks:
3.    The project would help reduce poverty in the most vulnerable rural communities in
Mopti and other regions. This would be achieved in the short term by financing sub-projects
identified by the communities themselves as having highest priority in improving their living
conditions. Direct beneficiaries of the sub-projects and capacity building activities are estimated
at roughly 130,000 persons. The training program will strengthen the managerial, monitoring
and evaluation skills of about 25 intermediaries, the communication skills and knowledge of
participatory methods and gender analysis of around 90 NGOs in community development
(NGO-CD) and 520 village animation agents; the organizational capacity of 130 village
management committees; and improve the collaboration of local technical services and
regional/local development committees. In addition, the project will indirectly touch neighboring
villages of the targeted villages. The Observatory and the DNSI will also benefit from the
institutional support component through strengthened capacity in data analysis and a stronger
poverty monitoring system.
4.    The first risk is the challenge in building and nurturing a new relationship between
communities, local authorities and the central Government. The GRIP is the first project which
explicitly supports a participatory process with targeted communities right from the beginning --
eliciting their participation in the identification of priorities, involving them in the implementation
and maintenance of investments responding to those priorities -- and which implicates local
authorities and technical services in the process. This support at the grassroots level is being
provided in advance of a national decentralization effort, now being planned and expected to be
implemented during 1998. Fostering the level of trust required ior this new relationship is part of
an extended process, supported by the project, which will begin slowly, accelerating with
experience and demonstrated results. The second risk is the extent to which the Government and
NGOs can manage to maintain an ongoing dialogue, and their willingness to collaborate and
compromise in order to implement programs at the community level. This is a new and
experimental partnership for both, one which will be tested throughout the project life. The
creation of an Association with beneficiary representatives on its Advisory Board and the
experience of the pilot phase in testing this partnership on the ground, all augur well for the
commitment of the two partners to continue this cooperative process. The third risk is linked to
institutional weaknesses, namely that project implementation may be hampered by limitations on
technical competence, absorptive capacity, and familiarity wi[th Bank procedures by service
providers. This concern has been addressed through clear selection criteria (especially of
intermediaries), inclusion of training to the community, training in community development to
the NGOS assisting communities during project intervention (NGO-CD) and training to
intermediaries on Bank procedures, and a system to monitor and evaluate performance outcomes.
Finally, project achievements may be constrained by difficulty in reaching communities,
transferring knowledge and improved practices, and sustaining community involvement in
maintenance of sub-projects. This risk is mitigated by ensuring the presence of an NGO-CD to
the community throughout the sub-project cycle, assisting comnnunities in defining relevant IEC
themes, providing appropriate training to respond to these community-identified themes, and
requiring community contribution to the sub-project.



iii
Environmental Risk:
5.    The project is classified as category C in view of the size of the sub-projects to be
financed.
Summary of IDA Financed Project Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
Community development              8.8        6.7         15.5          67.4
Community-reqstd. Infrastructure    (5.8)    (5.8)      (11.6)        (50.4)
Capacity Building                (3.0)      (0.9)        (3.9)        (17.0)
Policy and institutional           2.0        0.2          2.2           9.5
development
Operating costs                    1.0        0.4          1.4          6.1
PPF Refinancing                    0.7        0.7          1.4           6.1
Total Base Costs                   12.5       8.0         20.5          89.1
Physical and Price Contingencies   1.3         1.2         2.5          10.9
Total Project Costs                13.8       9.2         23.0          100.0
Financing Plan
(in US$ million equivalent, including taxes and duties)
Foreign         Local
IDA                        8.5           13.0
Government                0.7             0.8
Total                      9.2           13.8
Estimated IDA Credit Disbursements
(in US$ million equivalent, including taxes and duties)
FY                1999       2000        2001        2002        2003
Annual             4.7        4.0         5.2         5.9         1.7
Cumulative         4.7        8.7         13.9        19.8       21.5






REPUBLIC OF MALI
GRASSROOTS INITIATIVES PROJECT
TO FIGHT HUNGER AND POVERTY
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    The Government of Mali has requested IDA's assistance in financing a Grassroots
Initiatives Project to fight hunger and poverty. The main objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) improve the living conditions of disadvantaged targeted rural communities by responding to
their priority needs; (b) strengthen capacity of communities in identififying and ranking their
development priority needs and in planning, implementing and supervising actions respond to those
needs, in partnership with NGOs and local authorities; and (c) strengthen institutional and policy-
making capacity at the local and national level in the fight against hunger and poverty.
1.2   The proposed Grassroots Initiatives Project to Fight Hunger and Poverty (GRIP) will be
IDA's first project of its kind in Mali and in Sub-Saharan Africa. It is an experimental intervention
that aims at strengthening three processes, namely the client consultation process (grassroots
participation in the decision-making process to fight poverty), the sub-project implementation
process (collaboration of stakeholders in responding to those needs), and the Government/NGO
partnership process (complementary roles of each partner to ensure more effective response to the
constraining effects of hunger and poverty).
2. BACKGROUND
A. THE ECONOMY
2.1    Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world with per capita income estimated at about
US$240 in 1996. Access to key social services, notably education, basic health, potable water and
sanitation is limited. Past growth performance was constrained by inappropriate economic policies
coupled with a long-term decline in competitiveness and terms of trade. Since 1987, the
Government of Mali has made fundamental changes in its economic development strategy, opting
for a market-oriented approach in place of the centrally-controlled system that existed before. It has
put in place important measures to correct distortions in the incentive and regulatory system,
liberalized domestic marketing and pricing, freed up international trade, and withdrawn from
participation in key economic sectors in favor of the private sector. It has improved fiscal
management and is continuing efforts to improve the efficiency of public resource use.
2.2    Macroeconomic performance in 1996 was impressive and prospects for 1997 are even
better. In 1996, the economy grew by 4% in real terms, the overall fiscal deficit was reduced to
7.9% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) from 10.5% in 1995, while the current account deficit fell
from 15% to 13.5% of GDP during the same period. Inflation was reduced from 12.4% in 1995 to
about 6.5%. Economic growth in 1997 was estimated at 6.7%. The reform measures put in place
and the devaluation of the CFA Franc (CFAF) in 1994, have helped boost Mali's medium-term
growth prospects. Real growth is projected to average about 5% per annum over the medium term



2
allowing per capita income growth of about 2%. Agriculture will continue to be the main sector of
economic activity, though growth in sectors such as mining, construction, and textile, is expected to
be significant. The projected growth rates will have to be complemented by policies to help the poor
benefit from growth in order to achieve the Government's objective of poverty reduction. These
would include policies to improve access to education and health, support income-generating
activities, and improve basic rural infrastructure, particularly in disadvantaged rural communities.
B. POVERTY AND SOCIAL SECTOR PROGRESS
2.3    During the last ten years, the Government of Mali has gradually shifted public spending to
primary education and health services, and provided funding for protecting vulnerable groups.
Poverty is still widespread, however, a fact borne out by the country's extremely poor human
resource indicators (Annex I contains Selected Poverty/Social Indicators). Recent estimates for 1996
indicate that over 70% of the 10 million Malians were below the poverty line, many hungry and
malnourished. Poverty is most prevalent in the rural areas, where 93% of the poor live. There are
considerable regional disparities in the extent of poverty, with the northern regions generally worse
off than the southern regions. Mopti persistently ranks as the poorest region in Mali, with 90% of its
population below the national poverty line, a fact reflected in large number of food-deficit areas,
poor health status and low education levels. Food absorbs nearly two-thirds of the household budget
of the poor. Most recent (1995-96) data categorize 33% of Mali's children under 3 years old as
chronically malnourished. Roughly 49% of Malians have access ito safe water, (based on 20 liters
per day per person) and about 80% of them lack basic sanitation. In rural areas 70-80% of school-
age children do not go to primary school. Indeed, Mali is among the five countries in the world with
the lowest level of adult literacy (31 %) and one of the lowest prirnary education coverage (35% and
25% for girls), despite an improvement of 10% since 1987. Health coverage is poor, with life
expectancy of 50 years, and an infant mortality rate of 123 per 1000 live births. The 1997 UNDP
Human Development Report ranks Mali 171st out of 175 countries in terms of social indicators in
1994. With rapid population growth at 3.1 % annually, without measures that make use of all
available resources, conditions will further deteriorate. It should be noted that improving the quality
of poverty-related information is an essential part of strengthening the poverty monitoring system
that is being supported by the GRIP.
C. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND ISSUES AND IDA, EXPERIENCE IN MALI
Democratization and Decentralization
2.4    The Government of Mali recognizes that public sector resources alone cannot reduce
poverty or hunger for its growing population. It acknowledges that Mali's development requires the
active cooperation of public and private partners to reach its widely diverse and dispersed
communities. The democratization and decentralization processes are the two most important
ongoing developments in moving towards greater participation and empowerment of the populations
at the grassroots level in the fight against poverty. The democratization process began in early 1991
with the fall of the previous regime. The Government mandated a decentralization reform in
February 1993 and approved the Code des collectivites territoriales in January 1995.
Implementation mechanisms have still to be defined, but it is expected that the Government will
adopt progressive implementation. This reforrn would radically rnodify the decision-making
development process. Implied in this program is the greater role of civil society in the design and
implementation of policies and programs. Increased dialogue with the populations is an integral part
of the decentralization process.



3
2.5   In the shadow of these developments, a Mali Hunger Workshop, organized by the NGOs in
coordination with the Govemment and the Bank, was held in June 1995 as a first step in beginning a
constructive dialogue between the Government, NGOs and Bank, and in moving towards a tripartite
partnership in the fight against hunger and poverty. The Mali Workshop, instigated by a Bank-
sponsored World Conference on Hunger in 1993, concluded that the community must be the focus
of the development process, and that, given the enormous challenge of poverty reduction in Mali
and the different competencies of each partner, a concerted effort by all partners in development is
required. To this end, complementary, systemic and institutional relationships need to be explored,
tested, and in due course, regularized. A tripartite "Steering Committee in the Fight against
Hunger", comprised of representatives of the Government, NGOs, and development partners, was
created to foster such experimentation.
Government Strategy in Poverty-related Sectors
2.6    The Government is committed to a broad-based strategy to fight the widespread prevalence
of poverty. Through its macroeconomic and sectoral policies, it is attempting to reach and respond
to the basic needs of the most vulnerable groups. Key sectoral policies linked to poverty reduction
are presented below.
2.7    Health: Government strategy emphasizes the improvement of coverage and quality of
primary health care services, including nutrition, through the provision of a package of preventive
and curative services, improved referral services, greater decentralization of the health care system
and greater community participation in the management and financing of primary health care service
delivery. Cost-recovery measures have been in place in both the health (visits and medicine) and
education (school fees, books and supplies) sectors for a number of years. The Government is
presently preparing a sectoral investment program to ensure greater coherence and coordination
among different policies and interventions.
2.8    Education: There are many important innovations occuring in the education sector.
Teaching in national languages, development of community schools and decentralization all have
the potential to increase study achievement and access to education. The Government has spent the
last year developing an ambitious 10 -year sector reform program, which will integrate these
interventions. Overall sector goals are to expand access to primary education, especially for girls,
while improving quality at all levels through improved management and use of sector resources;
enhance the quality and relevance of vocational education by promoting labor skills in line with
labor market needs and the promotion of private participation in the sector.
2.9    Agriculture: Despite rapid growth and productivity recorded in agriculture and in livestock
in the recent past, performance is still limited by the inadequacy of existing technology and
production systems and rapid degradation of the environment. In 1992, the Government prepared a
Rural Development Master Plan which sees agriculture as the engine for the country's growth. The
strategy emphasizes: (i) improved natural resources management to promote sustainable growth,
relying on greater community participation in the planning stages; (ii) further redistribution of
responsibilities from the public towards the private sector and rural communities; (iii) restructuring
the Ministry of Rural Development to increase efficiency; (iv) improved and expanded agricultural
extension and research services, with special attention to the needs and activities of women.
2.10   Natural Resources Management: Soil degradation is the greatest threat to sustainable
agricultural growth. The Government, in line with its decentralization and agriculture policy,



4
supports a rational land use system which is expected to halt and eventually reverse the rapid
process of soil degradation. To this end, it has a community-based natural resources management
strategy which empowers communities to manage their own natural resources and builds capacity of
staff at the ministerial level who in turn advise villagers on these rnatters. The experience of the first
two years in implementing this approach has been positive, especially with regard to strengthening
community capabilities in collective decision-making.
2.11   Urban Employment and Local Capacity: Urban population is growing rapidly and with it
the demand for infrastructure and appropriate services. The Government supported the
establishment of a quasi-independent entity to respond to such needs, AGETIPE (Public Works
Executing Agency). The AGETIPE formula has demonstrated it can provide essential public works
and employment, even if temporary, to urban workers with little or no skills and can strengthen
capacity of small entrepreneurs in an efficient and timely manner.
2.12   Water Supply and Sanitation: These sectors are characterized by lack of systematic
community participation; little or no user contribution to the investment of village water systems; the
absence of local technical capacity; the ineffectiveness of sanitation and hygiene education
programs; and the total dependence on external resources. The Gcvernment's strategy in the rural
water supply and sanitation sectors is to maximize the impact of existing safe supply and sanitation
facilities and to ensure that the future development of the water and sanitation sectors will respond to
the demands of the population. The basic principles underpinning the strategy are: (i)
decentralization and beneficiary involvement in the decision-making process at all stages of the rural
water supply and sanitation project cycle; (ii) financial participation of communities toward initial
investment costs, based on their willingness to pay for a given level of service, and total community
responsibility for operating costs and maintenance; (iii) reduction of construction and maintenance
costs; (iv) systematic recourse to NGOs and private sector for construction, maintenance, and
operation of rural facilities, with emphasis on promotion of local capabilities and contractors; and
(v) improvement of hygiene.
2.13   Food Security: A national food stock program, designed by the Government and donors
under the Cereal Marketing Rehabilitation Program (PRMC) and managed by Office des Produits
Agricoles au Mali (OPAM), functions well. OPAM also distributes emergency food aid to targeted
populations, based on a monthly emergency food aid plan that relies on closely-monitored indicators
from the Marketing Information System (SIM) and the Early Warning System (SAP). The National
Agricultural Extension Program (PNVA), which aims at increasing agricultural productivity and
farmers' income through a "train and visit" approach, responds more directly to long-term food
security issues. It puts particular emphasis on labor-intensive agricultural techniques, on women
concerns, and on cultural practices.
D. ROLE OF THE NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATI:ONS (NGOs) SECTOR
2.14   Over 600 international and national NGOs engage in a wide range of relief, development
and policy-related activities. These numbers have grown rapidly since 1988, with many
organizations having less than five years experience in implementation or financial and project
management. It is generally acknowledged that roughly 150 NGOs are truly viable with proven
performance in food assistance, natural resources management, health, education, community
infrastructure, community organization and information. Increasingly better organized on specific
sectoral issues, their energy, extensive outreach capabilities and participatory experience are



5
indispensable assets in achieving poverty and hunger reduction, in line with Government goals and
in harmony with its strategy and programs.
2.15   The relationship between NGOs and Government, defined under a 1959 law for the creation
of associations, has in practice been ad hoc, with mixed results and misperceptions on both sides. In
part this is because the role of NGOs participating in the new democratic society of Mali is evolving,
and the types of NGOS are growing at an accelerated pace since the end of the previous regime.
Some NGOs function as resource intermediaries, with or without specific policy, technical
assistance, and targeted intervention agendas. Others have modest human and financial resources,
excellent knowledge of local culture and conditions, are focused on a geographic area, ethnic or
religious group, or a specific sector issue. The Bank's NGO Capacity Assessment (October 1995),
which was commissioned as part of project preparation, reflects the varying character, experience
and capacity of 60 key NGOs operating in Mali, their constraints and perceptions of the working
environment, and prospects for successful tripartite collaboration with a Bank financed mechanism
(Annex II contains a Summary of the NGO Capacity Assessment). Malian NGOs have been trying
to modify the 1959 law governing them and their relations with Government since 1986. In 1996,
the Government agreed to consider amendments to the law and requested a draft text to be prepared.
In view of the proposed project's hope to foster Government/NGO partnership, the project will
support the dialogue between Government and NGOs in improving the legal framework under
which the NGOs operate in Mali.
E. LESSONS LEARNED FROM IDA's EXPERIENCE
2.16   Activities in health, education, agriculture, natural resources management, urban services,
and water supply provide relevant lessons for the project. Key lessons learned from Bank
operational experience with participatory approaches (Annex III) suggest:
*  need for community participation: community participation throughout the project cycle
fosters a greater sense of ownership and increases the chances for sustainable interventions.
It often enhances project design and improves trust among different stakeholders (the
Natural Resources Management Project (NRMP) and the Program for the Consolidation of
Farmers' Associations (PCAP) in Mali and the Program for Alleviation of Poverty and
Social Costs of Adjustment Project (PAPSCA) in Uganda);
*  community contribution:  mechanisms for community participation and beneficiary
contribution in project need to be designed in consultation with communities (10-25%
contribution appears feasible, depending on type of sub-project (NRMP, PCAP, Rural Water
Supply Project (RWSP));
*  sub-project maintenance: responsibility of maintenance clearly rests with beneficiaries;
agreement on this should be obtained with the community before sub-project selection, and
should be officialized in a contract between the community and the project implementation
agency. Training of beneficiaries in maintenance activities should be included in project to
assure sustainability of sub-project infrastructure (RWSP, PCAP, Village Infrastructure
Project (VIP) in Indonesia). In general, this task is assumed by a community management
committee organized at the beginning of micro-project preparation (NRMP);
*  manual of procedures: this manual, which establishes a clear and flexible framework for
project implementation, is a valuable instrument to ensure transparency. Procurement
procedures should be kept simple and avoid heavy bureaucracy (AGETIPE, NRMP, the



6
Fund of Social Action for Family Education (FASEF) under the Population, Health and
Rural Water Supply Project, PAPSCA in Uganda, as well as in other countries ("World
Bank-Financed Projects with Community Participation" World Bank Discussion Paper No.
265).
*  avoiding duplication: village sub-project proposals need to be submitted at sub-regional
level for harmonization with regional development programs (NRMP, PCAP, VIP);
*  role of NGOs: the need for pre-qualification and selection procedures for NGOs on a
competitive basis (criteria to be clearly defined in the Manual of Procedures)to participate in
the project (Health Services Development Project, AGETIPE, PAPSCA, Grassroots
Iniativies Project in Togo);
*  monitoring system: project with significant community contribution should have in-built
monitoring system to assess community views on the efficiency of implementation and
project impact, and to allow timely modifications to project design (NRMP, PAPSCA, Aga
Khan Rural Support Program in Pakistan).
F. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVENMENT
2.17   The objectives of the proposed project are consistent with the development strategy of the
World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mali, presented to the Board in February
1995, and that of the upcoming CAS under preparation (particularly its poverty focus), as well as
with the recommendations of the Evaluation of Living Conditions of June 1993. IDA's strategy to
assist Mali aims to achieve sustainable economic growth with equity and targeted poverty reduction.
Its central focus is: (a) to promote competitiveness in order to make the economy more responsive
and to create more opportunities for the private sector; (b) to complete structural reforms in
agriculture; and (c) to develop human resources by delivering essential services efficiently and
effectively. The CAS also advocates the strengthening of social safety net programs for the poor that
respond to basic needs and human resource development. Moreover, a central aspect of the Bank's
partnership with Mali, as endorsed in both the CAS and the Evaluation of Living Conditions, is the
strengthening of the quality of the dialogue with Government and civil society to enhance
participation and to facilitate internalization and ownership. The June 1995 Hunger Workshop in
Mali confirmed these findings and participatory approach. The proposed intervention is considered
a priority project in terms of its poverty-targeted interventions and its long-term focus on capacity
building and community ownership. It has drawn from lessons learned from similar projects, listed
above.
2.18  IDA is well positioned to support a broad-based poverty alleviation strategy because it
operates throughout Mali and has gained extensive experience from ongoing operations in natural
resources management, health, rural water supply, and education. The project will ensure linkages
with these operations. The categories of project interventions (health, agriculture, education, potable
water), reflect the combined best judgment of Government, NGOs and the Bank as to where poverty
is most likely to be improved on a sustainable basis, with a demand-driven, community-based
program. The Bank facilitates cooperation between NGOs and Government through its financial
resources and technical expertise in developing community participation projects, and by supporting
donor coordination in the program to fight poverty.



7
3.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
3.1    The proposed project is a pilot operation that will test innovative participatory approaches to
tackle poverty in Mali. Its development objectives are:
*  to improve the living conditions of disadvantaged targeted rural communities by responding
to their priority needs;
*  to strengthen capacity of communities in identifying and ranking their development priority
needs and in planning, implementing and supervising actions to respond to those needs, in
partnership with NGOs and local authorities;
*  to strengthen institutional and policy-making capacity at the local and national levels in the
fight against hunger and poverty.
3.2    The proposed project is based on a set of guiding principles, namely that (a) a community
participatory approach is essential for sustainability in the fight against hunger and poverty; (b)
deepening the Malian Government/NGO partnership and community involvement is potentially
helpful in achieving the project objectives; (c) capacity building efforts must center around the
community, with efforts of other partners involved in project implementation; and (d) the
development impact of the project will be measured in terms of both process and performance
indicators.
3.3    The project reflects an iterative dialogue with beneficiaries, service providers and other key
stakeholders to address three complementary, inter-linked processes namely: (a) a community
participation process; (b) a sub-project implementation process; and (c) a GovernmentlNGO
partnership process. Annex IV presents the project's logical framework.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.4    The project has two components: (a) community development; and (b) policy and
institutional support to strengthen local and national decision-making on poverty issues.
Community Development
3.5    The community development component comprises of (i) community-requested
infrastructure in targeted rural communities, and (ii) accompanying local capacity building measures
to strenghten community development skills, IEC messages for behavior change, and relevant
training to ensure project sustainability and effective service delivery. The project will finance
priority community infrastructure identified by the beneficiaries themselves in a number of sectors,
including water supply, education, health, and rural development (pilot phase experience indicates
that top priorities are wells, schools and land preparation for horticulture) (para. 3.12). Local
capacity building activities, envisaged throughout the project's presence in a community, will
involve key project stakeholders, especially communities. They will include: (i) training for the
community, NGOs recruited for community development activities, for intermediaries, and, where
appropriate, for local technical services, (ii) an Information, Education, Communication (IEC)
program tailored to community needs; and (iii) an information campaign to keep the public and



8
interested partners abreast of project development, to share similar experiences, and to find solutions
to implementation problems.
3.6    The community participation process, starting with a participatory needs assessment, forms
the basis for the community development component, and is the anchor for the project. Beneficiary
communities will play a central role in the decision-making process throughout project intervention,
from identification through supervision of sub-project components. This will be done through a
community management committee which will lead and coordinate all activities at the community
level. The following steps/activities describe the iterative dialogue with key stakeholders under the
community development component:
targeting/selecting communities: The project will intervene in the region of Mopti and
other regions in a phased manner. It will focus its operaltions in the region of Mopti for the
first year, extending to a second region in the second year and to a third region in the third
year, as appropriate. Depending on the level of available information, thearrondissements
(the lowest administrative level in a region) will be classified by a composite index,
comprising of the revenue level, food security, access to water, health indicators, and
education/literacy rates (data will be provided by the Systeme d'Alerte Precoce (SAP) and
the National Statistical Office (DNSI)). The classification of villages within the selected
arrondissements will be based on the existence of socio-economic infrastructure. Details of
the targeting system are presented in the Manual of Procedures. A given number of the
poorest villages will be asked to express their interest and "demand" for Project financing.
Those indicating an interest will be classified according to evaluation criteria and a number
of them will receive financing based on the project's annual program.
delegating management of sub-project activities: Once communities have been selected for
Project financing, an intermediary will be contracted by the Project Management Office to
manage a batch of sub-projects in a number of the communities. This intermediary will be
an NGO or firm with a proven record in community development, strong managerial and
financial capacity, and physical presence in the area of intervention.
sensitizing/mobilizing selected communities: An NGO specializing in community
development (NGO-CD) will be recruited by the intermediary to implement capacity
building activities and facilitate/coordinate sub-project activities. The NGO-CD will place
and supervise a Community Development Agent (CDA) in the community throughout the
GRIP's intervention in the community. The continuous presence of the CDA in the
community will increase understanding of village life and permit direct contact to the project
for community members. The CDA's main tasks will be to sensitize villagers on the
Project, assist in the participatory needs assessment to identify community priorities,
facilitate the organization of a village management commiittee, assist in preparing sub-
project proposals, support the community in the bidding and selection process of enterprises,
assist it in negotiating and mobilizing its contribution to the sub-project, help in identifying
appropriate IEC themes, plan and implement IEC activities, and train a village animation
agent in these activities. Strong emphasis will be placed on including women in the village
management committee (the key decision-making body at the community level), and on
giving preference to women as animation agents.
identifying community priority needs and preparing sub-project proposal: The
participatory needs assessment, a key step in the community development process, will put



9
strong emphasis on getting the views of all segments of the community, particularly women,
on identifying community priorities and responding to them. These priorities will be
validated with the Local Development Committees (CLD) to ensure consistency with
national/regional programs and to avoid duplication. With the assistance of the CDA, the
community will set up or strengthen a village management committee, that will be the key
decision-maker during sub-project implementation (e.g. the preparation of sub-project
proposals, participation in the economic feasibility of the sub-project, definition of
community contribution (labor and/or materials) to the sub-project, the selection of
enterprises and service providers and signing contracts with them) and follow-up (especially
maintenance activities). (Annex V describes a participatory methodology to be tested during
the project.)
implementing sub-project activities: When a community's proposal is approved for
financing, the community and the intermediary will contract an enterprise to carry out the
infrastructure works and recruit a supervising engineer to ensure technical quality. The
execution of the works will be coordinated with regional technical services to ensure
consistency with standards and quality control. At this time, the CDA will also work with
the community, particularly with women groups, to identify community IEC themes that are
relevant to their needs and implement the program. Existing IEC materials and approaches
drawn from similar community level interventions will be used to the extent possible and
will serve as tools in IEC training. (Annex VI describes the IEC program.)
training of key stakeholders: Training will take place at different times during project
implementation and will include: (i) training at the village level in functional literacy and
basic management and financial skills for village management committee members, in
community development for the village animation agent, and in infrastructure maintenance
for selected village members; (ii) training for CDAs in community development, preparation
of technical proposals, gender in development, and IEC and facilitation techniques; (iii)
training in participatory methods/tools for the NGO-CD and CDA; and (iv) training for
NGO-CDs and intermediaries in the project's participatory monitoring and evaluation
system. The training of a village animation agent in community development skills is
envisaged as a way of ensuring sustainability of capacity building efforts, once the GRIP
leaves the village. Representatives of local technical services will also participate in certain
training sessions, as appropriate. The project will also provide training in financial/technical
areas related to the Project to those NGOs who submit proposals but are not selected as
either intermediaries or service providers. Training will encompass a wide range of
methodologies, techniques and materials (workshops, focus groups, mass media and local
IEC message delivery. (Annex VII discusses the training program.)
monitoring and evaluation (M&E): The project's M&E system relies on a participatory
approach built on a common vision of project performance among key stakeholders (Section
5). To this end, project results will be presented regularly to beneficiaries, partners involved
in project implementation, administrative authorities and relevant CLDs and technical
services staff, with the aim of sharing experiences, receiving feedback on any
problem/conflict, and finding possible solutions.
3.7    The GRIP will finance grants for sub-projects (works) and equipment linked to the
community-requested infrastructure, consultant services for capacity building activities, the
intermediary role and surveys/studies. The pilot phase experience indicated that sub-project



10
preparation required about one year, infrastructure construction about 6-8 months, and capacity
building activities about one year. Given these factors and the amount of available resources, it is
estimated that about 260 multi-sectoral sub-projects will be financed under the 5-year life of the
project: 30 the first year, 55, 80 and 95 in the following three years; no sub-project will be
committed in the last year, given the length of a sub-project cycle. It is expected that, with
experience, sub-projects will be processed more quickly and a greater number of them can be
supervised during a given period.
Policy and Institutional Development
3.8    The objectives of this component are to strengthen the efficiency of decision-makers at the
national level by improving the quality and relevance of integrated poverty data and data analysis,
and to support Government/NGO partnership at the national level. These objectives are to be
achieved principally by (i) support to the Observatory for Sustainable Human Development; and (ii)
support to the poverty monitoring system.
3.9    Support to the Observatoryfor Sustainable Human Development: The Observatory was
created in October 1996 under the Planning Commission (now under the Ministry of Economy, Plan
and Integration) to analyze existing socio-economic data and provide policy recommendations on
poverty-related issues. (Annex VIII provides a description of the Observatory). Specifically, the
Observatory will provide policy-makers with relevant information on (a) living conditions trends,
particularly poverty and social development indicators; (b) the impact of policies, programs and
projects related to the fight against poverty on vulnerable groups; and (c) ways to improve targeting
and planning of poverty-related policies and programs, in particular using techniques of the
Geographical Information System (GIS). It will produce an annual Report on Human Development,
which will present a diagnostic of the socio-economic situation and an analysis of policies and
recommendations on selected poverty issues. A study program will be reviewed annually or as
appropriate. In addition, the Observatory will strengthen the links between policy-makers and data
producers, relying on technical ministries, Malian research centers, NGOs, bilateral and multilateral
agencies and other actors, as appropriate. In this regard, the Observatory will work in close
collaboration with the National Statistical Office (DNSI). The project will equip the Observatory
and finance its program of activities, including the production and dissemination of the annual
report. The UNDP, which has participated in the appraisal of this component, will provide parallel
financing for the functioning of the Observatory.
3.10   Support to the poverty monitoring system. The Government of Mali, under the supervision
of the DNSI, began setting up a permanent monitoring system of living conditions under the
Structural Adjustment Program, with the help of the Bank, the European Union and the UNDP. The
system attempts to integrate information from different sources, particularly household budget
surveys (1988/89 and 1994), other multi sectoral surveys (e.g., the demographic and health survey
1996), and statistics collected by sectoral ministries. To deepen and continue these efforts, the
project will finance a national household survey around 1999. The r esults of this work will
contribute to the monitoring of poverty trends and the analytical work of the Observatory. The
project will also support the 1998 population census by financing a part of the cartography exercise
(carried out during project preparation), and data collection. Despilte the financial support of other
donors, a financing gap to carry out the census exists and the Government has requested IDA, as the
lender of last resort, to fill this gap.



11
C. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
3.11   Project preparation has been carried out in a participatory manner with the Steering
Committee to Fight Hunger established in June 1995 (composed of Government and NGO
representatives) under the auspices of the Prime Minister's Office. A Project Preparation Workshop
(using the ZOPP methodology) was held with all Committee members in October 1995. Agreement
was reached on project and long-term objectives, components, and a tentative plan of operations.
The participants of the Project Preparation Workshop emphasized the importance of increasing
community participation, of strengthening local capacity, of improving the quality of community
decision-making, and of ensuring community involvement in maintenance of sub-projects. The
results of that Workshop laid the groundwork for project preparation.
3.12   To test the institutional and organizational aspects of the project, a pilot phase was carried
out in the region of Mopti. A participatory needs assessment was carried out by a Malian NGO to
ascertain the priority needs of 31 communities in six cercles of the region and to identify the
NGOs/public agencies intervening in the villages. Pilot activities have been financed for 10 villages,
including four schools (three classrooms and latrines), five land preparation projects (including a
small dam and horticultural plots), and one feeder road. In each pilot village, a management
committee (or a parent/student association for the schools) has been put in place and functional
literacy training has been provided to committee members, as well as other villagers. IEC messages
linked to village needs have also been delivered. These activities have been implemented by local
contractors, local NGOs and supervised by three intermediaries (NGOs).
3.13   An evaluation of the pilot phase was conducted to assess the viability of project design,
implementation procedures, and institutional arrangements and to make adjustments as warranted.
In general, the evaluation found that (i) pilot activities reflected the priorities of the community; (ii)
the benefits of each activity extended beyond the village boundaries to at least three neighboring
villages, reaching about 20,000 persons; and (iii) the participatory and consultative processes
contributed to confidence-building and engendered a sense of partnership at the local level among
communities, authorities, technical services, and other partners. Project design has been modified to
reflect the lessons learned from the pilot phase, especially in regard to (i) increased community
participation by reinforcing the decision-making responsibilities of the community throughout
project intervention; (ii) local capacity building by making the village the focal point (e.g.,
organization of village management committee, training of village animation agents in community
development skills, adoption of a gender action plan for the village) and by intensifying training for
project stakeholders; (iii) simplified implementation procedures by standardizing bidding
documents, simplifying contracts and limiting the number of sub-project accounts required by the
intermediary; (iv) maximization of sub-project impact in a community by increasing the number of
interventions within a selected village, giving preference to sub-projects that have over-spilling
effects into neighboring villages; (v) lowering administrative costs by reducing dispersion of sub-
projects in a given area and opting to concentrate in one region for the first year of the project; and
(vi) adopting an "associative" institutional framework that promotes the tri-partite partnership
between communities, Government and NGOs. The pilot phase experience has also shown that
while sub-projects related to land preparation offer the best opportunities for increasing income, they
require substantial capacity building measures, particularly related to maintenance and management,
which the project will provide. The problem of sustainability of schools (the issue of recurrent
costs) also requires close monitoring and coordination with regional technical services. The
recurrent cost implications have been discussed with the education sector officials and will be
monitored under provisions of the Education Sector Investment Program, currently under



12
preparation. The financing of teachers for the new schools will come under Government's new
teacher contract policy.
3.14   The pilot phase included (i) the opening of a roster of NGOs which could serve either as
intermediaries or service providers; (ii) the preparation and testing of a training module in
communication techniques; (iii) the completion of an inventory of IEC materials; (iv) a pilot phase
launch workshop in Mopti with key regional partners (regional/local administrations, technical
services, NGOs, donors) to present the project, exchange experiences on approaches and
implementing issues (e.g., community contribution); (v) elaboration of the project's monitoring and
evaluation system.
3.15   Other activities included: (i) the cartography exercise for the planned 1998 population
census, which provides a detailed inventory of physical and social infrastructure in all villages in
Mali (regional poverty maps), to be used for the targeting of beneficiary communities; (ii) a
participatory needs assessment in the two remaining cercles of Mopti. (Youvarou and Tenenkou) to
prepare for the next batch of sub-projects; (iii) drafting of the Observatory's first annual report.
3.16   A person responsible to manage the pilot phase and other preparatory activities, an
accountant, and a specialist in monitoring and evaluation have been recruited, as consultants.
Project preparatory activities have been financed by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$ 1.4
million and a US$600,0000 grant from the Japanese PHRD Trust Fund. The first participatory
assessment and the NGO capacity study were financed by the Client Consultation Fund, the second
participatory assessment and the inventory of IEC materials by FIAHS funds, the Project
Preparation Workshop by the Dutch Trust Fund for poverty, and part of the office equipment of the
Observatory by the Finnish Trust Fund.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.17   Total costs for the proposed project, excluding customs but including local taxes, are
estimated at US$23.0 million. Base costs are estimated at US$20.5 million equivalent, and total
contingencies amount to US$2.5million equivalent (10.9% of total project costs). Foreign exchange
would account for US$9.2 million, or 40% of total project costs. (.Detailed cost tables are presented
in Annex IX.)
3.18   Physical contingencies have been calculated at 5% for equipment, vehicles and materials.
The following price contingencies have been included: (i) on foreign exchange expenditures 2.5%
for 1998, 3.1% for 1999, 2.9% for 2000, 2.8% for 2001, 2.7% for 2002, and 2.6% per annum
thereafter, and (ii) on local cost expenditures 2.5% from 1998 onwards.
3.19   Project costs by component, free of taxes and duties, are shown in Table 1. Community
development, including community-requested interventions and capacity building account for 76%
of base costs, the institutional support component 11% and operating costs 7%.



13
Table 1: Project Cost Summary
(in US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total         %
Community development                           8.8       6.7       15.5       67.4
Community-requested infrastructure            (5.8)     (5.8)     (11.6)     (50.4)
Local capacity building                       (3.0)     (0.9)     (3.9)      (17.0)
Policy and Institutional Development            2.0       0.2       2.2        9.5
Operating Costs a/                              1.0       0.4        1.4       6.1
PPF Refinancing                                 0.7       0.7       1.4        6.1
Total Base Costs                                12.5      8.0       20.5       89.1
Physical and Price Contingencies               1.3       1.2       2.5        10.9
Total Project Costs                             13.8      9.2       23.0      100.0
a/ Includes costs of audits and of Project Management Office.
Financing
3.20   Of the US$23.0 million total project costs, IDA would finance US$21.5 million equivalent,
or 93% of total project costs, for the community development, policy and institutional development,
and operating costs (Table 2). The Government is expected to contribute US$1.5 million equivalent,
or 7% of total project costs, to cover a portion of grants for the community development component.
Table 2: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
(in US$ million)
IDA        Government         Total
Amount         Amount    Amount  %
Grants'                        14.0            1.5         15.5   67.4
Goods and equipment             0.2                        0.2      0.8
Consultant services             2.3                        2.3    10.0
Operating costs                 1.1                        1.1      4.8
PPF Advance                     1.4                        1.4      6.1
Unallocated                     2.5                        2.5    10.9
Total disbursements            21.5            1.5        23.0    100
Includes all expenditures related to the community development component (civil works, equipment, consultant services,
and service delivery contracts).



14
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
4.1    Overall Project monitoring will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Plan and
Integration. The Government of Mali has designated the newly-created Association d'Appui aux
Initiatives de Base (AIB) as the executing entity for the community development component of this
Project. Prior to negotiations, it will adopt the Statute of the AIB. ]Further, the signing of the draft
Convention between the AIB and the Government of Mali will be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(para. 7.2a). The AIB will be composed of an Advisory Board ancl a Project Management Office
(PMO).
4.2    The Advisory Board, composed of representatives of beneficiary communities and civil
society (representatives of other organisms may be invited as observers, when deemed necessary),
will serve principally an overall supervisory function, delegating operational responsibilities to the
Project Management Office, its technical and administrative arm. ][ts specific role will be to review
and modify the Manual of Procedures, as necessary, in agreement with IDA, approve the annual
work program and annual budget of the Project Management Office, ensure the preparation of
annual project reviews, and evaluate project management a posteriori, based on quarterly and annual
progress reports and audit reports. It will be informed of sub-projects and, as necessary will have
representatives of key sectoral line ministries to ensure further coherence with quality and
maintenance standards during its regular meetings.
4.3   The Project Management Office will be responsible for managing the project within the
policy framework determined by the Advisory Board. This means the selection of sub-projects, the
recruitment of intermediaries and/or service providers of the selected sub-projects, the overall
technical supervision of sub-projects, provision of training, as required, and monitoring aggregate
project results. The PMO will be guided by a detailed Manual of Procedures (Annex X), which
defines criteria for geographic targeting, selection criteria for sub-projects and of partners involved
in implementation, outlines detailed procedures of project implementation, including model bidding
documents and sample contracts, and presents monitoring procedures and performance indicators.
The Manual of Procedures was finalized during negotiations (para. 7. la). A Project Implementation
Structure is presented in Annex XI.
4.4    The PMO will ensure broad dissemination of information on the Project, in the communities
selected for project intervention (to be proposed by the PMO and agreed upon by the Board) and to
the relevant regional and local authorities. It will ensure that participatory assessments will be
carried out by qualified NGOs/consultants to identify community priority needs and that the
economic feasibility studies of sub-projects will be developed with the help of qualified consultants
and local public technical services. Community sub-project proposals will be verified with local
authorities, namely the CRDs, CLDs, and the communes (when they are put in place) to ensure
consistency with national and sectoral policies and regional programs. In general, the PMO will
evaluate community requests, based on criteria defined in the Manual of Procedures, approve sub-
projects and inform the Advisory Board. A sub-project agreement defining the participation of the
beneficiary in the implementation and follow-up of the sub-project will be signed between the
community, the intermediary and the PMO, with the endorsement of the CLD. This agreement
would provide greater assurance that the desired impact of the sub-project is attained and that the
sub-project will be sustained.



15
4.5    For programming purposes, the Board will agree upon batches of sub-projects on an annual
basis. These lists of sub-projects will be sent to IDA for non-objection, as will sub-projects whose
infrastructure component exceeds an amount of US$ 100,000 equivalent. To facilitate the
preparation of the next round of sub-project implementation, during negotiations, the Governrmern
submitted a roster of eligible intermediaries acceptable to IDA (para. 7. Ic) and proposed the zon-es
of intervention for the first year ofproject implementation (para. 7. 1f).
4.6    The PMO will be based in Bamako during the first year of project implementation. This
arrangement will be reviewed at the end of the first year and modified, as necessary. The PMO will
be composed of a Director General, an accountant, three technical specialists (civil engineer,
community development expert, and a monitoring and evaluation specialist). During negotiations,
assurances were given that the Government of Mali will agree that at all times the Director General
of the Project Management Office will be acceptable to IDA (para. 7. 1g). The recruitment of the
Director General and the head of the administrative/financial unit of the PMO is a condition of
Credit effectiveness (para. 7.2b).
4.7    For the community development component, project implementation will involve the
beneficiary community and the intermediary, who delegates sub-project implementation to
enterprises and consultants. The beneficiary community is the focal point of the decision-making
process in the community development component.  With the assistance of the community
development agent and the intermediary, it will be responsible for (i) putting in place a community
management committee; (ii) identifying a priority sub-project, evaluating its economic feasibility
and preparing a proposal for financing in a participatory manner; (iii) ensuring its contribution to the
sub-project; (iv) participating in the recruitment of the contractor of works and the supervising
engineer; (v) participating in capacity building activities (including IEC); (vi) monitoring and
evaluating the output and impact of the sub-project. The PMO will contract out batches of sub-
projects to intermediaries (NGOs with strong managerial, financial and technical skills, or other
entities experienced in delegated contract management). Each sub-project is a package of activities
(infrastructure construction, works supervision, and capacity building activities). Intermediaries will
in turn be responsible to manage the implementation of sub-projects through contractual agreements
with service providers, such as local entrepreneurs, NGOs, and/or consultants; supervise all works
and services for technical quality; and ensure monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects, including
performance indicators. They will provide quarterly progress implementation reports to the PMO.
4.8    Using an intermediary under this project is considered necessary given the large number of
small contracts to manage in remote areas of Mali and as a way to ensure quick payment of works
and services. The rationale for relying principally on NGOs as an intermediary lies in the
experience of NGOs in community development, their capacity to reach populations at the
grassroots level, and the likelihood that they will remain in the area of intervention. Intermediaries
and service providers will be hired based on their competence, capacity, efficiency, and experience
in responding to community needs. The PMO will maintain an open roster of NGOs, consultants,
entrepreneurs who have expressed an interest in participating in the project either as intermediaries
or service providers. The PMO will also ensure the provision of necessary training to groups
involved in project implementation.
4.9    As to the policy and institutional development component, the Observatory for Sustainab le
Human Development, under the aegis of the Ministry of Economy, Plan and Integration, will bne
responsible to carry out its annual work program, as agreed between the Government, the UNDP
and IDA. The National Statistical Division (DNSI) will be responsible for the household budget



16
survey and the population census, while the PMO will approve all expenditures based on an agreed
upon budget with IDA.
B. PROCUREMENT
4.10   The Malian procurement code was revised in 1995 in consultation with the Bank and is
generally sound. In general, Mali's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA
Guidelines. No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents
for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Mali allows IDA procedures to take precedence
over any contrary provisions in local regulations. IDA-financed Works and Goods will be procured
in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in
January and August 1996). National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be
carried out in accordance with Mali's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided
that: (i) any bidder is given sufficient time to submit bids (three to fbur weeks); (ii) bid evaluation
and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iii) no preference margin is
granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (v)
award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder; and (vi) prior to issuing the first call for bids,
draft standard bidding documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable. Consultant Services
contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrower published in January 1997.
4.11   The project will finance: (i) community-based civil works (US$ 1 1.0 million); (ii)
equipment, vehicles for the community-requested sub-projects, for ihe institutional and policy
component and for the PMO (US$1.6 million); (iii) service contracts for community development
services (US$ 1.1 million); consultant services, including work supervision, intermediaries and other
technical assistance (6.6 million); and (iv) operating costs for the PMO0 (US$ 1.3 million). Table 3
below summarizes the program elements by procurement category, their estimated costs and
procurement methods. Detailed procurement arrangements and plans for civil works, goods and
services to be procured during the first two years of project implementation are presented in Annex
XVI.



17
Table 3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements!
(US$ million including contingencies)
US$ million
Program Element                 ICB       NCB        Other     N.B.F.      Total
1. Civil Works (a)                           -         9.1        0.4      1.5 (f)     11.0
-        (9. 1)    (0.4)      (--)       (9.5)
2. Goods (b)                                 -         0.5        1.1         -         1.6
-        (0.5)     (1.1)        -        (1.6)
3. Consultancies (c)
TA, NGOs, Studies, Design/Supervision     -                    6.6        -          6.6
and Audit                                       -            (6.6)        -        (6.6)
4. Service Delivery Contracts (d) for              -              1.1         -         1.1
Community development by providers           -                   (I 1)      -         (1.1)
5. Operating Costs (e)                       -                    1.3         -         1.3
l-                 ( 1.3)                (1.3)
6. PPF Advance                                                    1.4                   1.4
-l-                (1.4)                 (1.4)
Total Costs I                           9.6)        11.9      1.5    |  23.0
Total Financed by the IDA credit                  9.6       11.9                (21.5)
Note:       * N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
* Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
a/ For works contracts under US30,000 local shopping with a minimum of 3 quotations will be used.
b/ For contracts below US$30,000 local shopping procedures with a minimum of 3 quotations will be used
c/ Includes intermnediary services and works supervision.
d/ For community development service providers.
e/ Mainly operating costs of the PMO.
f/ Parallel financing by Government for community civil works.
4.12      Civil Works and Goods. The majority of IDA-financed activities financed under the
Credit will be used to procure Civil Works, and Goods under NCB procedures. Because of the the
nature of investments which are small and scattered geographically, it is not expected to use ICB
procedures. Standard Bidding Documents to be used for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will
be reviewed by IDA during negotiations.
4.13    Civil Works. Procurement arrangements for civil works, based on National Competitive
Bidding will amount to US$9.1 million equivalent. These works will be of a scale such that they
will not attract foreign contractors.
4.14    Contractsfor small works, estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.4 million, would be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited to bid
by way of discounts either on the total price or on the unit prices. The invitation shall include
reference unit prices established by an engineer, a detailed description of the works, including basic
2 Based on the financing plan for the first two years.



18
specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price quotation for the required work, provided he demonstrates that he has the experience
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.15   Contracts for goods. Equipment, vehicles and materials will be grouped into bid packages
and those in excess of US$100,000 equivalent, if any, will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB), using World Bank standard bidding documents for Procurement of
Goods (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996), althouglh none are expected. NCB,
using procedures which have been found acceptable to IDA, would be used for procurement
involving contracts lower than US$100,000 equivalent but greater thlan US$30,000 equivalent, up to
a total of US$0.5 million equivalent over the life of the Project. Small quantities of goods such as
office supplies, consumable materials and spare parts, which are normally available off-the shelf at
economical prices and cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$30,000, would be procured
through prudent national shopping, based on price quotations obtained from at least three reliable
suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount does not exceed US$ 1,000,000 over the life of the
project.
4.16   Service delivery contracts. For the provision of service delivery contracts, procurement
procedures will be consistent with World Bank Guidelines for Consultant Services. It will represent
about 70-100 contracts (each averaging US$ 17,000) for community development services. The
procurement procedure for service providers of community development services will be done on
the basis of short-lists comprising only national consultants following local advertisements to get
expression of interest. Consultants meeting qualification/registration requirements would be invited
to bid and deliver services under the supervision of the intermediary. Those expected to bid for
community development services include primarily community groups (such as NGOs and
community/village associations).
4.17   Consultant Services will be procured according to IDA guidelines outlined in the
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997).
Consulting services financed by IDA will be normally selected through competition among qualified
short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)
by evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of services to be provided. For
audits of a standard nature, the Least-Cost Selection will be the most appropriate method -- the firm
with the lowest price will be selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum score.
For the services of intermediaries, about 25 contracts, each averaging US$60,000, are expected --
procurement procedures by which the PMO will select intermediaries and award contracts are
simplified procedures consistent with the World Bank Guidelines for Consultant Services, and
outlined in details in the Manual of Procedures. Given the specific nature of these activities,
contracts will be awarded to organizations or consultants satisfactory to IDA through a selection
based on the consultants' qualifications, experience and competence relevant to the assignment. The
PMO will maintain a roster of intermediaries, NGOs specialized in community development. The
roster will be updated annually before the launching of the next project phase. Intermediaries,
mainly NGOs, will sign a convention with the PMO. Standard unit prices based on experience
during the pilot-phase for similar contracts will be used for the purpose of determining the amount
of the packages of activities delegated to intermediaries. The convention will stipulate that: (i)
intermediares would receive an advance of 30% of the estimated amrount corresponding to the
package of activities, upon submission of claim and a bank guarantee for equivalent amount -- valid



19
until the delivery of services reaches the corresponding amount; and (ii) eligible expenditures would
be reimbursed against the provision of documentation justifying the expenses. Services for small
studies and seminars which can be delivered by Individual Consultants will be selected through
comparisons of qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment or through direct
approach on the basis of work programs and terms of reference -- whenever possible in a
competitive way from a short-list of candidates drawn from the roster of individual consultants.
4.18   Short-lists for contracts estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of national
consultants if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded from
consideration. The standard Letter of Invitation and Form of Contract as developed by the Bank will
be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term
assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants. The
Government has been briefed and received additional clarification during negotiations about the
features of the new Consultants Guidelines, in particular with regards to advertisement and public
bid opening.
4.19   Prior Bank Review will be required for all works, goods, and service contracts valued at
more than US$ 100,000 equivalent and for consultant services contracts valued at more than
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. Post review procedures will apply to
contracts for goods, works, and service contracts costing less than US$100,000 and to contracts for
consultant services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals.
However, this exception to prior review will not apply to the terms of references of such contracts,
to single-source hiring of firms, to assignment of a critical nature as determined by IDA, and to
amendment of contracts raising the contract value to US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000
or more for individuals. For consultant contracts estimated above US$200,000, opening the financial
envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's non-objection to the technical evaluation.
For contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 and more than US$ 100,000 the borrower will
notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial proposals.
Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
borrowers for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The review process will
cover about 60 percent of the total value of the amount contracted for goods and 40 percent of the
amount contracted for civil works. Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold
levels will apply to about one in three contracts.
4.20   Procurement Status of Ongoing Projects and Proposed Arrangements. Procurement will be
managed by the PMO, which could (i) recruit individual consultants and ad hoc short-term consultant
services for procurement assistance, as required; and (ii) obtain procurement training during the first two
years. During annual reviews, an assessment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures and
performance will be carried out as they relate to the program's procurement experience and, if
necessary, proposals of modifications to the current procedures that would accelerate procurement,
while still maintaining adequate control over contract awards and payments, would be made.
4.21   During negotiations agreement was reached on afinal Manualfor Procedures, acceptable to
IDA (para. 7. la), including the proper monitoring ofprocurement and standard bidding documents to
be used under NCB procedures for civil works and goods (para. 7.1 d). The Government gave assurance
at negotiations that it will: (a) use the Manual of Procedures; (b) use the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for ICB and the Standard Bid Evaluation reports; (c) apply the procurement procedures and
arrangements outlined in the above documents; and (d) review the procurement plan and arrangements



20
during the annual review with IDA. During implementation all bidding documents, bid evaluation
reports, and draft contracts transmitted to IDA for review will contain an updated copy of the
procurement plan. Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt recording of contract award information by the Borrower; and
(b) semi-annual reports to the Bank by the Borrower indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for
individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances for
contingencies; (ii) revised timing of estimated procurement actions, including experience
with completion time and completion costs for individual contracts; and (iii) compliance
with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
The Government will give assurance at negotiations that it will take the necessary measures to ensure
that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Procurement Phases               Maximum number of weeks
* Preparation of bidding documents   4 (12 for large contracts)
* Preparation of bids by bidders  4 (12 for ICB)
* Bid evaluation                 2 (4 for large contracts)
* Signature of contracts         2
* Payments                       4
c. DISBURSEMENT
4.22   The IDA Credit will be disbursed on the basis of expenditures, according to the categories
shown in Table 4. Disbursements from the IDA credit would be fully documented. However, the
borrower would be permitted to submit withdrawal applications on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent for goods and works,
US$100,000 equivalent for consultant firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants.
To expedite disbursement and ensure that funds for the project are available when needed,
Government would open and maintain, in a commercial bank and ifor the duration of the project,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, a special account for IDA funds and a project
account for its own contribution. Both accounts will be managed by the Project Management Office.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to deposit its contribution for the first six months of
project implementation into the Project Account (para. 7. Ib). The establishment of the Special
Account and the deposit of the Government 's first-semester contribution in the Project Account is a
condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 7.2c). The special account would have an authorized amount
of US$1,000,000, equivalent approximately to six months estimated project expenditures.
Immediately upon credit effectiveness, IDA would make an initial deposit of US$500,000. Later, if
project execution and disbursements so justify and cumulative disbursements reach US$2,000,000,
the special account would be topped to its authorized amount of US$1,000,000. IDA would
replenish the account upon receipt of appropriate documentation satisfactory to IDA for incurred
eligible expenditures. Each replenishment request will be accompanied, as necessary, by the
required supporting documentation, an up-to-date Bank statement and a Reconciliation Statement.
Applications for direct payments can be submitted for amounts exceeding US$50,000 equivalent.
The IDA credit would be disbursed over a five-year period after credit effectiveness, and the closing
date would be January 31, 2004. The Disbursement Profile is shown in Annex XII.



21
Table 4: Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Category of Expenditures               Amount           Percentage Financed
(US$ million)
Grants                                         14.0           100% of total cost
Goods and Equipment                             0.2           100% for expenditures
in foreign currency;
90% for expenditures in
local currency
Consultant services                             2.3                   100%
Operating Costs                                 1.1                   100%
PPF Advance                                     1.4
Unallocated                                     2.5
Total                                          21.5
D. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
4.23   The AIB, through the PMO, will ensure that the accounting and financial management
system, acceptable to IDA, will include internal control, accounting, budgeting and financial system
to safeguard project assets, ensure proper record keeping of all financial transactions in a format
acceptable to IDA, and provide accurate and timely managerial, financial and accounting
information regarding project activities. This system would include: (i) a Project Chart of
Accounts; (ii) mechanisms to classify expenditures by project components or activities, and
disbursements by categories and sources of funds, (iii) a record of monitorable physical and other
performance indicators for comparison with related costs; and (iv) procurement contract
management information. The putting in place of a financial and accounting system, acceptable to
IDA, will be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 7.2d)
4.24   The PMO will be responsible for the preparation of the project financial statements every
six months, including the Special Account (SA) statements and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
These statements will be audited every six months in accordance with International Auditing
Standards by an independent, experienced and competent firm of auditors acceptable to IDA, on the
basis of terms of reference approved by IDA. The employment of independent auditors acceptable to
IDA for the audit of project records, accounts andfinancial statements will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (para. 7.2d). The auditors will be appointed for a period of three years, renewable on a
yearly basis. Auditors will express separate opinions on project accounts, statements of
expenditures and special accounts. Audit reports and accompanying financial statements, including
SA statements and SOEs will be submitted to IDA for review no later than six months following the
close of each calendar year. Separate opinions on the SA and the SOEs will be in included in the
said report. During negotiations, assurances were given that the PMO will submit management and
financial audits every six months and technical audits every year (para. 7.1 e). The PMO will submit
to the Advisory Board and to IDA quarterly progress reports, covering: (i) a comparison of actual
physical and financial progress versus forecasts; (ii) updated six-month project forecasts; and (iii)
procurement status. It will also prepare an implementation completion report (ICR) within six
rnonths of the closing date.



22
E. SUPERVISION PLAN
4.25   The project will be supervised every four months. The necessary staff inputs for
supervision will be as follows: 40 staffweeks in FY99, 25 in FY2000, 30 in FY2001, 20 in FY2002,
20 in FY2003, 10 in FY2004 for a total of 145 staffweeks. A detailed supervision plan is shown in
Annex XIII. Given the need for close monitoring of the operation, there will be an evaluation at the
end of the first year during which an assessment of the participatoly process, the selection of
activities and project service providers, cost-effectiveness, and the implementation structure will be
undertaken. This evaluation would permit any necessary modifications to the Manual of
Procedures, institutional arrangements, and participatory approach in close coordination with all
concerned stakeholders. Another assessment will be held at the end of the project for purposes of
project evaluation and assessment of the participatory approach for future Bank operations.
4.26   The Bank will supervise the Project through a joint headquarters/Resident Mission team
approach. A headquarters-based Task Manager will have overall responsibility in meeting Bank
requirements and in leading supervision missions consisting of sec.tor and procurement specialists.
A staff member of the Resident Mission will be the Task Manager's back-up and ensure tracking
and monitoring of the project, and make periodic visits to the regions, project sites, and participating
communities.
4.27   During the first two years of project implementation an Annual Review will be conducted
by the Board in conjunction with a supervision mission (conceivably a mid-term review and second
annual review would be combined). Annual reviews will assess progress in community
development, identify key constraints and propose actions or research to address them, as well as
consider the annual program and budget.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
4.28   This project has been classified as category C in view of the size of the sub-projects to be
financed. The sub-projects, such as community infrastructure or the provision of potable water,
linked with a constant program of information, education, and communication, should have a very
limited, if any, negative impact on the environment. A major concern is to ensure that efforts to
improve hunger and poverty do not result in damage to the environment or in environmental health
hazards that exacerbate this vulnerability. To minimize this, the training program will include
training on the environmental management of sub-projects.
G. PROJECT OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
4.29   The proposed project is a poverty-targeted intervention responding to the Government's
objectives of human resource development and poverty reduction. It meets this objective by
fostering improved collaboration among the concerned stakeholders, the community, NGOs, and
Government at every stage of the project process. By adopting this innovative participatory
approach to responding to community-requested priorities in the fight hunger and poverty in
disadvantaged areas of Mali, the project hopes to embrace the sustainability and ownership aspects
right from the start. By promoting this collaboration through a "working together approach", project
sustainability is further ensured by building local capacity of beneficiaries and service providers.



23
H. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
4.30   The participatory approach embraced by the project is geared to ensuring sustainability.
From the outset, targeted communities will be involved in project design, implementation and
supervision. Community contributions and the set-up of village management committees further
reinforce community commitment and ownership. Given its experimental and capacity building
nature, the project will ensure that key stakeholders remain committed to the process, that feedback
on progress is communicated, that necessary adaptations are made to adjust to operational realities,
and that relevant training is provided to the community and key partners. In this regard, the Manual
of Procedures is seen as a living document, to be modified over time. Program implementation and
outcomes will be regularly supervised, monitored and evaluated by the Government and NGOs.
5. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
5.1    The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system will monitor the implementation process of
the project, the output produced and the progress on achieving its three main objectives, namely in
improving living conditions of targeted rural communities, strengthening local capacity (mobilizaton
and planning capacities of communities and NGO/Government partnership) and strengthening
policy decision-making and institutional capacity at the local and national level. Using a
participatory approach, the M&E system is designed as a perennial assessment and adjustment
process, based on common information management tools made available to all stakeholders
(communities and their private and public partners) at the local, regional and central levels of
decision-making. This new approach to M&E aims at enhancing Project overall performance,
increasing conditions for sustainability of activities, and improving effectiveness of project
resources and management of risks and difficulties.
5.2    A reference framework of basic indicators related to poverty reduction, capacity building
and efficient project implementation has been identified in consultation with key stakeholders at the
central and regional levels (Table 5). The participatory nature of the M&E system provides
communities the opportunity to identify indicators relevant to their activity from this framework.
Tools to gather, synthesize and store the information into a data base have been designed for the
different levels of project management (local/community, regional/intermediaries, national/PMO).
Analysis and feedback mechanisms have also been identified and integrated into the detailed
planning process of the Project activities.
5.3    Six implementation (input/output) indicators are used to monitor the project output in
physical and human terms, and the efficiency of the implementation process. The monitoring of
these indicators will help improve the cost-effectiveness of Project inputs, as well as the replicability
of the approach adopted. These indicators are designed to: (a) keep track of proposals received,
reviewed and approved; (b) track implementation and disbursement progress throughout the
implementation cycle; (c) analyze sector content and evolution of the portfolio; (d) analyze the
extent and type of participation of community groups, NGOs, and others; (e) compile a summary of
physical achievements; (f) analyze delays, conflicts, difficulties encountered in the implementation
process; (g) monitor the amount of technical assistance provided by the Project; and (h) calculate
unit costs of project activities and compare them to the benefits encountered and perceived.



24
. bleS: KeyMorntortngandEvaluationindwators     5.4    Four impact indicators are suggested to
monitor expected changes and benefits from
ThipI1nin u                    l                   _    _ _ X _the Project, for which beneficiary satisfaction is
the necessary condition for project
sustainability~. The poverty reduction index
.~~~oQ.y ~~~~~   . ~measures improvement in living conditions as
~levk etecrnicl asisanc (tie ad tpe)perceived by ithe community itself. This
indicator requires baseline data (reference point
. l X W g B}'_S= - =.<~eXG WRX^,S,*            before the prcject) to monitor subsequent signs
difficul tieI/conflits            .of change with the beneficiaries and to
*%partners.satisfled  paticipatory approach ; =X understand the role of the project in this
change. Two indicators relate to the capacity
building of the community as related to
0 gg* goodswand services provided (edecision-makiing process and of NGOs and
coordinactued oy traineng specastsions   MEftPOwGovernment in working together as partners in
information gathered through the system on a quarthe fight agaiist poverty. The last indicator
imoupslend women)ation othMEyt atales,rmonitors progress in institutional and policy-
docuievmenta  tofdevelostakeholders onrsut adlesnslmaking capacity at the national level in the
fight against poverty. Examples of the type of
povrtyallviaionindx # ocomuniiespereivng baseline data irequired to monitor these impact
soc;o~~economic    torsi  ~          indicators are presented in Annex XIV.
cowMinftyonrmation lyvel m inrelationtotheProject'5.5    The st&E information system for the
ass thePMnO    rn r (a) identifying priotypIEsin activommunity development component is
implemented by each stakeholder of the
* istiutinalcaaciiesin oliy eciionmakng nd Project, as it is a management tool for their
oet  awarer ness studies and typenoalmeyhnisms toimol)   r own decision-making process. The M&E is
coordinated by the specialist in M&E of the PMO, who is responsible for synthesizing all
information gathered through the system on a quarterly and annual basis, supervising the
implementation of the M&E system at all levels, providing feedback (seminars, reports, reference
documentation) to stakeholders on results and lessons leaned, and training them in managing their
own M&E information system in relation to the Project's M&E system. The M&E system will
assist the PMO in: (a) identifying priority IEC and training activities; (ii) identifying and carrying
out operational studies and analysis to improve results; and (iii) assessing Project outcomes against
Performance Indicators. A mid-term review will be carried out to assess lessons learned and
identify necessary adjustments to project approach, mechanisms anid modalities.
5.6    The M&E system is linked to operational research to: (i) hlelp identify data aggregation
mechanisms between qualitative feedback from project beneficiaries and quantitative information;
(ii) harmnonize scientific and pragmatic data; and (iii) carry out timely studies in a number of
communities to analyze the evolution of selected indicators, the effectiveness of project strategies
compared to other approaches implemented in Mali, or any other questions raised throughout project
supervision. (Annex XIV provides details of the M&E information system and a list of key
indicators.)



25
6.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.1    For sub-projects, economic analysis can be done, but since the community-requested
interventions will be chosen during the course of the project life, economic analysis will be based on
(i) minimum criteria, including a rate of return of 10% using a simplified methodology and (ii)
subsequent evaluations of a random sample of 10% of sub-projects in a particular category. A
descriptive methodology is presented in Annex XV for two typical sub-projects expected to be
requested by communities, namely wells and the construction of classrooms. The economic
justification of other activities, such as the IEC program, cannot be expressed in quantitative terms.
However, evidence has shown the importance of building capacity of local institutions and of
promoting participatory approaches in decision-making to ensure stronger ownership and eventual
sustainability of investments. Justification for the Observatory lies in the fact that despite the amount
of resources spent on social sectors and conducting different surveys, there is neither capacity at the
national level to monitor the poverty focus of these investments nor to analyze the large amount of
information resulting from surveys.
6.2    There will be very little fiscal impact, except for the Observatory that will require roughly
$60,000 a year in recurrent costs. It is expected that the fiscal impact of better-focused public
expenditures to poor populations, though not quantifiable, can only be positive.
A. BENEFITS
6.3    The project would help reduce poverty in the most vulnerable rural communities in Mopti,
and other regions. This would be achieved in the short term by financing sub-projects identified by
the communities themselves as having highest priority in improving their living conditions. Direct
beneficiaries of the sub-projects and capacity building activities are estimated at roughly 130,000
persons. The training program will strengthen the managerial, monitoring and evaluation skills of
about 25 intermediaries; the communication skills and knowldege in participatory methods and
gender analysis of around 90 NGOs in community development and 520 village animation agents;
the organizational capacity of 130 village management committees; and improve collaboration of
local technical services and regional/local development committees. In addition, the project will
indirectly touch neighboring villages of the targeted villages (during the pilot phase the benefits
from a pilot sub-project reached an average of three neighboring villages). The Observatory and the
DNSI will also benefit from the institutional support component through improved capacity in data
analysis and a stronger poverty monitoring system.
B. RISKS
6.4    The first risk is the challenge in building and nurturing a new relationship between
communities, local authorities and the central Government. The GRIP is the first project which
explicitly supports a participatory process with targeted communities right from the beginning --
eliciting their participation in the identification of priorities, involving them in the implementation
and maintenance of investments responding to those priorities -- and which implicates local
authorities and technical services in the process. This support at the grassroots level is being
provided in advance of a national decentralization effort, now being planned and expected to be
implemented during 1998. Fostering the level of trust required for this new relationship is part of an
extended process, supported by the project, which will begin slowly, accelerating with experience
and demonstrated results. The second risk is the extent to which the Government and NGOs can
manage to maintain an ongoing dialogue, and their willingness to collaborate and compromise in



26
order to implement programs at the community level. This is a new and experimental partnership
for both, one which will be tested throughout the project life. The creation of an Association with
beneficiary representatives on its Advisory Board and the successful experience of the pilot phase in
testing this partnership on the ground, all augur well for the commitment of the two partners to
continue this cooperative process. The third risk is linked to institutional weaknesses, namely that
project implementation may be hampered by limitations on technical competence, absorptive
capacity, and familiarity with Bank procedures by service providers. This concern has been
addressed through clear selection criteria, inclusion of training to the community, training in
community development to the NGO-CD and training to intermediaries on Bank procedures, and a
system to monitor and evaluate performance outcomes. Finally, project achievements may be
constrained by difficulty in reaching communities, transferring knowledge and improved practices,
and sustaining community involvement in maintenance of sub-projects. This risk is mitigated by
ensuring the presence of an NGO-CD and the CDA in the community throughout the sub-project
cycle, assisting communities in defining relevant IEC themes, providing appropriate training to
respond to these community-identified themes, and requiring community contribution to the sub-
project.
7. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    During negotiations, agreement was reached on:
a) the final Manual of Procedures, acceptable to IDA (para. 4.3) and 4.21;
b) the deposit of the Government's contribution for the first six months of project
implementation into the Project Account (para. 4.22);
c) a roster of eligible intermediaries, acceptable to IDA (para. 4.5);
d) the proper monitoring of procurement and standard procurement documents to be used
for NCB (para. 4.21);
e) the submission of management and financial audit reports every six months and
technical audits every year (para. 4.24);
f) the zones of intervention for the first year of project implementation (para. 4.5);
g) the acceptability of the Director General of the PMO to IDA at all times (para 4.6).
7.2   The conditions of Credit effectiveness are:
a) the signing of the Convention between the Government and the AIB (para. 4.1);
b) the recruitment of the Director General and the head of the administrative/financial unit
of the PMO (para. 4.6);
c) the establishment of a Special Account and the delposit of the Government's first six
months contribution into the Project Account (para. 4.22);



27
d) the employment of independent auditors acceptable to IDA for the audit of project
records, accounts, and financial statements (para. 4.24) and the putting in place of a
financial and accounting system acceptable to IDA (para. 4.23).
7.4    Recommendation: Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 15.9 Million (US$21.5 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Mali on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



28
Annex I
Page 1 of I
Mali Selected Poverty/Social Indicators
Poverty
Population below poverty line (1996), %        70
GNP per capita (US$)                          240 (1996)
Population growth rate                        3.1
Consumer Price Index (1985-95)                4.6
Social Indicators
Share of public education expenditures/
total recurrent expenditures                 20.9
Share of primary educ. exp./total educ. exp.  53.6
Share of public health expenditures/
total recurrent expenditures                 6.5
Gross primary enrollment (%)                  42
Girls (1993)                                 34
Adult illiteracy (1995), %                    68
Mortality
Infant mortality (1995)                       123
Under 5 mortality                            201
Immunization (1996)
Measles                                      40
DPT 1/                                       35
Chronic malnutrition (under 3), 1996          33
Life expectancy(l995)                         50
Female                                       3 5
Total fertility rate (1995)                   6.8
Maternal mortality rate (WDR 1997)
(per 100,000 births, 89-85)                   1249
Pop. with access to safe water, % (1994-95)   49
1/ Diphteria, Pertusis (whooping cough), Tetanus



29
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
NGO Capacity Assessment Summary
The NGO Capacity Assessment, conducted during September/October 1995, surveyed 60
international and national NGOs, including the four thematic Pivot Groups (natural resources
management, primary education, health and child care, and small enterprises) and the coordinating
NGO bodies (CCA-ONG and SECO-ONG). The study focused principally on NGOs meeting the
following criteria:
(i) administrative aspects: legal statute in order with the Administration and respect of
regular reporting requirements;
(ii) active participation in NGO coordinating groups: payment of membership dues,
availability of information;
(iii) NGO operations: minimum 5 year experience, responsible for a variety of
projects/programs;
(iv) areas of intervention with high prevalence of hunger and poverty: Mopti, Kayes,
Gao.
Principal Results
The study notes that since 1969 there has been a positive development towards greater
technical professionalism and management of both national and international NGOs. This trend,
fully supported by donors, is leading to increased accountability of the staff of NGOs and favors a
participatory management style.
As to national NGOs surveyed, the main findings of the study were:
*  Areas of intervention: Since most NGOs intervene in the same sector, namely natural
resources management, community development, health/child care,
education/training/literacy, support to productive activities (cereal banks, vegetable
gardens), water supply, and micro-enterprise support (credit, processing), it is often
difficult to know their area of specialty. This is often the case because NGOs go where
the funds are. Specialization is, however, beginning to take hold, as seen by the positive
coordination impact of sectoral Pivot Groups. Geographically, NGOs intervene
throughout Mali, though there is a large concentration in the drought-stricken regions of
Tomboctou, Gao and Mopti;
*  Projectplanning: NGOs use a planning-by-objective approach to design and prepare
projects, and have competent staff for project implementation. Participatory methods
are widely used, especially the MARP (Methode Active de Recherche et Planification
Participative -- Participatory Rural Appraisal). Principal constraints are logistic
problems and delays in availability of funds;
*  Relationship with partners: contractual partnership with community organizations;
information-sharing with other NGOs (collectives, coordinating bodies, thematic pivot
groups);



30
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
*  Institutional aspects: All NGOs have legal statute and documented internal procedures.
Regular payment of membership dues is problematic for about half of the NGOs. In
three-quarters of the cases, the general accountant is also a member of the NGO Board,
possibly leading to problems of rigor and transparency. NGOs generally respect
internal procedures, and one-third have manuals of procedures for administrative,
accounting and financial management, while another third are in the process of
preparing them;
*  Personnel: personnel manuals are very rare; on average there are 2-3 permanent high-
level staff; rarely have expatriates; staff mainly consists of unemployed graduates,
pensioners, or laid-off employees, who often have good technical skills, but lack
management experience;
*  Financial and accounting management: three-quariters of NGOs rely on project-
specific funding; major confusion in functions, namely in the roles and responsibilities
between supervisor and implementor and between manager and accountant; all NGOs
have bank accounts with the system of "double signal:ures"; financial analysis is rarely
done; on average operating costs represent 10-15% of total budget, but probably higher
due to fuzziness between investment and operating costs;
*  supervision and audit: technical and financial reports are provided 2-3 times annually;
internal supervision done monthly or quarterly; external supervision done by donors;
only financial audits are done (external audits done for large amounts of financing on
the insistence of donors).



31
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
Lessons from Projects using Participatory Approaches
The Grassroots Initiatives Project to Fight Hunger and Poverty has incorporated lessons
from a number of programs/projects in Mali and elsewhere that have relied on a participatory
approach to meet development community needs. In Mali these programs/projects include: (i) the
Natural Resources Management Project (NRMP); (ii) the Programme de Consolidation des
Associations Paysannes (PCAP); (iii) Fonds d'Investissement Local (FIL) of the French
Cooperation; (iv) Micro-projects Program of the European Union; (v) the Fund for Family
Education of the Health, Population and Rural Water Supply Project (FASEF), supported by the
World Bank; (vi) completed Rural Water Supply Project (RWSP) financed by the World Bank; (vii)
Public Works and Capacity Building Project (AGETIPE), financed by the World Bank. Experience
from other Bank operations outside Mali also taken into account in project design include: the
Program for Alleviation of Poverty and Social Costs of Adjustment Project (PAPSCA) in Uganda,
Private Sector Competitiveness Project in Uganda, the Grassroots Initiatives Project in Togo, the
Village Infrastructure Project (VIP) for Java in Indonesia and the Aga Khan Rural Support Program
in Pakistan.
The principal lessons learned from the above operations regarding community participation
are:
*  needfor community participation: community participation throughout a project cycle
fosters a greater sense of ownerhsip and increases the chances for sustainable
interventions. It often enhances project design and improves trust among different
stakeholders (NRMP, PCAP, FIL, PAPSCA);
*  sensitization program: promotion and dissemination of informnation on the project is
necessary before project implementation (village contract). This program should be
very clear on project objectives, responsibilities of each partner, project outputs, and
follow-up required (NRMP, PCAP, RWSP);
*  community contribution: mechanisms for community participation and beneficiary
contribution in project need to be designed in consultation with communities (10-25%
contribution appears feasible) (NRMP, FIL, PAPSCA);
*  identiflcation of community priorities: effective implementation requires involvement
of relevant stakeholders in project design, which entails considerable groundwork,
preparation and consensus building. During this process it is also important to ensure
that viewpoints of different groups are taken into account and not only those of an
individual or individual group (NRMP, PCAP, FED, PAPSCA);
*  institutional arrangements: village management committees (members elected or
accepted by the beneficiaries) serve as good spokepersons for the community during
project implementation and as the pivot group for project maintenance in the future
(NRMP, PCAP, FIL, Aga Khan);



32
Annex m
Page 2 of 2
*  manual ofprocedures: such a manual, which establishes clear and flexible framework
for project implementation, is a valuable instrument to ensure transparency.
Procurement procedures should be kept simple and avoid heavy bureaucracy
(AGETIPE, NRMP, PCAP, PAPSCA);
*  fle-xibility: participatory approach should be flexible, namely be based on innovation,
testing and adjustment as experience is gained (NRMP, Aga Khan);
* role of NGOs: NGOs can be effective facilitators in community-based development.
However, they must be pre-qualified and selected on a competitive basis (selection
criteria and procedures to be clearly defined in the mranual of procedures) (Health
Services Development Project, AGETIPE, PAPSCA, Grassroots Initiatives Project in
Togo);
-  supervision of works: independent supervision of infrastructure works is essential
(Grassroots Initiatives Project in Togo);
*  monitoring system: project with significant community participation should have in-
built monitoring system to assess the views of community on the efficiency of
implementation and to allow timely modifications to project design (NRMP, PAPSCA,
Aga Khan);
*  sub-project maintenance: responsibility for maintenance clearly rests with
beneficiaries; agreement on this should be obtained with the community before sub-
project selection, and should be officialized in a contract between the community and
project implementing agency. Training of beneficiaries in maintenance activities should
be included in project to assure sustainability of sub-project infrastructure (RWSP,
PCAP, FED, VIP);
* future sub-projectfinancing: villagers generally accept the principle that the financing
of other sub-projects within their community depends on the commitment they have
shown with the first sub-project (PCAP, FIL);
*  avoiding duplication: village proposals need to be submitted at sub-regional level for
harmonization with regional development programs (NRMP, PCAP, VIP).



33
Annex IV
Page 1 of 3
MALI: GRASSROOTS INITIATIVES PROJECT - Logical Framework
DEVELOPMENT                PERFORMANCE                 MONITORING AND SPN   ASSUMPTION, RISKS,
OBJECTIVES                 INDICATORS                  MEANS                      INFO GAPS
Project outputs will result in:  How we will measure   What instruments we use to
success                    measure
Improved living conditions    Poverty alleviation      *   participatory & KAP    *   coop. of reg/local
of targeted rural communities  *   communities perceiving  baseline survey            admin & tech
improvements in        *   first year participatory   services
standards of living (by    assessement            *   coord. with national
socio-economic groups)  *   Bank supervision          programs
*   communities                 missions              *   adequate rainfall
satisfaction with and  *   mid-term review        *   political and
adoption of IEC        *   ex-post evaluation of      economic stability
activities                 living conditions in   *   relevance of
targeted areas            messages to local
knowledge and sub-
project involved
Strengthened decision-     Level of local empowerment   *   annual participatory  *   trust of communities
making capacity of         *   #/type of s-p initiated,    & KAP assessments          in participatory
communities to fight poverty    managed by             *   Bank supervision           process
in partnership with             community                  missions               *   appropriate
Government and NGOs        *   # women participating    *   mid-term review           participatory
in decision-making of    *   ex-post evaluation of    methods
management                 local capacities       *   lack of maintenance
committees                                            of infrastructure
* # sub-projects
adequately maintained
after 18 months
* # of new skills applied
by families and
committees to address
basic needs, by type of
sub-project
Level of Govt/NGO
partnership                *   ex-post evaluation of
*   # /type of Govt/NGO        public                 *   exchange of info
joint activities,          insitutions/NGOs           and knowledge
coordinating meetings      partnership               transfer at all levels
*   # high level committees                           *   political
including NGOs                                        commitment to
*   # new skills applied by                               partnership
NGO in development                                *   NGO commitment
dialogue and                                         to partnership
partnership with
communities/Govt
Strengthen institutional and    Enhancement of national  *   annual participatory  *   adequate data made
policy-making capacity in  capacities                      assessments (national      available
poverty reduction at national  *   #/type of changes       level)                 *   adequate
level                           brought to national    *   mid-term review            coordination among
strategies linked to   *   ex-post evaluation of      producers & users
poverty reduction          Govt. strategies and       of statistics
policies linked to    *   weak cross-sectoral
poverty                   analytical skills at
_ ._________________________  _ ._________________________  national   level



34
Annex IV
Page 2 of 3
PROJECT OUTPUTS          PERFORMANCE               MONITORING AND SPN   ASSUMPTIONS, RISKS,
What goods and services,   INDICATORS: OUTPUT   MEANS                        INFO GAPS
including capacity, will
project be producing
directly
Community Development
Basic infrastructure
*   socio-economic       *   #/type infrastructure    *   work plans for each  *   technical quality of
infrastructure (based    built                     stakeholder               works
on community         *   #/type beneficiaries,    *   monthly reports from
requests)                by component and          communities
socio-economic       *   quarterly progress
groups                   reports
* external sprn
Local capacity building
*   Training in          *   #/type IEC messages   *   training ani IEC work  *   participatory
management skills        delivered                 plans for eatch sub-      competence of NGO
*   Training in          *   #/type/frequency of       project                   in community
community                training, by          *   quarterly progress        development
development skills       beneficiary               reports               *   relevance of IEC
*   Training in facilitation                                                     messages to local
techniques                                                                   knowledge, problems
IEC program to                                                               and sub-project
change behavior                                                          *   relevance of messages
tailored to community                                                        to NGOs
needs
Policyl/nst. Conponent
Observatory
*   annual reports and   *   #/type publications   *   Observatory annual    *   importance of
studies on poverty   *   timeliness and quality    work program              delivering timely
*   data base/GIS             of annual poverty    *   quarterly progress        output
*   collaboration among       reports                  reports               *   inadequate incentive
statistical          *   #/topic of seminars   *   external and users        structure in public
users/producers      *   type data                 evaluation cf report      technical services to
harmonization            quality                   collaborate
*   # coord. meetings    *   mid-term review
amons stat.
users/producers



35
Annex IV
Page 3 of 3
PROJECT                   PERFORMANCE               MONITORING AND SPN   ASSUMPTION, RISKS,
COMPONENTS                INDICATORS: INPUT         MEANS                     INFO GAPS
How products (goods,
services and capacity) will
be delivered
civil works               *   cost by component,    *   monthly budget        *   procurement delays
equipment/materials           by community              reports               *   difficulties in getting
technical assistance      *   level of community    *   progress reports           bank guarantee
project procedures            contribution          *   analytical accounting     (intermediaries)
Observatory annual reports  *   disbursement rate       system                *   financial and
*   level of TA (#                                      management capacity
person-days supported                               of intermediaries
by the                                          *   timely community
project/community,                                  contribution
by NGO partner)                                 *   difficulty in recruiting
human resources
familiar with new
approach of project
implementation process:
*   delays (type/duration)   *   Manual of Procedures  *   appropriateness of
*   % partners satisfied  *   contracts and TORs        procedures
with project processes                          *   capacity of partners to
___ __ ___ __ ___ __ __   __ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___  _adopt procedures



36
Annex V
Page 1 of 8
Methodologie D'une Approche Participative
Introduction
L'utilisation d'une approche participative dans le PAIB s'impose a la fois comme exigence
et condition de reussite. C'est une exigence en ce sens qu'un objectif cle du projet est de "renforcer
la capacite des communautes A participer dans l'identification de leurs besoins prioritaires, la
conception, 1'execution et le suivi-evaluation des actions qui repondent a ces besoins, en partenariat
avec les ONG et les autorites locales". C'est une condition de reussite, d'abord parce que 1'evidence
montre qu'aucune action de developpement ne peut reussir, combler les espoirs escomptes sans la
participation volontaire et responsable des int6resses, tant il est vrai qu'on ne d6veloppe pas un
absent. Plus un programme/projet de developpement fait appel aux acteurs concernes et leur profite,
plus le milieu social pourra assurer le maintien des realisations. C'est enfin, une condition de
reussite en ce sens que le PAIB met en relation divers acteurs qui doivent se consulter, se concerter
pour d6cider et choisir ensemble . C'est donc un veritable partenariat qu'il faut instaurer entre les
differents acteurs qui sont: les populations, les autorites locales (organisations villageoises, inter-
villageoises, comit6s locaux de developpement), les autorites regionales (CRD), les services
techniques gouvernementaux et les ONG.
Cet annexe presente la methodologie que nous proposons pour demarrer le PAIB. Cette
methodologie concerne surtout la participation des populations aux differentes etapes des actions qui
seront entreprises a leur intention.
Definition
Le PAIB adopte la definition que I'OCDE (Organisation de Cooperation et Developpement
Economiques) donne au developpement participatif: " un processius par lequel la population, les
collectivites et les pays parviennent a faire entendre leurs voix et accroissent leur autonomie,
passant d'un 6tat de passivit6 ou de soumission a une action fond6e sur la n6gociation. Le
developpement participatif fait partie integrante du processus de developpement durable".
Principes Directeurs
La participation est une maniere de vivre qui s'exprime a travers un ensemble de
comportements et d'attitudes. Pour reussir le processus participatif, il faut necessairement adopter
de nouveaux comportements et attitudes dont les plus importants dans le cadre du PAIB sont les
suivants:
respect des populations et de leur culture: Les populations, collectivit6s et
organisations locales doivent etre consid6rees comme des acteurs et partenaires 6gaux A
part entiere. Ce qui revient a dire qu'il faudra faire confiance et respecter leurs savoirs,
savoir-faire et savoir-etre; leurs valeurs et perceptions; et chercher A



37
Annex V
Page 2 of 8
comprendre ces valeurs. Pour les intervenants exterieurs, il s'agira surtout de chercher A
comprendre les priorites locales et non les leurs; d'amener les populations A avoir
confiance en elles-memes en leur expliquant qu'elles ont un r6le primordial A jouer dans
la resolution de leurs propres problemes et qu'elles en sont capables. Cet attitude est
surtout important si le projet cherche un changement de comportements suite aux
activites d'information/educationlcommunication (IEC);
* stimulation et renforcement de la dynamique interne des collectivites: Le
processus de d6veloppement s'agit surtout d'accompagner les populations locales dans
leur recherche de moyens leur permettant de resoudre leurs problemes;
* promotion de I'appropriation des actions et durabilite: Pour achever l'appropriation
et la durabilite, les activites devraient repondre parfaitement aux besoins des
populations; etre adaptees a leurs competences et contraintes financieres; et etre
progressivement maitris6es et appropriees par celles-ci. De facon plus precise,
appropriation et durabilite s'obtiennent A travers un renforcement des capacites
institutionnelles, techniques et financieres de la communaute;
* promotion de la participation des femmes et autres groupes defavorises: pendant
l'enquete participative et durant tout le processus d'une action du PAIB dans une
communaute, une attention particuliere sera portee aux interets des femmes et autres
groupes d6favorises en vue d'assurer leur pleine participation aux activites identifiees.
Demarche Operationnelle
Cette section decrit comment il faut concretement s'y prendre sur le terrain avec les
populations et collectivites ciblees.
Manifestation de la volonte villageoise a adherer au PAIB
Avant l'intervention directe du PAIB dans une commnunaute, une campagne de
sensibilisation et d'information sera organisee aupres des populations et autorites locales des
villages eligibles. Lors des cette campagne, on expliquera la philosophie, l'orientation et la
methodologie du projet au cour d'assemblees generales et de reunions de groupes restreints. A la fin
de ces discussions, une Demande d'Appui (voir Manuel de Procedures) sera remise au village qui la
remplira et l'enverra au PAIB pour lui manifester son desir d'adhesion. En plus des reunions
villageoises, des emissions aux radios privees locales seront utilisdes lors de la campagne
d'information sur le projet.
Recrutement de l'ONG executante
Le PAIB recrute une ONG en developpement communautaire pour les villages ayant
exprime leur adhesion au projet. Cette ONG, qui constituera la presence du PAIB dans le village,
recrutera un agent en developpement communautaire qui assurera la continuite d' information sur le



38
Annex V
Page 3 of 8
projet et facilitera/coordonnera les activites du PAIB dans le villages. Une des taches clees de cet
agent est de former des animateurs(trices) villageois(es) pour assurer la releve.
Enquetes participatives et etudes de faisabilite dans la communaute ciblie
L'enquete participative, une etape clee dans le processus de developpement communautaire,
vise essentiellement A identifier a la fois les besoins et actions prioritaires de developpement du
village ainsi que les capacites, attitudes et pratiques des populations.
Premiere itape: Une premiere assemblee generale, regroupant toutes les couches sociales
(hommes/femmes, jeunes/vieux, riches/pauvres, nobles/castes, categories sociales), sera organis6e
pour une reconfirmation publique de l'intention du village. On y presente les buts et objectifs de la
mission ainsi que la methodologie de travail et le calendrier. La philosophie, I'orientation et la
methodologie du projet sont reexposees lors de cette premiere assemblee sans engager de
discussions.
Ensuite, on procede aux discussions de groupes sur la phiilosophie, l'orientation et la
methodologie du projet. Au cours de ces discussions, on s'attachera A determiner la comprehension
qu'a chaque groupe de la faim et de la pauvrete; les explications qu'il donne des causes,
manifestations et consequences de la faim et pauvrete, la proportion de la population qu'il estime
Otre touchee et le groupe social qui lui semble le plus affect6. Le nombre des groupes de discussion
sera fonction du nombre de categories sociales pertinentes dans Il localite et leur constitution sera
faite selon le procede de l'echantillonnage intentionnel (c'est-A-dire, un nombre egal de repondants
pour chaque sexe et ayant le plus de chance de fournir les renseignements voulus). Cependant dans
chaque localite, en plus des groupes selon la catdgorie sociale, on tachera de constituer
specifiquement un groupe d'informateurs qualifies (de nombre egal pour chaque sexe) pour recenser
les evenements importants de famine et pauvrete ayant marque l'histoire du village, les groupes les
plus affectes, les strategies appliquees et leur efficacite.
Apres les discussions de groupes, 1'equipe procede A la synthese de toutes les informations
collectees et les presente A une deuxieme assemblee generale pouIr validation. A l'issue de
l'assemblee generale de restitution, 1'equipe s'enquiert de la volonte de la communaute A confirmer
son adhesion a la philosophie, orientation et methodologie du projet. Si la communaute declare son
adhesion au projet, 1'equipe lui expose alors les objectifs, methologie et calendrier de la deuxieme
etape de l'enquete.
Deuxieme etape: Cette etape consiste a collecter et analyser avec les populations les
donnees relatives a leurs conditions de vie en vue d'identifier les problemes, hierarchiser les besoins
de developpement, choisir les solutions, planifier les activites et elaborer une charte des
responsabilites (confere en annexe la fiche standard des informaticins de base a collecter).
Lors des enquetes participatives, 1'equipe veillera a organiser des sessions avec un
echantillonnage representatif de toutes les categories sociales, a la fois individuellement et
collectivement, en vue de leur permettre d'exprimer leurs preoccupations. Cette deuxieme etape
s'acheve par une assemblee generale de synthese qui adopte les decisions quant aux besoins et
actions prioritaires ainsi qu'aux capacites, attitudes et pratiques. Au cours de cette pleniere,



39
Annex V
Page 4 of 8
1'equipe de chercheurs informe la communaute de l'importance pour elle de participer a l'execution
et a la gestion des sous-projets et aussi de la necessite de constituer un comite de gestion du village,
responsable pour la gestion de I'action retenue. Elle indique les criteres de choix des membres du
comite de gestion, rappelle les objectifs et calendrier de la mission et annonce le demarrage de
1'etude de faisabilite.
Les enqu8tes participatives seront menees par une equipe pluridisciplinaire de cinq (5)
chercheurs dont deux femmes et provenant (si possible) du monde ONG. L'equipe devra inclure les
competences suivantes: en approche participative; en analyse du genre; en analyse sociologique; en
analyse economique; en techniques des ressources naturelles; en demographie ou g6ographie.
L'equipe des chercheurs pourrait &re assistee par deux (2) enqu&eurs tous locuteurs de la langue du
milieu et maitrisant les methodes de recherche participative.
Troisieme etape: L'action retenue par la communaute sera verifier aupres des autorit6s
locales (commune/arrondissement, cercle et region), afin d'assurer la conformite et la coherence du
sous-projet avec les programmes de developpement local existants (carte scolaire, carte sanitaire,
etc).
Quatrieme etape: L'etude de faisabilite demarre immediatement apres verification de la
conformite des actions prioritaires choisies avec les programmes de developpement local. Elles est
executee, en collaboration avec les villageois, par la m8me equipe de chercheurs qui se ferait
adjoindre les personnes ressources necessaires (par exemple des techniciens des services publics
regionaux ou locaux). L'etude de faisabilite doit fournir des informations precises (comme la
faisabilite technique, la rentabilite economique, le cout global estimatif, le niveau estimatif de la
participation villageoise, le niveau d'organisation villageoise souhaite) permettant a la population de
faire des choix pertinents.
Le maximum de temps a utiliser pour les enqu8tes participatives et les etudes de faisabilite
dans les communautes est de quinze (15) jours dont: 10 jours pour les enqu8tes participatives (trois
jours pour la premiere etape; six jours pour la deuxieme etape et un jour pour la troisieme etape) et 5
jours pour les etudes de faisabilite.
Mise en place d'un comite de gestion du village
Ce comite de gestion du village, soit qu'il existe deja ou qu'il doit 8tre cre6e, constituera
l'interface entre le PAIB et la communaute. Il pourra 8tre un comite de coordination de plusieurs
groupes sociaux de la communaute. Dans tous les cas, il devra 8tre mandate par la communaute pour
gerer les activites realisees dans le cadre du sous-projet.
Mais sa mise en place exige une connaissance plus approfondie du contexte social de la
communaute. L'agent en developpement communautaire, qui est responsable de la mise en place du
comite de gestion du village, discutera avec les populations pour identifier des personnes fiables
(hommes et femmes) devant &re membres de cette structure et evitera qu'elle ne soit rdcup6ree par
les privilegies du milieu. Les premieres seances de discussion au sujet du comite de gestion du
village auront lieu au moment des enqu8tes participatives . Les discussions se poursuivront apres
l'enquete participative par l'agent en developpement communautaire et aussi en equipe lors des



40
Annex V
Page 5 of 8
etudes de faisabilite . Aprbs la mise en place du comite de gestion, I'agent en developpement
communautaire aidera a identifier de maniere participative les besoins de formation du comite
(alphabetisation fonctionnelle, gestion comptable, tenue des documents et registres, organisation de
reunions, circulation de l'information, capacites de negociation,etc.).
Planification/programmation des activites du sous-projet
L'enqu8te participative doit aboutir A l'identification des besoins, au choix d'une action
prioritaire et a l'identification des themes pertinents aux populations vises A un changement de
comportement. Apres ce choix, intervient l'etude de faisabilite aua cours de laquelle les populations
et l'equipe procedent d'une part, A la planification de toutes les principales activites concernant
l'execution, la gestion et le suivi-evaluation du sous-projet et d'aujtre part, A l'identification des
responsables de chaque activites. Evidemment certains aspects de cette planification seront precises
ou revus quand d'autres intervenants entreront en action (comme les entrepreneurs).
Signature d'un contrat de partenariat entre la communaute et le projet
La signature d'un accord entre la communaute et le projeit intervient apres la selection du
sous-projet par le Bureau de Gestion du Projet(BGP). Cette signature doit s'effectuer lors d'une
seance publique A laquelle participent les representants de la communaute, des autorites locales , de
l'ONG en developpement communautaire, de l'intermediaire et du projet. Elle est publique et reunit
toutes ces personnalit6s parce qu'il faut lui donner un caractere officiel et solennel, choses
auxquelles les populations sont sensibles.
Execution des activites identifiees
Pendant toute l'execution des activites, la participation des communautes sera encouragee et
soutenue a travers les programmes de formation necessaire.
Suivi et 6valuation
Les populations seront impliquees dans l' identification des indicateurs de performance et
d'impact des activitds, A la collecte des informations relatives a ces indicateurs, a l'analyse des
resultats et A la prise des decisions subsequentes (voir Annexe XIV). Ces activites de collecte et
d'analyse de l'information avec les populations peuvent debuter lors des enqu8tes participatives
mais seront poursuivies et finalisees pendant la periode de l'etude de faisabilite. Elles pourraient se
r6aliser a travers les dtapes suivantes:
Etape 1: Invitation des habitants du village a une reunion sous l'arbre pour faire le point
sur l'activit6 identifide. Lors de cette reunion il faut prendre soin de bien identifier les
differents groupes auxquels appartiennent les participants: membres du conseil villageois,
femmes, jeunes, vieux, agriculteurs, eleveurs, animateurs d'alphabetisation, agent en
developpement communautaire, agents des services techniques au niveau local.



41
Annex V
Page 6 of 8
Etape 2: On engage alors la discussion sur les aspects de realisation du sous-projet: quel
groupe est responsable de quoi dans la mise en oeuvre, les couts, la duree et la date
d'execution des activites, la contribution du village, celle du PAIB, autres sources de
financement.
Etape 3: Identification des benefices a tirer du sous-projet, en ayant en tete le cadre de
reference de I'analyse d'impact: I'acces aux infrastructures apportees par le sous-projet,
reduction de temps apporte par l'infrastructure (cas d'un puits), type d'am6lioration des
conditions de vie, organisation du travail pour la construction et la gestion de
l'infrastructure, comite de gestion pour 1'entretien, alphab6tisation fonctionnelle pour la
tenue des documents (comptables et administratifs), constitution d'un fonds villageois
(capacite des villageois), montant de la redevance a payer par les usagers de l'infrastructure,
partenaires locaux dans la gestion (capacite institutionnelle).
Etape 4: Identification des resultats des activites et mesures disponibles au village:
nombre des retardataires dans le paiement des redevances, niveau de satisfaction des besoins
de la localite par l'infrastructure , nature et importance des problemes crees par le sous-
projet. Le suivi-evaluation doit maintenir les donnees pertinentes pour l'analyse et la
comparaison. DMs que ces donnees sont collectees, plusieurs analyses sont possibles:
pourquoi un si grand nombre de retardataires? Que faire pour resoudre les problemes
engendres par le sous-projet?
Etape 5: Examen des supports d'information au village: mallette renfermant le diagnostic
et le schema en francais et en langue locale, cahiers de suivi de la redevance, cahier des
visiteurs, documents de gestion comptable et administrative. Analyse de leur tenue, de leur
contenu, du mode d'organisation et de prdsentation de l'information, de l'utilite de la saisie
de ces donnees.



42
Annex V
Page 7 of 8
INFORMATION A COLLECTER LORS DES ENQUETES PARTICIPATIVES
FICHE STANDARD
Donnees a recueillir
*  localisation, vegetation, climat, pluviometrie faune de la locaDite;
*  evenements importants relatifs a la faim et la pauvrete ayant marque la vie du village;
*  rapports de la localite avec ses voisines (type et qualite);
*  organisation socio-culturelle: institutions internes et externes actives dans le village,
interactions entre les institutions, capacites institutionnelles des organisations villageoises,
categories socio-professionnelles, poles de decisions qui decide de quoi et pourquoi?, circuits
d'information et de communication (traditionnels et modernes), langues, religions et ethnies,
systeme matrimonial, changements intervenus dans la structure familiale, types de famillies
(elargie ou nucl6aire), formes de solidarites (traditionnelles et modernes), strategies de prise en
compte des demunis et propriete des biens de consommation prises par la communaute
d demographie: population totale, sa distribution selon le sexe, l'age et l'ethnie, densite
demographique, tranches d'age, taux de natalite, exode (en precisant les menages et groupes
sociaux les plus affectes, les destinations, raisons et consequences de 1'exode sur les menages
et sur la communaute);
* etat nutritionnel des enfants et adultes selon le sexe, types d'aliments consommes;
* etat sanitaire: principales maladies, groupes affectes en indiquant les plus affectes pour chaque
maladie;
*  situation des femmes dans les localites: activites, organisations feminines, taux
d'alphabetisation, taux de scolarisation, calendrier d'occupation journalier et annuel, domaines
de pouvoir;
*  regime foncier : modalites d'acces et de gestion du foncier et autres ressources naturelles;
*  systeme de production: activites de production par sexe, age et categories sociales, sources de
revenus, secteurs de depenses, poles de d6cisions sur les d6penses, accOs et controle des moyens
de production, contraintes et potentialites de production (au niveau des sols, vegetaux, gestion
des ressources naturelles, transport, voies de communication, oirganismes de d6veloppement);
*  degre de pauvrete et profil selon les cat6gories, les familles (en indiquant les criteres de
richesse et pauvrete utilises par la communautd);
*  Ies infrastructures existantes et modalites d'acces/controle: dcoles, centres d'alphabetisation,
dispensaires, maternites, pharmacies, puits modernes, forages, banques de cereales, caisses
d'epargne et credit, marches, routes, pistes;
*  les principaux problImes et groupes sociaux les plus affectes;
*  problIme prioritaire retenu;
*  les hypotheses de solution pour resoudre le probleme prioritaire;
*  I'action prioritaire retenue;
*  Ia nature et I'ampleur des responsabilites que la comunaute accepte d'assumer dans la
realisation de l'action prioritaire retenue.



43
Annex V
Page 8 of 8
Outils et techniques a utiliser pour la collecte de I'information
outils: carte des ressources, carte sociale, diagramme de Venn, diagramme de polarisation,
calendriers d'occupation, guide d'entretien, arbre des problemes, arbre des solutions, profil
acces contr6le, profil facteurs d'influence, profil des sources de revenus des menages
techniques de collecte des donnees: analyse des donnees secondaires, entretiens directifs
et semi-directifs de grands groupes (assembl&e generale) et de petits groupes (focus groupe,
informateurs qualifies), discussions de groupe, classement par ordre de prosperite,
observation directe avec ou sans participation, entretiens informels.
techniques d'echantillonnage: (i) echantillonnage aleatoire stratifi6 (selon le sexe,
categorie sociale ou ethnie); (ii) echantillonage intentionnel: choix d'unit6s precises au sein
de la population mere, par exemple des informateurs qualifies, c'est-A-dire des personnes
ayant le plus de chance de fournir les renseignements voulus (en tenant compte des
questions des genre); (iii)
echantillonage par chaine ou pyramide: on choisit d'abord un premier r6pondant qui
recommande un deuxieme, qui a son tour recommande un troisieme. Le choix repose sur la
reconnaissance commune d'une somme d'expertise ou d'informations concernant un
probleme ou un sujet particulier.
Quelques regles a respecter lors du s6jour dans le village
*  presenter clairement les objectifs, methodologie et calendrier de la mission des la premiere
assembl6e gen6rale;
*  proceder a des restitutions quotidiennes au sein de l'equipe de recherche;
*  6viter d'aborder l'identification des problemes dans les grands groupes ou assemblees gen6rales;
*  aborder l'analyse des problemes et solutions au sein de groupes intentionnels mais seulement
apres l'exercice de classement par ordre de prosprite;
*  proc6der a des restitutions au sein de chaque groupe de repondants et pour chaque exercice en
responsabilisant l'un des r6pondants;
*  faire choisir et adopter par l'assembl6e generale le probleme prioritaire;
*  engager des discussions au sein de l'assemblee generale pour choisir et adopter une proposition
de solution au probleme prioritaire, determiner et planifier les activites, elaborer la charte des
responsabilites, identifier les responsabilites;
* presenter, avant de quitter le village, la synthese generale des resultats de l'enqu8te participative
a l'assembl6e en vue de les faire valider par celle-ci. Au cours de cette assemblee, indiquer les
criteres principaux de composition du comite de gestion: residence dans le village; disponibilite;
confiance du village; engagement pour le developpement communautaire; presence de deux
neo-alphabetes ou anciens scolarises; presence d'au moins deux femmes dans le comit6.



44
Annex VI
Page 1 of 7
Community-level Social Mobilization and
Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
Programs
This section describes the social mobilization and IEC approaches which the NGO
specializing in community development (NGO-CD) and the community development agent (CDA)
will draw on to accompany the infrastructure development sub-projects.
Objectives
The objectives of the Social Mobilization/IEC programs are to:
*  assist selected communities identify their priority needs and participate in meeting them;
*  foster positive behavioral practices linked to improved food availability, water
resources, health and educational facilities.
Issues
Four major issues will substantially affect the design and likely success of the Social
Mobilization/lEC programs:
Cultural Diversity and Dispersion of Sub-Projects
-  The diversity of linguistic/cultural groups requires that information be developed and
disseminated in multiple languages, with customized messages and visual images for
each ethnic group if different behaviors are to be promoted
*  Flexible, cost-effective strategies will be required for training and support of CDAs.
The project will emphasize the elaboration of self-contained communication modules
that are easily replicable from one village to another.
Regional Characteristics and Communications Infrastructure
* The type of agro-climatic zone will affect cropping patterns and the foods consumed.
For certain sub-projects and the behavior change activities that will be linked to them
(gardens, dietary diversification, food processing and preservation), it will be necessary
to work out "best practices" for the agricultural zone, as well as each technical area.
*  Communication infrastructure (written press, local radio stations, national radio,
television, and portable video equipment) in Mali is not strong. Yet, the situation is
evolving rapidly. Since 1991 the number of private radio stations and vernacular press
offerings has mushroomed. Solar-powered television and wind-up radios are



45
Annex VI
Page 2 of 7
also making inroads. Mobile TV (plugged into a generator) is now available in Mopti.
Inter-personal, traditional and entertainment communication which can motivate and
present action messages in a culturally appropriate way, will be given a primary role.
(The Strategie national dI'EC adopted by the Direction Nationale de Planification in
1994 recommends giving special emphasis to traditional channels.) Local radio will be
used whenever feasible, given its proven effectiveness with low-literacy audiences in
Mali.
*  Technical, extension and "sensibilization" staff from Government agencies are an
important source of information on new practices for villagers. The CDAs' activities
need to complement or be complemented by those of the ministries of rural
development, health and education -- this coordination is crucial to success.
*  Technical agencies with food production/consumption responsibilities often act in
isolation from each other. Focusing disparate food security and nutrition efforts of
concerned technical agencies on a few key behavior change targets holds promise, if
they cooperate with one another. Tentative efforts to bring concerned partners involved
in the chain of food production to consumption (ministries of Agriculture, Health and
Social Action, NGOs and women associations) together, both at the national level and in
Mopti, have recently been initiated by UNICEF. The CDAs should be kept advised of
developements in this regard..
State-of-the-Art Communication Methodologies
Most new ideas and practices are introduced into the villages training and face-to-face
"animation" by specially-hired field staff. As the National Nutrition Plan of 1995 observes, this
results in a limited audience and impact; for example, the health talk monologue typically given to a
group of mothers rarely results in modifying behavior. Introducing other mutually-supportive
channels and communication techniques can be expected to significantly increase the impact of
existing education efforts. Including appropriate Government service staff in the training of the
NGO-CD, who supervises the CDA, will increase the likelihood of project impact.
Availability of IEC Materials
* A national inventory and critical assessment of social sector IEC materials was prepared
during project preparation. Well-designed and audience-tested materials exist for a
limited range of topics, including: family planning, AIDS prevention, infant feeding
and breastfeeding, immunizations, and oral rehydration therapy (ORT).
Approach
Successful programs have been characterized by a number of key elements: social
mobilization, social marketing, rigorous planning and good program management, market research,
and mixed media. This approach has been used successfully in Mali in a number of sectors,



46
Annex VI
Page 3 of 7
namely family planning by the AMPPF, the contraceptive marketing effort, ORT and breastfeeding
campaigns coordinated by CNIECS, and the Nutrition Communication Project funded by USAID
and now supported by UNICEF. Evaluation of these efforts, each with different audiences, different
behavior change objectives, and using different mixes of media have documented positive changes
in behavior. All have used a consumer-oriented planning approach based on social marketing
principles. A brief discussion of the principal elements with underlie these part efforts and which
will guide the project follows:
Social Mobilization: This is a process of generating interest, demand and support for program
activities. To be effective, social mobilization must involve a wide range of people and
institutions, including local political and religious leaders and health and education officials,
the media, development agencies working with the population, private sector institutions and
community leaders (including leaders from the community mnost affected by the program
activities). Social mobilization tends to work best when handled by individuals who know the
local situation and can effectively link into existing local communication and authority
networks. Often, social mobilization entails building the capacity of local leadership.
Social Marketing: This is an audience-based approach which applies commercial marketing
principles to social products and/or ideas. The underlying pirinciple is that individuals will
adopt new practices, such as an improved pesticide to contrcl crop pests, modify dietary
practices to include more vegetables from commercial gardens; use improved seeds; introduce
new crop varieties; or apply a new technology such as solar drying to preserve vegetables, if
certain conditions are right. The product must be perceived as useful, and its benefits clearly
established. The price, in both cash, time and effort must be affordable. The distribution
system needs to provide easy access to the products promoted or materials required to put the
action in place. And useful, credible and attractive information must be available in a form
easily understood.
Rigorous Planning: There are six important steps to assure a behavioral change program
which is relevant to the needs and perceptions of the audienc.e and which penetrates deeply
and extensively into the community: (i) adequate research to understand the socio-cultural and
economic context which new ideas will be introduced; (ii) communication planning - the use
of research results to set objectives and plan an approach; (iii) materials development; (iv) pre-
testing behavior change concepts, practices and materials conveying these ideas; (v)
implementation of training for inter-personal programs and clissemination of materials and
information; and (iv) monitoring and evaluation to track perlormance and make corrections if
messages are not understood or are not reaching their intended user.
Market Research: Research is the key to understanding the audiences' beliefs, attitudes and
practices so that a few, doable actions are identified for promotion; so that the right mix of
media (traditional, inter-personal and mass) is used to get the message out; and so that this
information is directed to the most appropriate people -- not always the mother for health
messages, or males on agricultural topics.



47
Annex VI
Page 4 of 7
Mixed Media: The hallmark of successful communication programs has been their balanced
use of mass media, inter-personal communication, support media and traditional media. A
mix enables a program to reach large numbers of people, with sufficient frequency and
personal relevance. Touching the target audience at different moments over the course of the
day with different types and levels of information is an important aspect.
Description of Project Activities
Social Mobilization Strategy
Communities: The project's core premise and main objective is the mobilization of
communities as partners in development. A dialogue about the project will be part of the initial
discussions with selected villages. Understanding community's responsibilities for the sub-project
and that further project investments in their community is contingent on how well the first
investment is managed will be key. These are new concepts in a country beginning to build the
foundations for a civil society. While hard to generalize, at least three separate discussion-phases
would be appropriate. This initial "needs assessment phase" will be conducted by a consultant,
selected on the basis of its experience in participatory methods and prefereably in the region. A
methodology and objectives for these assessments is presented in Annex V and will be adapted with
experience.
Actors in project implementation: The Manual of Procedures developed for the project
details the system of competitive bidding that will be used to select intermediaries and service
providers (including the NGO-CD) for the various elements of the sub-projects and accompanying
interventions. The project will put in place an information dissemination system to assure that
eligible groups are informed about the project and aware of opportunities to bid. It will rely on the
most widely-used communication media to elicit as broad a response as possible; special focus will
be given to reaching organizations already working in the region of intervention. This aspect of the
project will test communication mechanisms based on publicity strategies of ongoing programs (e.g.
of AGETIPE and the Education Pivot Group), namely: (a) press: announcements in the major
newspapers; (b) radio: announcements over Radio Television du Mali's "Avis de Communiques" or
similar programs of local radio stations; (c) NGO newsletters; and (d) communications to bilateral
agencies who support local NGOs and maintain regular contact with them.
Government regional technical staff (teachers, agricultural extension agents, health care
workers): Strategies will include briefings by the NGO-CD at the arrondissement level and periodic
updates on project results. They will receive progress reports on key indicators in their area of
responsibility, along with a reminder about their role in improving the trend and what they could do.
NGO community: NGOs are key actors in mobilizing communities for action. It will be
important to keep NGOs (both regionally and nationally) abreast of project progress through the
various coordinating bodies (CCA-ONG, SECO-ONG, the four Pivot Groups). The Project
Specialist in Community Development will prepare short communiques for various NGO
newsletters and bulletins.



48
Annex VI
Page 5 of 7
Behavior Change (IEC) Strategy
The project offers an opportunity to address poverty; food insecurity and malnutrition in a
concerted fashion. Construction of basic infrastructure and investment in productive activities can
be linked with messages of a social benefit nature. The IEC behavior change program will have as
one of its long-term goals to encourage these synergies. For example, construction of wells and
development of vegetable gardens are opportunities for introducing changes related to hygiene and
dietary diversification. Behavioral change messages will be defined within the context of selected
villages by the community with the help of the CDA and NGO-CD. Given the current practices and
attitudes of the village, the NGO-CD will (i) explore with the population what kinds of actions are
doable in the given environment to bring about the desired improvements; (ii) identify specific
behaviors and practices to be promoted by the Project by target groups; and (iii) conduct short
"trials" of the proposed behaviors by households and the community. Based on two needs
assessment in Mopti during project preparation, an indicative list of behavior change areas are
shown below, with the intervention category they are linked to:
wells               hygiene
diarrheal disease control/ORT/excliLsive breastfeeding
water-borne disease prevention
chlorinization of drinking water
irrigation/water    malaria control
management         water-borne disease prevention conservation practices
vegetable gardens   dietary diversification and infant feeding practices
food security:      improved agricultural and animal husbandry practices, food
processing and preservation techniques
health facilities   breastfeeding
ORT and household hygiene
immunizations
family planning and other health topics
education/literacy  all above items
cereal banks        infant feeding practices; maternal nutrition
The IEC behavior change interventions will continue after completion of sub-project
construction activities. The NGO-CD will provide beneficiary villages with IEC messages for a
maximum of 18 months, based on a work plan it submits to the PMO. The supervision for the
period post-construction will either be handled by the NGO-CD, the intermediary, the PMO or



49
Annex VI
Page 6 of 7
some other mechanism, as the situation warrants. Because sub-projects will be initiated at different
periods, different batches of projects will have different time frames for their IEC
activities. The last batch of sub-projects will, it is assumed, be launched no later than 12 months
before project completion. This should be long enough to begin shifting behaviors for the last set of
villages, given the fact that the IEC modules will have been tested and revised and ready for
immediate use. Annual knowledge, attitudes and practices surveys will allow for IEC feedback, and
opportunities to modify specific programs.
A master behavior change strategy will be developed by the Project's Specialist in
Community Development, with the assistance of an IEC advisory group (consisting of practitioners
from NGOs and public technical services) for each of the above mentioned topical areas. This will
include identification of: (i) priority behavior change objectives and messages; (ii) key decision-
makers for each topic and those who influence them; and (iii) a mix of communication channels to
effectively and efficiently reach each decision-making group in the population. Appropriate visual,
graphic and other culturally appropriate support materials will be identified and kept on the "shelf'
for use in whatever combination is needed
IEC Topics and Materials
The project will initially rely on behavior change strategies and IEC materials already
developed and used by others. Relevant materials are available on infant and maternal feeding
practices, diarrheal disease control, family planning, and AIDS prevention. These include flip
charts, counseling cards, booklets for new literates, as 20-part radio series on feeding practices.
It is anticipated that 2-3 new behavior change topics, with accompanying IEC materials and
messages, will be either significantly improved or developed over the course of the Project. Given
the high level of community demand for well construction, and water management/irrigation
activities, priority attention will be given to practices tied to: hygiene, prevention of diarrhea
(including promotion of exclusive breastfeeding and use of ORT), malaria and water-borne
diseases. These are areas for which considerable formative research, materials development and
testing have already been done by the Ministry of Health and NGOs. There is also a considerable
body of international and Bank experience in this sector which the project will draw upon.
Based on initial community demand studies, the agricultural sector (especially cereal banks,
vegetable gardens and irrigated perimeters) is another priority area for IEC. Although the
agricultural sector has depended primarily on extension and demonstration as vehicles for improving
practices, an end-user-driven approach is being tried in some parts of the extension system. New
extension "messages" will be designed to respond to perceived farmer problems, and agricultural
agents from project areas will transmit these messages to appropriate village audiences. The PAIB
'will coordinate closely with the PNVA regarding its IEC program and choice of communication
channels.



50
Annex VI
Page 7 of 7
Any improvement in food production will need to give attention to ways of supporting
female farmers and the special problems that confront them. The Rapport national sur la situation
desfemmes au Mali (Commissariat a la Promotion des Femmes, 1995) estimates that
70% of the country's food is produced by women. Women work on family and community plots as
well as have responsibility for their own parcels -- and they are responsible for much of vegetable
production. Extension services directed to women have lagged as has agricultural research to
develop practices and equipment suitable for application on small parcels, often cultivated by
women. IEC interventions will work with agricultural specialists arid women farmers to develop
practical advice geared to their needs. Experience of the Bank-funded PCAP provides a point of
departure.
Monitoring and evaluation: IEC message delivery should be monitored and evaluated in
terms of performance. Learning what works, what does not work, and why is especially important
during the first phases of the project. For example: Is the agricultural extension agent a credible
source of information on food consumption? Are the hygiene support materials easy to use and
appropriate in the normal routine? What suggestions do CDAs have for improving the product?
Evaluation criteria have been built into the project's M&E system. They are designed to measure
changes in Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices, as well as exposure of the population to the
intervention.
In the early stages of the project, there will be more intensive IEC monitoring. The
Specialist in Community Development in the PMO will devote one week each calendar quarter
during the first year to provide feedback on IEC interventions. (This is in addition to the Monitoring
and Evaluation activities detailed in Annex XIV.) Observation, focus group discussions, and other
rapid appraisal methods will be used to obtain qualitative information about the communication
activities at the village level. A journal of findings and observations will be kept. Recommendations
for corrective action will be made to the Director General of the PMO.
Operations Research
Given the importance of the participatory methodology employed, consideration should be
given to continuous experimentation with different approaches. Experience in villages will
determine approach for subsequent areas; the process will be refined over time. Such work will be
conducted by a group with experience in operations research in collaboration with those operating in
the area and who are willing to test methodologies other than their own.



51
Annex VII
Page 1 of 4
Training Program
Introduction
As part of the effort to build local capacity to combat poverty and hunger, the project plans
to: (i) improve skills, and management capabilities of beneficiary groups; and (ii) train service
providers to professionalize the support they provide at the community level. The project will also
promote close working relationships among NGOs and Government technical services in the field
by involving the latter, especially those in services dealing with health, rural development, education
and infrastructure, in relevant training activities, such as participatory techniques and IEC methods.
In light of the ongoing decentralization process, the project will enhance the coordination and
monitoring capacity of the CLDs and CRDs in sub-project implementation. The following is a brief
synopsis of the functional role of the two key project stakeholders and an assessment of their
training needs (details of the training program are found below):
-  Beneficiary communities. As the beneficiary community will play a critical role in the
decision-making process throughout project intervention, the project will provide the
following training: (i) skill-training related to the operation, maintenance and utilization
of the end-products of the various infrastructure; (ii) capacity building in functional
literacy and management for member of the village management committee; and (iii)
training of a village animation agent in community development, particularly in the
delivery of IEC messages;
-  NGO-CD and CDAs. The project will rely on local NGOs to sensitize village
beneficiaries on the Project, conduct participatory assessments to identify priority needs;
facilitate village management committees; help frame and implement sub-projects;
conduct long-term IEC activities to support the community-requested interventions; and
train the village animation agent in community development. The NGO Capacity
Assessment found a varied range of technical capacity among the more than 600
national NGOs and a keen interest in professionalizing their operations (Annex 11). As
expected, the gap in terms of funding, experience and management capacity is wide
between national and international NGOs and among the national NGOs themselves.
The project's initial focus will be to upgrade skills of the most viable local NGOs -- the
estimated one-third that have more than five years project implementation experience,
and that are, thereby, eligible to provide services under the project. Generic training
needs identified as high priority include project planning and proposal writing;
management; project monitoring and evaluation; participatory community assessment
and planning; and training methodologies based on adult learning principles. To
implement sub-projects at the community level, local NGOs will also need training in
use of "Best IEC Practices", as well as proven techniques for improving management
skills of beneficiary groups.



52
Annex VII
Page 2 of 4
Training Activities
The training program must find a way to effectively deal with (i) different levels of trainees;
and (ii) the variety of subject areas covered by the project. The main categories of trainees include
the communities, NGOs specializing in community development (NGO-CD), and community
development agents (CDAs). Intermediaries will also receive brief training in the monitoring and
evaluation system and the preparation of bids/contracts according to Bank requirements. The
broadly different training requirements calls for expertise in multiple subject areas, including topics
as diverse as functional literacy, pump maintenance, inter-personal communication skills, proposal
writing techniques, and behavioral change techniques. The Specialist in Community Developement
in the PMO will be responsible for synthesizing identified training needs, organizing Training of
Trainers Workshop for the NGOs-CD drawing on resource persons from public and private
institutions in Mali, and monitoring training activities at all levels. The PMO will also develop a
series of training modules on: (i) general presentation of the project; (ii) community development,
including inter-personal communications techniques, community organizational methods, and
gender analysis; (iii) participatory methods; (iv) IEC message delivery; and (v) module on
monitoring and evaluation of the sub-projects.



53
Annex VII
Page 3 of 4
An illustrative training program is presented below.
Training Program
Type                           Trainees                 Frequency            Trainer
Skillsfor Identification of Sub-
projects
* Participatory assessments &     NGOs/Consultants               2 weeks; 1-2         PMO; int'l
Methodologies on sub-project                                  courses/year         consultant
evaluation (indicators)
* Preparation of Sub-Project      Potential intermediaries;     2-day Workshop;       PMO
Proposal                        all service providers         2/year
Skills Linked to Civil Works
* Construction-related            Infrastructure contractors     1-3 days             Intermediary
* Complementary skills a/         Communities                    2/year/community
Skills Linked to SM/IEC
* Social Mobilization             CDAs                          2 days; 2/year        PMO
* IEC activities                  NGOs-CD                                             PMO
Govt. tech. services staff in                      IEC trainers
target village (2-3
persons/arrondissement)
Supervisors of IEC activities                      PMO, tech. staff
and NGOs
2-3 days
Skills Linked to Management Of      Trainers of management skill    3-day workshop;    PMO, resource
Sub-projects                       trainers                       once+refresher       persons
Skills in Monitoring
* Quantitative monitoring         Intermediaries; infrastructures                     PMO; int'l
skills of sub-projects          contractors                                        consultant, local
CLDs (as necessary)                                resource persons
* Qualitative monitoring          NGOs-CD                                             idem
skills in SM/IEC



54
Annex VII
Page 4 of 4
Training Program
Trainees/rype    Social            Civil works       IEC               Monitoring &     Management/
Mobilization                                         Evaluation        Administration
Village                            Mainenance        Basic needs                        Simple
beneficiaries                      skills for sub-   knowledge                          management
project          (NGO-CD,                            skills; literacy, if
(intermediary) a/  village animation                 necessary (NGO-
agent)                             CD/intermed.)
Village          Communications                      IEC message
animation agent   techniques                         content (NGO-
(NGO-CD/CDA)                       CD/intermed)
NGO-CD &         Community                           IEC message       M&E techniques  Community
CDA              development                         delivery (Spec.    (M&E Spec.)     organization
(Spec. in Comm                     in Comm Dev.)                       (intermed.)
Dev.)                                                                  Basic village
Participatory                                                         management
methods (Cons.)                                                       (intermed.)
Gender analysis                                                        Preparation of
(Cons.)                                                               sub-project
proposal
(intermed)
Entrepreneurs                      Skill
enhancement
linked to sub-
project
(intermed/tech
services)
Intermediary                                                          M&E techniques  Preparation of
(M&E             bids/contracts
Specialist)      (PMO)
Financial
management
(Cons.)
Government       Participatory                      IEC message
technical staff  methods (Cons.)                     content (Spec. in
Comm. Dev.)
Local                                                                 M&E techniques
administrators                                                        (M&E Spec.)
a/ Examples of training needs for different types of micro-projects are:
Sub-project category                   Basic Skill Training
Well                                  Maintenance and repair of water pump
Management of maintenance fund
Numeracy
IEC skills for sanitation oversight group
Commercial vegetable gardens           Management of seedlings; transplanting
Packing and transport
Solar drying and other fbod preservation
Roads                                 Inspection schedules and techniques; maintenance



55
Annex VIII
Page 1 of 6
Observatoire du Developpement Humain Durable
Presentation et justification
La lutte contre la pauvrete, reconnue comme l'axe central de la politique de developpement
au Mali, a besoin d'un systeme d'analyse et de suivi des conditions de vie des menages pour aider
directement les decideurs a la definition des politiques, a l'allocation des ressources et a l'evaluation
de l'impact de ces politiques. Les informations pertinentes existent pour la plupart: elles proviennent
de la Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique (DNSI), des services des Ministeres
techniques (Sante, Education, Developpement rural, etc.), des services specialises comme le SAP, le
SIM, l'Observatoire de la main-d'oeuvre et de 1'emploi, les ONG, etc. Ce sont des informations
statistiques provenant d'enquetes representatives aupres des menages comme l'EBC, I'EMCES ou
l'EDS, ou de systemes administratifs comme les ministeres techniques ou des informations
qualitatives. Elles ont trait aux revenus, au depenses, a l'emploi, a la sante, a l'education, aux
variables demographiques, aux conditions de la femme, a l'environnement, a l'acc&s a l'information,
etc. Par le passe, un effort pour analyser et synthetiser ces informations a et6 fait, comme, par
exemple, I'Evaluation des conditions de vie au Mali par la Banque mondiale en 1993, le Profil de la
pauvrete en 1993 avec l'appui du FED ou le Bilan-diagnostic de la situation du developpement
humain au Mali r6alise par la DNSI en 1995 sur financement UNICEF/PNUD dans le cadre de
l'elaboration d'une strategie et d'un Plan d'action de lutte contre la pauvrete et la preparation de la
Table ronde sur la pauvrete. Cependant, il n'y a pas de mecanisme permanent pour assurer la
publication reguliere de ce type de rapport, et pour assurer le suivi de la situation sociale et des
conditions de vie des populations maliens pour fournir aux decideurs l'information dont ils ont
besoin sous la forme appropriee et dans les delais requis.
Dans l'Evaluation des conditions de vie, il avait ete propose la creation d'une "Unit6 de
suivi et d'analyse de la pauvrete" pour pallier ce manque d'analyse et de suivi permanent. De
meme, dans le Plan d'Action pour l'operationalisation du concept de Developpement Humain
Durable (DHD), il a et6 retenu la mise en place d'un Observatoire du DHD. A la suite des r6unions
avec les cadres du Commissariat au Plan et du PNUD, un document de presentation de
l'Observatoire a e  redige et approuve. En octobre 1996, l'Observatoire a ete cree par Decret
96/273/PM-RM et les modalites de son fonctionnement et de son organisation ont ete fixees par
decret 96/274/PM-RM. Cette annexe presente les principaux caracteristiques de l'Observatoire du
developpement humain au Mali.
Objectifs de l'Observatoire
Le principal objectif de l'Observatoire du developpement humain au Mali est d'analyser les
informations existantes en vue d'ameliorer la d6finition, la mise en oeuvre et l'evaluation des
politiques, des programmes et des projets centres sur la lutte contre la pauvrete. L'Observatoire
fournira aux decideurs des informations fiables et pertinentes et sous une forme appropriee pour leur
permettre:
* de suivre dans le temps l'evolution des conditions de vie des populations relativement a
la pauvrete et au developpement social;



56
Annex VIII
Page 2 of 6
* de mesurer l'impact des politiques, des programmes et des projets en cours relatifs A la
lutte contre la pauvrete sur les conditions de vie des populations;
*  de definir, de cibler et de planifier les politiques, les programmes et les projets relatifs A
la lutte contre la pauvrete et d'en prevoir les consequences probables sur les conditions
de vie des populations.
Activites de l'Observatoire
Pour atteindre ces objectifs, l'Observatoire accomplira les taches suivantes:
*  reunir, valider et faire la synthese de l'information existante, quantitative comme
qualitative relative aux conditions de vie des populations et produire une serie
d'indicateurs relatifs a la pauvrete et au developpement humain;
*  faire la synthese des analyses existantes; conduire des analyses complementaires
relatives en particulier aux determinants de la pauvrete et des mecanismes d'exclusion
qui seront regroupees dans un Programme bi-annuel d'etudes;
*  traduire ces analyses en termes operationnels pour orienter la prise de decisions, pour
evaluer l'impact des politiques, et prevoir les consequences des mesures envisagees;
*  mener des analyses en utilisant la methodologie des systemes d'informations
geographiques, afin d'aboutir A un systeme de ciblage geographique A proposer aux
utilisateurs;
*  proposer un programme d'etudes et d'enquetes qualitatives et quantitatives aux
diff6rents producteurs d'informations pour ameliorer le suivi et l'analyse de la pauvretd
et du developpement humain;
*  diffuser les resultats de la maniere la plus large et la plus adaptee possible;
*  produire et publier chaque ann6e, A date fixe, le Rapport sur le developpement humain
au Mali. Ce rapport se situe dans la suite de 1 'Evaluation des conditions de vie au Mali
(1993), du Profil de la pauvrete (1993) et du Bilan-diagnostic de la situation du
developpement humain au Mali (novembre 1995). Le Rapport se composera d'une
partie descriptive de la situation socio-economique qui sera mise ajour chaque annee,
d'une partie qui regroupera les analyses et les recomnnandations en terme de politiques
axdes sur un ou plusieurs themes et une annexe statislique. La date de publication du
Rapport sera fixee en fonction de la disponibilite des donnees et de leur utilisation
potentielle comme la mise au point du budget de l'Etat par exemple;
*  publier en cas de besoin des etudes sur des sujets specifiques dans le cadre du
Programme bi-annuel d'etudes.
L'objectif de l'Observatoire etant d'apporter aux decideuirs une information pertinente,
I'utilisation effective des donnees dans la definition des politiques, programmes et projets fera
l'objet d'une evaluation particuliere A chaque presentation du rapport.



57
Annex VIII
Page 3 of 6
Programme bi- annuel d'etudes
En plus de la synth&se des analyses existantes, I'Observatoire conduira un programme
d'etudes charge de mieux comprendre les mecanismes de la pauvrete. Ce programme sera presente
au
Comite d'orientation du DHD et de lutte contre la pauvrete pour approbation. II sera bi-annuel pour
assurer une coherence et un fil directeur dans les etudes.
Cadre institutionnel
L'Observatoire est un service rattache au Ministere de I'Economie, du Plan et de
l'Integration. Pour lui permettre de mener a bien sa tache et dans le cadre d'une etroite
collaboration, la Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique (DNSI) lui fournira les
informations disponibles et necessaires a la bonne execution de ses missions. A cet effet, le
Ministere de l'Economie, du Plan et de l'Integration en tant qu'organe de supervision des deux
entites organisera au terme d'un texte interne leurs relations. L'Observatoire entretiendra egalement
des relations de travail et de collaboration avec la Direction Nationale de la Planification (DNP) et
avec les autres producteurs d'informations. Le pilotage de l'Observatoire est assure par les ComitMs
d'orientation et de Suivi du DHD et de lutte contre la pauvrete aupres de la Primature.
L'Observatoire soumettra officiellement le Rapport sur la situation socio-economique au Mali aux
Comites d'orientation et de suivi. L'Observatoire pr6sentera au Comite d'orientation pour
approbation le plan du Rapport de l'annee suivante ainsi que le programme d'etudes. L'Observatoire
est appuye egalement par un Reseau de partenaires.
Organisation et fonctionnement
L'Observatoire comprend un Directeur, de formation economiste, qui est responsable de: (i)
la r6alisation du Rapport annuel; (ii) la qualit6 et de la pertinence des travaux de l'Observatoire; (iii)
des relations avec les producteurs d'information et les utilisateurs des travaux de l'Observatoire; (iv)
la diffusion des travaux de l'Observatoire; (v) la coordination des travaux effectues par les agents de
l'Observatoire; et (vi) la saine gestion et la bonne march de l'Observatoire. Un sociologue, un
informaticien et un documentaliste completent l'equipe. Le personnel de l'Observatoire renforcera
sa competence en effectuant des voyages d'etudes et en suivant des formation specialisees aupres
d'organismes internationaux.
En outre, I'Observatoire recrute pour des periodes limitees des consultants nationaux ou
internationaux afin de realiser les etudes du Programme bi-annuel d'etudes et d'apporter a
l'Observatoire l'assistance requise en matiere de methodologie d'analyse economique et sociale en
vue d'assurer la qualite scientifique des travaus de l'Observatoire. Ces consultants peuvent etre
detaches des ministeres techniques ou autres parties de l'administration. Ils sont remuneres par
l'Observatoire durant leur periode d'affectation.



58
Annex VIII
Page 4 of 6
Schdma N I
Ministere de l'Economie, du Plan et de
'I'nt6gration
Observatoire du Developpement
Humain
Direction Nationale du Plan                          Direction  qationale de la Statistique et de
Schema N 2
Directeur general
Assistant administratifAutre
personnel
F ~In~forrnaticien                Sociologue                 F        Documentaliste
Reseau de l'Observatoire
L'Observatoire pourra b6neficier selon les besoins, d'appuis ponctuels ou permanents
d'experts qui seront charges de lui apporter l'assistance requise en matiere de methodologies
d'analyse economique et sociale, et pour la revision des rapports que produira l'Observatoire en vue
d'en assurer la qualite scientifique.
Comme l'Observatoire utilisera les informations recueillies par d'autres institutions ou
organismes, la bonne qualite des relations avec ceux-ci est fondainentale pour le succes de
l'Observatoire. De meme, les d6cideurs sont l'audience privil6giee de l'Observatoire. Ces deux
interlocuteurs de l'Observatoire seront organises en un Reseau de l 'Observatoire qui comprendra
des membres de I'Administration et ses services specialises, des ONG, des instituts de recherche, de
la societe civile, du secteur prive, des institutions regionales (comme I'AFRISTAT), etc.
Le Directeur de l'Observatoire s'attachera tout particuliirement a la reussite de cette
collaboration qui est un lieu de dialogue entre producteurs et utilisateurs des donnees. Les
partenaires situes dans les regions feront egalement l'objet de relations suivies. Le Reseau de
l'Observatoire se reunira deux ou trois fois par an pour evaluer l'etat d'avancement des travaux, et
discuter et resoudre les eventuels problemes.



59
Annex VIII
Page 5 of 6
Diffusion
La diffusion des publications de l'Observatoire sera particulierement large: Gouvernement,
societe civile, ONG, bailleurs de fonds, secteur prive, instituts de recherche, universite, etc. A partir
du Rapport, differents produits seront crees et adaptes aux differents utilisateurs: resumes,
presentation informatique (de type PowerPoint), disquettes, articles, cartes, etc. Des seminaires de
presentation seront organises, au niveau national et regional. Un cadre de l'Observatoire sera
particulierement responsable de cette activite.
Sources de donnees
L'Observatoire n'a pas la vocation de conduire lui-meme des enquetes, mais aura pour tache
de synth6tiser les donnees existantes. Cependant, il pourra recommander la realisation d'enqu8tes
qualitatives et quantitatives dans des domaines precis, ou des modifications dans la collecte des
statististiques venant de l'Administration
Programme indicatif annuel de travail
Le programme indicatif de travail de l'Observatoire comprendra d'une maniere generale les
activites suivantes:
*  Elaboration de plan du Rapport sur le developpement humain du Mali;
*  Elaboration du Programme bi-annuel d'etudes;
,  Presentation du Programme bi-annuel d'etudes et du plan du Rapport de l'annee en
cours au Comite d'Suivi pour approbation;
*  Realisation des etudes et redaction du Rapport provisoire;
*  Revue et commentaires des membres du reseau et du Comite du Suivi;
*  Redaction du Rapport final;
*  Presentation du Rapport annuel au Comite d'Orientation;
*  Tenue de seminaires nationaux et regionaux de presentation du Rapport et diffusion.
Etudes de base
Dans le but de mieux definir le programme d'activites de l'Observatoire, il est prevu de
lancer trois etudes preparatoires en liaison avec la DNSI:
* Evaluation des besoins des utilisateurs et les indicateurs ai suivre: cette evaluation
permettra de mieux pr6ciser les besoins des differents utilisateurs et de proposer une
serie d'indicateurs socio-economiques que l'Observatoire suivra d'une maniere
permanente, en particulier ceux relatifs a l'indice du developpement humain durable.
Inventaire des sources d 'information qualitatives sur la pauvrete: cette etude vise a faire
l'inventaire des sources d'information qualitatives sur la pauvrete y compris les services
gouvernementaux, les ONG, les instituts de recherche, la societe civile, etc.



60
Annex VIII
Page 6 of 6
Budget et plan de financement
Le budget de l'Observatoire comportera le cofit du personnel, I'eventuelle refection de
locaux, les dquipements, la diffusion et les frais de fonctionnement ainsi que le financement du
programme bi-annuel d'etudes. II est co-finance par le PNUD et la Banque mondiale.
Au fur et A mesure que l'Observatoire produira l'information demand6e, les autres bailleurs
de fonds pourront apporter leur contribution A son financement. Le but ultime est que l'Observatoire
fasse preuve de son efficacite et soit finance ulterieurement par le budget regulier du Gouvernement.
Evaluation et perennite de l'Observatoire
Une evaluation du travail de l'Observatoire et de la perfirmance de ses cadres aura lieu
chaque annde. De plus, une evaluation technique de son impact sera conduite A mi-parcours par un
organisme independant au regard de l'utilisation effective par les decideurs des donnees produites
par l'Observatoire. A l'issue de cette evaluation, une decision sera prise sur les modalites
d'institutionnalisation de l'Observatoire, sa taille et son mode de financement.
Avantages et risques
L'Observatoire permettra de valoriser les informations existantes en favorisant leur
utilisation systematique par les decideurs; il remplira le r6le de lien entre producteurs et utilisateurs
de donnees en mettant I'accent sur la demande de l'information. II est A craindre cependant que son
champ de competence soit elargi au suivi de phenomenes non directement lies a la pauvrete.
La creation de l'Observatoire ne devra pas etre cependant vue comme le palliatif A tous les
travaux d'analyse faits dans les autres institutions du pays. Au contraire, il devrait etre percu
comme leur "vitrine". Les relations entre ces institutions et l'Observatoire seront le point critique du
fonctionnement de l'Observatoire et tous les partenaires devront renforcer ce lien.



Republiqut du bbli
rrojm rrApcu *UI inreikiai de B."x
Table 1. Deeoppemernt CofloKnatar (Oon)
Detried Cost.
Urnit Cost
Unt       1999             qu0zn201     200       2003       Tat                 log {F     00          01         202        2003     TotW       IM      2000 ngrhr202M0                  e 
1. InvesmentfCodst
I  Tr"".                                                       proewt          30                  80s       95                  260    20.000   G30,000   1,100,000   1,800),000   1,900,000          5 ,200,000   1,178   2,213   3,308   4,035      - 10,712
2. iht.eWe                                                      prrje          30        SS        so       K9          ,        2fsD    2,500    75.000     137,500    200,00      23t,50)        .    G0,000    1U7    277    414    SOS                   1,342
3. P.mwWr(M.O.)                                               ,es"Sonne        30        SS        so        K          .        260     2,100    63,000     115,50     1G9,000     199,500              546,000     123    232    34t    421          -    1.122
S'ubtota tWr. tmucu_                                                                                                                               73,0    13X0   1,963,000   2,337,000              . 6,396,000   1,44G   2,722   4,058   4.950         - 13,19G
B. RedoWeenwn dSn c p cAt Ioc It
1. Penoruf
ONG-DCh /aitt                                                                30        SS        so        K          .        2G0     2,400    72,01)(    132,000     192,000     223,000       -       24,000    141    2GS    395    4B1          .     1,283
MODlb                                                         unitt,         30        SS        80        K          .        260     2,400    72,00      132000      192,000    223.000              6 24,000    141    2GG      397    4G14       -     1,287
Subtotl P-ronnrd                                                                                                                                 U4,00       2G4,00     384.000     45G,000        . 1,248,000    2G2    531         792    95         -    2,570
2. Encllt.surhs
Encioltes participatives                                   tnognmm            1         2         3         3         *          9    15,000    15,000      30,000     45 000      45,000              135,000      29      so0     93      95              277
Etudes fas biitlk# ICrogrmme                                                  6        I I       1G        19                   52     1,500     9,000      16,500      24.000      29,50C              78,000      Is      33      49      GC       -      1G
Recherche bn t                                             Proramme           I                   I      -            I          3     S,500     5500            -        ,500          -    5.500      1G,500      1 1                11    -         12    34
Cibbge                                                     programme                              I                              2    14.000                14,00       14 00-                          2G,000O             28      23               -       57
Subtota iEntpatbs/Etud..                                                                                                                          29,50                   St50   G9500  73,500    5.5il  257,500      so     122    132    155        12      529
3. Formatlon
em et8ode pwnqtive/ d                                        rssbn            1         2         3         3         -                35675     3,575       7,150      10,725      10,725              32,175       7      14      22      23               as
entechniWu de co ..... lion le                               'efsion          4        12         15       18         -         49        9G      3'd4       1,152       1.440       1,728               4,704       1       2       3       4               I 10
enac"Ate lEC 1.                                              -sesio,          4        12        24        24        12         7G        9d       384       1,152       2,304       2,304    t,152       7,29G      1       2       S       S       2       IS
en pr6p.ration dn Seur,prec   h                              sessiron         4        1 2       15        le                   49        66       264        792         goo        1,1G9               3,234       1       2       2       3                7
en .Iph.dfiistirn M                                          sessin          30        55        so        95                  260       330     9 900      19,t50      26,400      31,350              GS,G00      19      3G      54      GG       -       76
en enrdrtien des sour,polets                                 s"fsio          30        SS        so        9S                  260       240     7,200      13,200      19,200      22.800              62.400      14      27      40      48              12G
an uM et 6"Wtio                                              session          3         4        1 0        9         -         26     3,000     9.000      12,000      30,000      27,000       -      79,000      is      24      Q2      57              ISO
..terie                                                       lot            tS        30        45        45        1 5       150       2G0     4,200       8.400      12,600      12,G00    4,200     42,000       S      17      2G      27       9       G7
Subttd iFnormr4o                                                                                                                                  34,907      6i,99G     103,GS9     109,G3  5S,352      315,GO9      GG1    12      214    232       1 2     GS0
4. IEC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C
M.t6rielfiulemrn t                                             let           20        35        40        so         -        145        GG     1,320       2,310      2,G40       3,3C00       -       9,570       3       S       S       7               20
Spots ncb production)                                         spot           10        I 0       10        10         -         40        *5      ssa         sso         sso         sso                2,200       1       1       1       1       -        4
Spots rdo (diffusion)                                         sWe            12        30        40        40         -        122        80      9Goo       2,400       3,200       3.200       -       9,760       2       S       7       7               20
GrBLins dInformation trone.1"'kl                             bi*in            4        4          4         4         4         20       130      520         520         520         520      520       2,600       1       1       1       1       1        5
Pubkicitpour*ppeis d.Onr.                                     spo             6         6         8         G                   20       125       750        750        1,000        750        -       3,250       1       2       2       2       -        7
Ssttienorge'ser1tdes -Palit*% locals                                                                                                          212,507      950G       540S           .2        2        27,8483            13      1G      19483,e
C. Suhl et Evak'udio
1. Eqipemevt
L.i oxf                                                       ute*            I                   -         -                    1       550      550            -          --                   -         550       1                                        1
2. Serske de con tt nts
ComsAard International/g                                      icur            3         3         3         2         2         13       260       7G0        7G0         7G0         520      520       3,380       2       2       2       1       I        7
Voyage consuad Itdernational                                 wqRge            I         I         I         I         I          5     1 100     1 100       1,100       1,100       1,100    1,t00      SSC00       2       2       2       2       2       1 1
Informatlesen                                                 ieurm           2         2         2         2         2         1 0       SS       110        110         110         110      1t0         550       -0      0       0       0       0        1
Subotr t Serkes dt cormultiants                                                                                                                    19          190          .90        170      130          ,40       4       4       4       4               20
3. SfdnibWe dform nas etd refitutio,
Org.miatb.n strninaire                                       action           G         G        12        1 2       1 2        4G     1.500     9,000       9,000      18,000      18,000   18,000     72,000      le      le      37      38      39      tS0
Perrempes   "rsorf fl                                       pens4our         54        54        54        54        54        270        70     3,780       3,78D       D7.        3780    3,7G0        t80 S.      I               8       8       a       39
Subtotal   t_ foru,os ntyse etrestitutil                                                                                                          12,780      12,780     213780      21780.  21,780       90,900      25      28      45      45      47      ISO
4. Etudes
Etudedemntabilt6                                             action           -         -         -         -         I          1     5,000         .          .-                      . se0            5,000       .       .       -       -      11       11
Etude,sCAP                                                 Pror4amme          1         2         2         3         3         1 1    7,500     75il      1s,00o       15,000     22,5C    122500      82,500      15      30      31      48      49      173
Sub4toa tEtudes                                                                                                                                    7,500      15,000     15,0W      22,500   27.500      87,500      15      30      31      48      sO      184
Sublotat SUIrietEvr4io                                                                                                                              228620      29,770     3G, 770     48,010   51,010     189,390      45      G0      SO      97     III      -39
Tota                                                                                                                                                 973,327   1,775,79G   2,590,39   3,030,525   82,392   8,432,889   1.907   3,7    S,352   8,427      13G   17,393
1a coOt unit pm Pr sou"soft pou IS mois de contn
%b ecCt unktir Par nmicrolrje pou 18 mois
Io S %ous-pro*91conalulnt
Id 2 semanesf par an
%e 4 ,lours p r an par rtgien
V formation da nounmea"a Ages                                                                                                                                                                     
IS 2th/W npendant 3 an, puis 1 himoW./n penXdm 2 amsX F
th 1hhnois pendant 5 ns(I
Y 3powmhOtemoiriesours                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           fD  fD
O S



R4publique du Mali
Projet drAppul sux Iniat est de Base
Table 2. Observatoke du d6velopperent humain durable
Detaild Cas
Unn Cott
Quantniss                             (FCFA               Base Coat (FCFA 'ON)                        Totals including Contingenls (US 000)
Unit      199    2000    2001       2002    2003      Total     000      1991t    2000    2001      2002    2003      Total    IM      2000    2001    2002    2003   Total
L lInvstmant Coats
A. Programme d'8tudes
Etudes gbn6raws                    lot           1        1        1        1        1        5    18.000   18.000   18,000   18.000   18,000   18,000    90,000     35      36      37      38      39    185
Etudes qualatbves                  lot           I        I        I        1        1        5    20,00   20,000   20.000   20,000   20,000   20,000   100,000      39      40      41      42      43    206
Suhi scibntique                    tot           1        1        1        1        1        5      6.720    6,720    6,720     6,720    6,720    6,720    33.600   13      14      14      14      15      69
Subtotal Programme d'8tudes                                                                                    44,720   44,720   44,720    ,720   44,720   223,600     88      90      92      95      97    461
B. Formation spcialis6e              lot           1        1        1        1        1        5      2,750    2.750    2,750    2,750    2,750    2,750    13,750     5       6       6       6       6      28
C. Snwinalres
Bamako                            unitt          I        1        1        I        1        5      3,000    3,000    3.000    3,000    3,000    3,000    15.000     6       6       6       6       7      31
R4bns                   -         unt            4        4        4       4        4        20      2,500 10.000  10,00    10,000   10,000   10,000    50,000       20      20      21      21      22    103
Subtobl S6minalres                                                                                             13,000   13,000   13,000   13,000   13,000    65,000    25      26      27      28      28     134
0. Documantaton                   ensemble         1        1        1        1        1        5      4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    20,000     8       8       8       8       9      41
F. Vhibcules
Mobylett                          unitE          2        .        -        -        -        2       750    1,500        --                               1,500      3               -       -               3
VWhitile 4x4                      unit                                  I  .  .                1    15,0D0    15,000                                      15,000     29        .         .                   29
Subtotal VWhbcules                                                                                             16,500                                       16.500     32       -       *               ,      32
Tota                                                                                                             80,970   64,470   64,470   64,470   64,470   338.850    159    130    133       136     140    697
mi m
0'
t%i
lltY
U,



r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                               I~~~~~~~
-                 rn   p         n u
Y o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                  .  .   .  .   .  .  ... .   ... ... .  ..  . .  ..  . .  .,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .   .   .   .                                                 .   ._      
.   . . . .   . . .  . .                                   .   . . .   . ... .   . . . . .    . . .                            . .  .   .   .   . . . . . |gi
I nph~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.            . . . . . . .                 . . .  .   .  . .                  . .  .      . ...  .  .  .      .  .W .       
~~~~~.                                   . .   . .   . . . . .   .  .   .   . .   .     . . . .  ..   .  .. 
S      H                              -                    g O s                                                                                                 I
XI30                                                                                     
XI                                                                                                                                                                         lJfu  C



Republique du Mali
Projet dAppui aux Initiatives de Base
Table 4. Recensement de b population
Detailed Costs
Unit
Cost
Quantifes                        (FCFA              Base Cost (FCFA V000                     Totals Including Contingenels (USS V0W)
Unit  1199     2000    2001   2002   2003   Total   000         1999    2000   2001    2002   2003    Total    1999   2000    2001   2002   2003   Total
1. Investnent Cos1
A. Cartographie /a                total                                                             60,000                                   60.000     118               -       -       -     118
B. Collecte de rinformation       total                                                            732,000                  -           -   732,000   1.434           -       -               1,434
Total                                                                                                792,000       -       -              -   792,O00    1,552      -       -       -       -   1,552
\a financoe par le PPF
a%
Oq m
0
(Bt



R6p4Ubqwe du Mal
P(q; CApp a  ,i:u 2v de Base
Table 5. Geslon ProWet
Deated Costs
Unilt Cost
Quaarkles                                 (FCFA                   Base Cost (FCFA 0003                           Totals kheg*n ConlrlncHs (US$ 000)
Urit      1999      2000      2001       2002      2003      Total      000)      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      Total    1999    2000    2001    2002   2003   Total
L hvwesler4 Costs
A. Assistance T.chnklu
Ofrede~ general                          perFmdols        12        12         t2        12        12         60     1,500    18,000         18.000     t8,000     18000    1,000    90,000  35     36      37     32        39    185
Sp6cilstedeOt.communaoalire              pershmols        12        12         12        12        12         60       700     8.400     8,400     8,400      8,400     8.400    42.000     16      17      17       18      18      87
ConptSble                                persmoils        12        12         12        12        12         60       700     8,400     8.400     8.400      8,400     8,400    42,000     16      17       17      18      18      87
Tedricden                                persndos         24        24        24        24         24        120     1,400    33.600    33,600    33,600    33,600    33,600   168.000      66      67      69      71       73    348
Sp6daiste6jsd islvakjabor                partsobs         12        12        12        12         12         60       700     8,400     8.400    89400       8,400     8,400    42,000     16      17       17     18       18      87
Sutoal Assistance Techtrq                                                                                                       76.800    76800    76800    76,800    76800   394,000        150     154      158     162     166    791
B. Mdta1edEwierer4
Ordnatetas la                            ensertbe          1                    .         -         -          1     3.000     3000          -                                    3.000                                               6
Mob0er                                   senref            4          *         -         2         -          6      1000     4,000         -         -      2,000        -      6,000      8                -       4       -      12
Potocopbeur                                UiFO-                      -         1              -               1     2,800                   -     2.800         .         .      2.800                       6                       6
Climabser                                  un              2          .         .                              2       475       950                        -              -       950       2        .       .                       2
SutiAotal U* bEqrur.m                                                                                                            7,950         -     2,800      2,000        -    12,750      16        -       6       4       .      26
C. VIcuijs
Vedctdcs 4X4                              Wu                                    1                              1    15,000         -               15.000                   -    15000                       31       -              31
VatNcte 'le                                unote           1          -         1         -         -          2    10,000    10,000         -    10,000         -         -    20.000      20        .      21               -      40
Mobyle0es                                  unte            -         2          1                   -          3       750                1,500      750         -         -      2.250       -      3        2       -       -       5
Mdo                                        ueI -                     1          -         -         .                              -     1.500         -         -         -      1,500       -      3        -       -       -       3
Sutoal V6htrcus                                                                                                                 10,000     3,000    25,750                   -    38,750      20       6       53               -      79
D. enquites
Atuca                                    asoe              2         2         2          2         2         10     8,400    16,800    16,800    18,800    16,800    16,800    84,000      33       34      35      36      37    174
Total kwesnut Costs                                                                                                               111,550   95.600   122,150    95.600    93,600   519.500     219      194     252     202     203   1,070
L Recurnt Costs
A. OperellonflEv*41oln
Potwvdle'cts                              pr an                                                                                2,000     2.600      7,750     7,750     7,750    27,850      4       5       16      16      17     5S
Pour, quspen                              pr an                                                                                1,193     1,193     1,613      1,913     1,913     7,823      2       2        3       4       4      16
Si4maw OpWoEnt8tretin                                                                                                            3.193     3,793     9,383      9,683     9.663    35.673      8       8       19      20      21      75
B.Frels odeoncoronnementb                   par an           1         1         1         1                    4     5,000     5,000     5,000     5,000      5,0C0        -    20,000      10      10       10     11               41
C. Fourniturese breau                        bt              1         1         1         1          1          5       200       200       200       200       200       200      1,000      0       0        0       0       0       2
0. Pesonel Contractual
Seadtaire                                pershoos         12        24        24        24          .         84        75       900     1,800      1,800     1,800        -      6,300      2        4       4       4       -      13
Cheiuffea                                persanois        24        24        36        36          -        120        so      1,200    1.200      1,800     1.800        -      6.000      2        2       4       4       -      12
Subtoal Pesonnel Contractual                                                                                                     2.100     3,000     3,600      3,600        -    12,300       4       6        7      8 a             25
Total Rtcnet Costs                                                                                                                 10,493    11,993    18,163    18,463     9,863    68,973      21      24      37      39      21     143
Total                                                                                                                             122,043   108,593   140,313   114,063   103,463   588,473     239     218     289    241      224   1,212
b6 y conpits Imnptmede at accesoires
lb potr ledc6trct, tdldphone. odpacemert, nettoyage. dec
m >
I-b
o 4
I-h
Un



66
Annex X
REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
PROJET D'APPUI AUX INITIATIVES DE BASE DANS LA LUTTE CONTRE LA FAIM
ET LA PAUVRETE
(PAIB)
MANUEL DE PROCEDURES
23/01/98



67
MANUEL DE PROCEDURES
TABLE DES MATIERES
PREAMBULE                                                                          7
SECTION I - CONTEXTE DU PROJET                                                     8
1.1    Resum6 des objectifs du Projet                                       8
1.2    Resume des activites du Projet                                       8
1.3    Definition d'un Sous-Projet
1.4    Strategie                                                            8
1.5    Domaines d'intervention                                              8
1.6    Regions d'intervention du Projet                                    9
SECTION II :LES ACTEURS DU PROJET                                                 10
2.1.   Les Communautes Beneficiaires                                       10
a. Identite                                                         10
b. Recapitulatif des taches de la Communaute                        10
2.2.   Les ONGs de Developpement Communautaire                             11
a. Identite et Efigibilite                                         I11
b. Mission                                                          11
c. Taches des ONG-DC                                                11
2.3.   Les Maitres d'Oeuvre                                                11
a. Identite et Eligibilite                                         I11
b. Mission                                                          11
c. Taches                                                           11
2.4.   Les entreprises                                                     12
a. Identite et eligibilite                                         12
b. Mission                                                          12
c. Taches                                                           12
2.5.   Les Maitres d'Ouvrage Delegues (Intermediaires)                     12
a. Identite et eligibilite                                          12
b. Mission                                                          12
c. Taches                                                           12
d. Conflits d'intdr6t                                               12
2.6.   Les Comites Regionaux et Locaux de Developpement                    13
a. Identite                                                         13
b. Mission dans le Projet                                           13
2.7.   Les Services deconcentres de I'Administration                       13
a. Identite                                                         13
b. Mission                                                          13



68
2.8.   L'Association D'Appui aux Initiatives de Base (AIB)               13
a. Identite                                                       13
b. Mission                                                        13
2.9    Le Conseil d'Administration                                       13
a. Identite                                                       14
b. Mission                                                        14
c. Fonctionnement                                                 14
d. Conflits d'interet                                             14
2.10.  Le Bureau de Gestion du Projet                                    15
a. Identite                                                       15
b. Mission                                                        15
c. Conflits d'interet                                             16
2.10.  Latutelle du Projet                                               16
a. Identite                                                       16
b. Fonctions                                                      16
2.12   Principes deontologiques                                          16
2.13.  Obligations du personnel vis a vis de l'exterieur                 17
SECTION III - LES PHASES DE DEROULEMENT DES SOUS,-PROJETS                       18
3.1.   Selection des communautes beneficiares                            18
a. Methode de classement de ciblage                               18
b. Villages cibles par le PAIB                                    18
c. Sensibilisation des villages cibles et Demande d'Appui         18
d. Preparation et soumission des Demandes d'Appui                 18
3.2.   Mise en place du systeme de gestion des sous-projets              18
a. Identification des MaItre d'Ouvrage Delegues (MOD) potentiels  18
b. Decompostion en lots des missions de MOD                       19
c. Proc6dure de recrutement                                       19
d. Evaluation des Offres                                          19
e. Revue prealable de l'IDA                                       19
3.3.   Mise en place des ONG-DC aupres des Communautes                   19
a. Recrutement des ONG-DC                                         19
b. Evaluation et approbation des offres                           19
c. Revue prealable                                                20
d. Mise en place de l'Agent de Developpement Communautaire (ADC)   20
3.4.   Identification et Preparation d'un sous-projet                    20
a. Evaluation participative des besoins prioritaires              20
b. Etude de faisabilite                                           20
c. Requete des communautes                                        20



69
d. Procedure d'Approbation                                      20
e. Calendrier                                                   21
3.5.   Mise en place des Maitres d'Oeuvre                              21
a. Recrutement des Maitres d'Oeuvre                             21
b. Evaluation et approbation des offres                         21
3.6    Etude technique detaillde                                       21
a. Objectifde 1'etude technique detaillee                       21
b. Approbation de l'Etude Technique                             21
c. Accorde de sous-projet                                       22
d. Revue Prealable                                              22
3.7    Realisation des investissements physiques                       22
a. Objectif de la realisation des travaux                       22
b. Recrutement de I'Entreprise                                  22
c. Realisation des travaux                                      22
d. Suivi des travaux                                            22
e. Reception des travaux                                        22
f. Supervision                                                  23
3.8    Suivi et Evaluation                                             23
a. Objectifs et outils                                          23
b. Mode d'execution                                             23
SECTION IV - PROCEDURES ADMINISTRATIVES ET FINANCIERES                        25
4.1.   Au niveau du BGP                                                25
a. Gestion                                                      25
b. Ressources financieres du BGP                                25
c. Decaissements au niveau central a partir du CP et du CS      25
d. Modalites de decaissement                                    25
e. Reapprovisionnement du Compte Special                        25
4.2.   Au Niveau des Maitres d'Ouvrage Delegues                        26
a. Gestion financiere                                           26
b. Ressources initiales                                         26
c. Paiement des contrats                                        26
d. Reapprovisionnement des MOD                                  26
4.3.   Comptabilite du Projet                                          28
4.3.1. Systeme comptable au niveau central                           28
a. Compte Special                                               28
b. Demandes de Realimentation                                   28
c. Procedures de Realimentation                                 28
d. Etats certifies de depenses                                  28
e. Engagements                                                  28
f. Ordonnancements des paiements                                28



70
g. Signature des cheques et ordres de virement                     28
h. Piecesjustificatives                                            29
4.3.2. Systeme comptable pour les MOD                                  29
a. Comptabilite et engagements de depenses                         29
b. Paiement des contrats                                           29
c. Pieces justificatives                                           29
4.4    Rapports d'activite                                                29
4.3.1. Rapports d'activite au niveau central                           30
4.3.2. Rapports d'activite des MOD                                     30
a. Rapports reguliers                                              30
b. Rapports de fin de Sous-Projets                                 31
4.5    Audits                                                             31
a. Audits financiers                                               31
b. Audits techniques                                               31
c. Obligations des MOD lors des audits                             31
SECTION V   PROCEDURES DE PASSATION ET DE GESTION DES MARCHES                    33
5.1    Passation et gestion des marches par le BGP                        33
a. Generalite                                                      33
b. Marches d'acquisition de biens                                  33
c. Marches de services de consultants                              33
5.2    Passation et gestion des marches par les MOD                       34
a. Gen6ralite                                                      34
b. Contrats de service avec les ONG-DC                             34
c. Marches de services de Maitrise d'Oeuvre                        34
d. Marches de travaux avec les Entreprises                         34



71
ABREVIATIONS ET ACRONYMES
ADC          Agent de Developpement Communautaire
AEI          Appel d'Expression d'Interet
AAIB         Association pour i'appui aux Initiatives de Base
AON          Appel d'Offres National
ASP          Accord de Sous-Projet
AVD          Agent Villageois de Developpement
BET          Bureau d'Etudes Techniques
BGP          Bureau de Gestion du Projet
CA           Conseil d'Administration de l'Association (pour l'appui au Initiatives de Base)
CLD          Comite Local de Developpement
CRD          Comite Regional de Developpement
CTE          Comite Technique d'Evaluation
DAO          Dossier d'Appel d'Offres
DASP         Demande d'Appui pour un Sous-Projet
DMR          Demande Mensuelle de Reapprovisionnement
DNSI         Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique
EU           Etats Unis d'Amerique
FEF          Fiche d'Evaluation de la Faisabilite
LDI          Lettre d'Invitation
MDP          Manuel de Procedures
MO           Maitre d'Oeuvre
MOD          Maitre d'Ouvrage Delegue
ONG          Organisation Non Gouvernementale
REP          Rapport d'Evaluation du Projet
SAP          Systeme d'Alerte Precoce
SDA          Services Deconcentres de l'administration
TDR          Termes de Reference



72
PREAMBULE
Le present Manuel de Procedures est partie integrante du Projet d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base
dans la Lutte contre la Faim et la Pauvrete (PAIB) mis en oeuvre par le Gouvernement de la
R6publique du Mali avec la contribution des Communautes villageoises associees au Projet et le
financement complementaire de I'Association Internationale de Developpement (IDA), Groupe de la
Banque Mondiale.
Ce Manuel de Procedures est prepare par le Gouvernement et s'articule autour de cinq sections:
Section I:    contexte du Projet
Section 11:   les acteurs du Projet
Section III:   les phases de deroulement des sous-projets
Section IV:   les procedures administratives et financieres
Section V:    les procedures de passation et de gestion des marches
Ces sections decrivent respectivement les modalites et les procedures de gestion du Projet, de telle
sorte que chaque acteur dans le projet - qu'il appartienne aux instances centrales ou deconcentrees
du gouvernement ou A la societe civile (ONG et Communautes villageoises) -- dispose d'une
description detaillee de son r6le dans le Projet.
Du fait de la nature participative du Projet, la preparation de ce Manuel a fait l'objet de discussions
approfondies entre le gouvernement et les ONG et sa version provisoire a ete testde pendant la
periode 1996-1997 A l'occasion de la phase pilote du Projet. La version finale, qui comprend des
ameliorations r6sultant des lecons apprises au cours de la phase pilote, a e  approuvee par le Comite
de Pilotage du Projet (comportant des representants du gouvernement et des ONGs).
Les dispositions contenues dans ce Manuel ont et6 egalement approuvees par l'IDA et sont incluses
dans I'Accord du Credit que l'lDA octroie au Gouvernement du Mali pour le financement du PAIB.
Pour cette raison, toute modification au present Manuel de Procedures de la part du Gouvernement
requiert la non-objection prdalable de l'IDA.



73
SECTION I: CONTEXTE DU PROJET
1.1.   Resume des objectifs du Proiet. Les objectifs du Projet d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base
dans la Lutte Contre la Faim et la Pauvret6 (le Projet) sont: (a) I'amnlioration des conditions de vie
des communaut6s rurales ciblees les plus defavorisees en apportant une reponse a leurs besoins
prioritaires; (b) le renforcement des capacites des communautes pour accroitre leur participation
dans la preparation et la realisation des actions appropriees pour r6pondre a ces besoins ; (c) le
renforcement du partenariat entre les communautes, les ONG et le Gouvernement par une
collaboration a la base dans la lutte contre la pauvrete ; (d) le renforcement des capacites
institutionnelles et les mecanismes de prise de decision aux niveaux local et national en ce qui
concerne la lutte contre la faim et la pauvrete.
1.2.   Resume des activites du Projet. Pour atteindre ces objectifs, le Projet finance deux
composantes: (a) le developpement communautaire dans des zones rurales ciblees et (b) un appui
institutionnel visant a ameliorer les prises de d6cisions liees a la lutte contre la faim et la pauvrete.
Ce Manuel se concentre sur la premiere composante, qui inclut des Sous-Projets, identifies,
proposes et mis en oeuvre par les Communautes rurales ciblees. Pour etre finances par le Projet, les
sous-projets doivent repondre aux besoins consideres prioritaires par ces Communautes.
1.3.   D6finition d'un Sous-Projet. Un Sous-Projet est constitue d'un ensemble d'interventions
comprenant generalement un investissement physique et des actions d'accompagnement permettant
aux communautes villageoises d'utiliser et d'exploiter efficacement l'investissement physique. Un
Sous-Projet n'est pas seulement une operation d'infrastructure.
1.4.   Strategi . La strategie du Projet se base sur une approche participative qui met la
communaute au centre de tous les efforts. Elle consiste a: (a) appuyer les initiatives prises par les
communautes de base dans les villages pauvres et (b) utiliser pleinement, coordonner et
eventuellement renforcer les capacites des differents partenaires des communautes de base. Pour
cela, le projet s'appuiera sur les trois processus suivants:
*  le processus de participation des communautes beneficiaires dans l'identification, la mise en
oeuvre et le suivi des sous-projets visant a lutter contre la pauvrete au niveau de leur
communaute;
*  le processus de mise en oeuvre des sous-projets visant a renforcer les capacites des
communautes dans l'execution des sous-projets;
*  le processus de collaboration communaute's/ONG/Gouvernement aux niveaux  local,
regional et national dans la mise en oeuvre du Projet.
1.5    Domaines d'intervention. Les domaines d'intervention du Projet resultent des priorites
etablies par les communautes bendficiaires. Ils peuvent concerner notamment mais pas seulement:
1'education, la sante, les amenagements hydro-agricoles, I'approvisionnement en eau potable,
I'appui a diverses activites productives, les pistes rurales ou le renforcement des capacites de
gestion. La liste ci-dessous est donnee a titre indicatif:



74
*  Education de base: (i) rehabilitation, extension ou construction, et equipement de salles de
classe et fournitures sp6cifiques, (ii) activites n6cessaires a l'utilisation optimale des
installations existantes, (iii) cours d'alphabetisation fonctionnelle.
*  Sant: (i) rehabilitation, extension ou construction, et equipement de centres de sante
primaires, la construction de latrines, I'assainissement, (ii) actions de formation et
sensibilisation en matiere d'hygiene, de nutrition et de sante d'une maniere g6nerale, (iii)
dotation initiale en medicaments essentiels.
*  Approvisionnement en eau: (i) creusement de puits, forages, mares, captage de sources,
equipement en pompes a main ou treuils, adduction d'eau non compris le reseau de
distribution, (ii) actions de formation et sensibilisation en matiere d'hygiene et de sante et,
(iii) les activites necessaires a l'utilisation optimale des ouvrages realises.
*  Pistes rurales: (i) construction ou rehabilitation des pistes de d6senclavement des villages
sous reserve que les travaux puissent etre executes avec la participation des bendficiaires;
(ii) actions de formation en vue d'un suivi et d'un entretien approprie des pistes.
*  Appui aux activites productives: (i) petite irrigation, retenues d'eau et ouvrages anti-erosifs,
et banques de cer6ale, (ii) la formation et I'assistance technique pour developpement
d'activites productives telles l'elevage, le maraichage, I'artisanat, la promotion d'activites
feminines.
*  13veloppement des capacites: (i) des programmes de formation au profit des communautes,
des ONG intervenantes dans le projet et des ONG locales ayant \changer les comportements
des communautes beneficiaires; (iii) la mise en place d'un systeme de suivi et d'evaluation
des sous-projets et du projet; (iv) la conduite d'une recherche operationnelle pour ajuster et
affiner la methode d'approche du Projet.
1.6.   Regions d'intervention du Projet. Le PAIB debute son intervention dans la region de Mopti
qui abrite un grand nombre de population pauvre. 11 est prevu qu'il interviendra ulterieurement dans
d'autres regions.



75
SECTION II: LES ACTEURS DU PROJET
(Id en tite, eligi bilit et taches)
La composante Developpement Communautaire du PAIB est mis en oeuvre selon un processus
decentralise au niveau regional et local, impliquant les acteurs suivants: (i) les Communautes
bdneficiaires; (ii) des ONG de d6veloppement communautaire (ONG-DC); (iii) des maitres
d'oeuvre ; (iv) des entreprises ; (v) des Maitres d'Ouvrage Delegues (MOD, intermediaires); (vi) les
Comites Locaux de Developpement (CLD) et les Comites Regionaux de Developpement (CRD);
(vii) les services deconcentres des Administrations concernees; (viii) I'Association d'appui aux
Initiatives de Base (AIB) comprenant un Conseil d'Administration (CA) et un Bureau de Gestion du
Projet (BGP). La composante Appui Institutionnel est mis en oeuvre par la Direction Nationale de
la Statistique et l'Informatique (DNSI) et l'Observatoire du Developpement Humain Durable
(ODHD). Pour 1'execution de cette composante le r6le de I'AIB consistera A assurer A ces
organismes les appuis prevus au projet et en particulier les passations des marches de services et de
biens en veillant au respect des procedures administratives comptables et financieres decrites aux
sections IV et V du present manuel.
2.1    LES COMMUNAUTES BENEFICIAIRES
a.    Identite. Les communautes beneficiaires sont les communautes rurales les plus pauvres,
dont le degre de pauvrete de la population est superieur A un seuil fixe, en application de la
methodologie en Annexe 1.
b.     Recapitulatif des taches de la Communaute. Au cours de la preparation, puis de l'execution
du Sous-Projet, les taches de la Communaute Beneficiaire sont les suivantes:
Preparation du Sous-Projet
*  Pr6parer et soumettre une Demande d'Appui pour beneficier du financement du PAIB;
*  Recevoir l'Appui d'une ONG-DC et participer A la supervision du MOD;
*  Identifier et proposer A l'ONG-DC les candidats(tes) aux fonctions d'Agents Villageois de
Ddveloppement (AVD);
*  Mettre en place un Comit6 de gestion villageois pour le sous-projet;
*  Identifier et preparer son sous-projet A travers un processus participatif, avec l'assistance
d'un consultant et de l'ONG-DC;
*  Evaluer - avec I'assistance d'un Bureau d'Etudes (maitre d'oeuvre) et l'ONG-DC -- la
faisabilite technique, financiere et sociale du Sous-Projet sur la base des fiches techniques
types fournis par le Bureau de Gestion du Projet;
*  Faire valider, lorsque necessaire, la faisabilite technique du Sous-Projet propose (normes
techniques, carte scolaire, etc.) par les Services Techniques Regionaux,
*  Soumettre son sous-projet au BGP et, si il est accepte, signer un Accord de sous-projet, dont
le modele figure en Annexe 4.



76
Execution du Sous-Projet
*  Realiser, avec l'appui de l'ONG-DC et de leurs ADC, les actions de developpement
communautaires li6es au Sous-Projet, notamment le programme de formation;
*  Recevoir les services du Maitre d'Oeuvre pour assurer le contr6le et la surveillance des
travaux prevus dans le sous-projet;
*  Honorer ses engagements au titre de sa contribution aux travaux d'infrastructure;
*  Designer un responsable de suivi des travaux de I'Entreprise;
*  Receptionner les travaux acheves avec I'assistance technique du Maitre d'Oeuvre en
presence du MOD, du BGP et d'un representant du CLD;
Suivi et exploitation du sous-projet
*  Assurer un entretien et une exploitation efficace des infrastructures;
*  Suivre et evaluer les resultats du Sous-Projet en remplissant les fiches de suivi d'execution
et de suivi d'impact.
2.2. LES ONG DE DEVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE
a.    Identite et 6ligibilite. Les ONG de Developpement Communautaire (ONG-DC) susceptibles
de participer dans le Projet, sont toutes les ONG regulierement eniregistr6es au Mali et qui effectuent
sur le terrain un travail de developpement A la base avec les Comnmunautes Rurales appartenant de
preference aux Regions du Projet. Cette catdgorie vise en priorite les petites et moyennes ONGs
locales et nationales.
b.     Mission. L'ONG-DC a pour mission d'assister les Cornmunautes Beneficiaires pendant
toute la duree d'execution du sous-projet A travers un Agent de Developpement Communautaire
(ADC). L'ADC identifiera au sein de la communaute des Agents Villageois de Developpement
(AVD) qu'il formera afin qu'ils assurent sa releve A la fin du sous-projet.
c.     TAches. Les termes de reference de sa mission, figurant en annexe no. 11, precisent en detail
les differentes taches a executer A chaque etape.
2.3    LES MAITRES D'OEUVRE
a.    Identite et eligibilit. Les maitres d'oeuvre eligibles soni; les bureaux d'etudes techniques
(BET), regulierement enregistres au Mali.
b.     Mission. Le r6le des Maitres d'Oeuvre (MO) comporte 3 phases: (i) I'etude technique et
financiere detaillee des travaux incluant le detail de la contribution du village et celui des travaux
realises en entreprise, ce dernier aboutissant a la rdalisation d'un Dossier d'Appel d'Offres (DAO);
(ii) I'assistance technique au MOD pour 1'evaluation des offres des entreprises et (iii) le suivi
technique des travaux des villageois et de l'entreprise. Le MO travaille en concertation etroite avec
les membres de la communaute, I'ADC et les services techniques deconcentres pour assurer que les
normes requises par ces services sont respectees.



77
c.     Taches. Les Termes de Reference du MO, figurant en annexe no 12, precisent en detail les
differentes taches a executer pour chacune des ces trois phases.
d.     Conflits d'interets. Les maitres d'oeuvre ne peuvent fournir une assistance technique pour
l'6valuation des offres des entreprises avec lesquelles ils entretiennent une relation commerciale.
2.4. LES ENTREPRISES.
a.     Identite et eligibilite. Les entreprises susceptibles de participer au Projet sont toutes des
entreprises de realisation de travaux dans les domaines couverts par le projet (voir paragraphe 1.5),
regulierement inscites au registre du commerce du Mali.
b.     Mission. La mission des entreprises dans le Projet est de realiser les investissements
physiques (bftiment, piste, micro-barrage, puit, etc.) dont la compl&xite et l'importance depassent
les capacites techniques et humaines de la communaute. Les travaux realises par l'entreprise sont
distincts de ceux realisees par la communaute au titre de sa contribution dans la realisation de
l'ouvrage.
c.     Taches. Les taches consistent A executer les prestations definies dans un contrat dont le
Modele est en Annexe 11.
d.     Conflits d'interets. Les entreprises ne peuvent soumissionner lorsqu'elles entretiennent des
relations commerciales avec l'intermediaire ayant lance l'appel d'offres ou le maitre d'oeuvre ayant
fourni une assistance technique pour sa preparation.
2.5    LES MAITRES D'OUVRAGE DELEGUES (INTERMEDIAIRES)
a.     Identit6 et 61igibilit . Les Maitres d'Ouvrage Delegues (MOD) sont des organismes ayant
une capacite technique et de gestion financiere suffisante pour assurer la gestion d'un ensemble de
Sous-Projets pour le compte du Bureau de Gestion du Projet (BGP). Compte tenu de la specificite du
projet, il est preferable que cette fonction soit assur6e par des ONG nationales et internationales
ayant les capacites requises. Toutefois, il n'est pas exclu que cette fonction puisse etre assuree par
des organismes dejA expdrimentes en matiere de MOD dans d'autres secteurs.
b.     Mission. La mission du MOD consiste A passer et gerer les contrats suivants: (i) des
contrats avec des ONG-DC pour l'appui au developpement communautaire dans les villages; (ii) des
contrats avec des BET pour des missions de Maltrise d'Oeuvre des travaux et (iii) des contrats avec
des entreprises pour l'execution des travaux prevus dans les Sous-Projets. La mission est
principalement une mission de gestion de contrat, comprenant un contr6le de qualite du travail des
contractants (ONG-DC, Maitres d'Oeuvre et Entreprises), avec un systeme de suivi et evaluation et
un appui-formation aux ONG-DC. Par ailleurs, le MOD veille A la promotion du processus
participatif pendant toute la periode de son intevention.
c.     Taches. Les taches du MOD sont detaillees dans les Termes de Reference qui seront
annexes A la Convention signee entre le BGP et le MOD dont le modele figure en Annexe 13. Les
termes de ref6rence des missions des MOD figurenet en annexe n 10.
d.     Conflits d'interet. Les  interrnediaires (MOD) ne  peuvent entretenir de  relations



78
2.6    LES COMITES REGIONAUX ET LOCAUX DE DEVEiLOPPEMENT
a.    Identite. Les Comites Locaux de Developpement sorit composes des representants de
l'Administration (les Commandants de cercle, les chefs d'arrondissement, et des responsables des
Services Techniques) et des representants de la societe civile (ONG, associations, etc.).  Les
Comites Regionaux de Developpement sont composes du Gouverneur de la Region, des
responsables des services techniques regionaux, des repr6sentants de la societe civile (ONG,
associations, etc.). De facon generale, les CRD et les CLD ont pour r6le de proposer les plans de
developpement regionaux et locaux ainsi que les modalites de leur mise en oeuvre, et d'en suivre
l'execution.
b.     Mission dans le Projet. lus doivent veiller A la coherence des sous-projets avec les aspects
principaux de la politique du Gouvernement dans le secteur concerne, A eviter le double emploi
avec un autre projet dont le financement est deja assure. Ils doivent 6galement s'assurer que le
sous-projet n'a pas ete elimine du programme d'investissement pour des raisons autres que
l'absence de ressources financieres. Pour les aspects de coherence, par exemple, dans le cas de
sous-projets scolaire ou de sante, ils doivent veiller A la coherence avec la carte nationale scolaire
ou de sante, a la mise A la dispostion du personnel (enseignant, personnel de sante,...); dans le cas de
sous-projet irrigation, ils doivent veiller A la cohdrence avec le plan national d'action
environnemental et la lutte contre la desertification, etc.
2.7    LES SERVICES DECONCENTRES DE L'ADMINISTRATION
a.    Identite. Les Services deconcentres de l'administration (SDA) qui interviennent dans le
Projet sont les services regionaux ou locaux des ministeres sectoriels dont relevent les sous-projets.
b.     Mission. Dans le cadre de leurs missions normales, les SDA apportent un appui-conseil aux
communautes beneficiaires et aux consultants charges des enqu8tes et etudes sur les aspects
techniques de la preparation et de la r6alisation des composantes des sous-projets.
2.8    L'ASSOCIATION D'APPUI AUX INITIATIVES DE BASE
a.    Identite. L'Association d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base (MiB) est une structure associative,
laYque, et apolitique A but non lucratif inscrite sur le Registre des Associations du Mali avec le
recepisse no 0058/MATS-DNATque le gouvernementcharge d'executer le Projet dans le cadre d'une
Convention dont le Manuel de Proc6dures est partie int6grante. Les membres fondateurs de l'AIB
sont: (i) un Conseil d'Administration(CA) et (ii) un Bureau de gestion du projet (BGP).
b.     Mission. L'AIB fixe les orientations du Projet, assure le suivi et evaluation de son execution
et de son impact.



79
2.9    LE CONSEIL D'ADMINISTRATION
a.     Identite. La composition du CA reflete la strategie participative du Projet ainsi que les
principes de participation, d'equite, de neutralite et de transparence qui gouvernent le Projet. Le
nombre des membres deliberants du CA est limite A cinq, repr6sentant (i) les beneficiaires
(representants des collectifs ou des associations defendant les interets des communautes dans les
domaines d'intervention du PAIB (comme la Chambre d'agriculture, I'Association des parents eleves,
etc.)); et (ii) les intervenants du PAIB (repr6sentants des collectifs des ONG et l'Ordre/Association des
architectes et des ingenieurs conseils). La composition du Conseil sera revue en fonction de la
participation des regions nouvelles dans le PAIB.
b.     Mission. Le CA n'a pas d'attribution en matiere de gestion courante dont la responsabilite est
assuree par le BGP. Le CA a pour r6le de:
* recruter le Directeur Genral du BGP
* proposer au gouvernement et A l'IDA les regions d'intervention du projet
* adopter le programme annuel de travail du BGP et le budget annuel du Projet;
- approuver le Manuel de Procedures et les projets de revision lorsque necessaire;
- assurer les revues annuelles du projet conjointement avec l'IDA;
- contr6ler A posteriori la gestion du Projet sur la base (i) des rapports d'activites trimestriels et
annuels; (ii) des rapports des Audits externes; (iii) de l'examen des indicateurs de suivi-
evaluation;
* approuver l'organigramme et le reglement interieur du BGP;
* approuver le choix des auditeurs des comptes et de gestion;
* approuver les conventions et accord avec I'Etat et l'IDA;
* mener toutes autres activites liees au but et objectif de I'association qui ne relevent pas de la
gestion courante du projet.
c.     Fonctionnement du CA. Le fonctionnement du Conseil d'Administration de l'Association est
regi par un reglement interieur adopte A la majorite des 2/3 de ses membres. Le reglement interieur est
modifie dans les memes conditions. Le Conseil d'Administration se reunit sur convocation de son
President pour le suivi des projets sur la base de rapports d'activites. Une session annuelle est
consacree A l'examen et A l'adoption du budget. Pour toutes les reunions du Conseil, la presence d'au
moins 2/3 de ses membres est indispensable ainsi que la pr6sence d'au moins un representant de
chacune des 3 categories de partenaires. Les decisions du Conseil sont prises A la majorite simple des
membres presents. En cas de partage des voix, celle du President est preponderante. Toutefois pour
les projets d'amendement aux Manuels de Procedures, le contrat du Directeur General du BGP, et le
plan de travail annuel de l'Association la majorite des 2/3 des membres est requise. Le Conseil
d'Administration peut &re convoque en seance extraordinaire A l'initiative de son President A la
demande d'au moins la moitie de ses membres.  En cas d'urgence et lorsque les circonstances
l'exigent, le Conseil d'Administration peut etre convoque en session extraordinaire par son President,
sans aucune autre observation de delai. Un membre du Conseil peut donner procuration ecrite, A un
autre membre A l'effet de le representer aux reunions. Aucun membre ne peut detenir plus d'une
procuration. Peuvent participer aux reunions du Conseil avec voix consultative un representant du



80
Gouvemement denomme Mandataire, ainsi qu'un Representant de chacun des autres organismes
(collectivitds, bailleurs de fonds, associations) ayant confie ;i I'Association P'execution d'un
programme. Le Directeur General du BGP participe egalement aux sessions du Conseil avec voie
consultative. Le Conseil peut en outre admettre A ses seances toute personne dont elle juge la presence
necessaire. Le programme et l'ordre du jour des reunions du Conseil sont prepares par le President.
Les convocations indiquent la date, le lieu et l'ordre du jour de la reunion. Elles sont accompagnees
des documents relatifs a la reunion, et envoyees A chaque membre au moins 7 jours a l'avance par
cahier de transmission.
d.     Conflits d'int6r8t.  Les membres du CA  ne peuvent recevoir aucune remuneration,
commission ou honoraire sous quelque forme que ce soit de la part des entreprises, ayant
soumissionne A un appel d'offres lancee dans le cadre du Projet.
2.10. LE BUREAU DE GESTION DU PROJET
a.    Identitd. Le Bureau de Gestion du Projet (BGP) est compose d'un Directeur General, assiste
d'experts dans chacun des domaines suivants: (a) technique, (b) renforcement des capacites
communautaires, (c) suivi/evaluation, et (d) administration, finance, et comptabilite.
b.     Mission. La responsabilite de la gestion technique et financiere du Projet est assuree par le
BGP. A ce titre, celui-ci a pour r6le de:
*  constituer et tenir a jour les fichiers de competences ci-dessous. Les 3 premiers fichiers sont
constitues A partir des reponses A 3 differents Appels d'Expression d'Interet (AEI), evaluees
par des commissions competentes:
> Fichier des consultants ayant exprime leur interet pour tine mission de Maitrise d'Ouvrage
Deleguee (MOD) du projet, comportant une descripticin des competences techniques et
financieres de ces consultants en la matiere;
=' Fichier des ONG ayant exprime leur interet pour une mission d'ONG de Developpement
Communautaire (OND-DC), comportant une description des competences de ces ONG
dans le domaine;
=>  Fichier des Bureaux d'Etudes Techniques ayant exprime leur interet pour une mission de
Ma^itrise d'Oeuvre dans un ou plusieurs les divers domaines techniques du (i)Genie-Civil;
(ii) Genie-Rural; (iii) etc.
*  recruter les MaItres d'Ouvrages Delegues (MOD); gerer leurs Conventions;
*  evaluer les Demandes d'Appui des communautes beneficiares et signer les Accords de Sous-
Projets avec eux et le MOD concerne;
*  assurer la production, la diffusion et la mise A jour des Fiches d'Evaluation de la Faisabilite
(FEF) technique, economique et sociale des differents types de projets; assurer leur validation
par les Ministeres Sectoriels concemrs; et leur prise en consideration par les Services
deconcentres de ces Ministeres;
*  mettre en place le Compte Special du Projet gere par le Directeur General;
*  assurer la gestion des fonds du Projet: les fonds de contrepaitie du Gouvernement et du Credit
de l'IDA conformement a l'Accord de Credit (voir Section IN );



81
*  preparer les rapports d'activites couvrant chaque periode trimestrielle d'execution du Projet
*  recruter les auditeurs; faciliter les missions d'audit et transmettre les rapports d'audit A l'IDA
selon le calendrier prevu A l'Accord de Credit;
*  assurer le fonctionnement de l'ensemble des mecanismes d'information, de suivi et evaluation
(S&E) A tous les niveaux du projet; s'assurer de la fourniture des rapports de S&E par les
responsables des actions sur le terrain (ONG-DC) et intermediaires (MOD); et consolider
1'ensemble des donnees de S&E dans le rapport d'activite trimestriel du projet;
*  preparer la revue A mi-parcours du Projet;
*  veiller A la mise en application des recommandations du CA et de I'AIB.
c.     Conflits d'int6r6t Les personnels, du BGP, ne peuvent detenir, directement ou par personne
interposee, aucun int6ret dans des entreprises, des bureaux d'etudes ou des ONGs, ou exercer des
responsabilites dans des institutions publiques ou privees appelees A entretenir des relations
commerciales avec le BGP ou les intermediaires, ou A b6neficier des actions du projet. Les membres
du BGP ne peuvent recevoir aucune remuneration, commission ou honoraire sous quelque forme
que ce soit de la part de ces memes entreprises, bureaux d'etudes, ONGs ou autres institutions.
2.11   LA TUTELLE DU PROJET
a.     Identite. Le Projet est place sous la tutelle du Ministere de l'Economie, du Plan et de
I'Integration.
b.     Fonctions: Les fonctions de la tutelle sont les suivantes:
* Assurer la mise en place des fonds de contrepartie du projet;
F Faciliter la coordination avec les autres D&partements Ministeriels; et en particulier, faire
approuver les Fiches d'Evaluation de la Faisabilite des Sous-Projets par les Ministeres
sectoriels concernes.
2.12   PRINCIPES DEONTOLOGIQUES.
Collegialement et individuellement, les membres ou personnels du CP, des comites locaux, du BGP,
et des intermediaires, sont appeles A exercer leur jugement en reference aux principes de reference
suivants:
*  Independance: Seul le BGP est habilite A decider des choix de sous-projets et actions; le
BGP ne peut contracter que des actions conformes A l'Accord de Credit;
* Impartial it: dans leurs relations avec les tiers, qu'il s'agisse des beneficiaires du Projet,
des fournisseurs et prestataires de services du Projet, ou de toute personne ou institution
interessee A quelque titre que ce soit au projet ou A ses resultats, I'AIB, les comites locaux,
le BGP, et les intermediaires pour ce qui les concerne, ne pratiquent aucune forme de
discrimination ou de traitement preferentiel; ils appliqueront exclusivement les procedures
de decision et de choix decrites dans le present Manuel;
*  Efficacite: la recherche de I'efficacit6 maximale par rapport aux objectifs generaux, decrits
au paragraphe 1.1., doit guider, en toutes choses, les decisions A tous les 6chelons de la
hierarchie des differents intervenants (AIB, comites locaux de developpement,
interm6diaires) dans le projet, et l'application pratique du Manuel;



82
Economie: sous reserve du principe d'efficacite enonce ci-dessus, la minimisation des couts
doit etre une preoccupation constante des differents acteurs du projet. En particulier, aucune
consideration ne peut justifier l'emploi ou I'acquisition de moyens ou d'equipements et ou
le recours a des services autres que ceux qui sont stricteinent necessaires a l'atteinte des
objectifs du projet.
2.13   OBLIGATIONS DU PERSONNEL VIS-A-VIS DE L'EXTERIEUR:
En vertu de leurs statuts et des objectifs du Projet, le CA, les cornites locaux, le BGP et les
intermediaires sont investis de mission de service public. A ce titre, leurs membres et ou personnels
sont soumis A une obligation de reserve et d'impartialite; ils ne peuvent se livrer A des propagandes
politiques, commerciales, ou religieuses dans l'exercice de leurs fonctions, et doivent traiter de
maniere egale les beneficiaires du projet et ses prestataires.



83
SECTION III
LES PHASES DE DEROULEMENT DES SOUS-PROJETS
3.1.   SELECTION DES COMMUNAUTES BENEFICIAIRES
a)     Methode de classement et de ciblage. Le ciblage des villages repose sur deux classements
successifs. Tout d'abord, on classe les arrondissements du plus pauvre au moins pauvre selon un
indice de ciblage qui combine des indices concernant la sante, la malnutrition, I'education, I'acces a
l'eau potable, le risque alimentaire, et les depenses de consommation. On attribue ensuite A chaque
village un score selon l'acces pour la population du village A certaines infrastructures de base. Les
villages les plus pauvres sont ceux qui appartiennent aux arrondissements les plus pauvres et qui ont
le score le plus faible. Ce classement sera realise par la Direction nationale de la statistique et
l'informatique (DNSI) et le Systeme d'alerte precoce (SAP). Les details de la methode figurent en
Annexe 1. La methode est approuvee par le CA sur proposition du BGP et pr6sentation par la DNSI
et le SAP
b)     Villages cibles par le PAIB. Pour le PAIB, le ciblage des villages parmi les villages les plus
pauvres dependra d'autres facteurs relatifs A l'execution des sous-projets du PAIB. Ces facteurs
additionnels prendront en compte, par exemple, la proximite des villages entre eux, leur
accessibilite, 1'existence d'autres projets, etc. Le nombre des villages d'intervention ddpendra
egalement du programme annuel du PAIB, qui sera propose annuellement par le BGP et approuve
par leCA.
c)     Sensibilisation des villages cibles et Demande d'appui. Des la selection des villages cibles,
ceux-ci recoivent une visite d'information du BGP sur: (i) 1'existence du projet, (ii) ses objectifs,
(iii) le type d'appui qu'il est susceptible de leur apporter, (iv) la fa,on de demander l'appui, (v) les
crit6res et les modalites d'evaluation et d'approbation des Demandes d'Appui pour un Sous-Projet
(DASP). La diffusion de l'information - comprend, A chaque phase, la remise A toutes les
Communautes cibles d'un modele standard de DASP conforme au modele figurant en Annexe 4.
Cette etape est sous la responsabilite du BGP qui s'appuiera localement sur les CRD et les CLD
concernes.
d)     Preparation et soumission des Demandes d'Appui. Les DASP sont preparees par les
communautes des villages cibles et sont transmises au BGP. Les communautes qui expriment un
interet pour l'appui du PAIB et presente un DASP feront l'objet d'une enquete participative (dont
les objectifs et methodologies sont definies en annexe no 2).
3.2.   MISE EN PLACE DU SYSTEME DE GESTION DES SOUS-PROJETS
a.    Identification des Maitres d'Ouvrage De16gues (MOD) potentiels. Au debut du projet, le
BGP constitue un registre des organismes interesses et competents susceptibles d'assurer la fonction
de MOD dans le Projet. Pour cela, il publie un Appel d'Expression d'Interet (AEI) sur la base du
modele figurant en Annexe no 7, qui d6finit les missions confi6es a un MOD et les criteres des
qualifications requises pour les assurer. Parmi les reponses re,ues, sont retenus dans le registre les
organismes dont les capacites techniques et financieres repondent aux criteres. Celles-ci sont
evaluees par une Commission comprenant des representants du BGP, du Ministere du tutelle et de
personnes ressources specialistes de l'analyse des capacites financieres et de gestion.



84
b.     Decomposition en lots des missions de MOD. Apres reception des Demandes d'Appui, le
BGP regroupe les villages potentiels en lots sur une base geographique ou sectorielle. En fonction
du nombre de sous-projets A financer, il recrute un ou des TMODs pour gerer les contrats de
prestation de service et de travaux de ces lots.
c.     Procedure de recrutement. Les MODs sont recrutes par competition en utilisant la procedure
de Selection Basee sur la Qualite et le Cout (SBQC) mise en oeuvre par le BGP. La Lettre
d'Invitation (LDI), conforme au modele standard de l'IDA, est transmise par le BGP A une liste
restreinte d'organismes etablie A partir du registre des MOD prealablement constitue et mis a jour
par le BGP comme indique ci-dessous en 3.3.a. Les Termes de Reference du MOD precisent le
nombre indicatif de sous-projets et le type de contrats (ONG-DC, MO et entreprises) A gerer. Le
montant des contrats dont la gestion est deleguee au MOD est estime par le BGP sur la base des
couits moyens des phases precedentes du projet (y compris la phase pilote). Les candidats A la
fonction de MOD feront une offre technique et une offre financiere pour leurs honoraires. Les
offres financieres superieures A 10% du montant des contrats A gerer seront ecartees.
d.     Evaluation des offres. Les offres sont evaluees conibrmement aux procedures et de
passation des marches de services de consultant prescrites dans 5.1.c par un Comite Technique
d'Evaluation comprenant des representants et du BGP de l'Auditeur en qualite d'observateurs, et en
cas de besoin avec l'assistance de personnes ressources. Les offres techniques seront evaluees en
premier lieu; puis les offres financieres. Au terme des travaux de la commission, l'auditeur
soumettra au BGP un rapport sur la regularite et transparence de l'evaluation des offres.
e.     Revue prealable de l'IDA. Dans la mesure ou les documents de consultation sont standards,
la proc6dure de s6lection n'est revue par l'IDA qu'aux etapes de (i) la liste restreinte; (ii)
l'evaluation des offres techniques ; (iii) 1'evaluation combinee (olfre technique et offre financiere) et
la selection du candidat. Aprbs non objection de l'IDA sur ces etapes, le Directeur General du BGP
signe des conventions de MOD avec les soumissionnaires retenus, comformement au modele
figurant en Annexe 13. Cette Convention sera completee par les Accords de Sous-Projets signes
entre les communautes beneficiaires et le BGP, et vises par le CLiD.
3.3. MISE EN PLACE DES ONG-DC AUPRES DES COMMUNAUTES
a.     Recrutement des ONG-DC. Le BGP etablit un registre des ONG-DC ayant exprime leur
interet pour une mission de Developpement Communautaire dans le projet, sur la base des reponses
a un Appel d'Expression d'Interet (AEI) publie dans la presse nationale, conforme au modele en
Annexe 9A, et definissant les criteres de qualification requis. La liste est mise A jour chaque ann6e
par le BGP par re-publication de l'AEI. Les competences techniques des ONGs sont evaluees par
une Commission comprenant des representants du BGP et des MOD potentiels. Le MOD procede au
recrutement d'une ou de plusieurs ONG-DC pour les services decrits dans les Termes de Reference
en Annexe 11, que les ONG-DC devront assurer aupres des communautes dont les sous-projets
constituent le lot pour lequel le MOD a ete recrute. Les ONG-DC sont recrutees par comp6tition en
utilisant la procedure de Selection Basee sur la Qualite et le Cout (SBQC) mise en oeuvre par le
MOD. La Lettre d'Invitation (LDI), conforme au modele standard de l'IDA, est transmise par le
MOD A un nombre restreint d'ONG, dont la liste est etablie a partir du registre des ONG-DC
prealablement constitue et mis A jour par le BGP comme indique ci-dessus.
b.     Evaluation et approbation des offres. Les offres sont evaluees par un Comite Technique
d'Evaluation (CTE) comprenant des representants du MOD conformement aux procedures de



85
passation et de gestion des marches de services de consultant decrites dans la 5.1.c. Le rapport du
CTE est soumis A l'approbation du Directeur General du BGP.
c.     Revue pr6alable. Dans la mesure ou les documents de consultation sont standards, la revue
prealable de l'IDA ne portera pas sur les LDI ni les TDR, mais sur les listes restreintes et les
rapports d'evaluation des offres pour la premiere annee du projet dans la limite des seuils indiques
(fans l'Accord de Credit. En fonction du resultat de cette premiere annee, la revue prealable de l'IDA
pourra etre convertie en revue a post6riori.
d.     Mise en place de l'Agent de Developpement Communautaire (ADC). Des signature de son
contrat, chaque ONG-DC recrute un ADC qui aura la responsabilite d'assurer un appui permanent
aupres des Communautes tout au long de 1'execution de leur sous-projet, conformement aux taches
prescrites par les TDR de l'ONG-DC figurant en Annexe no 11.
3.4. IDENTIFICATION ET PREPARATION D'UN SOUS-PROJET
a.     Evaluation participative des besoins prioritaires. La premiere etape de la preparation de
chaque Sous-Projet est l'identification des actions prioritaires que le PAIB financera. A cet effet, le
13GP recrute immediatement apres la selection des communautes cibles, un consultant (ONG ou
]3ureau d'etudes) pour les assister A identifier leurs besoins prioritaires. L'ONG-DC participe A cet
exercice, dont la methodologie figure en Annexe 2.
b.     Etude de Faisabilite. L'evaluation de la faisabilite technique economique et sociale du sous-
projet identifie est effectuee par la Communaute dans le cadre de l'enquete participative, avec
I'appui de l'ONG-DC et le conseil des Services Techniques regionaux et locaux de l'Administration.
Cette evaluation est conduite A I'aide de Fiches types d'Evaluation de Faisabilite (FEF) mises A la
disposition du consultant par le BGP. Pour chaque type de sous-projet, une FEF specifique fournit
les differentes carateristiques d'un ouvrage standard et des mesures d'accompagnement pouvant &re
associees, et les criteres de faisabilite: (i) institutionnelle, par exemple, les criteres de la carte
scolaire ou de la carte de sante pour l'implantation d'un nouvel equipement; (ii)technique, par
exemple, les conditions de site, la nature des sols requise, les quantites de materiaux et de main
d'oeuvre qualifiee et non qualifiee exigees par unite (s'il s'agit d'un barrage ou d'une piste, il s'agit
d'unite de longueur); (ii) financiere, c'est A dire le cout total de l'operation, sa decomposition entre
materiaux locaux et non locaux, main d'oeuvre qualifiee et non qualifiee et la repartition possible de
ces couts entre la Communaute (sous forme de travail ou de materiaux) et l'entreprises;
(iii) economique, en particulier les benefices escomptes et les charges recurrentes nouvelles
generees par le fonctionnement du nouvel equipement; et (iv) sociales, notamment la faisabilite de
l'effort de la communaute, liee en particulier aux calendriers agricoles. Ces fiches, validees par les
ministeres techniques concernes, sont utilisees par leurs services deconcentres pour la validation des
investissements physiques prevus dans les sous-projets.
c.     Requete des communautes. Le sous-projet considere prioritaire par une communaute et dont
la faisabilite est 6tablie par rapport aux criteres FEF fait l'objet d'une requete par cette communaute
qu'elle soumet au BGP avec les rapports des etudes de faisabilite.
d.     Procedure d'Approbation. Une Commission Technique d'Evaluation (CTE), composee des
MOD et du BGP, se reunit pour selectionner les sous-projets soumis, qui repondent aux criteres
d'e6igibilite figurant en Annexe 17. Les sous-projets retenus par la CE sont approuv6s par le BGP



86
sous reserve des resultats de l'etude technique et des disponibilit6s financieres. Pour ces sous-projet,
le MOD procede alors au recrutement du Maitre d'Oeuvre (voir para 3.6). Pour les sous-projets non
retenus, la CE formule des commentaires et recommandations A l'attention de la Communaute.
e.     Calendrier. Les decisions d'approbation des sous-projets par le BGP sont prises au plus tard
30 jours pour compter de la date de reception par le BGP, d'une requ8te de financement soumise par
la communaute concernee et validee par le CLD. Le modele de cette requete figure en annexe no 5.
3.5    MISE EN PLACE DES MAITRES D'OEUVRE
a. Recrutement des Maitres d'Oeuvre. Le BGP etablit un registre des BET competents dans les
differents secteurs susceptibles d'interesser le Projet et ayant exprime leur inter8t pour une mission
de Maitrise d'Oeuvre dans le projet, sur la base des reponses A un Appel d'Expression d'Inter8t
(AEI) publie dans la presse nationale, conforme au modele en Annexe no 9 et definissant les criteres
de qualification. La liste est mise A jour chaque annee par le BGP par re-publication de l'AEI. Les
competences techniques des BET sont evaluees par une Commission comprenant des representants
du BGP assistes, autant que de besoin, par des personnes ressources competentes dans les secteurs
consideres. Le MOD procede au recrutement d'un ou de plusieurs MO pour les prestations dans les
Termes de Reference figurant en Annexe 16. Les MO sont recrutes par competition en utilisant la
procedure de Selection Basee sur la Qualite et le Cout (SBQC) mise en oeuvre par le MOD. La
Lettre d'Invitation (LDI), conforme au modele standard de l'IDA, est transmise par le MOD A un
nombre restreint de BET, dont la liste est etablie de preference A partir du registre des BET
prealablement constitue et mis A jour par le BGP.
b.     Evaluation et approbation des offres. Les offres sont evaluees par un Comite Technique
d'Evaluation (CTE) comprenant des representants du MOD conformement aux procedures de
passation et de gestion des marches de services de consultant decrites dans 5.2.c. Le rapport du
CTE est soumis A l'approbation du Directeur G6neral du BGP.
c.     Revue prealable. Dans la mesure oa les documents de consultation sont standards, la revue
prealable de l'IDA ne portera pas sur les LDI ni les TDR, mais sur les listes restreintes et les
rapports d'evaluation des offres pour la premiere annee du projet dans la limite des seuils indiques
dans l'Accord de Credit. En fonction du resultat de cette premiere annee, la revue prdalable de l'IDA
pourra 8tre convertie en revue a posteriori.
3.6.   ETUDE TECHNIQUE DETAILLEE
a. Objectif de l'Etude Technique Detaillee. L'etude technique detaillee des travaux d'un sous-
projet inclut autant que de besoin les 6tudes d'environnement cle l'ouvrage (resistance des sols,
pedologie, topographie, hydrologie, etc.), les 6tudes architecturales et d'ingenierie de l'ouvrage
(r6sistance des materiaux, etudes de b6ton, etc). Elle calcule en detail les quantites de materiaux,
6quipement et travail, elle estime les couts previsionnels et planifie le calendrier previsionnel des
travaux en fonction des differentes contraintes de personnel et d'approvisionnement des materiaux.
En particulier, elle etudie en detail la repartition des taches entre la, Communaute et l'entreprise pour
eviter, autant que possible, les chevauchements et l'imbrication des deux (par exemple, s'il est
prevu que la communaute fournisse des materiaux, elle le fait avant l'intervention de 1'entreprise).
La partie concernant la contribution villageoise estime en detail le nombre de personnes xjour etlou



87
les quantites, qualite et localisation des materiaux a fournir, et planifie le calendrier en fonction des
autres activites de la Communaute.
b.     Approbation de l'Etude Technique. L'etude technique, y compris 1'estimation financiere des
travaux est soumise au cas ou la legislation nationale l'exige, au visa des Services Techniques
deconcentres des Administrations competentes. Elle est ensuite transmise au BGP, pour approbation
finale du sous-projet.
c.     Accord de sous-projet. Un accord de sous-projet est signe par la communaute et le BGP,
vis6 par le CLD pour les sous-projet approuves, conforme au modele figurant en Annexe 6.
d.     Revue pr6alable. Tous travaux d'un montant estime superieur au seuil indique dans l'Accord
de credit seront soumis a la non objection prealable de l'IDA avant d'etre definitivement acceptes.
3.7.   REALISATION DES INVESTISSEMENTS PHYSIQUES
a.     Objectif de la realisation des travaux. L'entreprise a pour mission de realiser les travaux
prevus dans le sous-projet dont la technicite, le volume et la complexite ne sont pas a la portee de la
Communaute. Ces travaux sont decrits par les plans et les specifications techniques du Dossier
d'Appel d'Offres (DAO) prepar6 par le MO, selon les regles de l'art et un modele qui sera approuve
par ]'IDA et annexe au present manuel.
b.     Recrutement de l'Entreprise. Les DAO resultant des etudes techniques d6taillees sont
prepares par les MO pour l'ensemble des ouvrages a construire d'un meme type ou des
amenagements a realiser de meme nature. Chaque DAO groupe les travaux en Lots, en fonction de
leur proximite geographique.
c.     Revue pr6alable. Tout marche d'un rnontant superieur au seuil indique dans l'Accord de
credit est soumis a la non-objection de l'IDA avant sa signature par le MOD.
d.     Realisation des travaux. Les travaux de la communaute sont fournis par celle-ci
conformement aux specifications de l'etude technique, ainsi que le stipule l'Accord de Sous-Projet.
L'organisation des travaux est discutee et arretee par le Comite de Gestion du Projet de la
communaute avec I'ADC et le MO. Les travaux de l'entreprise sont executes conformement au
marche de travaux entre l'entreprise et le MOD.
e.     Suivi des travaux. Les travaux de la communaute sont suivis, sur le plan technique par le
MO avec la collaboration de 1'ADC. Les travaux de l'entreprise sont suivis par le MO et le
representant la communaute designe pour cela par son Comite de Gestion du Projet. La conformite
des travaux de l'entreprise avec les specifications techniques du DAO et la qualite de leur execution
sont contr6les par le MO au cours de reunions de chantier hebdomadaires. Le MO certifie la
conformite des ouvrages avec les specifications techniques et 1'exactitude des decomptes de travaux
etablis par 1'entreprise pour paiement par le MOD.
f.     Reception des travaux. Apres leurs receptions provisoires, les ouvrages sont remis a la
communaute par le BGP. Le delai de garantie des travaux par l'Entreprise est de 12 mois. Les
receptions provisoires et definitives sont prononcees par le MOD en presence de la communaute, du
BGP, du CLD et des repr6sentants des services techniques deconcentres concernees, qui signent
leurs proces-verbaux.



88
g.     Supervision. La supervision de I'avancement du programme de travaux est assure par le
MOD dans le cadre de sa convention avec le BGP. De son cete, le BGP assure egalement une
supervision generale de l'avancement de l'ensemble des programmes delegu6s aux MOD.
3.8.   SUIVI ET EVALUATION
a.     Objectif et outils
Le suivi/evaluation consiste a (i) arreter de facon participative une liste d'indicateurs en fonction des
besoins en information de tous les acteurs ; (ii) collecter des donnees en vue de calculer les valeurs
de ces indicateurs ; (iii) analyser ces valeurs pour:
*   mieux fixer les objectifs aussi bien pour les sous-projets que pour le projet,
et mesurer leur degre d'atteinte
*   analyser les forces et faiblesses des modes d'execution pour prendre des mesures
d'amelioration de la mise en oeuvre des actions,
* adapter l'execution des sous-projets aux circonstances et contextes particuliers.
- tirer des enseignements enrichissant pour leur lar,ge diffusion aupres des
beneficiaires et de tous les intervenants dans les initiatives des base.
Le suivi/lvaluation est conduit a tous les niveaux, a l'aide d'un ensemble de fiches permettant de
collecter les donn6es et informations necessaires au calcul des indicateurs:
*   fiches de suivi-execution reparties en fiches journalieres et hebdomadaires de
collecte et en fiches mensuelles d'agregation des donnees sur les activites de
mise en oeuvre des sous-projets,
* fiches de suivi-impact pour cerner la situation socio-economique des
beneficiaires, les capacites des differents partenaires avant et apres les sous-
projets.
b.     Mode d'execution
Le mode operation s'articule autour de 3 etapes:
Etape 1: Mise en place du systeme au niveau local
Les ADC une fois installes dans les villages, exposent aux populations les objectifs, la
methodologie, l'importance du suivi-evaluation, ainsi que la signification et l'interet de
chacun des indicateurs. Ils les assistent dans la selection d'un nombre limite d'indicateurs
dont les modes de calcul sont simples et qui sont adaptes au contexte de la communaute, a la
nature de son sous-projet, et susceptibles d'etre compris aisement en langue locale. Les
ADC forment ensuite les Animateurs Villageois de Develappement (AVD) et les
responsables des travaux dans l'utilisation des outils (remplissage des fiches, methode de
calcul et d'agregation des indicateurs, methode d'analyse et de restitution des tendances
observees, etc.)



89
Etape 2: Collecte et traitement preliminaire des informations
Les fiches hebdomadaires de collecte sont remplies par les ADC avec l'assistance des AVD,
des responsables des travaux, les membres competents des comites de gestion. Chaque fin
du mois, les donnees des fiches hebdomadaires sont a leur tour agregees.
Les tendances resultant de ces agregations sont discutees hebdomadairement et
mensuellement avec les intervenants, les AVD, les representants des communautes pour
identifier les points forts et les points faibles des activites menees et arreter les mesures
correctives eventuelles. Les ADC ajustent leurs analyses en fonction des resultats des ces
discussions et elaborent des rapports preliminaires qu'ils soumettent aux responsables
competents de l'ONG-DC pour approfondissement.
Etape 3: Centralisation, traitement et diffusion
*  Par programme del6gue: Pour chacun des lots, le MOD centralise et analyse les
rapports mensuels des ONG-DC, procede aux verifications et corrections necessaires,
discute de ses constats et propositions de mesures avec l'ONG-DC, elabore un rapport
de synthese couvrant tous les sous-projets du lot qu'il soumet au BGP.
-  Pour l'ensemble du projet: Les informations fournies par les MOD sont saisies et
centralisees dans la base de donnees informatisees du BGP qui contient par ailleurs les
donnees sur la gestion financiere, et en particulier sur la gestion des conventions et
contrats. Le specialiste en Suivi-evaluation du BGP procede au rapprochement de ces
donnees avec les indicateurs d'activites operationnelles, et a un rapprochement des
indicateurs des differents sous-projets pour 6laborer un rapport portant sur l'ensemble
des activites du projet, assorti des mesures d'ameliorations. Ces mesures, une fois
approuvees sont communiquees aux responsables et intervenants concernes en vue de
leur application. Trimestriellement, le specialiste en Suivi-evaluation elabore un rapport
beaucoup plus axes sur les enseignements permettant d'ameliorer l'execution des
programmes delegues. Ces enseignements sont diffuses a travers un bulletin
d'information que le BGP publie periodiquement.



90
SECTION IV - PROCEDURES ADMINISTRATIVES ET FINANCIERES
4.1. AU NIVEAU DU BGP
a.     Gestion. La gestion financiere des fonds du Projet: c'est A dire des fonds du Gouvernement
au titre de la contrepartie de celui-ci au financement du Projet et du Credit de l'IDA (A l'exclusion des
apports des communaut6s), est assuree par le Directeur General du BGP. Les fonds de contrepartie
sont g6res selon les regles de la comptabilite applicable au Mali et conformement aux dispositions du
Pr6sent Manuel des Proc6dures. Les fonds de l'IDA sont geres ccnform6ment A l'Accord de Credit, au
Rapport d'Evaluation du Projet, au Manuel de Comptabilite Generale Information Financiere et Audit
(FARAH), premibre 6dition Janvier 1995.
b.     Ressources financibres du BGP. Pour financer les activites du PAIB, le BGP dispose des
fonds de contrepartie du Gouvernement dans le projet -- dont le volume annuel est determine dans le
Rapport d'Evaluation du Projet (REP) -- ainsi que du Credit de [" IDA.
*  Les fonds de contrepartie du Gouvernement pour le PAIB sont geres par le BGP qui ouvrira
un compte (CP) dans une banque commerciale dans leqiiel le Gouvernement transferera par
tranches les fonds de contrepartie au debut de chaque sernestre.
*  Les fonds du Credit de l'IDA pour le PAIB sont geres par le BGP. Le BGP ouvrira un
Compte Special (CS) dans une banque commerciale. A la mise en vigueur du Credit, l'IDA
d6posera dans le CS un montant initial de 500.000 dollars qui pourra etre port6 A 1.000.000
dollars EU, correspondant A environ 6 mois des depenses du Projet, dbs que les montant des
decaissements sur le CS auront atteint 2 millions de dollars.
c.     Decaissements au niveau central A partir du CP et du CS. Le BGP effectuera, A partir du CP
et/ou du CS ou par Demande de Paiement Direct (DPD) a l'IDA, les decaissements pour:
*  le financement des Conventions de Maitrise d'Ouvrage Delegu6e pour la realisation des
sous-projets selon le principe du "compte roulant" decrit au paragraphe 4.2. A chaque
paiement, le BGP transferera les fonds necessaires A partir du CS pour la fraction des
d6penses financees par l'IDA, et A partir du CP pour la ifraction des depenses financees par
le Gouvernement;
*  les paiements des honoraires des Maitres d'Ouvrage Delegu6s pour leurs services de gestion
des contrats qui leurs sont d6legues (finances A 100% par l'IDA);
*  les paiements de toutes les depenses eligibles pour la coniposante Appui Institutionnel.
*  le financement des Recherches Op6rationnelles.
d.     Modalites de decaissement. Les paiements des depenses eligibles au financement du Credit
de l'IDA seront effectu6s a partir du CS pour les contrats d'acquisition des biens d'un montant
inferieur A l'equivalent de 100.000 dollars EU et pour les contrats de consultants individuels d'un
montant inferieur A 50.000 dollars. Au-dela de ces montants, le BGP fera effectuer les paiements sur
le Cr6dit directement par l'IDA (par la procedure de demande de paiement direct).
e.     Reapprovisionnement du Compte Sp6cial. Chaque mois, le BGP transmettra A l'IDA une
demande de r6alimentation du Compte Special sur la base du modble standard de l'IDA.



91
4.2.   AU NIVEAU DES MAITRES D'OUVRAGE DELEGUES
a.     Gestion financiere. Les MOD ont, par del6gation du BGP, la gestion des fonds destin6s au
paiment des contrats dont ils assurent la gestion (contrats d'ONG-DC, d'Entreprises et de ma1itres
d'Oeuvres). Pour gerer ces fonds, les MOD ouvriront un compte dans une banque commerciale,
distinct (du) des autres comptes bancaires du MOD.
b.     Ressources initiales. Au moment de la signature de la Convention par laquelle le BGP
delegue au MOD la gestion d'un ensemble de contrats de travaux et de services correspondant A un
programme determine de sous-projets, le BGP transf&re au MOD une avance de fonds
correspondant A 30 % du montant total previsionnel de 1'ensemble des contrats du programme dont
le MOD assurera la gestion. Cette avance sera versee par le BGP contre presentation par le MOD
d'une caution bancaire couvrant 100 % du montant de l'avance, ou d'une garantie 6quivalente
acceptable par l'IDA. Pour les avances de demarrage d'un montant ne depassant pas 10% du
montant du programme delegue, le MOD est dispense de la presentation de la caution bancaire.
Dans ce cas et lorsque le montant des demandes de paiement des executants d6passe le solde du
compte du programme delegue, le BGP, apres avoir v6rifi6 la regularite des depenses dejA effectuees
par un rapprochement bancaire, peut transferer au MOD le montant des demandes de paiement
certifiees par le MOD pour les maitres d'oeuvre et les ONG-DC et par le MO pour les entreprises.
c.     Paiements des Contrats. Les MOD assurent le paiement des contrats dont ils assurent la
gestion dans le cadre de leur Convention de Maitrise d'Ouvrage Deleguee avec le BGP, selon les
regles suivantes:
les paiements des services de chaque ONG-DC sont effectues mensuellement par le MOD
sur la base des factures de l'ONG-DC accompagnees du rapport mensuel d'activit6 de
l'ONG-DC pour la periode consideree, et des fiches de suivi et evaluation visees par le
representant de la Communaute. Prealablement au paiement, le MOD s'assure que le rapport
d'activite rend compte de prestations effectivement realisees par l'ONG-DC. Les activites
figurant dans le rapport et effectivement realisees seront comparees par le MOD aux
activites prevues dans le contrat pour la periode couverte par la facture. En cas de difference
constatee dans l'activit6 de l'ONG-DC, le montant des paiements sera ajuste en consequence
par le MOD de facon A ce que les paiements correspondent aux services effectivement
rendus par l'ONG-DC.
*  Les paiements des travaux de chaque Entreprise sont effectues mensuellement par le MOD
sur la base d'un d6compte mensuel de travaux presente par l'Entreprise chiffrant les travaux
realises, certifie par le Maitre d'Oeuvre, avec l'avis du representant de la Communaute
charge du suivi des travaux.
*  Les paiements des services de chaque Maitre d'Oeuvre (MO) sont effectues au prorata de
l'avancement des travaux du chantier surveille par le MO (comprenant les travaux assures
par la communaute et les travaux assures par I'Entreprise) avec l'avis du representant de la
communaute charge du suivi des travaux.
Dans le cas ou un contrat gere par le MOD serait d'un montant superieur au seuil prevu par I'Accord
de Credit de l'IDA pour la "revue prealable" de l'IDA, les paiements par le MOD des factures
relatives A ce contrat seraient 6galement soumises A la revue prealable de l'IDA.
d.     Reapprovisionnement des MOD. Chaque mois, chaque MOD presentera au BGP une
demande de reapprovisionnement de son compte, sur la base d'un rapport sur l'avancement des
paiements qu'il aura effectue pour les contrats dont il a la gestion, complete par un rapport sur l'etat
d'avancement   des   sous-projets   dont   le    modele   figure   en    Annexe.



92
4.3.   COMPTABILITE DU PROJET
4.3. 1. SYSTEME COMPTABLE AU NIVEAU CENTRAL.
a.     Compte Special. Afin de permettre au BGP d'effectuer dans les delais prevus les operations
de paiements, le BGP est titulaire pour l'Accord de credit d'un Compte Special ouvert dans une
banque commerciale du Mali qui fonctionne sous la double signature du Directeur General du BGP
et du responsable de la cellule finance et comptabilite. Ce compte est alimentb au depart par une
avance versee par l'IDA (voir paragraphe 4.1.b). Cette avance est calculee de facon a couvrir
approximativement quatre mois de paiements du BGP.
b.     Demandes de realimentation. Des que le cumul des paiements effectues atteint ou depasse le
tiers du montant de l'avance initiale (en moyenne tous les mois), le BGP presente, par l'intermediaire
du Ministere assurant les fonctions de Gouverneur de l'IDA ou de son mandataire, a l'IDA une
demande de realimentation A hauteur des sommes payees, justifiee par un etat detaille des paiements
effectues, certifie par le Directeur General du BGP (dtat certifie de depenses). Les pieces
justificatives sont conservees par le BGP et tenues en permanence A la disposition des reviseurs-
comptables, de l'IDA et du Ministere assuman les fonctions de C;ouverneur de l'IDA.
c.     Procedures de realimentation. Les demandes de realimentation sont adressees a l'IDA par le
Ministre assurant les fonctions de Gouverneur de l'lDA ou son mandataire. Passe un d6lai de quinze
jours ouvrables, si la realimentation n'a pas et effectuee, le IBGP adresse un telex de relance a
l'IDA afin notamment d'obtenir communication des references du virement. En possession de cette
derniere information, le BGP alerte la banque destinataire des fonds afin que celle-ci procede, le cas
6ch6ant, aux recherches necessaires.
d.     Etats certifies de depenses. Les etats certifies de depenses fournissent une liste detaillee de
tous les paiements effectues et pour chacun la reference precise des pieces justificatives (y compris
code de classement) conservees par le BGP. Les etats certifies de depenses sont prepares par le
responsable de la cellule finance et comptabilite sous la responsabilit6 du Directeur Gen6ral du BGP.
e.     Engagements. Le marche constitue la reference elementaire de comptabilisation des
engagements et des decaissements. D&s la signature d'un marchb, la cellule finance et comptabilite
ouvre une fiche-marche et enregistre un engagement egal au montant de ce marcbh. La date et le
montant de chaque reglement sont enregistres au fur et A mesure dans la fiche-marche; A tout
moment la part engagee non decaissee est la difference entre l'engagement initial et la somme des
reglements dejA effectues.
f.     Ordonnancement des paiements. II comporte les operations suivantes:
*  preparation des cheques ou ordres de virement pour la partie hors taxes nette a payer aux
MOD, aux consultants et aux fournisseurs; et
*  inscription du reglement dans la fiche marche.
g.     Signature des cheques et ordres de virement. Les cheques et ordres de virement sont co-
signes par le Directeur General du BGP et le responsable de la cellule finance et comptabilite du
BGP.Une photocopie du cheque ou de l'ordre de virement signe est annexde au decompte avant



93
classement de celui-ci parmi les pieces comptables justificatives conservees par le BGP A la
disposition des reviseurs comptables.
h.     Pieces justificatives. Les pieces justificatives de chaque paiement (facture, decompte et
situations de travaux annex6es, copie du cheque ou de l'ordre de virement signe, copie des
delgations de signature le cas echeant) sont classees selon un systeme de numerotation
chronologique. Un fichier informatique des pieces justificatives est tenu A jour en permanence.
4.3.2. SYSTEME COMPTABLE POUR LES MOD
a.     Comptabilite et engagements de d6penses. Chaque MOD  tient une comptabilite des
depenses du PAIB, distincte des depenses effectuees par le MOD pour d'autres projets sur d'autres
financements. Pour chaque contrat dont la gestion est assur6e par le MOD (contrats d'ONG-DC,
d'Entreprises et de Maitres d'Oeuvre), le contrat constitue la reference 6lementaire de
comptabilisation des engagements et des decaissements du MOD. Des la signature d'un contrat, le
MOD donne un numero au contrat, ouvre une fiche-contrat et enregistre un engagement dgal au
montant de ce contrat. La date et le montant de chaque reglement sont enregistres au fur et A mesure
dans la fiche-contrat; A tout moment la part engagee non decaissee est la difference entre
l1engagement initial et la somme des reglements dejA effectues.
b.     Paiements des contrats. Sauf stipulation contraire figurant dans le contrat, les decomptes
sont presentes mensuellement au MOD par les contractants (ONG-DC, Entreprise, Maitre d'Oeuvre).
Tout decompte est obligatoirement justifie par une situation des actions (travaux, fournitures, ou
prestation de services), certifie par le Maitre d'Oeuvre dans le cas du paiement des marches de
travaux, et, dans tous les cas, avec l'avis du representant de la communaute charge du suivi des
travaux. Le decompte precise le montant hors taxes des actions realisees, le montant de la deduction
6ventuelle au titre de l'avance de demarrage, et le total A payer ainsi que la reference de la (ou des)
situation(s) pr6cedentes et des paiements dejA re,us. 11 est date et signe par la personne habilitee a
representer le contractant. Dans le cas ou le contractant est la communaute beneficiaire, le decompte
est prepare par le MOD et signe par le representant de la communaute beneficiaire. Le MOD verifie
le decompte et les situations de travaux annex6es, il contr6le la compatibilite du decompte avec le
reliquat engage non decaisse qui figure sur la fiche-contrat et procede au reglement. Sauf cas de
force majeure dument justifie, le delai total entre la reception du decompte par le MOD et le
paiement au contractant (ou 1'envoi de l'ordre de virement A la banque) ne doit pas exceder trente
(30) jours ouvrables. Le respect de cette regle constitue l'un des criteres d'evaluation des
performances du MOD concerne. A la reception definitive des actions, il est procede A la liberation
de la retenue de garantie ou du solde de cette retenue apres execution des travaux necessaires a la
lev6e des reserves 6ventuelles prononc6es lors de la reception provisoire. Le contrat est donc
cl6ture, et le reliquat eventuel est restitue au BGP.
c.     Pieces justificatives. Les pieces justificatives sont conservee par le MOD et sont tenues en
permanence A la disposition des auditeurs, des representants du Ministre assurant les fonctions de
Gouverneur de l'IDA et de l'IDA, elle-meme.
4.4. RAPPORTS D'ACTIVITE



94
Les rapports d'activitds doivent foumir toutes les donnees et iniFormations necessaires pour le Suivi
et l'Evaluation (S&E) du Projet.
4.4.1. Rapports d'Activite au niveau central
Le BGP presente trimestriellement au Ministere de Tutelle, au C'onseil d'Administration de I'AIB et
l'IDA un rapport d'activites relatif aux trois mois ecoules et comprenant (i) une comparaison de
l'etat effectif des travaux et des finances par rapport aux previsions; (ii) des previsions concernant le
projet, actualisees tous les six mois et (iii) un etat de la passation des marches. Etabli selon le plan
figurant en annexe n 21, ce rapport doit egalement fournit sous une forme synthetique et
standardisee des informtions sur:
(i)    le ciblage des zones d'intervention
(ii)   le choix des MOD
(iii)   les enqu8tes participatives et les etudes
(iv)   la selection et l'approbation des sous-projets
(v)    I'execution des sous-projets
(vi)   les indicateurs de suivii-evaluation
(vii)  la situation financiere de chaque programme delegue et de 1'ensemble du
projet
(viii)  la collaboration avec les partenaires (services etailiques, ONG et associations,
projets de developpement et bailleurs de fontds)
(ix)   toute autre information jugee3 utile pour eclairer sur le deroulement du projet
le Ministere de Tutelle, le Conseil d'Adminsitration de I'AIB et l'IDA
Le BGP etablira en outre un rapport de fin d'execution dans les six mois qui suivront la date de
cl6ture du credit.
4.4.2. Rapports d'Activite des MOD
a.     Rapports reguliers. Chaque MOD presente au BGP trimestriellement un rapport d'activites
relatif aux trois mois ecoules. II tient informe les beneficiaires et les CLD du contenu de ce rapport.
Le rapport, conforme A un modele-type etabli par le BGP, fournit sous une forme synthetique et
standardisee des informations sur:
(i)    le lancement des consultations pour l'attribution des contrats de prestations de
service, de travaux ou de fournitures;
(ii)    I'attribution de ces contrats et leur signature;
(iii)   la situation financiere de son lot et de chaque sous-projet, avec les mouvements du
mois et cumules;
(iv)   1'etat d'execution des differents contrats, avec ses commentaires;
(v)   le niveau de performance de 1'execution des sous-projets (6cart entre prevision et
realisation) avec ses commentaires;



95
(vi)  les prestations d'assistance ou d'encadrement fournies aux contractants par lui-
meme ou par un autre prestataire;
(vii)  la participation des beneficiaires A l'execution du sous-projet;
(viii)  les prestations de formation et de senbililisation des beneficiaires: nombre, type de
formation et nombre de participants
(ix)   le respect des accord de projet par les beneficiaires avec ses commentaires et
recommandations, ainsi que le compte rendu sommaire des reunions tenues avec les
b6n6ficiaires;
(x)    toute autre information jugee utile qui peut eclairer le BGP sur le deroulement du
sous-projet.
b.     Rapport de fin de Sous-Projet Dans les six mois apres l'achevement total de chaque sous-
projet, le MOD prepare et remet un rapport d'achevement du sous-projet portant notamment sur: (a)
le degre d'atteinte des performances du sous-projet, sa mise en oeuvre et les principaux facteurs qui
en ont affecte sa bonne marche, le devenir de ses acquis et sa prise en charge par les populations
beneficiaires, les performances des contractants et les lecons tirees de 1'execution du Sous-Projet;
(b) les indicateurs cles de suivi et d'evaluation du sous-projet, notamment le calendrier d'execution,
les cofits prevus et realises, les etudes et actions de sensibilisation menees, la participation des
beneficiaires, et les resultats atteints.
4.5    AUDITS.
a.     Audits financiers. Les comptes du Projet, comprenant le Compte Special et les comptes de
sous-projets geres par les MOD sont audites trimestriellement pendant la premiere annee et ensuite
tous les semestres, par un auditeur recrute par le BGP. Les audits sont conduits conformement aux
principes figurant dans les Directives pour l 'etablissement des rapports financiers et la revision des
comptes des projets finances par la Banque mondiale - Mars 1992, et dans le Manuel de
Comptahilite generale - Information financiere et Audit - Janvier 1995. Les Auditeurs apportent une
attention particuliere a la verification de l'existence, de la regularite,du classement approprie des
pieces justificatives des depenses qui sont recapitulees sur les etats certifies de depenses et qui
appuient les demandes de realimentation des comptes de sous-projets geres par les MOD.
b.     Audits techniques. Les MOD sont egalement soumis A un audit technique sur la qualite des
ouvrages ou actions receptionnes. Selon des principes similaires A ceux applicables A l'audit des
comptes financiers, les experts verifient et certifient l'application correcte A tous les niveaux, dans
l'esprit et la forme des directives figurant dans le present Manuel de Procedures et le respect de
1'ensemble des obligations contractuelles auxquelles le MOD est soumis.
c.    Obligations particulieres des MODs lors des audits. Les auditeurs sont introduits par le
Directeur General du BGP aupres des differents MODs lors de leur premiere visite. Un bureau est
mis A la disposition des auditeurs de gestion par chaque MOD et un agent du MOD est designe pour
repondre aux demandes de documents et faciliter materiellement la tache des auditeurs. Dans toute
la mesure du possible, le calendrier des interventions des auditeurs des MOD est organise de fa,on A
limiter la perturbation que ces interventions apportent A 1'execution des taches courantes du
personnel. Toutefois, le personnel doit se considerer comme mobilise en permanence pendant ces
interventions et donner la priorite aux sollicitations qui peuvent en resulter sur l'execution des autres



96
taches. Les auditeurs dfiment accredites par le Directeur General du BGP ont acces sans exception A
tous les documents relatifs aux depenses effectuees par les MOD dans le cadre de la Convention qui
les lie au BGP, et le personnel du MOD est tenu de donner suite, dans les meilleurs d6lais, a toute
demande de communication de ces documents et de repondre avec exactitude A toute question posee.



97
SECTION V. PROCEDURES DE PASSATION ET DE GESTION DES MARCHES
5.1.   PASSATION ET GESTION DES MARCHES PAR LE BGP
a.     Generalites.   Les marches pass6s par le BGP pour la realisation du PAIB seront
conformes aux Directives suivantes de la Banque Mondiale:
*  Pour les marches d'acquisition de biens, les procedures doivent etre conformes aux
Directives - Passation des Marches finances par les Prets de la Bird et les Credits de l 'IDA,
Janvier 1995, Mises i jour janvier et aout 1996.
*  Pour tous les marches de Consultants, y compris les Conventions de Mai^trise d'Ouvrage
Deleguee, les procedures doivent etre conformes aux Guidelines - Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997.
b.    Marches d'acquisition de biens.
*  Pour les marches dont le montant estime est superieur A 1'6quivalent de 100.000 dollars EU,
la procedure applicable est celle de l'Appel d'Offres International et le modele de Dossier
d'Appel d'Offres international (DAOI) est le document: Passation des Marches de
Fournitures, Banque Mondiale, Janvier 1995. Le modele de rapport d'evaluation des offres
est le Rapport d'Evaluation des Offres - Guide - Passation des Marches de Fourniture ou de
Travaux, Banque Mondiale, Avril 1996.
*  Pour les marches dont le montant estime est inferieur A l'quivalent de 100.000 dollars EU,
les procedures applicables sont celles de l'Appel d'Offres National. Le modele du Dossier
d'Appel d'Offres est conforme A celui de l'IDA.
c.     Marches de services de consultants.
*  Pour toute selection de consultants (firmes), le BGP publiera une Sollicitation de
Manifestation d'Interet (SMI). Les SMI seront conformes aux modeles qui figurent en
annexes n 7, 8, et 9 pour constituer les fichiers des ONG-DC, Maitres d'Oeuvre et Maitres
d'Ouvrage Delegues A partir desquels seront ulterieurement constitues les listes restreintes.
Pour les autres consultants, le BGP publiera une SMI conforme au modele : Selection de
Consultants par les Emprunteurs de la Banque - Sollicitations de Manifestation d'Interet.
*  Pour tous les marches de Consultant, la Lettre d'Invitation (LDI) doit etre conforme au
Modele de Lettre d'Invitation (ai utiliser lorsque le prix est un facteur de selection) edited
septembre 18, 1996.
* Pour les marches de Consultants (firmes), le modele de contrat doit etre conforme au
Contrat Type - Services de Consultants - Contrat ai remuniration forfaitaire, Banque
Mondiale, Juin 1995.
*  Pour les contrats de Mai^trise d'Ouvrage Deleguee (denomme Conventions), le modele de
Convention est fourni en Annexe 13.



98
5.2.   PASSATION ET GESTION DES MARCHES PAR LE MOD
a.     Gen6ralites. Les marches passes par chaque MOD pour la realisation des sous-projets objet
de sa Convention de Maitrise d'Ouvrage Delegue doivent etre passes selon des procedures
conformes au present Manuel de Procedures.
b.     Contrat de services avec les ONG-DC. Les contrats cle service seront tous passes par le
MOD sur la base des
*  Lettre d'Invitation (LDI ). La lettre d'invitation preparee par le MOD sera conforme au
modele Modele de Lettre d'Invitation (a utiliser lorsque le prix est un facteur de selection)
edited septembre 18, 1996. La liste restreinte sera de preference constituee par le MOD A
partir du fichier des Consultants ONG-DC tenu A jour par le BGP. Les Termes de R6ference
de la mission de l'ONG-DC figurent en annexe 11 au present Manuel de Procedures.
* Commission d'evaluation. Les commissions d'evaluation seront convoqu6es par le MOD et
auront la composition indiquee au paragraphe 3.3b.
* Contrat MOD - ONG-DC. Le contrat sera conforme au. modele en annexe no 14 (Contrat
Type - Services de Consultants - Contrat ta rimunerationforfaitaire, Banque Mondiale, Juin
1995).
C.     Marches de services de Maitrise d'Oeuvre
- Lettre d'Invitation (LDI). La lettre d'invitation preparee par le MOD sera conforme au
mod6le Modele de Lettre d'Invitation (fa utiliser lorsque le prix est un facteur de selection)
edited septembre 18, 1996. La liste restreinte sera constituee par le MOD a partir du fichier
des Consultants Maitres d'Oeuvre tenu Ajour par le BGRP
* Commission d'evaluation. Les commissions d'evaluation seront convoquees par le MOD et
auront la composition indiquee au paragraphe 3.5.b.
*  Contrat de Maitres d'Oeuvre. Le contrat passe par les MOD avec les Maitres d'Oeuvre
recutees seront conformes au modele qui figure en annexe 16 au present Manuel de
Procedures.
d.     March6s de travaux avec les Entreprises
*  Appel d'Offres. Les marches de travaux seront passes par les MOD apres concurrence selon
la procedure de l'Appel d'Offres National (AON) sur la base du modele de Dossier d'Appel
d'offres disponible au sein du BGP, A l'exception des marches de travaux qu'il ne serait pas
possible de grouper pour atteindre un couit estimatif d'au moins 50.000 US$ equivalent pour
lesquels la procedure des 3 quotations est utilise. Les offres financieres sont present6e sous
forme de rabais propose par 1'entreprise sur le coOt tctal ou sur les coats unitaires par
rapport au devis quantitatif estimatif fourni dans le DAO. L'entreprise qualifiee qui a
propose le rabais le plus important est retenue.
* Commission d'evaluation. Les commissions d'evaluation seront convoqu6es par le MOD et
auront la composition indiquee au paragraphe 3.5.b.
*  Contrat d'Entreprises . Le contrat passe par les MOD avec les entreprises recutees seront
conformes au modele qui figure en annexe 15 au present Manuel de Procedures.



99                     ~~~~~~ANNEX XI
t t  i  ,  ..-    .  S
c 1E I | z / '~~
e l | l  .S .t.;..
t , | ~I                       |                   Ve,,,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; !m   m--  
,,e _ R -:--l'-"' X :'- 
Y  __ I "_           _  . v~~.



MALI
GRASSROOTS HUNGER AND POVERTY PROJECT
Disbursement Profie/Profil do Debourenients
DobArmnt5l               Profilu/                            L .G..ora.oot. Hunger utd Povorty Project -b- Regional Sector Profile
______________  ~D.boi.v.gm.njs           PluMi
DA fiscw ywm a&d                                   Country-                        100.00% _
quarters     By Quartr   Custuwstive    Cre dit  Al Sectors
Ann. budgta,w                                     Pay-tous                          90 00% -
IDA ct trnetes  Pa,tar Difnst,    Cuwwati  Credt   5ats.e/
( US minion)  (US miNion)   1%)     (%M
1999       1             1.4         1.4   6.51%     0.00%
80.00%A 
2            1.9         3.3  16.35%     0.00%
3            0.7         4.0  18.60%      1.26%
4            0.7         4.7  21.86%      2.50%                                                                                    /
2000       1             0.7         5.4  25.12%     6.25%                      :  70.00%f
2            1.1         6.5  30.23%    10.00%
3            1.1         7.6  35.35%    12.00%
4            1.1         8.7  40.47%    14.00%                      .~60.00%6
2001       1             1.3        10.0  46.51%    16.00%
2            1.3        11.3  52.56%    18.00%
3            1.3        12.6  68.60%    24.00%                                                                                                                                 I-'
4            1.3        13.9  84.85%    30.00%                          50.00%                                                                                                 0
2002       1             1.5        15.4  71.63%    36.00%
2            1.5        16.9  78.60%   42.00%
3            1.5        18.4  85.58%   48.00%                       u  40        -
4            1.4        19.8  92.09%    54.00%
2003       1             0.7        20.5  95.35%    58.00%                     4)
2            0.6        21.0  97.67%   62.00%
3            0.3        21.3  99.07%    66.00%                          30.00%
4            0.2        21.5  100.00%    70.00%
2004       1                        21.61 100.00%    72.00%
2              .        21.5  100.00%    74.00%                         20.00% T
10.00%A 
0.00%                                                                         I       I 
Fiscal Year (Exercica)
o l
_       0c
-. 
aAGRPO8.xLSaI4180hibn



101
Annex XIII
Page 1 of 1
Supervision Plan
Supervision will be carried out according to the supervision plan below. Supervision
mnissions should examine the following:
*   Collaboration oetween Government, NGOs and the Association d'Appui aux Initiatives
de Base (AAIB)
* Performance of the Director General
* Level of participation of communities in realization of their priorities
* Coordination with the local development committees (CLDs)
* Effectiveness of the IEC program in responding to community concerns
* Effectiveness of the training program in strengthening local capacity
* Integration of the results of beneficiary assessments and of operational research into
daily project implementation
* Implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system, particularly key indicators.
A tentative project supervision schedule estimates 145 staffweeks as follows:
Fiscal year                  Activities                  Skill requirements       Staffweeks
1999
July                     Project Launch Workshop          TTL; TM; PS; RM                   40
November                 Examine project progress         TM; FMS;Statistician; RM
Visit project sites
March                    Review pending issues            TM, CDS; TS; RM
2000
July                     Annual review, visit project sites  TM; TS; CDS; M&E; RM           25
November                 Review pending issues            TM; FMS; Statistician; RM
March                    Examine project progress, visit  TM; TS; PS; RM
project sites
2001
July                     Annual Review; visit project sites    TM; CDS; M&E; RM             30
November                 Review pending issues            TM; FMS; Statistician; RM
March                    Examine project progress, visit  TM;TS; RM
project sites
2002
July                     Exanine project progress         TM; RM                            20
November                 Mid-term review                  TTL; TM; TS; CDS; M&E;
FMS; Statistician; Lawyer; DO;
RM
March                    Examine project progress         TM; TS; RM
2003
July                     Examnine project progress        TM; RM                            20
November                 Review pending issues            TTL; TM; TS; FMS;
Visit project sites; Annual review  Statistician; RM
March                    Examine project progress         TM; TS; RM
2003
July                     Examine final project results    TM; CDS; M&E; RM                   10
Start project completion report
NOTE: TTL = Task Team Leader, TM = Task Manager, CDS = Community Development Specialist, TS  Technical
Specialist, M&E = Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist, FMS = Financial Management Specialist, DO = Disbursement
Officer, PS = Procurement Specialist, RM=Resident Mission



102
Annex XIV
Page 1 of 9
Le systeme de Suivi & Evaluation (S&E)
I.     Introduction
Le Gouvernement du Mali s'engage dans un important programme de lutte contre la
pauvrete et la faim associant les communautes de base, les organisations non-gouvernementales
(ONG) et l'Etat. Ce programme s'inscrit dans une nouvelle demarche caracterisee par une
planification partant de la base, des relations partenariales et contractuelles entre tous les
intervenants, une etroite complementarite entre des investissemeiits concrets et des actions visant le
renforcement des capacites organisationnelles et enfin, une decentralisation de la maitrise d'ouvrage
confiee a des intermediaires. Testes au cours d'une phase pilote, ces divers mecanismes ont mis en
lumiere la necessite de disposer d'un systeme regulier et continu de suivi & evaluation (S&E) pour
informer promptement et en temps reel les decideurs responsables aux differents palliers, de
l'avancement d'un processus tres decentralise et deconcentre vers l'atteinte des objectifs vises.
Concevoir et mettre en oeuvre un systeme de S&E , comme un systeme d'information utile A
la decision, fluide, accessible, dynamique est un defi. Les habitudes de travail sont longues et
difficiles A changer, la technologie liee A la gestion de I'information est nouvelle, le PAIB fait appel
a une multitude d'acteurs (ONG, Etat, menages, structures sociales traditionnelles, prives) et
partenaires, motives par des interts differents et dispers6s sur le l:erritoire. Par ailleurs, les systemes
classiques de S&E, tout comme les services nationaux de statistiques, ont rarement contribue A la
prise de decision des acteurs de terrain. De nouvelles avenues sont proposees dans le systeme de
S&E du PAIB.
II.    Definition et description du systeme de S&E
Le systeme de S&E con,u pour le PAIB structure et systematise la gestion de l' information,
en tant qu'outil de prise de decision pour les differents acteurs associ6s au Projet. Un tel systeme
d'information vise trois objectifs:
* ameliorer la performance globale des acteurs associes au Projet, A la fois en terme
d'efficacite dans la preparation et l'execution des activites et dans I'atteinte des objectifs
developpementaux vises
* perenniser les actions entreprises par les communautes
* capitaliser les connaissances acquises de maniere A accelerer le processus de
developpement initie par le Projet.
Integre A chacune des etapes clefs du processus de decision, il permet d'identifier clairement
et systematiquement les informations utiles, et d'assurer la collecte, I'analyse, le traitement et la
circulation de ces informnations en fonction des besoins specifiques des differents acteurs concernes
pour orienter leurs decisions vers le succes des actions. Ces informations s'inscrivent dans une
demarche d'evaluation et d'ajustement continus pour atteindre les resultats escomptes.



103
Annex XIV
Page 2 of 9
Types de suivi
Pour concevoir le systeme de S&E du PAIB , une premiere distinction s'est averee fort utile,
celle de definir deux grands types de suivi, chacun correspondant A ce que sous-entend la
performance d'un projet de developpement:
(i) le suivi d'execution: I'efficacite dans la mise en oeuvre de realisations concretes
(ii) le suivi d'impact: l'importance des changements dans le milieu suite A ces r6alisations
Chacun de ces types de suivi est distinct et fait appel A des variables specifiques, mais ils
s'inscrivent dans un processus continu de collecte, analyse, evaluation d'informations liees aux
decisions A prendre A chaque etape du cycle de gestion du Projet.
En tant qu'outil interne de gestion axe sur les resultats, ils seront realises systematiquement
par les principaux acteurs du PAIB: les communautes appuyees par l'agent de developpement
communautaire, les intermediaires, le Bureau de gestion du projet.
Un suivi externe sera aussi realise par l'IDA, le Ministere de tutelle, ou des etudes
ponctuelles pour contr6ler effectivement la rigueur des procedures, la transparence et la qualite dans
l'information qui circule et verifier concretement sur le terrain les realisations et les perceptions des
beneficiaires sur les changements observes. Ce contr6le peut se faire sur simple echantillon.
Les indicateurs du sysMime de Suivi & Evaluation: un cadre commun
Pour mesurer la performance d'un projet comme le PAIB, associant plusieurs intervenants
responsables, partenaires et motives par des interets differents, divers indicateurs seront requis.
Mais une longue liste d'indicateurs se revele souvent peu utile si elle ne permet pas d'organiser les
informations entre elles, de lier les differents elements qui composent un projet, de repondre aux
attentes des divers intervenants et de tisser un lien commun entre eux pour leur permettre de
connaitre leurs limites et potentialites individuelles et d'apprecier leurs partenaires.
A l'instar des deux grands types de suivi identifi6s dans le systeme de S&E, deux grandes
families d'indicateurs sont definies: (i) les indicateurs d'execution et (ii) les indicateurs de
developpement (impact), formant un cadre commun, global, systematique, structure permettant aux
differents acteurs de parler et comprendre le meme langage. Les dix indicateurs cles qui permettent
une supervision systematique annuelle de 1'ensemble de la performance du PAIB sont les suivant
(Tableau I presente en sommaire de ces indicateurs):
(i) Les indicateurs d'execution sont ceux relatifs:
* aux ressources apport6es par les differents intervenants au projet (input):
* aux biens et services produits par les differentes activites r6alisees (output) et
* A l'efficacite des procedures adoptees (processus).



104
Annex XIV
Page 3 of 9
Tableau I                ~~~~Indicateurs El' input.
r cs dS&1. cozt par composante etpar communaute: les
4,        _          : 0 X: C0000 000 .$ t;   donnees utiles sont: cofits, taux de decaissement,
Perfinna     I0ricudon      ;  S ......             niveau de contribution des communautes. En ce
_. Coflts par composante et communaut~  qui concerne les cofits, un systeme de
2.j            >      e Niveau d'assistance techniqcomptabilite analytique est un outil indispensable
=            tocessiEs de miseenoe~ rcesss)pour pouvoir faire des analyses cofit-efficacite et
6.5i. Performance des proc&lures(rtardsI et  des analyses cofits-benefices, par type d'activite
2.  er   saisacio ariret par type d'acteur. En ce qui concerne le taux
face gi'approcheparticipativedu          de decaissement, cette donnee devient souvent
PAIB                          I~~~~~~~~' indicateur essentiel suivi presque
1. Biens ctservicesproduits                 quotidiennement par le gestionnaire du Projet et
2.B6ndticiaires(groupessocio-               son superviseur. En ce qui conceme le niveau de
~conornquues, femmes, mstitutions~       contribution des communautes, cette donnde
indique le degrr de motivation de la communaute,
Ac~vemneflbJef~fSrUveJOPpeme           ses capacit6s tinancifires A s'autofinancer et A
mobiliser des fonds collectifs.
2. niveau d'assistance technique (nb. h-jr pris en
2. Cpacids lcale de estin (n. etcharge par le Proj et); cette donn6e est un
types renforc6s)              ~~indicateur du degrd de d6pendance de la
communaute iface A ses partenaires exterieurs,
4.. cpackds istituiennlicsen mpour certains types d'activit6s; d6pendance qui
.4epp0=ique~stra.r6gies =t                         doit etre progressivement reduite ou transferee A
senalbiisatio r_latif &.lalutte centre.  d'autre source de financement afin d'assurer la
.ii0~         cam.~ _oiset d6.crets 6labor6s,        perennisation des activites.
Indicateurs de processus:
1. Performance des procedures: il s'agit de donnees qualitatives portant sur le type de retard
rencontrds dans la mise en oeuvre des differentes activites, et les types de problemes
rencontres: difficultes, litiges ou conflits dans les partenariats (nature et nombre). La dur6e
de chaque etape de la demarche de mise en oeuvre A partir de l'identification jusqu'au
moment du bilan est aussi une donnee permettant de juger l'efficacite des processus.
2. Degre de satisfaction des partenaires a I 'approche participative du PAIB: L'approche
participative souleve beaucoup d'espoirs et vehicule diffirentes valeurs: equite, confiance,
consensus, satisfaction sur le processus et sur le produit, itransparence, sensibilite aux
differences culturelles, responsabilit6 de chacun. S'il estl pratiquement impossible de
mesurer une valeur, il est toutefois envisageable de se pencher sur la portee des differentes
valeurs vehiculees par le concept pour s'assurer du bon o a mal fonctionnement de cette
approche. Par exemple, il est possible de demander aux principaux acteurs leur perception
(echelle de I a 3) du niveau de leur propre satisfaction relativement A l'une ou l'autre des
valeurs rattachees au concept de participation. Une telle evaluation par les acteurs



105
Annex XIV
Page 4 of 9
permettrait de corriger la demarche globale du projet, que ce soit au niveau des procedures A
revoir, de ]'information A diffuser plus largement, des mesures incitatives ou sanctionnantes
A prevoir, etc.
Indicateurs d'output:
1. biens et services produits et taux de realisation (en terme de quantite et qualite appreciee par
les beneficiaires). Chaque activite realisee dans le cadre du Projet est sous la responsabilite
d'un acteur specifique et vise A produire un bien ou service quelconque: l'output du Projet.
Preciser les activites, c'est aussi preciser les realisations reelles du projet, et le p6le de
responsabilite, ce qui renforce I'acceptation par les divers acteurs que l'obtention de
resultats fait partie de leurs responsabilites. L'activites est l'unite de base de tout le systeme
de S&E.
2. bgnefzciaires touches: le rayonnement du Projet par rapport aux ressources affectees est un
indicateur clef: ratio utile pour comparer l'opportunite ou la performance de divers types
d'investissement, en termes sociaux. Les donnees utiles A ce niveau sont les types de
boneficiaire (individu, institution, communaute, ONG, secteur prive), les groupes socio-
economiques auxquels ils appartiennent et l'importance relative des femmes.
(ii) Les indicateurs de developpement (impact), ou de developpement, sont ceux relatifs
aux changements dans le milieu, induits par les actions r6alis6es dans le cadre du Projet et attendus
par les differents acteurs concernes. Ils correspondent aux objectifs developpementaux vis6s. Ces
variables se retrouvent dans les diagnostics de depart et sont generalement evaluees, avec de
nombreuses difficultes et subjectivites, plusieurs annees apres, par des equipes externes, au moment
de l'achevement du projet. Une nouvelle avenue tracee par le systeme de S&E est d'introduire dans
les plans d'activites annuels des principaux acteurs du projet, le suivi et la mesure des changement
apportes par leurs activites realisees pour leur permettre de ddcider de consolider, modifier, ou tout
simplement cesser l'activite selon le nombre de benefices observes et de beneficiaires concernes.
Les indicateurs d'impact identifies au cours de la preparation du Projet sont regroupes
autour des quatre piliers de la strategie de lutte contre la pauvrete adoptee par le PAIB:
* amelioration des conditions de vie des communautes rurales pauvres
* renforcement de leurs capacitds A se mobiliser et A lutter contre la pauvrete
* promotion de l'association ONG / Gouvernement
* prise de conscience elargie de la pauvrete et renforcement des capacites de l'Etat A y
repondre au niveau politique et institutionnel.
Pour chacun de ces piliers, un ensemble d'indicateurs (au sens de variables permettant de
mesurer un etat, une evolution ) a ete identifie et dresse une toile de fond commune, globale,
systematique et articulee des objectifs ddveloppementaux vises par le Projet, mettant en lumiere les
attentes differentes des acteurs et l'importance des activites venant renforcer les capacites des
ressources humaines.



106
Annex XIV
Page 5 of 9
L'analyse de performance du PAIB en matiere d'achevement des objectifs developpementaux vises
couvrira globalement chacun de ces indicateurs, mais selon une approche participative, c'est -A- dire
que chaque acteur identifiera les indicateurs qui concernent son activite, A partir de ce cadre de
ref6rence et determinera les mesures specifiques telles qu'il les percoit. Les indicateurs d'impact ci-
dessous sont suivis par des exemples illustratifs des donnees identifiables avec les communautes ou
disponibles au niveau des services techniques:
Indicateurs d 'amelioration des conditions socio-iconomiques (living standard) des
communautes rurales pauvres:
1. population groupes socio-economiques (ex. criteres de prosperite, % de menages, hommes
et femmes, appartenant a chaque categorie)
2. securit6 alimentaire et nutrition (ex: niveau de securite alirnentaire selon le service d'alerte
precoce, nb. de repas par jour, profil de consommation de I'enfant et de la femme enceinte,
ratio poids/taille chez l'enfant)
3. sante et eau potable (ex: % de diarrh6e chez les enfants, acces aux services de sante,
mrthodes de traitement et conservation de 1'eau)
4. education (ex: % de menages qui envoient leurs enfants A 1'ecole, taux d'inscription des
filles)
5. enclavement (ex: frequence des approvisonnements et evacuation en produits ou services
exterieurs au village)
6. flux migratoire (ex: nb. de jeunes quittant le village)
7. revenus, depenses et pouvoir d'achat (ex: types de depenses et revenus monetaires, periode,
importance relative)
8. activites productives et mise en valeur des ressources naturelles (ex: rendement, niveau de
production, investissement dans restauration des ressources naturelles)
Indicateurs de renforcement des capacite's locales
I. organisations fonctionnelles et representatives (ex. nb. de femmes participant aux decisions
communautaires, nombre d'activites gerees d'une maniere communautaire)
2. capacites de gestion des conflits et des relations partenariales (ex. nb. d'ententes
partenariales horizontales avec d'autres collectivites et verticales avec des partenaires au
niveau du cercle, de la region ou national)
3. capacites financieres (ex: fonds reserves A l'entretien des infrastructures, niveau et type de
contribution communautaire)
4. capacites de gestion, planification, S&E d'actions de d6velcppement (ex: nb. de
communautes qui deposent des sous-projets, nb. de sous-projets correctement entretenus
apres 18 mois, nb. de sous-projets prepares et realises par la communaute, qualite des
supports d'information de gestion disponible au niveau des communautes)
5. competences nouvelles en matiere de sante, nutrition, education (ex: taux d'adoption des
themes diffuses)



107
Annex XIV
Page 6 of 9
Indicateurs de capacitJs partenariales Etat/ONG
I. capacites partenariales (ex: nb. et types de partenariats/activites/ reunions conjoints, nb. de
communautes appuyes par ONG, nb. et type de procedures etablies et suivies par les
partenaires, nb. et types de partenaires participant aux 3 niveaux de decision, frequence des
relations de concertation horizontales et verticales)
competences nouvelles en matiere d'animation, mobilisation sociale, de gestion (taux
d'adoption des themes de formation offerts aux ONG)
Indicateurs de renforcement des capacites des institutions nationales etatiques:
1. competences nouvelles techniques (nb. et importance des nouveaux outils, equipements et
ressources humaines competences et sollicitees: SIG, 6tudes thematiques, etc.)
2. capacites de sensibilisation et communication: nb. et types d'outils mis en place par l'Etat
pour sensibiliser divers publics cibles sur les questions de pauvrete
3. capacites d'elaboration et d'adaptation de strategies (ex. ciblage, partenariat), de politiques
( ex. loi ONG) et de procedures partenariales (ex. manuel de procedures applique)
III.   Modalites de mise en oeuvre du S&E
11 existe trois niveaux d'analyse et de decision ou se rencontrent les acteurs du PAIB, et
pour lesquels des besoins specifiques en information sont identifies: les niveaux local, regional et
national. A chaque niveau, le systeme de S&E propose de systematiser la gestion de l'information
par des: (i) fiches syntheses de l'information, (ii) mecanismes d'analyse, de decision et de
circulation de l'information et (iii) personnes-cles dans la gestion de l'information. Le Tableau 2
pr6sente une synthese du systeme de S&E. Un outi I participatif sous forme de schema a e
developpe pour faciliter l'analyse d'impact. Ce meme outil se presente sous une forme accessible
aux logiciels d'analyse statistique (EXCEL - analyse radar ou "spider web"), et sera incorpore au
niveau regional, dans la base de donnee S&E du PAIB. Un exemple est presente ici pour un barrage
de retenue:



108
Annex XIV
Page 7 of 9
Indicateurs de conditions socio-economiques
nutrition       eau potable
exode 
production maraich&re
s6curit& alimentaire
capacites de gestion
(entretien du barrage)          Competence techniques
Indicateurs capacites locales                   Indicateurs Partenar. Etatl ONG
Indicateurs Politiques/ stratdgies
LUgende:
: indicateur, gradud selon evolution positive
an 0, situation de reference, diagnostic
-           :an I
L'analyse produite par un tel outil permet d'un coup d'oeil de connaRtre:
* le nombre et le type de benefices positifs mesures par les beneficiaires
* I'importance relative des changements constates par rapport A la situation de reference
les benefices attendus qui courent le risque de ne pas et-e obtenus, A moins de mesures
prises concretement pour modifier la tendance constatee (ex ici: les capacites de gestion
pour 1'entretien du barrage)
* les pistes d'actions possibles pour consolider, perenniser l'investissement realise dans le
barrage.
Une base de donnee permet de stocker les informations et d'automiser la preparation des fiches
syntheses. Pour l'outil informatique, le lociel ACCESS sera parametr6 pour repondre aux besoins
du systeme de S&E, en collaboration avec la cooperation allemande et les responsables S&E des
projets de gestion ressources naturelles du Mali, Niger, Burkina Faso, Mauritanie qui utilisent le
meme syteme de S&E.



Annexe XIV
Page 8 of 9
Tableau 2: Synthese du systeme de S&E
Niveau             Acteurs             Decisions clees a prendre                                                    Systeme de gestion
principaux                                             Fiches                  Mecanismes d'analyse                     Personnes clkes
Local             * Communaute          *   choix d'une action prioritaire  .    diagnostic (cadre  *    suivi mensuel de l'avancement du sous-projet par I'ADC   *    ADC
* Comite de gestion   *   programme d'actions IEC           de reference)        *    reunions intercommunautes semestrielles ou annuellement   *    Comitd de gestion
villageois           .   mobilisation des ressources    *    planification du         afin de suivre et evaluer performance et comparer les         village.
* Autorites              intemes et externes                sous-projet              resultats, chercher des solutions aux difficultes, tirer des
traditionnelles      *    suivi de la mise en oeuvre        (donnees sur les          le,ons et revoir le programme d'activite
* ONG-DC             *   bilan annuel                       engagements)         a    I'analyse de S&E porte sur les 10 indicateurs cles, les
* ADC                                                  *    S&E (le suivi             mesures correctrices et les resultats comparables obtenus
* Entrepreneur                                              d'execution               par d'autres communautes
* Contr61eur des                                            mensuel et le bilan
travaux (MO)                                                annuel)
* Autorites                                            N.B.: ces fiches
administratives                                        disponible en langue
* Services tech.                                       locale/pictogramme et                                                                                                o
en fran,ais
Regional          * Intermediaire      *   validation des sous-projets    *    synthese des        .    rapport mensuel sur l'etat d'avancement du PAIB et avec    .    intermediaire
(chef de file)            prioritaires                      diagnostics locaux        recommandations des solutions aux problemes rencontres    *    ONG-DC
* ONG-DC             *   programme de formation        *    synthese de               au CLD par l'intermediaire                               .    services tech.
* CL.D               .    appui a la mobilisation des       planification des    .    rapport de synthese trimestriel sur toutes les activites PAIB
* CRD                     ressources externes               sous-projets et           par l'intermediaire aux ADC et au BGP
* Services           *   suivi de la mise en oeuvre         activites d'autres   *   reunion annuelle sur le bilan-programmation pour les
techniques           *   bilan annuel                       partenaires               representants des communautes, CLD, CRD, BGP,
* Autorites                                            *    synthese de S&E           Association par l'intermediaire
administratives                                             par village          *    I'analyse porte sur les 10 indicateurs cles; les mesures
*    tableau synthese         correctrices a apporter; les villages avec les meilleurs
des 10 indicateurs       performance, ceux qui connaissent des difficultes; les
cles (trimestriel et     experiences d'autres partenaires oeuvrant dans des activites
annuel)                  similaires
National          * Association        *   identification des zones       *    base de donndes      *    rapport trimestriel sur l'etat d'avancement du PAIB (voir    .    Spdcialiste en S&E
(BGP+Conseil)             d'intervention                    (informations des         analyse niveau regional)                                      du BGP
* tutelle            *   definition/amendement des          intermediaires)      *   tableau synthese trimestriel de l'etat d'avancement du    .    services tech.
regles/procedures            *    memes fiches              PAIB et les resultats comparatifs transmis au partenaires     nationaux
*    definition/coordination           qu'au niveau              regionaux et nationaux                                   .    comptable au BGP
programmes IEC/formation          regional             *   reunion annuelle sur le bilan-programmmation du PAIB
*    supervision/contr6le de la                                  avec les representants des partenaires principaux, anime
mise en oeuvre                                              par le specialiste en S&E du BGP



110
Annexe XIV
Page 9 of 9
IV.   Gestion du systeme de S&E
Agent de S&E
L'agent de S&E du PAIB est responsable du developpement et de la mise en oeuvre du
systeme de S&E pour le Projet. Dans cet esprit, il fait partie d'un reseau informel de responsables
S&E ayant adopte les memes e'lments de base, ce qui lui permettra de se former aupres de
collegues vivant les memes preoccupations, de prendre connaissance des resultats obtenus dans
d'autres projets, et d'enrichir le systeme de S&E. II a pour mandat:
* de conseiller et former les intermediaires A la gestion de l'information pour axer leurs
activites sur l'atteinte d'une performance tant au niveau de l'execution que de
l'impact developpemental vise.
- de superviser la mise en oeuvre du systeme d'information, en verifiant sur le terrain,
par echantillonnage, la qualite des donn6es, des analyses et des divers outils utilises
pour assurer la collecte, I'analyse et la circulation de I'information
- d'animer le processus de d6veloppement du systeme de S&E: harmonisation
progressive des unites de mesures identifiees par les communautes pour chacun des
indicateurs de reference, definition d'une nomenclature commune avec le systeme de
comptabilite analytique, identification des donnees les plus pertinentes et des analyses
les plus utiles pour la decision des acteurs; reconciliation des donnees issues du
terrain avec les donnees provenant des statistiques nationales et des etudes
scientifiques.
Les types d'activites que l'agent de S&E est appeIl A realiser sont:
1. preparation de materiel didactique en S&E
2. formation des partenaires,
3. organisation, animation participation de seminaire d'analyse et circulation d'information au
niveau local, regional, national
4. mission de supervision de la mise en oeuvre du systeme de S&E sur le terrain
5. redaction des rapports trimestriel et annuel, et du Programme de travail annuel du PAIB
6. administration de la base de donn6e
7. gestion du centre de documentation du PAIB
8. developpement de ses propres capacites enS&E (informatique, S&E)



111
Annex XV
Page 1 of 8
Methodologie Pour L'analyse Economique Et Financiere Des Sous Projets
La methode la plus appropriee et la plus utilisee pour I'analyses des sous-projets est
celle
qui repose sur le taux de rentabilite interne (TRI) des projets. Cette rentabilite economique,
lorsqu'elle est mesurable, doit etre le critere financier fondamental pour le choix des
operations A proposer. Lorsqu'il est impossible de la mesurer, d'autres indicateurs peuvent
permettre de faciliter le choix (les criteres sociaux ou socio-economiques).
Methode de calcul du VNA (Valeur Nette Actualisee) et du TRI (Taux de Rentabilite
Interne)
Signification economique:
* La Valeur Nette Actualisee (VNA) est la somme de tous les flux annuels
actualises du projet, c'est-A-dire les benefices actualises du projet moins les coits
actualises du projet.
* Le Taux de Rentabilite Interne (TRI) est le taux d'int6r8t de largent investi
dans un projet donne.
Les etapes de calcul
Etape 1: l'evaluation des cofits et avantages economiques generes par le projet:
Dans la pratique, on est souvent ramene A deux options: situation avec projet et
situation sans projet. Pour chaque cas, on quantifie les cofits, benefices et les flux
par annee, pendant la duree du projet. Ce qui nous permet d'ecrire:
Cofit du projet      =      Cofit avec projet - Cofit sans projet
Benefice du projet    =     Benefice avec projet - Benefice sans projet
Flux annuel du projet =     Benefice du projet - Cofit du projet
Les couts de la situation sans projet sont souvent nuls. Par contre les avantages
economiques gen6res par un projet sont A la fois les economies realisees par rapport
A la situation avec et sans projet.
Couits du projet: Les estimations des cofits des projets sont souvent basees sur des
ratios tires A partir d'une exp6rience recente sur le terrains (moyenne des appels
d'offres recents pour le meme type de projet) ou (la somme des produits 'prix
unitaire * quantite') si ceux si sont disponibles et actualises. A cela on ajoute en
general une "provision pour imprevus physiques" de l'ordre de 10 % et les cofits
d'entretien des ouvrages realises : generalement de l'ordre de (1% par an) par
rapport au cofit du projet.



112
Annex XV
Page 2 of 8
Benefices du projet: L'evaluation des benefices econoniiques generes par un projet
sont: (i) soit des recettes directes; (ii) soit des depenses evitees par rapport a la
situation sans projet.
Etape 2: Actualisation: La valeur d'un montant aujourd'hui n'est pas forcement sa
valeur dans 3 ou 10 annees futures. En effet, les gains futurs d'une operation sont
deprecies par rapport aux couits presents. Le taux de conversion est appele taux
d'actualisation, qui est le taux qui donne la valeur actuelle d'une somme future.
Dans le cadre des projets finances par la Banque Mondiale, un taux intersectoriel de
rentabilite minimum est souvent indique. Ce taux dans les pays d'Afrique
Sahdlienne, est de l'ordre de 10%. Ce taux ne doit pas eb^e confondu avec l'inflation
: il ne traduit pas seulement une depreciation de la monnaie, mais surtout une
preference pour I'argent present par rapport a I'argent futur.
Intirkt economique d'une operation: Un projet est interessant dconomiquement si
les benefices actualises qu'il genere sont plus importants que ses couits actualises.
Cette definition appelle les remarques suivantes:
-  pour la majorite des investissements, les coOts sont mesures aujourd'hui et les
benefices dans le futur. La determination de P'inter&  economique et
I'actualisation sont donc lides. C'est ainsi que I'actualisation apparait comme un
outil permettant de mesurer l'inter8t economique.
-  L'int6r8t economique d'une operation depend a la fois des flux economiques
qu'elle gdnere et du taux d'actualisation choisi.
Pour mieux comprendre ces aspects 1'exemple suivant illustre bien l'importance du
taux d'actualisation et son effet sur l'investissement initial dans le temps:
Effet de I'actualisation des investissements
Ann4es
Flux    I__ __| 10               | 15    20Nous constatons que 100
F(1)    100    146    236        380    612                F aujourd'hui sera dans 5
F(S)    68      100                                        ans 68 F et dans 20 ans
F(10)    42             100                                16 F, et inversement pour
F(15)    26      _to 100  T 0 X                            avoir 100 dans 5 ans ou
F(20)    16                              lo1               20 il faut investir
aujourd'hui 146 F ou 612 F respectivement pour 5 et 20.



113
Annex XV
Page 3 of 8
Etape 3. Calcul des indicateurs VNA et TRI
Valeur Nette Actualisee (VNA): formule d'actualisation: Soient f(0), f(2), ..., f(n)
des flux (positifs ou n6gatifs) correspondants aux annees 0, 1, 2,..., n. Soit i le taux
d'actualisation.
Alors: VNA(i, f(k)) = f(k) / (1+i)k                                 (1)
C'est la valeur nette actualis6e (VNA) du flux de l'annee k, c'est a dire la valeur
aujourd'hui, en monnaie d'aujourd'hui, du flux de l'annee k.
On en deduit, par simple sommation des flux actualises que:
VNA(i, f(O), ... , f(n)) = Somme ( f(k) / (l+i)k )                  (2)
Donc c'est la somme de tous les flux annuels actualises du projet, c'est-A-dire les
benefices actualises du projet moins les couts actualises du projet.
Exemple simple d'un projet P:
- Investissement initial: 100 M FCFA
- B6nefices du projet: 60 la premiere annee, 56 la deuxieme annee.
- Taux d'actualisation choisi: 10 %.
- les benefices actualises du projet sont donc : 60 la premiere annee, 51 la deuxieme
annee (56 / 1.1 0);
ce qui donne un total: 60 + 51 = 111 M FCFA
- La Valeur nette actualisee (VAN) est done = 111 - 100 = 11 M FCFA
L'investissement est rembourse et rapporte un supplement de 11 M FCFA.
Taux de rentabilite Interne TRI: Soient f(0), f( 1), f(2), ... , f(n) des flux(positifs ou
negatifs) correspondants aux annees 0, 1, 2,..., n. Le Taux de Rentabilite Interne
(TRI) associe a ces flux est le taux d'actualisation qui verifie:
VNA (TRI, f(O), f(1),..., f(n)) = 0
Exemple:
J'investis 100 Millions de francs (aujourd'hui) dans l'achat d'une maison. Au bout
d'un an je revends la maison.
(i)    si je la revends 120 Millions de francs (annee 1), mes flux sont:
f(0) = -100 (je depense 100 MF), et la deuxieme annee f(l)  + 120 (je re,ois 120
MF)
Le TRI est donc le taux qui annule la fonction VNA (valeur nette actualisde) donne
par:
VAN (TRI, f(0), f(l))   -100 +120/(l+TRI) = 0, soit: TRI = (120-100)/100 = 20%,



114
Annex XV
Page 4 of 8
Le TRI de l'operation est donc 20%, ce qui signifie que l'operation me rapporte
20%.
(ii)   si je la revends 105 Millions de francs (annee 1),
de la meme facon: VAN (TRI, f(0), f(l)) = -100 +105/(l+TRI) = 0. et: TRI = (105-
100)/100 = 5%
De facon generale: Une operation est rentable seulement si son TRI est superieur au
taux d'actualisation.
Typologie des projets a financer dans le cadre du PAIB
Conformement aux objectifs du projet, il a e  propose, en plus des actions de
formation et de sensibilisation, de concentrer le programme de lutte contre la pauvrete
autours des axes principaux comme:
Les 6coles de base:   La construction, 1'extension ou la rehabilitation de salles de
classe, bureau et bloc de latrines scolaires. La fourniture des equipemnents necessaires pour
assurer la scolarisation des enfants et les cours d'alphabetisation au niveau des villages.
Les centres de sante: La construction, l'extension ou la rehabilitation et
cquipement de centres de sante primaire et bloc de latrines publiques.
Les puits:    I'approvisionnement en eau potable en creusant des puits ou par la
realisation des forages equipes ou par des pompes manuelles.
Les pistes rurales:   I'amrnagement des pistes rurales pour desenclaver les
villages et ameliorer l'activite commerciale et agricole.
Les micro-barrages:  Dans le but d'assurer une securite alimentaire et lutter
contre la faim, des petites retenues d'eau, des ouvrages anti-erosifs et des amenagements de
plaines seront r6alises.
HYPOTHESES DE CALCUL POUR LES INDICATEliRS (TRI, VNA)
Ce chapitre presente pour des cas typiques de sous-projets: (i) une liste des avantages
attendus; (ii) la quantification des avantages economiques si possible (a l'exception des
projets sociaux); (iii) le calcul des indicateurs economiques (TR] et VNA) A partir des
donnees chiffrees.



115
Annex XV
Page 5 of 8
ETUDES DE CAS:
Rehabilitation un batiment a usage collectif (Salle de classe ou Centre de sante)
Un bitiment est degrade. Sa duree de vie avant 1'effondrement est estimee A 5 ans. Le
beneficiaire se demande s'il doit proceder ou non a une rehabilitation.
Le prix de la construction d'un batiment neuf similaire s'6leve A: 10 M FCFA.
Le montant des travaux de rehabilitation est estime A: 3 M FCFA.
Les frais d'entretien sont de l'ordre de 1% par an.
Les deux options sont donc les suivantes:
(i) rehabilitation et entretien annuel du batiment; et
(ii) Pas de travaux effectues, puis reconstruction dans 5 ans, lorsque le batiment sera
inutilisable.
Analyse des benefices et des cofits engendres par chaque option:
(i)    rehabilitation et entretien annuel du Batiment: les cofits sont 3 M FCFA pour la
rehabilitation, et 0.1 MFCFA par an pour l'entretien. II n'a pas de revenus directs.
(ii)    pas de travaux: le couit est celui de la reconstruction de d'un batiment neuf: 10 M
FCFA dans 5 ans. Ce cout est evite si les travaux sont effectues. Ainsi, le cofit de la
reconstruction evite apparait comme un gain dans notre analyse.
11 est impossible de comparer ce gain exprime en monnaie future au coat exprime en
monnaie prWsente sans tenir compte de I'actualisation. Le calcul du TRI est presente dans le
tableau 1 en annexe.
Construction d'un batiment neuf a usage collectif (Salle de classe ou Centre de sante)
Contrairement au cas de la rehabilitation, les constructions neuves des batiments sociaux n a
pas de justification economiques directe, malgre l'interet socio-economique indeniable.
Dans ces cas on se contente generalement du respect des criteres socio-economiques et de la
politique sectorielle en la matiere.
Pour le cas d'une ecole, nous avons les criteres socio-economiques suivants: taux de
scolarisation, taux de scolarisation des filles, taux d'alphabetisme. Un exemple typique
serait de construire une ecole de 3 Salles de classe, I bureau et I bloc latrine.
- CoOt globale du projet:                   46.591.585 FCFA
- No. de menages ayant un membre non alphabetise:    200
- No. d'enfants A scolariser:               120 (40 eleve par classe)
- Taux de filles A scolariser:              60 %
- Ratio Al1ves/maitre:                      40



116
Annex XV
Page 6 of 8
Micro-barrage et amenagement de plaines
Ces op6rations sont en gen6ral tres rentables, du fait que I'activite agricole est la
principale source de revenu pour les villageois. Les avantages sont essentiellement
I'augmentation de la production agricoles au niveau des menages. (Dans les 3 cas suivants,
les estimations dans les calculs suivants ont ete utilisees pour la phase pilote.)
Micro-barrage
Hypotheses de calcul
(i)    Le couit du barrage est de: 14.459.710 FCFA (dont travaux: 5.013.602)
(ii)   Le cout annuel de 1'entretien est estime a: 5% du couit projet,
(iii)   Le nombre de menages concernes: 200
(iv)   Augmentation de revenu annuelle estimee par menage: 130.000 F CFA.
Espace rizicole
Hypothases de calcul
(i)   Le couit du barrage est de: 17.048.167 FCFA (dont travaux : 7.253.884)
(ii)   Le couit annuel de 1'entretien est estime a: 5% du couit projet,
(iii)   Le nombre de menages concernms : 60
(iv)   Augmentation de revenu annuelle estimee par menage: 58.800 F CFA.
Perimetre
Hypotheses de calcul
(i)    Le cout du barrage est de: 18.661.408 FCFA (dont travaux: 6.935.000)
(ii)   Le cout annuel de 1'entretien est estim6 A: 5% du coat projet,
(iii)   Le nombre de menages concernes : 48
(iv)   Augmentation de revenu annuelle estimee par menage 143.000 F CFA.
Pour ces trois cas, les calculs sont presentes dans le tableau 2 en annexe.
OUTIL INFORMATIQUE UTILISE:
Les tableurs (Lotus, EXCEL, etc.) constituent un outil particulierement adapte, et
d'utilisation facile pour le calcul et I'actualisation des flux. Les fonctions economiques
n6cessaires (VNA et TRI) sont incluses dans la plupart de ces logiciels. Dans notre cas nous
avons utilise EXCEL 5 pour effectuer les calculs.



Tableau 1: RWhabilitation diune salle de classe                                                     '                _                      ADUCxe X         _ v
__          .___.______ _    _ .                   _      __    ___ __.                                                              Page 7 of 8
annee                        -___   _= 0                                     2 __  3 _   4                  5 _   6             7         8 _   9             0
Situation avec projet              __           _==_
Co&t des travaux            MF CFA                      -3.00
CoOt de l'entretien         MF CFA  _                             -0.10     -0.10    -0.10     -0.10     -0.10
Situation sans projet
Cofit de la construction neuve   MF CFA                              _                                  -10.00
Cash flow_                  MFCFA _C_ -3.00                      -0.10      -0.10    -010      -010       9.90                           ___
TRI            ==                             25%
Taux d'actualisation               10%
Valeur Nette actuaiisee     MF CFA             2.57
VNA/Coit du projet _86%0._
Sensibilite 1
Augmentationdu co&t des travaux
Surcofit de la rdhabilitation                           -0.60
Cash flow                    _                          -3.60     -0.10     -0.10    -0.10     -0.10      9.90
TRI             2-_ __                        21%
Taux d'actualisation               10%
VNA                         MF CFA            2.03
VNA/Cout du proJet                            56%
Sensibilite2 2         =   _
Duree de vie du bAtiment plus longue
(10 ans)
Cash flow                       __                      -3.00     -0.10    -0.10     -010   -0. 10       -         -01 0     -0.1       0.10 _   -0.10   _    9.90
TRI              ___ __  _ 11%
Taux d'actualisation   ____10% _                                                                       ___               _ _ _    ______   _            ____P
VNA --  _                      CPF_A    _     0.22 _   _        -     |-----       ----  ---- - -                ~--   --------- -------- ----_    __---.- _
VNA/Cofitduprojet                   -- _    _  7%- __                                                                                    -- ..__ .  __
oo



Tableau 2: Construction d'un micro-barrage i Yawakanda          |    __                                                                      Anneze XV
______             lPage 8of ,
Duree d'amortissement                                          0        l         2        3         4        5         6        7         8         9         10
Coets de projet
CoGt du projet                MF CFA                       -15.00
Coat de rentretien (5%)       MF CFA                                 -0.75     -0.75    -0.75    -0.75    -0.75
Avantages
Augmentation de la production    MF CFA             26               26.00    26.00    26.00     26.00    26.00
Cash flow                     MF CFA                _      -15.00    25.5    25.25      25.25    25.25     25.25
TRI                                              167%
Taux d'actualisation                 10%                      _
Valeur Nette actualis6e       MF CFA              73.38
VNA/CoOt du projet                                489%    ___
2. Espace rizicole de Boro
Cofits du projet              MFC
CoOt du projet                MFCFA                        -17.00      _
Cofit de 1'entretien (5%)     MF CFA                                 -0.85    -0.85    -0.85    -0.85    -0.85       -0.85    -0.85     -0.85     -0.85      -0.8
____                                               .   _____                ___         __-_                                                _
Avantages                                      ______ _ __0_
Augmentation de la production    MF CFA           3.528               3.53     3.53      3 53      3.53     3.53      3.53     3.53      3.53 _   3.53        3.53
Cash flow                     MF CFA                       -17.00     2.68     2 68      2. 68    2 68      2.68     2.68      2.68      2.68     2.68        2.68
TRI                                                9%                                 ____
Taux dactualisation                  10% _/ ___
Valeur Nette actualisee       MF CFA              -0.50          _  __ __         __     ___
VNA/CoOt du projet                                 -3%
3 Prinmetre de Boumbam
Cofts du projet
CoOt du projet              _ MF CFA                 _     -19.0                    _______ _ __
CoOt de l'entretien (5%)      MF CFA                                 -0.95     -0.95    -0.95    -0.95    -0.95      -0.95    -0.95     -0.95
Avantages                     _________
Augmentation de la production    MF CFA           6.864               6.86     6.86      6.86     6.86      6.86     6.86      6.86      6.86
Cashflow                      MFCFA_  -9I.00                          5.91     591       5.91     51        5.91     5.91      5.91      591  ___  ____>
TRI                                               26%
Taux dactualisation                  10% __                    _    ___                                          _      _         _     __
Valeur Nette actualisee       MF CFA              11.41          _      _X
VNA/CoOt du projet                                 60% I00 (
0



PROJET DE PLAN DE PASSATION DES MARCHES 1998-1999
(Ordre chronologique enfonction de la date de transmission du dossier i I 'IDA)
No       Nature du Marche       F.l   Estim. des  Methode de   No    Date de       Date de    Date limite   Date de transmis.  Date de  Date de fin
Montants   Passation    D.A.   transmission   lancement  de remise    de la proposition  signature    d'execution
US$        des marches  0.     DAO a l'IDA   de I'A.O.   des offres  d'attribution    du contrat   du contrat
1   Recrutement de l'auditeur
des comptes
a) exercices 1995-96-97    PPF       4 842  Consultation   NA    07/08/97     10/09/97    03/10/97    02/12/97         25/02/98     dec-99
b) exercices 98-99         F.1      39 300  restreinte 3        NA            NA         NA            15/02/98        28/02/98        99
2    Equipement de la Cellule de   TF    70 175  AON          97/0   17/11/97      30/12/97    02/02/98     15/02/98        mars-98      mai-98
Preparation                                              U/0I/
PAIB
3    Recensement (DNSI)         F.l    1 300 000  gre a gre                                                 10/02/98        25/02/98     25/05/98
(Remboursement salaires
enqueteur)
4    Ciblage de la premiere zone   F.1    5 500  gre a gre                                                                  15/02/98     30/04/98
de la seconde region
d'intervention (DNS1)
5   Reconduction des MOD pour la  F.1   147 000  gre a gre 4         28/02/98                                               31/03/98     28/02/98
2eme generation de sous projets
dans les 10 villages pilotes
6   Reconduction des sous-      F.1
contrats MO
-- contr6le tranvaux               118000  gre a gre b   __     28/02/98      __          __          __               06/04/98     dec-98
-- etudes techniques                16 000  _
7    Recond. s-cont. ONG-DC     F.1     189 000  gre a gre a         28/02/98                                               06/04/98     28/02/98
3 Mene auditeur que pour 1'exercice 97 aux memes conditions financieres.
Choix des MOD et executants deja recrutes pour la I re generation.                                                                            ew 0
o m
H
I-f
'S'-



No       Nature du Marche      F.l   Estim. des  MEthode de   No    Date de       Date de    Date limite   Date de transmis. Date de  Date de fin
Montants   Passation   D.A.   transmission   lancement  de remise    de 1J proposition  signature    d'execution
US$        des marchis  0.    DAO A I'IDA   de l'A.O.   des offres    d'attribution  du contrat   du contrat
8   Amelioration du systeme de   F.1     3 000  Compa-                                                                    15/04/98     15/05/98
suivi-evaluation (consultant                raison C.Vs
individuel)                                                    _
9   Etudes programmes          F.        18 000  Compa-                                                                   01/04/98     30/06/98
biannuels (ODHD)                            raison C.Vs
10  Elaboration du rapport     Fl       20 000  Compa-                                                                    30/04/98     15iO8/98
annuel (DHD)                                raison C.Vs                                . _
II  Reconduction des sous-     F.I
contrat entreprises de
travaux
-- infrastructures               1 029 000  gre A gre b         28/02/98                                              20/04/98    29/11/98
--dquipement                        58 825
12  Informatisation Systeme de   IDA      1 000  gre A gre          23/02/98                                         -    01/05/98    08/05/98
suivi-evaluation (PGRN)                                                                                                                        o
13  Honoraires organisation
seminaire (firme)
-- Passation de marches             10 000  Consultation        15/03/98     30/03/98   20/04/98     04/05/98         01/06/98    01/07/98
-- Comptabilite de projet            7 000  restreinte
14  Amdnagement des bureaux   IDA       14 035  cotation                  -       16/04/98   08/05/98     --              01/06/98    31/08/98
15  Equipement (vehicules)     IDA      99 000  AON                               15/04/98   21/05/98                      15/06/98    dec-98
16  Contrat spots radio avec   IDA       3 000  gre A gre                        --          -                            05/06/98     05/05/99
radios locales
17  Marche de client6Ie avec des  InA    a 000 par  cotation                                                         _    05/06/98     05/05/99
imprimeurs pour                        an
l'impression des bulletins
d'information
18  Enquetes participatives    IDA
(firme)
enqudtes                          29 000  Consultation        01/05/98      15/05/98    15/06/98   30/06/98         01/09/98    15/1/98
-- etudes CAP                       15 000  restreinte
19  Honoraires organisation
seminaire (firmne)
00
P
X' 
H E



No       Nature du Marche      F.1   Estim. des  Mkthode de   No     Date de      Date de    Date limite   Date de transmis.  Date de  Date de fin
Montants   Passation   D.A.   transmission   lancement  de remise    de la proposition  signature    d'execution
USS        des marches  0.     DAO A I'IDA   de l'A.0.   des offres    d'attribution  du contrat   du contrat
-- Passation de marches             10 000  meme choix          NA                                                    01/06/99    01/07/99
que pour 98
-- Comptabilite de projet            7 000                                                                            01/06/99    01/07/99
20  Ciblage de la 36 region    IDA        5 500  gre a gre                                                                 15/01/99    mars-99
d'intervention (DNSI)
21   Enqu8te menages (DNCI)                      gre a gre                                                01/01/99         15/02/99    15/08/99
22   Recruteinent des MOD      IDA      226 000  AON                 01/1/99      21/01/99    21/02/99    28/02/99         15/03/99    oct-2000
(environ 3)                _                                         _____
23   Etudes programmes         F.1       18 000  Compa-        -                                                           01/04/99    30/06/99
bisannuels (ODHD)                           raison C.Vs
24   Elaboration du rapport    F.1      20 000  Compa-                                                                     30/04/99    15/08/99
annuel (DHD)                                raison C.Vs
25  Amelioration du systeme de  IDA       3 000  Comparai-                                                                 01/05/99    31/05/99     _
suivi-evaluation (consultant                son C.Vs                                                                                           N
individuel
26  Sous contrats ONG-DC       IDA    311 0005  cotation                                                                   06/05/99    28/02/2001
27  Contrat spots radio avec   IDA        4 000  gre a grd                                                                 05/06/99    05/05/2000
radios nationales et locales
28  Marche de clentele pour    IDA        1 000  cotation                                                                  05/06/99    05/05/2000
l'impression des bulletin
d' information
29  Sous contrats MO           IDA               AON
-- controle travaux                181 000                      15/03/99     01/04/99    01/05/99    01/06/99         21/06/99    mars-2000
-- etudes techniques                25 000
30  Enqudtes participatives    IDA                                   21/05/99     07/06/99    07/07/99    22/07/99         30/08/99    30/11/99
(firine)
-- enquetes CAP                     60 000  Consultation
-- etudes                           30 000  restreinte
31  Sous-contrats Entreprises de  IDA
5 Total de tous les sous-contrats,dont le nombre est estime a environ 10.
00
X
ox
o 4



No        Nature du Marche       F.1   Estim. des   Methode de   No     Date de        Date de    Date limite    Date de transmis.  Date de   Date de fin
Montants   Passation     D.A.   transmission   lancement  de remise     de la proposition   signature    d'execution
US$        des march6s  0.       DAO a l'IDA   de l'A.O.   des offres   d'attribution    du contrat   du contrat
travaux avec MOD
--infrasturctures                  1 584 000  AON                  01/06/99       15/06/99    15/07/99     30/07/99         15/08/99     01/03/2000
--equipements                        100 000  cotation6                   --                 --            --               15/10/99     01/04/2000
TOTAL                              4 409 561          _
6 Environ 10 contrats
t P
-QIm
X



123
Annex XVII
Page 1 of 1
List Of Documents In Project Files
Strategie et Programme de la Banque mondiale pour reduire la Pauvrete et la Faim au Mali,
Banque mondiale,juin 1996
Situation de la Faim au Mali - Rapport definitif - Dr. Ngolo Trapre, M. Namory Traore et Mme.
Fatimata Ouattara - Decembre 1994
Plan d'action national sur l'alimentation et la nutrition (1995 - 1999), Ministere de la Sante et
des Affaires Sociales, Juin 1995
Rapport de synthese generale de I 'atelier tripartite Gouvernement - ONG - Banque mondiale,
Mai 1995
Rapport de synthese final de I 'atelier de Segou, juin 1995
Rapport de Synthese des ateliers de la premierejournee, Juin 1995
Atelier de preparation (ZOPP workshop) du Projet d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base dans la Lutte
contre la Faim et la Pauvrete - Christian Voigt-Moritz - I I au 13 octobre 1995.
Enqu&te pilote sur la lutte contre lafaim dans la region de Mopti, AMRAD en collaboration avec
HDS - Aofit/Septembre 1995
Etude des capacites des ONG, Centre National d'Appui et de Formation pour le Developpement
des Ressources Humaines - Soumana Doumbia, Idrissa Maiga et Adama Kouyate - Octobre 1995
Enquetes participatives approfondies dans les cercles de Tenenkou et Youwarou (rapport
d'Execution) - Michel Diawara, Sambala Sidibe, Djoume Sylla - Juin 1996
Enquetesparticipatives dans les cercles de Tenenkou et Youwarou (rapport de mise en place des
comites de gestion des villages) - Michel Diawara, Sambala Sidibe, Djoume Sylla - Juin 1996
Candidature pour le role d'intermediaires et/ou d'executants pour la phase pilote - Region de
Mopti
Recensement/Evaluation du Materiel IEC - Moulaye Ismael Dicko - Fevrier 1997
Ciblage des Cercles, Arrondissements et Village, Region de Mopti, 1997



MAP SECTION



fOR'XER r--                                1                                   _     _     5o                                                      0                                                      5
AtIrto t  S                            ALGERIA                                                                                                                      T "  The boundaries, colors, denominations and ony other information
Oren0        A~                                                                                                                                                    shou,n on this map dlo not imply, on the port of The World Bank Group,
N   I                                        x                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any judgment on the legal 5tatus of any territory, or any endorsement
N;ecir;,/   ffi   \   \,                     |                           \'                                               or acceptance of such boundaries.
0    MAURITANIA    |             >                                        p                                                                                           150             300 KILOMETERS
__~<    .   l    M A L IN|
tHE  SENEGAL)                     -    ONIGER                                       V
GAM IAf  *-r* _            s,osmku /BURKINA\S- .                                         j  \
GUI   GUNE    r              --GAAQ                        
y'.~~~~~~~~~~(~~~~~'BENIN   R                                                           N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  [  G     E       R    I      A
VO TcOsE jIVOIRE                 >\
M   AL I                                                 iT O M 0 U C T o u
-20'a    SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES                                                                                                                /
*    CERCLE   CAPITALS                                           |                                                                                    ,   ,J C .6oosten ,                              /  720 0
@    REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                        /oAqu..hokk  D
* NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                          Aroo.sne                     \              R               D G 0
I~~~~~~~ R E,Gj/ 
FLOOD AREA                                                                    '---- -- -
|           '\  ~~~~R  E  G   I      N                                      g t,z  Kidol1 
RIVERS  AREA                                                                           E        O                                             0KIdo   ,
-----CERCLE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                       j 'N                       ,
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                         ,'-      /           S
---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                         s   "  > ,
A/f0
\ is - 's--i i '=$ > '3; / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RI  zE.( G    I    O 0f- 
M A U R I T A N IA A                                                                                    , .            Se ,Mesolss
4Gs aetGoqui              |                        - 5       Z35f yQ;>nboro-M.loundb                            * XaAnsong-                     A
j_~~~ ~    VNosors>                                                                             j Y %    [f         ->       \     -    B     I NooCrmoo \yaooono l \ .       Andbrao,bskoneO_-
N|y     -  SENEGA  g-oMp.l. s                                 I f      t'nTlss                         ..,I
1OA. o                          -..               I 5                                                    -,
Ia0                       -)-M                              OBm                                                                                               5'
SENEGAL              0Smonkor        W         oE>osid:>>'-a  5,,     5mb5'                                                                                                                 N    I  G          E    R I   A
3>~ ~ ~~~~~~~~rsi 0X I0< A/A AK,j[oin   snIsosa/                                                                                                         Nf-/ 
DCBoS. ns G E                  Roso          Ks                          r .f,oE N IN s
r                                 5~~~~~so~r~   51I  Tooa    o     o'Mtokr              Morkol                            9             HA        A         C        ,*
d          o             No 0r       0K                                                                                                -I
(,j.                   0                        KO~~<~~I~ *i.  0K0u~os
%Bsldys  - jN     dy6 jO          i o   "        
S-t- -ug aAKoEA                             F.I.diuS                    K..so       Hn                            ------"T                12/                  E I
GUI  N  u  ,gsuln,    caKs egsus   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\.G                            N  A           a      ~       ~        ~      ~      ~      N   I     E     IN
Yor ~~~~~~9-1P                                                                            SENIN                                    u~~~~~~-0S 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIn to-



