Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N037 MLI
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Grassroots Initiatives to Fight Hunger and Poverty Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator 
of the interim trust fund established with funds 
contributed by certain members of International Development 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of International Development Association
Dated April 9, 1998
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N037 MLI
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 9, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
The Project will be carried out by the Association d’Appui aux 
Initiatives de Base (AIB) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to AIB the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Administrator and AIB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, “Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5 (e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5 (c) of said Resolution; and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”;
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity; and
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount of the Interim Fund Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be  financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time the 
Administrator 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit 
during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth 
or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the 
amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account, the Administrator may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make 
Page  3
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice,  such amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AIB” means the Association d’Appui aux Initiatives de Base, a non-profit 
organization established and operating pursuant to its Statuts No. 0058/MAT-DANT of 
February 9, 1998 (AIB Statuts);
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a community group to whom, or for whose benefit, a 
grant is made, or proposed to be made;
(c)
“Convention” means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and AIB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Convention;
(d)
“DNSI” means the Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de 
l’Informatique of the Borrower’s Ministère de l’Economie, du Plan et de l’Integration;
(e)
“Financing Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between AIB 
and an Implementing Agency (as hereinafter defined) for the purposes of carrying out a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
“Francs CFA” and “FCFA” mean the currency of the Borrower;
(g)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by AIB to finance a  
Subproject;
(h)
“Implementing Agency” means an association, or other entity, responsible 
for the implementation of a Subproject for a Beneficiary;
(i)
“Manual of Procedures” means the manual setting out, inter alia, 
criteria, procedures, and guidelines for the administration, promotion, appraisal, and 
supervision of the Project, to be followed by AIB in carrying out of the Project;
(j)
“ODHD” means the Borrower’s Observatoire du Développement Humain Durable, 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 96-273 of October 7, 
1996;
(k)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Administrator and AIB 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(l)
“Project Management Office” means AIB’s office responsible for the 
implementation of the Project;
(n)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
October 20, 1995 and November 5, 1995, respectively;
(o)
“Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the First Project Year), and any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year, or the end of 
subsequent Project Years;
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(q)
“Subproject” means a specific development project financed, or proposed 
to be financed, through Grants extended under Part A.1 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Administrator shall so 
agree, to be paid) on the account of withdrawals made under a Grant to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for a Subproject, and in respect 
of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against setoff, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to 
the Administrator a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2008 and ending December 
15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 
2017 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  5
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. (d)
If, at any time after a modification of 
terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Administrator determines that the 
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to 
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. AIB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect 
of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause AIB to perform, in accordance with the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of AIB therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable AIB to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to AIB, on a grant basis, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit, under an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and AIB (the Convention) under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Administrator.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, and, except as the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Convention or 
any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Administrator hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
Page  6
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project shall be carried out by AIB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
cause AIB to open, and maintain for the duration of the Project 
implementation, an account (the AIB Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable 
to the Administrator and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator; 
(b)
deposit into the AIB Project Account an initial amount equivalent to CFAF 
40,000,000 (the Initial Deposit), and thereafter, at annual intervals, deposit into 
the AIB Project Account such amounts as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and 
the Administrator; and
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the AIB Project Account in accordance 
with paragraph (b) above shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s share of 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take part in the annual and midterm reviews 
referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, and 
thereafter, take all action necessary on its part to assist AIB in taking any 
corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the 
implementation of the Project, or assist AIB in implementing, such measures as may 
have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices acceptable to the Administrator, records 
and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of the Project Agreement 
and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
AIB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Page  7
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that AIB will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
AIB Statuts shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of AIB to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AIB or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Convention has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and AIB;
(b)
(i) the AIB Project Account referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this 
Agreement, has been opened, and (ii) the Borrower has made the Initial Deposit 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
(i) the auditors referred to in Section 4.01. (b) (i) of the Project 
Agreement, have been recruited in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and (ii) a financial and accounting system for 
the purposes of the Project, satisfactory to the Association, has been established; 
and
(d)
the Director General and the head of the administrative and financial 
unit of AIB have been recruited in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by AIB, and is 
legally binding upon AIB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Convention has been duly authorized  by AIB, and is legally 
binding upon AIB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for economy and planning is designated as 
representative of the Borrower  for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Page  8
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Economy, Planning
  and Integration
P.O. Box E3062
Bamako, Mali
Telex: 
2746
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with 
funds
contributed by certain members of International Development 
Association 
pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of 
Governors of 
International Development Association
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  9
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
 Amount of the
 Interim Fund
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants for Subprojects
  10,350,000
100% of amounts of
Grants disbursed
(2)
Equipment, vehicles
     150,000
100% of foreign
and materials under
expenditures and 90%
Parts A.2, A.3 and B
of local 
expenditures
of the Project
(3)
Consultants' services
   1,700,000
100%
and training under
Parts A.2, A.3 and B
of the Project
(4)
Operating costs
     750,000
100%
under Parts A.2, A.3
and B.2 of the Project
(5)
Refunding of Project
   1,100,000
Amounts due 
pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) 
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   1,850,000
TOTAL
  15,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
and 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management, auditing and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) goods 
and works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (b) consultants' 
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and 
$50,000 for individual consultants.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) help alleviate poverty and hunger, and 
support community development within the Borrower’s territory through the provision of 
financial and technical resources to support community initiated projects; and (b) 
strengthen the Borrower’s capacity for the analysis of data on poverty and welfare 
policy-making and monitoring.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community Development
1.
Promotion, appraisal, designing, carrying out, supervision, and evaluation of 
community initiated Subprojects, including capacity building, information, education, 
and communication activities, in selected areas in the territory of the Borrower, and 
provision of Grants for the financing thereof, for the construction equipment, and 
rehabilitation of essential local economic and social infrastructure, including, inter 
alia, projects relating to: (a) basic health care and primary education facilities, 
and (b) rural water supply and sanitation systems.
2.
Strengthening of the capacity of the Project Management Office within AIB to 
implement the Project, including: (i) the selection, supervision, monitoring and 
evaluation of Subprojects; and (ii) the preparation and audit of the accounts and 
financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement, through the 
acquisition of equipment and the provision of technical advisory services and 
training.
3.
Carrying out of a program of studies and surveys to assess the impact on living 
standards of poor people of the activities financed under the Project.
Part B:
Institutional Development
1.
Strengthening the capacities of ODHD in processing, analyzing, and disseminating 
data on living conditions, including the preparation and dissemination of an annual 
human development report, through provision of technical advisory services and 
training, and acquisition of equipment.
2.
Carrying out of: (i) a national household survey of poverty trends and welfare 
levels, and (ii) assistance for the carrying out of a national census of the 
population of the Borrower, through provision of technical advisory services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Grants, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, equivalent to CFAF 500,000,000  provided, however, that unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to CFAF 250,000,000; until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
Page  11
the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Page  12
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into any Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
