                 Document of
              The World Bank




                                                Report No: 28408

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
   (PPFI-P9570 PPFI-P9571 IF-N0370 TF-29430)

                     ON A

                   CREDIT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.9 MILLION

       (US$21.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

            TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                    MALI

                    FOR A

PROJECT TO SUPPORT GRASSROOTS INITIATIVES
      TO FIGHT HUNGER AND POVERTY




                 June 29, 2004

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective 01/31/2004)

                               Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                   CFAF 100 = US$ 0.19
                                       US$ 1 = CFAF 520.35

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADC      Agent de Développement Communautaire
BAD      Banque Africaine de Développement
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBRD     Community Based Rural Development
CCC      Centre de Conseil Communal
CDA      Comité de Développement d'Arrondissement
CDD      Community Driven Development
CDV      Comité Villageois de Développement
CG       Comité de Gestion des Sous-Projets
CLD      Comité Local de Développement
CRD      Comité Régional de Développement
CSCOM    Centre de Santé Communautaire
CSLP     Cadre Stratégique de Lutte contre la Pauvreté
DNSI     Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique
EMEP     Enquête Malienne d'Evaluation de la Pauvreté
EPST     Etablissement Public à Caractère Scientifique et Technique
FIDA     Fonds International pour le Développement Agricole
FODESA   Fonds de Développement au Sahel
HIPC     Highly-Indebted Poor Country
IEC      Information, Education, Communication
MARP     Méthode Accélérée pour la Recherche Participative
MOD      Maître d'Ouvrage Délégué
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO      Non Governmental Organization
ODHD     Observatoire pour le Développement Humain Durable
         (Observatory for Sustainable Human Development)
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PASAOP   Programme d'Appui aux Services Agricoles et aux Organisations Paysannes
PMU      Project Management Unit
PNIR     Programme National d'Infrastructures Rurales
PRP      Projet de Réduction de la Pauvreté
PRODEC   Programme Décennal de Développement de l'Education
PRODESS  Programme de Développement Sanitaire et Social
QAE      Quality at Entry
SNLP     Stratégie Nationale de Lutte contre la Pauvreté

 Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Director  A. David Craig
Sector Manager    Mary Barton-Dock
 Task Manager:    Daniel Moreau

                                             MALI
                  PROJECT TO SUPPORT GRASSROOTS INITITIVES
                           TO FIGHT HUNGER AND POVERTY


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report - Summary                   26
Annex 9. Minutes of the Implementing Agency Board Session (May 17, 2004)         37

Project ID: P035617                                                  Project Name: Mali:GRASSROOTS HUN/POVT
Team Leader: Daniel Moreau                                           TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Mali:GRASSROOTS HUN/POVT                                 L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9570; PPFI-P9571;
                                                                                                     IF-N0370; TF-29430
   Country/Department: MALI                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (31%); Other social services
                            (21%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (16%);
                            General education sector (16%); Roads and highways (16%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Poverty strategy, analysis
                            and monitoring (P); Social risk reduction (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/15/1995                                     Effective: 07/09/1998                10/01/1998
     Appraisal: 05/16/1996                                         MTR: 10/01/2001                  10/25/2001
      Approval: 04/07/1998                                      Closing: 01/31/2004                 01/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF MALI/ASSOCIATION OF GRASSROOTS INITIATIVES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Mary A. Barton-Dock                            Roger Sullivan
Team Leader at ICR:             Daniel Moreau                                  Adriana De Leva
ICR Primary Author:             Olivier Durand


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project was defined as a pilot operation to test innovative participatory approaches to tackle poverty in
Mali. Its development objectives were clearly stated as:
     l to improve the living conditions of disadvantaged targeted rural communities by responding to
          their priority needs;
     l to strengthen capacity of communities in identifying and ranking their development priority needs
          and in planning, implementing and supervising actions to respond to those needs, in partnership
          with NGOs and local authorities;
     l to strengthen institutional and policy-making capacity at the local and national levels in the fight
          against hunger and poverty.

In line with the CAS (dated February 1995 at preparation and May 1998 at effectiveness), the project
implementation strategy focused on rural community empowerment, articulating support to community
initiatives and provision of capacity building activities. The core idea was to make rural villagers fully
responsible for identifying and prioritizing their collective needs, for implementing sub-projects and for
managing physical investments. To ensure sustainability of these investments but also to favor social
promotion, the project envisaged to develop a large set of training programs and sensitization campaigns on
health and sanitary issues.

The PAD stated another core guiding principle as to deepen the collaboration among various stakeholders
in rural areas, with a particular emphasis on partnership development between the Malian Government and
national NGOs, as well as to promote direct dialogue between communities and service providers (regional
public services and private entrepreneurs).


3.2 Revised Objective:

 The development objectives were assessed by the mid-term review as still relevant and consistent with the
national strategy for poverty reduction. Thus, they have not been changed.


3.3 Original Components:

To achieve the above development objectives, two components were designed as follows:

  1. Community Development component, which aimed at realizing sub-projects identified, prioritized,
  implemented and managed by targeted rural communities. The implementation of selected sub-projects
  was supported by local capacity building activities to strengthen community development skills, health
  and sanitary information for behavior change, and by relevant training to ensure sub-project
  sustainability and effective service delivery.

  2. Policy and Institutional Development component, which aimed at strengthening the efficiency of
  decision-makers at the national level by improving the quality and relevance of integrated poverty data
  and analysis. This component was designed to provide specific support to: (i) the "Observatoire pour le
  Développement Humain Durable" (ODHD - Observatory for Sustainable Human Development) in
  analyzing socio-economic data, in providing policy recommendations on poverty-related issues, and to;
  (ii) the "Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique" (DNSI - National Department for
  Statistics) in undertaking the national population and housing census and the Malian poverty assessment
  survey.




                                                     - 2 -

3.4 Revised Components:

Based on the first promising results the project had already achieved at the mid-term review, the
component, objectives and content were considered as well designed and still relevant and consistent with
the project development objectives. Thus, no changes were made.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project was not subject to a quality at entry review. The quality at entry for this project is rated as
satisfactory, for the reasons stated below.

The project preparation was carried out in the framework of a very close collaboration between the Bank
and the Government. National NGOs were also fully involved at a very early stage of the project
preparation process.     Both Government and civil society partners handled very seriously preparation
activities by organizing a large consultative process, including a multi-stakeholders workshop, and by
undertaking pilot activities in the field. The main objectives of these pilots were to test institutional
arrangements and implementation procedures, while ascertaining the priority needs of rural communities.
An in-depth evaluation of the pilot phase was conducted to assess the viability of project design and make
adjustments required, based on the different lessons learned, such as increasing communities involvement at
all decision-making steps, standardizing implementation and bidding documents to simplify procedures for
field actors (NGOs and communities), targeting villages as the focal/entry point for intervention for higher
efficiency, etc. All along the preparation, the designers took stock of all past experiences and lessons
learned from similar CBRD-type projects, including concerns for full participation of beneficiaries,
financial participation of communities, detailed management procedures, project exit strategy with transfer
of investment management to local population, mobilization of local NGOs to benefit from their experience
in community development and field knowledge and understanding.

Thus, the project preparation, paid much attention to implementation processes, to the participatory
approach and to confidence-building among rural development stakeholders. From the very beginning, the
project design paid particular attention to the social aspects as a priority and legitimate answer to the
Government main concern for human development and poverty reduction. This was clearly reflected in the
project development objectives which targeted primarily disadvantaged rural communities and aimed at
answering urgent and basic rural people social needs, while putting emphasis on social capital building and
the empowerment aspects.

As a consequence, the project design did not put enough emphasis on financial and economic viability of
physical investments. Despite the fact that the project constantly tried to ensure a sustainable management
by communities themselves and paid higher attention to economic aspects in the course of its
implementation, the orientation given to the project at entry may impact the sustainability of some
investments, especially when local incomes have not increased or income generating activities were not
promoted to complement social investments. This aspect is discussed in the following sections of this
report.

The project design was inadequate in terms of training, especially for communities at the grassroots level.
To reach as many people as possible, the designers adopted a "cascade" training approach (training of local
trainers who were responsible for training beneficiaries). Although relatively cost and time-effective, this
approach has been known for long to cause loss of information and "deformation" of messages. A more
professional approach should have been adopted based on direct training of beneficiaries by professional
trainers.

Although the first component, "community development", was well designed and fully detailed in terms of
objectives and implementation process, the second one, "Policy and Institutional Development", seems not



                                                    - 3 -

to have received as much attention in its preparation. Its objectives were clearly defined and activities to be
undertaken (surveys, analysis, studies) were precisely listed. However, the project design did not provide
explicit guidance on the proposed methodology for achieving the objective of strengthening the efficiency of
decision-makers on poverty related issues.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project appraisal document provided a set of indicators but did not quantify them. By a supplemental
letter (dated April 9, 1998) to the project credit agreement, quantitative targets were agreed upon for each
sub-project programming stage. These are presented in Annex 1.

Overall, the outcome of the project is rated satisfactory, but the respective outcomes of the two
components have to be evaluated separately.

The first component, which related mostly to the two first development objectives, deserves a highly
satisfactory rating. The community development activities succeeded in responding to the priority needs of
disadvantaged targeted rural communities. As an immediate impact of the project, by providing basic
infrastructures, the project has really contributed to improve rural communities livelihood in the project
areas for the following specific aspects:

  l Health services: small scale health centers are available in 19 villages benefiting more than 100,000
        people;
  l Water: access to drinkable water has been provided in 98 villages, quality of water has been
        improved while time and effort for water chores have considerably been reduced;
  l Small scale irrigation schemes: these have increased the availability of water for agriculture both in
        quantity and duration, which allowed an increase in cultivated lands and one or two additional
        production campaigns (vegetable gardens); and
  l Education: more than 6,000 pupils attend classes; with time for water and other chores reduced,
        girls are now attending school, representing about 40% of pupils.


Regarding the second objective of strengthening rural communities capacities, the project helped the
creation of: 185 village development committees, 80 parent associations for education, 19 community
health associations and 188 infrastructure management committees (for water management or water use in
agriculture for instance). Through these community organizations and capacity building supports, the
project empowered the villagers to let them be fully responsible in the implementation of their projects and
take over the management of their investments. It promoted awareness among rural people for a stronger
commitment to self-promotion and development. Gender promotion is another major impact of the project;
women have gradually increased their participation in community meetings and in village management
committees. Their working conditions have been substantially improved because some household tasks take
now less time and are less exhausting (collecting water and milling grain for instance).

The first component contributed also to achieve part of the third objective in terms of strengthening
institutional capacities at the local level. In addition to community empowerment, the project provided
extensive support to local NGOs to improve their professionalism. NGOs, represented at the project
steering committee by their two federations, were fully involved and active in the decision-making process
to guide interventions, set recommendations and elaborate methods and tools. All along the project, the
implementing agency has been promoting a partnership approach based on regular consultations,
knowledge and information sharing, joint field visits. This forged collaboration, and built or restored
confidence among the various rural development stakeholders: villagers, local and regional authorities,


                                                       - 4 -

regional public services, local and regional governments, NGOs.

The achievement of the second component, mainly concerned by the third DO, is rated marginally
satisfactory. Although all the expected products were delivered and disseminated, survey results, analytical
studies and recommendations have not been fully taken into account by policy makers at the national level.
DNSI has clearly strengthened its capacities in organizing poverty related surveys and analytical works.
Results from the population census are still of use for new households surveys and for monitoring the
evolution of communities livelihood. The poverty assessment survey contributed to improve knowledge and
understanding of Malian living conditions, regional disparities and poverty trends. ODHD delivered the
four expected pieces of analytical work (see below - section 4.2 Outputs) and disseminated them through
regional seminars. However, this institution, designed as a multi-stakeholders tool in charge of
operationalizing the national poverty reduction strategy, did not fully play its role for stimulating and
facilitating debates on poverty related issues, especially between policy makers and the civil society. Its
complex internal organization resulted in unclear operational strategy, very few steering committee
meetings, heavy administrative procedures, no formal activity reports, etc. It should be noted that the
development objective for this component was quite too ambitious and, as mentioned in the QAE section,
the project design did not provide explicit guidance on the proposed methodology for achieving the
objective of strengthening the efficiency of decision-makers.

Due to the rating of the second component, the overall project achievement of development objectives
cannot be rated as highly satisfactory, but satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Community Development Component.               As the core element of the project, this component is highly
satisfactory since it surpassed its initial objectives both in terms of physical infrastructures and capacity
building activities (see Annex 1- KPI). Compared to the 260 initial target, 287 physical investments were
realized, which benefit to 185 villages and 170,000 people. 127 other small surrounding villages are
considered to benefit from these infrastructures, which represent an additional 130,000 indirect
beneficiaries. Almost 70% of the investments requested by communities were social infrastructures and
around 30% productive. The table below shows the detailed repartition of investments between the
different kinds of infrastructures.



                                      Distribution of Physical Investments:

    Type of investments                                    Number             % of total               % of
                                                                               number                total cost
    Social Infrastructures                                   198                69.0%                  79.2%
    Education                                                 80                 27.9%                 32.2%
    (schools and literacy centers)
    Health                                                    19                  6.6%                 12.4%
    (Community Health Centers)
    Access to water                                           98                 34.1%                 34.5%
    (Boreholes, solar pumps, manual pumps)
    Miscellaneous                                             1                   0.3%                  0.1%
    (Latrines)
    Productive Infrastructures                                89                31.0%                  20.8%
    Small Scale Irrigation Schemes                            47                 16.4%                 17.4%
    (vegetable gardens, micro-dams...)
    Agricultural Equipment                                    30                 10.5%                  0.9%



                                                      - 5 -

    (Mills)
    Miscellaneous (Vaccination parks and markets for         12                4.2%                   2.5%
    livestock, feeder roads...)
    Total                                                   287              100.0%                 100.0%

The implementation was supported by a strong training program that represented 1,347 sessions and more
than 20,000 person-days of training. In addition, the project developed a literacy program which benefited
4,500 people (at least 25 people per village) and a sensitization program, that reached more than 20,000
villagers in 7,070 sessions, on health and sanitary issues such as malaria prevention, nutrition, water
hygienic measures, sexual diseases, etc. The literacy program was based on the national strategy using
tools and methodology tested in the field and accredited by the national resource center for literacy.
Although its delivery mode was a "cascade" delivery approach, the sensitization program used sound set of
pedagogic tools, designed for illiterates. Mainly based on drawings, its aim was not to deliver an academic
or theoritical message but rather stimulate debates and exchanges among attendees. Finally, the project has
produced or collected from other programs more than 100 pedagogic tools and media (brochures, booklets,
audio and video tapes...). Some of them have been translated in 7 local languages. The project has also
developed a set of radio programs in different vernacular languages which are still in use by rural radios.

Policy and Institutional Support Component. The Observatory for Sustainable Human Development
(ODHD) delivered the four expected analytical reports on poverty issues: "Poverty analysis by sectors in
Mali" (1998), "Growth, equity and poverty" (1999), "Debt and poverty" (2000) and "Decentralization and
poverty" (2002 but published in 2003). These analyses have been disseminated through national and
regional workshops (28 in total). The target audience comprised representatives of national and regional
public services, regional chambers of agriculture, NGOs federations, regional administrative authorities,
local governments, projects managers.        Unfortunately, ODHD did not edit any proceedings of these
seminars to provide conclusions and recommendations from field stakeholders to national policy makers.

Despite some delays in finalizing field surveys and data processing, all studies have been completed by the
National Department of Statistics (DNSI), especially the National Population and Housing Census and the
Malian Poverty Assessment, which are considered of good quality and useful by the Bank and other
partners. In addition, the project helped DNSI acquire equipment and improve staff skills in implementing
field surveys, data collecting and processing, while strengthening coordination and information sharing
between national and regional levels.

Despite delays, all expected outputs were delivered by the second component, which can be rated
satisfactory. Therefore the overall project outputs are rated satisfactory.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

At appraisal, an economic rate of return for the project as a whole was not estimated, as it is often the case
for that kind of social investment projects. It is indeed difficult to evaluate benefit accruing from "soft"
investments (community mobilization, social organization, capacity building activities) for the first
component, and from census and households surveys for the second one. The demand-driven approach also
made it difficult to precisely determine in advance the composition of physical investments that would be
requested by communities. The appraisal mission proposed a simplified methodology for calculating the
rate of return for specific physical investment. However, the sample of investments appeared to be too
limited and some costs were underestimated. Given the social approach of the project, little attention was
paid to the economic and financial aspects of investments.

In July 2003, the PMU ordered an external impact study. Consistent with the PAD key performance



                                                     - 6 -

indicators to be assessed, this study was designed as a beneficiary assessment regarding project approach
and inputs, and perception by beneficiaries of improvement in their livelihood. Conclusions of this study
were extremely positive, but were based more on declarative information and beneficiary perceptions than
on in-depth measurements, that could have been useful for economic calculation.

Using data from the project monitoring and evaluation unit, operating accounts for the main kind of
investments (social and productive) have been calculated, comparing earnings with operating costs, and
analyzing whether communities could be able to bear the equipment and/or construction amortization costs
(see annex 3). In the case of schools and health centers, communities can rapidly bear operating costs,
including staff salaries (obviously if fees and service costs are set at a reasonable and profitable level and if
households have enough earnings to afford them). However calculation shows that it is almost impossible
to cover amortizations, even for equipment alone. This raises an essential question regarding who will bear
these amortization costs (see section 6 - Sustainability).

Physical infrastructures have to be sized according to the financial capacities of the community. Especially
for water access, calculations showed that hand pumps, compared to solar energy systems, can be easily
and profitably operated and amortized by communities at reasonable costs. In the same idea, even if
agricultural processing equipment primarily respond to a social objective (reducing time and pain of women
chores), other opportunities should be found to diversify their use and make them run more effectively and
profitably (for instance, shea-butter nuts in addition to millet in dry climate condition areas). In addition,
experience has shown that time saved could be utilized for other income generating activities (small scale
commerce, food processing...) if small scale credit is available.

For productive infrastructure investments (small scale irrigation schemes), it is clear that water
conservation measures for flooded areas have contributed to increase staple crop production (mainly rice),
whereas small-irrigation schemes have contributed to increase cash crop production (since vegetable are
mainly produced for marketing). Taking into account the social design of the project, no specific individual
monitoring of selected farming systems was put in place. It is therefore difficult to precisely measure food
consumption improvement and incomes increase at the family level.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

The overall impact of the project on institutional development is rated as substantial.

The first component impact in that field can be rated as substantial for the achievements made:

   l at the community level:         with regard to social capital buiding (community empowerment and
        literacy), and gender (increased female participation in decision-making and management of social
        and productive investments);

   l NGOs: the 35 NGOs, hired by the project to implement community development activities in the
        field, benefited from training and are now better equiped for responding efficiently to the demands
        of the local communities;

   l Public services and administrative authorities:           the participatory and collaborative approach
        adopted by the project helped public institutions better understand their new roles in a context of
        decentralization. They were very active in setting directions and recommendations to the project
        without intervening in the micro-management of activities;



                                                      - 7 -

   l Private entrepreneurs:        the project helped the private entrepreneurs to be more cost-efficient in
         responding to the communities demands.

Regarding the second component, the institutional development impact is rated as modest. As mentioned
earlier, the ODHD delivered its expected outputs but has not been successful in strengthening national
capacities on poverty related analysis and policy decision making. However, DNSI staff have learned a lot
in designing, implementing and analyzing the population census and the poverty assessment. Capacities
have been strengthened on analytical and data processing skills but also on practical organizational and
implementation aspects of such field surveys.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The following two external factors moderately affected the implementation of the community development
component:

        l Human resources: human resource constraints have been observed at two levels: (i) a strong
              concentration of skilled people in the capital and a very limited willingness to work in remote
              areas; (ii) due to economic difficulties in the targeted remote areas, seasonal or definitive
              migration of people affected the mobilization of labor and the follow-up of projects.

        l the Ivory Coast crisis (from September 2002): the economic incidence of the crisis on rural
              communities is difficult to evaluate. However, it may explain partially the limited community
              capacity to contribute financially to sub-project implementation and the increase of migrations
              to the capital and secondary cities. This crisis had an impact on construction material prices
              and created supply shortage.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The targeted villages were located in remote areas: since the project was designed to target the poorest
communities, it had to work in very remote areas, far away from towns and accessible through feeder roads
in bad shape (including no possible access during the rainy season). Although this was known from the
beginning and taken into account in the project design, it induced delays, longer than expected, in providing
materials and difficulties to find committed private entrepreneurs. In some areas at the very beginning of
the process it was very difficult to mobilize the communities and, given their poor livelihood conditions to
ask for their financial contribution to sub-project before gaining their confidence.

During the course of project implementation, the following institutional changes occurred:

        l New institutional and organizational framework: in 1999, the Government adopted a new
              regulation for decentralization that created new rural entities (communes) and later on
              delegated to communes responsibility in managing education, health and water issues;

        l Sector policy reforms: these reforms promoted new methods (in particular, the participatory
              approach) and set new rules (cost recovery, community fee levels, etc.). This has been done
              through two large scale education (PRODEC) and health (PRODESS) national programs,
              through the revision of the agricultural and rural development plan, and through the adoption
              of a new water access strategy.

The PMU always took into account those changes in its operational strategy and always managed to adapt
its field intervention through the implementing NGOs. It ensured coordination with the PRODEC and



                                                      - 8 -

PRODESS programs for deciding localization of physical investments (schools and health centesr), for
intervention modalities and for staff allocation. Links with the PASAOP has not been fully established
since this program really started in the field one year before project closure. However, the PMU ensured
that communities dealing with productive investments received some supports from the local agricutural
extension services.

The Government did not always manage to timely adapt sector strategies to the new decentralized context.
The PMU was sometimes confronted with financial difficulty when delays occurred in disbursing the
national contribution. Delays occurred also in appointing teachers and health center staff.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Although the implementation of activities in the field was delegated to local and regional NGOs, the
implementing agency suffered from a lack of staff (no additional staff were recruited to keep administrative
cost in the target limits). The agency had difficulty to manage and fully use its monitoring and evaluation
system. Civil works were sometimes delayed due to the poor quality of feasibility studies, or lack of
equipment from some private entrepreneurs. At the very beginning, NGOs were small size entities with
limited capacity to manage numerous activities scattered in remote areas, limited cash flow, and very weak
conceptual capacities. Thanks to the training program provided by the PMU, based on the capacity
assessment undertaken during the preparation period, and thanks to their increasing field experience
("learning-by-doing") and the close follow-up and support provided by the PMU, NGOs were able to
progressively and quickly improve their performance and efficiency.


5.4 Costs and financing:

On January 31st, 2004, the project closed at a total cost of US$ 23.2 million representing slightly over
100% of the original estimate (US$ 23.0 million). The IDA credit amounted for US$ 21.5 million at
appraisal, but due to currency exchange rate fluctuations, it represents US$ 21.01 million at project
closure. The Malian Government contribution increased from US$ 1.5 million to US$ 2.7 million. The IDA
credit has been nearly fully disbursed.

For each community sub-project, the PMU managed effectively to keep administrative costs under the
PAD-target of 10% and the average sub-project cost under the appraised cost. The average cost for any
specific sub-project is estimated at CFAF 37.5 million, including on average 2.5% for preparation (initial
survey, participatory diagnosis, feasibility study), 30.5% for "soft" investment, i.e. community
mobilization, social organization, capacity building activities and NGOs honoraries, and 60% for the
physical realization per se. Average costs for each kind of physical investments are presented in annex 2.
Due to economic difficulties in the poor targeted areas, community financial contribution to the physical
investment cost did not reach the expected level (5.7% compared to a 10% target) but contribution in kind
(local materials and labor) were always delivered.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project is rated likely for the reasons stated hereafter.

Obviously, sustainability of infrastructure maintenance and access to services depend on financial
capacities of households. Under the project, the collected fees for schools and health centers could barely
cover their basic operating and maintenance costs. Most of the time in these very poor areas, incomes have
not sufficiently increased or have not increased at all in the case of communities who did not choose



                                                       - 9 -

productive infrastructures.     Full cost recovery (operation, maintenance and amortization) for social
infrastructures in the poorest areas would be very difficult to reach. For some more years, public funds
will still have to be provided to rural communities to at least take care of social infrastructures
amortization. This is here an important issue of equity between rural zones and urban areas, where most of
social services and infrastructures are provided free of charge.

Because of the project's focus on social capital building, strong emphasis was given to social organization
and management capacity building for community committees.                The project succeed in establishing
infrastructure management committees for each investment, or parent association or community health
associations in the case of schools and health centers. All the members of these committees received
training, specific to each category of investments and each type of responsibilities. They all received
literacy training applied to the specific tasks they will have to take in charge.

All along the project implementation, community empowerment has been a strong priority of the PMU and
therefore a key element of success. Communities were not considered just as beneficiaries but were taught
to take responsibilities in decision-making, planning of physical investments, negociating and contracting
with entrepreneurs, defining roles and responsibilities, ensuring close follow-up of civil works. The PMU
always took time to prepare communities and never rushed for completing investments as soon as possible.
NGOs had to ensure a close collaboration with villagers and their respective committees, by providing
advice, not doing for them but accompanying them at all stages.               As shown by previous similar
experiences, community empowerment is irreversible and helps communities move forward by themselves.
Social capital building is a project key achievement, that will definitively contribute to ensure the
sustainability of investments.

In addition and to sustain this approach, the PMU promoted the creation of regional associations of local
development agents to pursue advisory activities to village committees and act as service providers in the
field of community development for developing other activities or for new villages (sensitization,
community mobilization, book keeping advice...). Thanks to the existing community committees, the
sound training input provided and the creation of a network of local development agents, it is likely that
most of the social infrastructures executed under the project will continue to operate and be maintained on a
self financing basis.

In the framework of PRODEC and PRODESS, the regional public services for education (through local
pedagogic resource centers) and for health (through regional primary reference clinics) will provide advice
and supports to the management and functioning of schools and health centers. They have already put in
place a follow-up process and they organize regular field visits, while providing information and direct
training to recruited staff.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

As part of the project exit strategy, the PMU took specific measures all along the implementation phase to
ensure continuity in the field. For instance, implementing NGOs have been chosen for their knowledge and
experience of the targeted areas. Since they are well established in the project regions, they are expected to
ensure some follow-up with beneficiary communities. These NGOs will stay in the project areas and will
receive fundings through the decentralization support programs, since they have been chosen to act as
support agencies for the local governments elected in 1999 ("communes rurales"). They will be able to
pursue their collaboration with most of the communities supported in the framework of this project.
Community development agents have been organized as well, to pursue on-demand support to communities.

The community development approach has been extended by the Government to two other regions using
national resources from HIPC. The PMU will therefore stay in place and partially be able to follow-up



                                                     - 10 -

some field activities up to December 2004. A new Bank funded and CBRD-type operation is currently
being prepared. It will be broader both in terms of geographical areas of intervention and of targeted
beneficiaries. In the new context of decentralization, it will take into account the new local government
entities, especially the commune level. It will also be broader by providing, not only social infrastructures,
but also financial and technical support for income generating activities. Finally, this new operation will
obviously build upon the community development component (see section 8 ­ Lessons learned).

Continuation of DNSI and ODHD activities are envisaged under the preparation of a specific statistical
Bank funded program. In collaboration with other donors, the overarching objective is to improve the
monitoring and evaluation system of the implementation of the poverty reduction strategy. This new
operation would contribute to elaborate a strategy for developing statistics, based on a more rigorous
programmatic approach for statistical need assessment and data collecting and processing. A sound
training program will be developed to strengthen national capacities in collecting, processing and analyzing
data.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance during preparation and appraisal is rated as satisfactory. Bank staff provided adequate
support in terms of staffing and competences. Recommendations and lessons learned from similar projects
in other countries were fully documented to the benefice of the country project preparation team. All along
the two-year preparation process, the Bank collaborated with all the members of the preparation team,
technical Ministries and NGOs, to design the project approach, the institutional framework, the village
targeting methodology and the monitoring and evaluation system. Risks were correctly evaluated and,
before delegating field implementation to NGOs, a detailed assessment of their capacities was undertaken.
The Bank helped also prepare an ambitious capacity building strategy and elaborate the detailed program.
This close collaboration has really been appreciated by all the national partners.


7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance during supervision is rated as satisfactory. According to the implementing agency staff,
supervision missions occurred with a very satisfying frequency, providing timely feedback, relevant advice
and recommendations. The staff really appreciated the quality and frankness of exchanges and discussion
with Bank staff, as well as the respect for initiatives and choices made by the national implementing
agency. However, changes on the Bank side (transfer of the project from one Bank department to another,
turnover of TTLs (three during the project implementation period) and of mission members) induced delays
in procedures and, from the mid-term review, increased the economic focus with a stronger agricultural
emphasis.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the above comments, the overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower performance at the project preparation stage is rated as satisfactory. The Government was
fully committed to actively and efficiently prepare this project, while being supportive to the community
empowerment approach. It therefore endorsed the objectives, the design and the content of the project and



                                                    - 11 -

was supportive to get NGOs and public services work closely together. Based on the promising results of
the pilot phase, the Government definitively endorsed the community based rural development approach.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government performance is rated as satisfactory. The Malian Government from the beginning of the
project to its completion has been very supportive to community empowerment, by accepting to transfer
funds and responsibilities to rural communities. It accepted also to collaborate actively with NGOs and to
make them fully responsible for the implementation of field activities. The Government was particularly
committed to addressing project constraints as well as monitoring project results and outcomes. All along
the project, the Government has been supportive to the PMU by endorsing methodological choices and
strategies, without intervening on implementation processes. The Ministries in charge of the project led
several national supervision missions and made official statements to report activities and project status to
the council of ministers.      This commitment helped the project get additional resources (HIPC) for
replicating the project approach into two other regions. The regional administrative authorities played a
similar role in the field, facilitating contacts with local governments, public services and communities.
Thus, government performance with respect to the Community Development component may be considered
highly satisfactory.     However, Government performance regarding the Policy and Institutional
Development component was less strong, reflected in the more limited results achieved in strengthening
ODHD and DNSI, resulting in an overall rating of satisfactory.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency is rated as highly satisfactory. All along the project
implementation in remote areas with scattered villages, the PMU has been extremely dynamic and
collaborative with the various actors. It provided extensive support to NGOs and spent much time in the
field (see Annex 1 - KPI and number of missions), listening to regional authorities, public services, NGOs
and communities. It contributed greatly to build confidence among actors by forging dialogue and by
sharing information. The PMU did not work in isolation but always took into account changes (new
decentralization context, new programs, sector policy adjustment...). It set clear financial management and
procurement procedures, strictly following Bank guidelines and supervision mission recommendations, and
made them respected by contracted NGOs. The PMU was well organized, although a bit understaffed. A
sound monitoring and evaluation system has been implemented, even if a more proactive and analytical use
of it could have been promoted. The PMU was always very committed and collaborative during Bank
supervision missions. Recommendations were always taken into account. Before project closure, the PMU
prepared a well documented implementation completion report, as well as a proposal for a follow-up
project that is being used for the preparation of the new CDD-type operation.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Based on the above comments, the overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. Despite the HS
rating for the implementing agency, the relatively modest performance of the ODHD does not allow a
highly satisfactory rating for the overall Borrower performance.


8. Lessons Learned

 This project has been a successful experience and many lessons can be drawn. First, it confirms lessons
 from previous similar experience that have to be reminded:




                                                     - 12 -

1 - Economic viability of social infrastructures: beyond the social impact of the proposed infrastructures
and without targeting an absolute profitability, financial balance for operating and basic maintenance
costs has to be achieved. Thus, from the beginning, a clear understanding has to be reached between the
project and beneficiaries on a consistent cost and fees setting mechanism. In context of decentralization
when it exists, cost sharing for amortization among communities, public institutions and local
governments has also to be clarified.

2 - Social investment + income generating activities: to ensure ability to pay services and fees among
villagers, the promotion of income generating activities, that would create growth and increase household
(thus as a consequence community) financial resources, has to accompany the provision of social
infrastructures. The new CDD-type operation currently under preparation will focus on a right balance
between social infrastructures requested by communities and productive activities initiated by groups of
villagers.

3 - Training delivery: as mentioned in the QAE section, training programs should be designed with a
long-term perspective, since needs are enormous (number of people to be trained), continuous (constantly
new people to be trained) and evolve (new themes or issues to deal with). Therefore, training should be
delivered in a more professional manner by mobilizing training institutes, and to avoid loss or
"deformation" of information and messages frequently observed in the "cascade" training model. Sound
training modules with clear pedagogic objectives should be elaborated and maintained in professional
training centers in order to be replicated somewhere else or for other projects. This is also a way to
strengthen local training capacities and institutions.

4- Community empowerment: this project confirms evidence from similar experiences where
communities were not just beneficiaries of interventions but the main actor of actions. They have to be
given responsibilities of their projects at all stages: from identification, implementation modalities
assessment, implementation and monitoring. Through a learning-by-doing process, accompanied by sound
training programs and close follow-up by partners, communities can really be empowered and become
more dynamic for undertaking new actions and negociating with other stakeholders.

5- Time: it is also well known and obvious that community-based projects require time, especially during
the preparation phase. In the case of this project, the preparation nearly took three years but was a key
element of success through: identification of targeted villages, piloting of intervention modalities,
assessment of NGOs capacity and elaboration of a training action plan, preparation of community
capacity building programs (tools, content and implementation modalities).


The following new lessons from the project can be highlighted as well:

1 - Provision of management advisory services: as seen in the field, rural communities need time to be
able to fully adopt and master more economic and sustainable ways of managing infrastructures. This
requires at least a medium-term support that could be taken in charge by advisory service providers hired
on a contractual basis. They could provide visits on a regular basis to management committees to advise
them on book keeping, help them consolidate accounts, and present results to the other members of the
village. They could support decision making processes for cost and fees setting. In that sense, for
agricultural activities a link has to be established with Bank-funded agricultural services projects (in the
case of Mali, there is the on-going Agricultural Services and Producer Organization Project, PASAOP).
Contractual arrangements for the provision of follow-up and advice between communities and regional
technical public services could be reinforced as well.

2 - Decentralization: the project in this pilot phase adopted a kind of pyramidal approach for its
implementation with a central implementing agency, intermediary field NGOs, and community


                                                    - 13 -

 development NGOs working directly with beneficiaries. In the framework of the new decentralization
 context, more responsibility should be delegated to the field level, especially for the adoption of negotiated
 intervention programs between communities and NGOs. Respective roles and responsibilities of regional
 and local governments (communes) in the orientation and the implementation of such community
 development activities have to be clarified and strengthened. However, initiative and decision making
 processes should still stick to the grassroots village or community level.

 3 - Confidence building: one of the key elements of success of the community development component
 was to take sufficient time for facilitating dialogue/exchange, circulate information among various
 stakeholders, and explain and communicate regularly on project objectives, programs, activities and
 achievements. This approach helped build confidence towards the project objectives and activities, and
 among actors. It forged local ownership of project field activities even with regional administrative
 authorities far away from the targeted villages.

 4 - Training and social organization: another key element of success was to put a strong emphasis on
 social capital and capacity building activities (including promoting new social organization and behavior
 change) for all actors involved in the projects, including NGOs.

 5 - Monitoring and evaluation: the M&E system should go beyond constituting a simple tool to
 follow-up specifically project activities. In the context of decentralization, it could become a knowledge
 and information management tool shared among rural stakeholders to better assess needs and program
 investments, as well as to share and debate poverty related analysis. Individual monitoring of selected
 farming systems has to be carefully taken into account in the M&E system design, as well as household
 monitoring, including food consumption and budget monitoring (see note - annexe 3).


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The implementation completion report prepared by the implementing agency is provided in annex 8. At its
last session on May 17, 2004, the board of the implementing agency has fully endorsed the Bank ICR,
including lessons learned and recommendations (see minutes of the meeting in annex 9).

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

NGOs have expressed their appreciation to have been closely and fully associated at all stages of the
project from preparation to implementation and impact evaluation. They acknowledged what the project
has brought regarding rural community empowerment, NGO professionalism improvement and
multistakeholder collaboration and confidence building.


10. Additional Information

N.A




                                                      - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Poverty Alleviation Index:                  Will be determined through the impact study The survey shows that 100% of the
( Number or % of communities perceiving     launched in mid 2003                        communities expressed their satisfaction vis
improvement in their standards of living)                                               a vis the improvement of their standards of
                                                                                        living, although there are no robust data and
                                                                                        analysis on their livelihood improvement to
                                                                                        backup this opinion
Local Management Capacity:
                                                                                        (i)185 village development committees have
(i) Number and types strengthened           N.A.                                        been created and are functionning, as well as
                                                                                        188 infrastructure management committees;
                                                                                        80 school associations; 19 health care village
                                                                                        associations.

(ii) Community contribution level (%)       N.A.                                        (ii) 5.7 %

Govt.-NGOs Partnership                      35                                          35
(Number/type of Government-NGO joint
activities)

Institutional capacity in Policy decision   N.A.                                        28 out 26 regional seminars on poverty
making and poverty awareness                                                            issues have been organized to disseminate
(Number and type of changes brought to                                                  the 4 related analytical reports issued by the
national strategies linked to poverty                                                   Observatory for Sustainable Human
reduction)                                                                              Development.


Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Goods and services provided (number of
village investments created):
Year-1: 30                                  30                                          30
Year-2: 55                                  55                                          55
Year-3: 80                                  80                                          80
Year-4: 95                                  95                                          122
    Total: 260                               = 260                                        = 287
Beneficiaries reached
Number of Villages reached                  130 villages                                185 villages
Number of people reached                    130,000 people                              170,000 people




1End of project




                                                             - 15 -

Matrix of the Key Performance Indicators agreed upon in April 1998

                                                     Subprojects Implementation Phases
                                                    I           II           III           IV
               Indicators                    (1998 ­ 2000) (1999 ­ 2001) (2000­2002)  (2001­2003)         Comments
                                            Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual


Costs in US$
                                                                                                   Less than US$50,000 /
Unit Cost by Sub-Project                    65 000 45 250 72 000 55 028 75 000 54 665 75 000 88 673
                                                                                                   project in average
Administrative Costs by Sub-Projects (%) 15% 10,2% 14%            9,1%   12%   6,2%   10%    8,3% Around 9% in average
Technical Assistance to Communities
                                                                                                    116 missions for 40
Number of Supervision Missions by PMU         10      26    10      35    10     26    10      29
                                                                                                    originally planned
Procedures Efficiency
% of difficulties encountered                30%     13,0%  25%   6,0%   25%   14,7%  20%    3,2% Based on M&E data
Approach Relevancy
                                                                                                    Based on declarative
% of partners satisfied with the project approach50% N/D    60%    90%   75%    N/D   80%     100% surveys at mid-term and
                                                                                                    at the end of project
Goods and Services
                                                                                                    In total, 287 done for 260
Number of Investments                         30      30    55      67    80     80    95     110   originally p lanned
                                                                                                    In total, 1347 sessions
Number of Training Sessions                   120    156    220    386   320    356    380    449   for 1040 planned
                                                                                                    In total, 7070 sessions
Number of Sensitization Sessions              720    1 748 1 320 1 875 1 920 2 003 2 280 1 444      exceeding by 13% the
                                                                                                    original target
Number of ODHD Reports                         1       1     1      1     1      0      1      2    4 reports delivered
Population and Housing Census                  1       1     -       -     -      -      -      -   -

                                                                                                    Started in January 2001,
Malian Poverty Assessment                      -       -     1      0      -      -     0      1    the survey has been
                                                                                                    published in August 2003

                                                                                                    170,000 people in total
Number of Beneficiaries                     15 000 30 132 27 500 49 936 40 000 64 066 47 500 28 181 compared to the 130,000
                                                                                                    target
Community Satisfaction
                                                                                                    Based on declarative
% of beneficiaries satisfied with project outputs20% N/D    35%    52%   50%    N/D   55%     100% surveys at mid-term and
                                                                                                    at the end of project
Local Contribution Capacity
                                                                                                   Explanation in ICR
Community Contribution to Subproject Costs5%         4,7%   8%    5,7%   10%   5,4%   10%    5,7%
                                                                                                   Section 5.4
NGOs / Government Partnership
                                                                                                    35 NGOs covered
Number of NGOs in project implementation        13       9     20     20    35     35     40     35 efficiently the various
                                                                                                    project areas.
Legal Framework for NGOs                       -       -     1      0     0      1       -      -   -
Strengthening of Policy-Makers Capacities
                                                                                                    28 seminars for 26
Number of workshops on Poverty Issues          5       6     6      7     7      8      8      7
                                                                                                    originally planned




                                                         - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                    2          N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                              0.00               9.10             0.40               1.50             11.00
                                     (0.00)             (9.10)            (0.40)            (0.00)            (9.50)
2. Goods                              0.00               0.50             1.10               0.00              1.60
                                     (0.00)             (0.50)            (1.10)            (0.00)            (1.60)
3. Services                           0.00               0.00             6.60               0.00              6.60
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.60)            (0.00)            (6.60)
4. Service delivery                   0.00               0.00             1.10               0.00              1.10
contracts for community              (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.10)            (0.00)            (1.10)
development by providers
5. Operating Costs                    0.00               0.00             1.30               0.00              1.30
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.30)            (0.00)            (1.30)
6. PPF Advance                        0.00               0.00             1.40               0.00              1.40
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.40)            (0.00)            (1.40)
   Total                              0.00               9.60             11.90              1.50             23.00
                                     (0.00)             (9.60)           (11.90)            (0.00)           (21.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                    Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                   2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                        Other
1. Works                              0.00               6.20             3.80              2.20             12.20
                                     (0.00)             (6.20)           (3.80)            (0.00)           (10.00)
2. Goods                              0.00               0.40             0.60              0.00              1.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.40)           (0.60)            (0.00)            (1.00)
3. Services                           0.00               0.00             6.10              0.00              6.10
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)           (6.05)            (0.00)            (6.05)
4. Service delivery                   0.00               0.00             1.50              0.00              1.50
contracts for community              (0.00)             (0.00)           (1.48)            (0.00)            (1.48)
development by providers
5. Operating Costs                    0.00               0.00             1.40              0.00              1.40
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)           (1.44)            (0.00)            (1.44)
6. PPF Advance                        0.00               0.00             1.00              0.00              1.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)           (1.03)            (0.00)            (1.03)
   Total                              0.00               6.60            14.40              2.20             23.20
                                     (0.00)             (6.60)          (14.40)            (0.00)           (21.00)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff



                                                     - 17 -

  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Average costs (including soft investment) for the main investments requested by
communities:


                 Physical Investments                         Average Costs
                                                              (CFAF million)
Access to Water                     Solar Systems                  57.9
                                    Wells                          23.1
                                    Hand Pumps                      8.5
Education                           Community Schools               32
                                    Literacy Centers                9.5
Health                              Health Centers                 52.5
Small-Scale Irrigation Scheme       Vegetable Gardens              17.8
                                    Micro-Dams                      34
                                    Landscaping                    31.1
Miscellaneous                       Livestock Markets              37.9
                                    Mills                           1.9




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Average yearly operating accounts for selected social investments (CFAF)

                                               Operating Costs         Operating Costs        Operating Costs
                                               (including salaries)       + Equipment        + Equipment / building
      Investments             Incomes                                     Depreciation           Depreciation
                              1,431,000           1,226,000                3,521,000             11,391,000
Health Centers
                           Net Earnings            205,000                -2,090,000             -9,960,000
                              337,000               273,000                927,000               1,497,000
Schools
                           Net Earnings             64,000                 -590,000              -1,160,000
                              453,000               144,000                239,000                    -
Hand Pumps
                           Net Earnings            309,000                 214,000                    -
                              722,000               331,000                1,512,000                  -
Solar Systems
                           Net Earnings            391,000                 -790,000                   -
                              214,000               186,000                431,000                    -
Mills
                           Net Earnings             28,000                 -217,000                   -
Vegetable Gardens (1          1,803,000           1,199,000                1,918,000                  -
ha)                        Net Earnings            604,000                 -115,000                   -
Source: Project M&E data

Note: In the case of schools and health centers, communities can rapidly bear operating costs, including
staff salaries (obviously if fees and service costs are set at a reasonable and profitable level and if
households have enough earnings to afford them). However calculation shows that it is almost impossible
to cover amortizations, even for equipment alone. This raises an essential question regarding who will bear
these amortization costs (see section 6 - Sustainability).

Physical infrastructures have to be sized according to the financial capacities of the community. Especially
for water access, calculations showed that hand pumps, compared to solar energy systems, can be easily
and profitably operated and amortized by communities at reasonable costs. In the same idea, even if
agricultural processing equipment primarily respond to a social objective (reducing time and pain of women
chores), other opportunities should be found to diversify their use and make them run more effectively and
profitably (for instance, shea-butter nuts in addition to millet in dry climate condition areas). In addition,
experience has shown that time saved could be utilized for other income generating activities (small scale
commerce, food processing...) if small scale credit is available.




                                                      - 19 -

Land Cultivation and Production Increase from Productive infrastructures

                                                                             Water     Cropping   Numerof   %of
                 Typeof       LandIncrease         ProductionIncrease
  Villages                                                                 Availability Season     farmers  women
                Investment
                              Base End Baseline 2000/01 2001/02 2002/03 Base End Base End Base End          End
Yawakanda Vegetablegarden 3.2ha 7.0ha          47t    174t    75t    90t  3.5mt 6mt 3mt 5.5mt 35 201        41%
Bombori      Vegetablegarden 1.5ha 2.5ha       0       12t   0.4t    0.4t  3mt 9mt 3.5mt 7mt       5    88  72%
Sabaré       Vegetablegarden 0.5ha 1ha        0.4t    0.7t   2.9t    3.1t  5mt 12mt 3mt 9mt       42    86  100%
Koloni       Vegetablegarden 0.5ha 1ha        1.3t    1.0t   1.7t    6.7t  3mt 12mt 3mt 7mt       25 126    48%
Banguita     Vegetablegarden 0.2ha 1ha        0.3t    0.5t   1.1t    1.2t  3mt 12mt 3mt 12mt       4    66  97%
Tchikéré     Floodedarea      1ha 5.5ha       0.9t    4.7t    9.2    11.3t 3mt 6mt 3mt 4mt         1    31  N/A
Torokoro     Floodedarea      203ha 1025ha 122t      1243t   1307t   1845t 5mt 6mt 9mt 9mt 170 245          N/A

Baseline = 1998; End = End of Project; ha = hectares; t = tonnes; mt = months; N/A = Non-Available
Source: Impact study - CERDEF - July 2003

Note: Landscaping of flooded areas have contributed to increase staple crop production (mainly rice),
whereas laying out of gardens, based on wells, rain collecting ponds, or micro-dams in ravines, have
contributed to increase cash crop production (since vegetable are mainly produced for marketing). Taking
into account the social design of the project, no specific individual monitoring of selected farming systems
was put in place. It is therefore difficult to precisely measure food consumption improvement and income
increase at the family level.




                                                       - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/18/1995                3    Task Manager (1); Operations
                                             Officer (1); Statistician (1)
              12/11/1996                4    Task Manager (1); Nutrition (1);
                                             ONG liaison (1); Operations
                                             Officer (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/24/1996                9    Task Manager (1); Nutrition
                                             (1); Statistician (1);
                                             IEC/Training (1); M&E
                                             (1); Institutional (1); Lawyer
                                             (1); Financial Analyst (1);
                                             ONG liaison (1)

 Supervision
              10/24/1997                3    Task Manager (1);                     S               S
                                             Operations Officer (1);
                                             Statistician (1)
              04/05/1997               10    Task Manager (1); Nutrition (1);      S               S
                                             Statistician (1); Operations
                                             Officer (2); ONG Liaison (2);
                                             Participative approach (1); M&E
                                             (1); Operations assistant (1)
              07/10/1998                1    Task Manager (1)                      S               S
              03/10/1999                5    Task Manager (1); Civil               S               S
                                             Engineer (1); M&E (1);
                                             Disb/Financial Mgt (1);
                                             Procurement (1)

              11/08/1999                6    Task Manager (1); Capacity            S               S
                                             Building (1); M&E. (1);
                                             Procurement (1); Disb/Financial
                                             Mgt. (1); Statistician (1)
              05/28/2000                6    Task Manager (1); Nutrition (1);      S               S
                                             Statistician (1) M&E (1);
                                             Financial Mgt. (1); Procurement
                                             (1)
              11/17/2000                5    Task Manager (1); Nutrition (1);      S               S
                                             M&E (1); Financial Mgt. (1);
                                             Procurement (1)
              11/11/2001                8    Task Manager (1); Institutional       S               S
                                             Sp. (1); Capacity Building (1);
                                             Pr. Officer (1); Ag. Services Sp
                                             (1); M&E (1); Financial Mgt.
                                             (1); Procurement (1)
              06/22/2002                2    Capacity Building (1); Ag.            S               S



                                              - 21 -

                                                   Services Sp (1);
               12/13/2002                      6   Disbursement (1); Procurement        S              S
                                                   (1); Financial Mgt (3)
               07/08/2003                      6   Task Manager (1); Statistician       S              S
                                                   (1); Rural Organizations (1); Ag.
                                                   Services (1); Financial Mgt. (1);
                                                   Procurement (1)

 ICR
               01/30/2004                     6    Task Manager (1);                    S              S
                                                   Statistician (1); Rural
                                                   Organizations (1); Ag.
                                                   services (1); Financial Mgt.
                                                   (1); Procurement Sp (1))



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    210                             453.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           37                             79.4
  Supervision                                   102                             218.3
  ICR                                              8                             11.5
  Total                                         147                             762.3
Please note that costs for the Local Organizations Specialist who worked on the ICR are covered by French
cooperation budget; therefore his time was not recorded in total cost of the ICR.




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Community Empowerment
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Human Resource Capacity Building




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report - "Project to Support Grassroots Initiatives to Fight Hunger and Poverty" -
   February 20, 1998

2. Mid-Term Review Aide-Memoire - Mission of October 25 to November 11, 2001

3. Bank supervision Aide-Memoire - Mission of June 23 to July 8, 2003

4. ICR Mission Aide-Memoire - Mission of January 21 to 31, 2004

5. "Etude de l'impact des activités du PAIB sur les bénéficiaires" - CEDREF - August 2001

6. "Etude de l'impact des activités du PAIB sur les bénéficiaires" - CEDREF - July 2003

7. "Analyse et évaluation de la fonctionnalité des organes villageois de développement et de gestion" -
   PAIB - December 2002

8. "Evaluation finale du PAIB" - Rapport de Base and Annexes - Borrower's Contribution - December
   2003

9. "Atelier d'évaluation du rapport d'évaluation finale du PAIB" - PAIB - January 2004




                                                   - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report - Summary


MINISTERE DU DEVELOPPEMENT SOCIAL,                                            REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
DE LA SOLIDARITE ET DES PERSONNES                                            Un Peuple-Un But-Une Foi
AGEES
-------------------
ASSOCIATION D'APPUI AUX INITIATIVES DE BASE (AIB)
------------------
BUREAU DE GESTION DES PROJETS (BGP)
----------------
BP : E2599
Tél : 22 15 89
Fax : 22 15 90
Email : paib@cefib.com
BAMAKO


                                                P.A.I.B.

                                 ____________________________________


                           RAPPORT D'EVALUATION

                    (Résumé au titre du Rapport de Parachèvement)

                                                                                     DECEMBRE 2003


I. OBJECTIFS. L'objectif de développement du PAIB est l'amélioration des conditions de vie
des populations rurales ciblées les plus dé favorisées. Ses objectifs spécifiques sont (i) le
renforcement des capacités de ses bénéficiaires et (ii) l'impulsion d'un véritable partenariat entre
tous les acteurs traditionnels des initiatives de base (communautés rurales, autorités régionales et
locales, société civile) (iii) l'amélioration de la qualité des prises de décision en matière de lutte
contre la pauvreté. Pour atteindre ces objectifs qui n'ont pas été révisés, le PAIB devait appliquer
une stratégie consistant à développer 3 processus conséquents, sans privilégier un domaine
d'intervention.

II ­ COMPOSANTES ET SCHEMA D'INTERVENTION DU PAIB

2.1 Composantes. Le PAIB devait financer 2 (deux) composantes : (i) une composante
Développement Communautaire consistant à fournir sous forme de dons, 260 sous-projets à la
demande de communautés ciblées les plus défavorisées. Il était prévu que les activités de cette
composante démarrent dans la région de Mopti, et qu'elles s'étendent en fonction des
disponibilités financières à celles de Tombouctou, Gao, Kidal et Kayes, et; (ii) une composante
Appui Institutionnel visant à apporter des appuis (i) à l'Observatoire du Développement Humain
Durable (ODHD) pour l'élaboration et la diffusion d'un Rapport National Annuel sur le



                                                  - 26 -

Développement Humain, et (ii) à la Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique
(DNSI), pour la réalisation du Recensement des Populations et de l'Habitat de 1998, et
l'exécution d'une Enquête Ménage qui a été orientée sur une Enquête Budget Consommation de
grande envergure, dénommée « Enquête Malienne sur l'Evaluation de la Pauvreté » (EMEP),
visant notamment à développer les capacités nationales d'enquêtes, d'évaluation et de suivi de la
pauvreté. A part cette réorientation, aucune de ces 2 composantes n'a été non plus modifiée.

 2.2 Schéma d'intervention. Le PAIB a été conçu tel qu'il ressort de son schéma en annexe I,
comme un véritable système d'acteurs composé d'une Agence de programmation et de
financement qui délègue ses prérogatives et attributions pour l'exécution de lots de sous-projets à
un maître d'ouvrage délégué (MOD) devant recruter à son tour, (i) des petites et moyennes ONG
(ONG-DC) en vue du renforcement des capacités des communautés bénéficiaires, à travers
l'affectation à chaque village d'un Agent de Développement Communautaire (ADC), (ii) des
Bureaux d'Etudes (MO), voire des services techniques déconcentrés pour les études techniques,
la surveillance et le contrôle des travaux d'infrastructure, et (iii) des entreprises de travaux et
fournisseurs d'équipements pour l'exécution des investissements physiques.              La charge
d'exécution du PAIB a été confiée à l'Association d'Appui aux Initiatives de base (AIB),
constituée par des collectifs d'organismes de la société civile (ONG, Chambre d'Agriculture,
APE, Association de Santé, Ordre d'Architectes et d'Ingénieurs Conseil), et composée de 2
organes (i) un Conseil d'Administration de 5 membres qui siège avec la participation d'un
Mandataire du Gouvernement, (ii) un Bureau de Gestion du Projet (BGP) responsable de
l'exécution des projets.

III ­ ETAT D'AVANCEMENT ET RESULTATS D'EXECUTION

3.1 Composante Appui Institutionnel. Le PAIB a assuré les financements et les mises à
disposition d'équipements prévus, de telle sorte que la DNSI a pu soumettre au Gouvernement le
15 janvier 2001, les résultats définitifs du recensement (RGPH), et (ii) parachever les activités de
l'EMEP en novembre 2003. La quasi-totalité des appuis prévus pour l'ODHD ont été également
fournis, ce qui a permis d'élaborer et de disséminer 3 rapports thématiques sur le Développement
Humain Durable.

3.2 Composante Développement Communautaire

3.2.1    Programmation. Le PAIB a été exécuté en 22 sous-programmes dont les charges
d'exécution ont été assurées par 10 maîtres d'ouvrage délégués, toutes des ONG dont 4 ONG
étrangères et 6 ONG nationales. Avec un montant moyen annuel d'opération par organisme de
1,300 milliards de FCFA et un effectif moyen d'environ 75 agents permanents, ces 10 MOD ont
recruté à leur tour 25 ONG-DC, 12 MO et 94 Entreprises.              Les sous-programmes étaient
constitués en moyenne de 13 sous-projets chacun, chaque sous-projet ayant été conçu comme un
ensemble d'interventions cohérentes comportant un investissement physique et un vaste
programme de gouvernance visant à sensibiliser et à former des bénéficiaires et partenaires, dans
le but d'un changement de comportement et d'une pérennisation des interventions. Le nombre et
la consistance des sous-programmes ont été adoptés annuellement en fonction des objectifs fixés
par l'accord de crédit et en appliquant (i) une méthodologie rigoureuse de ciblage conçue avec



                                                - 27 -

l'assistance de la DNSI et du SAP, (ii) des outils de diagnostic participatif inspirés des méthodes
MARP, et (iii) une démarche de consultation en cascade allant du niveau central, au niveau
communautaire en passant par le niveau régional et local, en organisant à chacun de ces niveaux
des ateliers de validation et de sélection regroupant les bénéficiaires, les autorités administratives
et techniques, les collectivités décentralisées, etc.               Grâce à cette démarche, l'étape de
programmation fut l'une des plus déterminantes pour l'atteinte des objectifs, avec (i) le choix des
zones d'extrême pauvreté ; (ii) une parfaite cohérence entre les sous-projets et les besoins
prioritaires des communautés, et (iii) le début d'une participation formelle des femmes au
processus de prise de décision.

3.2.2      Investissements physiques. Le tableau ci-dessous révèle que le PAIB a réalisé 326
investissements physiques, dont environ 70% dans les domaines des infrastructures à caractère
social et 30% à caractère productif.            Les coûts de réalisation ont été maîtrisés, avec des
dépassements de 3 à 5% seulement et des prix unitaires conformes aux prix établis par les services
de la Direction Nationale de l'Urbanisme et de la Construction.

Tableau n°1 : Nombre d'investissements physiques réalisés

 CATEGORIE      1998-2000     1999-2001       2000-2002       2001-2003      TOTAL     ECART
                        .   Prévu   Réal.   Prévu   Réal.   Prévu   Réal. Prévu  Réal.  %
Sous-projet    30       30   55       67     80       80     95      110   260    287   10,4
LatrinesADC    0        0    0        19     0        5      0        15    0     39     -
Ensemble       30       30   55       86     80       85     95      125   260    326  25,38


3.2.3      La gouvernance au sens du renforcement des capacités des institutions et de la
participation

a.    Formation et transfert de compétences. Le PAIB a incité les communautés à créer dans
chaque village (i) un comité pour la coordination des actions de développement (CDV), (ii) un
comité pour la gestion de chaque sous-projet (CG), et (iii) un groupe de 4 animateurs villageois (2
femmes et 2 hommes) (AVD) pour la relève de l'ADC. Il a privilégié une stratégie consistant à
renforcer les compétences de ces organes par des formations en cascade, avec des transferts de
l'agence d'exécution aux MOD, du MOD à l'ONG-DC et à ses ADC qui leur ont transféré les
connaissances acquises. L'application de cette stratégie a été fortement soutenue par la mise à la
disposition des ADC d'outils de sensibilisation et de formation dont plusieurs ont été traduits en
langues locales, des projections vidéo à une fréquence moyenne de 3 passages par village et par
mois, et une sensibilisation permanente par des radions locales. Grâce à une articulation judicieuse
de ces différentes actions, le PAIB est parvenu à des résultats suffisamment porteurs d'impacts
positifs comme illustré dans le tableau ci-dessous.

Tableau n°2 : Principaux résultats d'IEC/Formation

              Sessions/Séances                                   Participation
                                        Intervenants Total bénéficiaires            Féminine
Unité             Nombre                  H-jours            H-jours          H-jours       %
Qté      Formation    IEC   SMOS         Formation       Alpha Formation Formation IEC SMOS
            449       7 070  20 000        7 500        297 750     22 000     9 645   56,88 32,74




                                                       - 28 -

N.B. : H-jours = Hommes-jours

b) La participation des différents acteurs

l Les communautés à travers leurs organes villageois ont été les principaux décideurs depuis
    l'identification des sous-projets jusqu'à leur exploitation. De façon spécifique, chacune d'entre
    elles a contribué à leur réalisation, en fournissant les matériaux locaux et la main d'oeuvre non
    qualifiée, en payant des contributions financières exigées pour certains types de sous-projets,
    et en hébergeant les personnels qualifiés des intervenants et exécutants (ONG-DC/MO,
    entreprises, MOD, AIB, consultants).

l Les services administratifs et les collectivités décentralisées (Haut-Commissariat, Préfets
    et sous-Préfets et maires) ont essentiellement joué des rôles d'orientation, de facilitation et de
    médiation avec de véritables pouvoirs de décision en matière (i) de répartition des
    investissements (ii) de prévention des conflits, (iii) de validation des sous-projets. Ils ont par
    ailleurs participé efficacement aux ateliers de partenariat organisés pour échanger leurs
    expériences sur des thèmes spécifiques, portant notamment sur le renforcement des capacités,
    la décentralisation et la pérennisation des investissements, etc.

l Les services techniques régionaux et locaux ont joué leurs rôles traditionnels avec une forte
    implication aux études de faisabilité et au suivi d'exécution de la plupart des sous-projets.
    Dans les domaines spécifiques de la santé et de l'éducation, ils ont fourni des appuis-conseils,
    soutenu les approches communautaires, formé leurs personnels et évalué périodiquement leurs
    performances.

l Les ONG ont été l'ossature et les principaux animateurs du système opérationnel, avec (i) une
    participation constructive aux travaux du comité de pilotage, (ii) un plaidoyer soutenu en
    faveur du partenariat et des approches, (iii) une large diffusion des performances du projet, et
    (iv) un appui constant aux autres acteurs, et en particulier aux conseils communaux

c) Le Suivi-évaluation. Le PAIB a conçu et ajusté de façon continue un système participatif de
suivi-évaluation qui a permis aux intervenants de prendre les mesures nécessaires pour corriger à
temps les faiblesses constatées, et à l'Agence d'exécution de suivre efficacement les opérations,
de produire et de diffuser largement des rapports d'activités périodiques, ainsi qu'un bulletin
semestriel traitant des progrès réalisés, de thèmes spécifiques et des leçons apprises. L'éventail de
ces résultats montre à suffisance que le PAIB a su opérationnaliser l'option du gouvernement
visant à concentrer les efforts sur les domaines de l'éducation, de la santé, de l'hydraulique, et des
activités productives, ainsi que sur les axes transversaux du CSLP concourant à une bonne
gouvernance.

IV. IMPACT DU PROJET

4.1 Impact de la composante appui institutionnel. Au niveau de chacun des 2 organismes
appuyés à travers cette composante, les capacités de conception, de sensibilisation, de
communication, se sont accrues, permettant d'instaurer de riches débats, notamment pendant la



                                                 - 29 -

préparation de la SNLP, du CSLP, sur l'efficacité des politiques sectorielles et des dépenses
publiques. De plus, les impacts qui suivent ont été constatés au niveau de chacun d'entre eux.

l L'impact des appuis à la DNSI. Les données du recensement ont servi et serviront pour les
    enquêtes au Mali. Les caractéristiques et la structure de population tirées du RGPH ont été la
    principale référence pour les études et recherches inter-censitaires. Les études récentes
    entreprises dans le cadre du CSLP ont largement bénéficié de la méthodologie de collecte
    d'informations développée à travers le PAIB. Le profil de la pauvreté ainsi que d'autres
    études connexes contribueront également au suivi et à la mise en oeuvre du CSLP.

l L'impact des appuis à l'ODHD. Les pouvoirs publics et la société civile ont été sensibilisés
    sur les déficits sociaux et les besoins d'amélioration des conditions de vie des couches les plus
    vulnérables et sur les concepts du DHD, à travers un plaidoyer pour une politique sociale plus
    active et plus adaptée.

4.2 Impact de la composante Développement Communautaire. L'AIB a chargé en 2001 et
2003 le Bureau d'Etudes CEDREF de l'exécution de 2 études d'impact, dont les résultats peuvent
se résumer comme suit :

4.2.1    Au niveau village. Le PAIB a pu réaliser des sous-projets dans 185 villages d'une
population de 172.315 hts. Par rapport aux localités similaires, ces villages sont plus propres à
cause des journées de salubrité, leurs populations plus dynamiques, les femmes sont plus éveillées,
les jeunes plus entreprenants, la cohésion sociale est plus forte, l'ouvrage du sous-projet est une
véritable vitrine, jouant de surcroît une fonction sociale. Les rôles sont bien distribués entre les
organes villageois. De ce fait, on a pour chaque question, un répondant qui dispose d'outils,
même s'ils sont souvent mal tenus. Les effets de leurs sous-projets s'étendent à 157 autres
localités voisines d'une population totale de 127.163 hts portant ainsi le nombre total de
bénéficiaires directs et indirects à environ 300.000, dépassant ainsi l'objectif initial de 130%. Ces
effets sont assez frappants parce que 79,71% des sous-projets sont bien exploités selon les MOD,
contre 14,49% moyennement et seulement 3,38% insuffisamment.

a1. Impacts au plan sectoriel
l Au plan de l'éducation. Les 64 écoles réalisées ont permis d'atteindre des taux moyens de
     plus de 50% pour la scolarisation, et de 70% pour la fréquentation. Pour la seconde étude
     d'impact qui a couvert 7 de ces établissements, les taux de fréquentation ont même
     pratiquement explosé, avec des niveaux dépassant 90% pour 5 d'entre eux. Les taux de
     scolarisation des filles sont fort appréciables. Les effets positifs sur les capacités de
     communication des communautés sont considérables.
l Au plan de la santé et l'hydraulique villageoise. Les 16 CSCOM réalisés ont amélioré
     significativement l'accès aux soins de santé primaire avec généralement de bons taux de
     fréquentation. Les 98 sous-projets d'approvisionnement en eau potable, les 39 latrines pour
     ADC, le maraîchage et les séances d'IEC ont amplifié ces impacts avec de profonds
     changements positifs dans les habitudes alimentaires et de bonnes connaissances en
     IEC/Santé, un recul sensible de la prévalence des maladies d'origine hydrique, et un
     accroissement considérable de la fréquence des bains et lessives.



                                                - 30 -

l La production agricole et la sécurité alimentaire.                Les niveaux des productions
     maraîchères et rizicoles ont connu des bonds appréciables et continus, avec le passage de
     23,33% à 62,5% du taux moyen de couverture des besoins en produits maraîchers des
     exploitants. Cette tendance est surtout due à l'augmentation des superficies exploitées, à la
     disponibilité de l'eau pour plusieurs campagnes agricoles, à une meilleure maîtrise des
     techniques de production et de gestion des exploitations.

a2. Impact sur les femmes. Dans des villages où les femmes n'avaient même pas droit à la
parole, le PAIB a révolutionné dans le domaine du genre, à telle enseigne qu'elles sont présentes
dans les 472 organes villageois créés. Elles représentent respectivement environ 55% et 30% des
participants aux séances d'IEC et aux sessions de formation et de mobilisation sociale. Elles
assurent de plus en plus le leadership pour l'exploitation, des périmètres maraîchers et des
moulins, avec un meilleur accès à la terre. A cause des effets positifs de la plupart des sous-projets
en matière d'allègement des corvées liées aux travaux domestiques et à l'inaccessibilité aux
services socio-éducatifs, les femmes subissent moins de surcharges de travail, et libèrent de plus
en plus leurs filles pour l'école. Elles améliorent leurs revenus en consacrant aux activités gé
nératrices de revenus, les économies de temps générées par les sous-projets. Elles commencent à
émerger comme de véritables acteurs du développement à travers les associations qu'elles ont
créées dans 33% des villages.

4.2.2    Sur les structures de coordination (Collectivités, Services administratifs et
techniques, CRD, CLD, CDA). Les organismes qui ont pour mission de coordonner les actions
de développement ont amélioré leurs connaissances sur l'état et la problématique de la pauvreté.
Ils se sont familiarisés avec de nouvelles approches du développement local. Leurs capacités de
planification et de suivi ont été renforcées.      Plus spécifiquement, le PAIB a été l'un des
précurseurs de la décentralisation, en lui servant de rame de lancement dans ses communes
d'intervention, par une consécration effective de l'autorité des conseils communaux, une
amélioration de leur image, la réduction de leurs déficits d'investissement et de compétences,
l'accroissement de leurs capacités de gouvernance à travers des formations et des appuis
techniques à travers une déconcentration des ONG.

4.2.3 Impact sur les principaux intervenants de la société civile. Les ONG intervenantes du
PAIB ont en général amélioré (i) leurs méthodes de gestion, (ii) leurs capacités de négociation et
de collaboration avec les bailleurs de fonds et les services techniques, et (iii) leurs connaissances
des politiques sectorielles, à telle enseigne que plusieurs d'entre elles ont été retenues comme
CCC du dispositif d'appui à la décentralisation, et partenaires des principaux projets de
développement (PNIR, PASAOP, PRODESS, PRP, FODESA).

4.3. Impact sur l'Agence d'exécution. Le PAIB a renforcé les capacités de son Bureau de
Gestion, à travers des formations dans les disciplines du plan de renforcement des capacités de ses
intervenants, ainsi qu'en matière de décaissement et de la gestion comptable. Ses agents sont
rompus aux analyses sur la problématique de la pauvreté, et à la conception des outils et des
approches. Ils ont acquis de profondes connaissances des politiques sectorielles et des acteurs du
dé veloppement local.




                                               - 31 -

4.4. lmpact sur le Gouvernement. Le PAIB a été si novateur que plusieurs projets se sont
inspirés de son cadre institutionnel, de sa démarche partenariale et de ses outils : FODESA
(FIDA), PRP (BAD), PNIR (IDA) etc. Il a contribué à (i) identifier les principales forces et
faiblesses des différentes politiques sectorielles, et (ii) à préparer plus de 250 jeunes diplômés
(ADC et contrôleurs des travaux) à contribuer à la formation du futur leadership en raison de
leurs profondes connaissances des conditions de vie dans les zones d'extrême pauvreté. Le PAIB
a été un puissant facteur d'apaisement à tous les niveaux du climat social entre le Gouvernement
et d'importantes composantes de la société civile. Il a fortement atténué les conflits traditionnels
entre (i) paysans et éleveurs, dus à la rareté des sources d'abreuvement du bétail, et (ii) renforcé
les liens de solidarité traditionnelle entre les villages à cause de la vocation intervillageoise de la
plupart des sous-projets. Il a créé des emplois en milieu rural notamment, atténué l'exode rural
dans la plupart de ses zones d'intervention, et renforcé la confiance entre leurs populations et le
gouvernement.

4.5 Impact sur la Banque Mondiale. Le PAIB a permis aux populations les plus pauvres et les
plus enclavées, de connaître la Banque Mondiale et de rehausser son image tant au niveau des
autorités administratives et des élus qu'au niveau de la société civile, notamment des ONG.

V. COUTS, SUPERVISION ET GESTION

5.1 Passation des marchés. Le PAIB a privilégié la contractualisation avec un nombre total de
678 contrats/marchés dont 217 ont été passés par l'agence d'exécution et 461 par les MOD. En
faisant abstraction des conventions avec les services techniques, les marchés par entente directe
n'ont représenté que 1,62% en terme financier. La quasi-totalité de ces marchés/contrats ont été
par ailleurs conclus conformément aux calendriers fixés par les plans de passation.

5.2 Les coûts. Le PAIB a su maîtriser aussi bien les coûts opérationnels que les coûts de
fonctionnement, tant pour (i) les coûts moyens par sous-projet et leur répartition par catégories
d'activités (ii) que pour les niveaux fixés pour chaque catégorie d'intervenants. Une discipline
budgétaire appréciable a été ainsi observée avec des taux de réalisation par composante assez
proches des prévisions, notamment pour le ratio des coûts de fonctionnement qui s'est chiffré à
6,85% contre une prévision de 7%.

VI.    FACTEURS LIMITANTS.                Par rapport au contexte et aux différents acteurs, les
performances du PAIB ont été affectées par les facteurs suivants :
Facteurs indépendants du Gouvernement et du système d'acteurs. L'enclavement, les aléas
climatiques, l'étendue du territoire, une crise persistante en Côte d'Ivoire depuis plus d'un an, une
diminution considérable du volume des financements à cause d'une chute continue du taux du
dollar depuis plus de 6 mois;
Facteurs dépendants de la Banque Mondiale. Des retards dans les réalimentations du compte
spécial, et la remise en cause d'une disposition du manuel de procédures ayant entraîné
d'importants retards sur le démarrage du dernier programme délégué;
Facteurs dépendants du Gouvernement. Un nombre limité de sous-projets et une insuffisance
conséquente de durée d'appui par communauté, à cause de l'option visant à couvrir plusieurs
Régions. Un important déficit en techniciens de développement communautaire, en personnels



                                                 - 32 -

enseignant et soignant. Des retards dans (i) l'ajustement de certaines politiques sectorielles en
fonction de la décentralisation, et (ii) la mise en place des fonds alloués par l'Etat;
Facteurs dépendants du système d'acteurs. Les facteurs les plus limitants furent: (i) au niveau
des communautés, l'état de pauvreté aigu, l'exode massif des actifs après les récoltes et les
barrières culturelles, (ii) au niveau des intervenants de la composante Développement
Communautaire, les faiblesses de capacités et plus particulièrement des entreprises, les limites
inhérentes aux stratégies de transfert de compétence en cascade, l'absence de véritables plans de
développement régionaux et locaux, (iii) au niveau de la composante Appui Institutionnel, le
choix d'une méthodologie pour l'EMEP peu adaptée pour des échantillons de grande taille (7.500
ménages), ainsi que des inadéquations entre les missions et les capacités de l'ODHD qui ont
conduit en 2002 à sa restructuration en EPST.

VII. DURABILITE
 a.     au niveau de l'agence d'exécution.                 L'AIB a acquis une expérience, un
 professionnalisme, et une capacité d'adaptation telle qu'elle pourrait, avec des réglages,
 contribuer efficacement à la réussite d'autres programmes de développement, à l'instar de son
 récent appui à la préparation d'une nouvelle opération de développement communautaire aux
 Comores.
 b.     au niveau des communautés.
 -    Pour les investissements en ressources humaines. Au bout des trois premières années
 d'exécution, il est apparu que les AVD, à cause du manque de moyens et de leur forte mobilité
 ne pouvaient assurer efficacement la relève des ADC, sans l'appui d'une structure organisée. Le
 PAIB a, de ce fait, renforcé la stratégie initiale de retrait en les organisant en association par
 espaces d'homogénéité culturelle et linguistique, et en incitant les femmes et les jeunes de chaque
 village à s'organiser également en association. La conjonction de ces différentes actions a permis
 de créer les conditions d'une durabilité dont les indices figurant au tableau n° 3 ci-dessous, sont
 suffisamment révélateurs.

Tableau n°3 : Indices de durabilité

   Village ou AVD        Village ou AVD             Taux d'application des
   animent en IEC       poursuivent le SE            enseignements (%)
   Nbre        %         Nbre          %       Alphabétisation    Technique
                                                                  d'animation
    167        90,3      154          83,2            97               100

Les actions visant à renforcer la stratégie de retrait se sont également révélées très porteuses. Les
11 associations d'ADV créées et formées à titre expérimental, effectuent en effet des missions
périodiques de suivi dans les villages bénéficiaires concernés, animent des sessions
d'alphabétisation et de sensibilisation pour d'autres partenaires, appuient les conseils communaux,
et informent régulièrement les MOD sur la vie des sous-projets. Dans les 72 localités où elles ont
pu créer ou restructurer des associations, les femmes ont pris des initiatives en constituant des
fonds propres et en recherchant des financements additionnels pour la promotion de
micro-entreprises. Dans de nombreux villages, le leadership se rajeunit à travers l'accès aux
organes villageois (CDV et CG) de jeunes alphabétisés et formés. Plusieurs organes villageois ont



                                                  - 33 -

pu trouver auprès d'autres partenaires des réponses appropriées à des besoins complémentaires,
allant de la mise en place d'un système de micro-crédit à la réalisation de nouveaux micro-projets.

-     Pour les investissements physiques.        Au plan de la durabilité, les différents types de
sous-projets (social et marchand) ont 2 points communs : en premier lieu, l'incapacité des
communautés les plus pauvres à assurer l'autofinancement, du renouvellement de leurs ouvrages
justifiant ainsi de l'option consistant à les offrir sous forme de dons. En second lieu, une certaine
aptitude des communautés à prendre plutôt en charge les frais d'entretien à cause de leurs faibles
niveaux dus à la qualité des réalisations. S'agissant des autres frais de fonctionnement, leurs
capacités de prise en charge varient selon la nature des sous-projets. Pour les investissements à
caractère social, elles peinent déjà à payer les salaires des agents d'exploitation (matrone, gérant
de CSCOM, enseignants). Par contre, pour les aménagements hydro-agricoles, chaque exploitant
parvient à préparer sa campagne avec des avances sur les fonds de roulement alloués par le PAIB.
Les facteurs susceptibles d'affecter la durabilité des aménagements ne sont donc pas à rechercher
du côté des charges d'exploitation, mais plutôt de phénomènes plus complexes, à savoir
l'insuffisance de culture d'entreprise et surtout l'exode fréquent et massif des bras valides.
Incontestablement, le PAIB a préparé les bénéficiaires à faire face à ces difficultés : (i) les
sous-projets répondent en effet à leurs besoins prioritaires, (ii) le degré d'appropriation des
différents acteurs est tel que chacun se sent concerné par leur durabilité, en particulier les conseils
communaux auxquels leur maîtrise d'ouvrage a été déjà transférée pour ce qui concerne les
domaines de la santé, de l'eau et de l'éducation, (iii) la participation des groupes de jeunes aux
travaux et formations en maintenance a créé, des capacités d'entretien d'ouvrages, (iv) les
sessions de formation en gestion de projets ont préparé les organes villageois à planifier les
travaux d'entretien, et à mobiliser des ressources propres pour la prise en charge des frais de
fonctionnement. Chaque comité de gestion est doté à cet effet d'un fonds alimenté selon le cas par
des cotisations, des redevances, des revenus de vente, et des amendes pour certaines infractions.

VIII. PERFORMANCES

8.1 De l'Etat. Le Gouvernement a (i) soutenu et suivi de façon active et constante le projet, (ii)
respecté les clauses de la Convention d'Agence d'Exécution, (iii) mis en place les fonds de
contrepartie, (vi) marqué sa ferme volonté pour l'extension de sa stratégie, de son approche et de
ses méthodologies, et (v) financé sur les Fonds pour Pays Pauvres Très Endettés la préparation et
l'expérimentation d'un programme d'extension avec les réglages nécessaires à la capitalisation de
ses leçons.

8.2 De l'Agence d'Exécution. En plus d'une présence quasi-permanente sur tous les maillons
essentiels du système opérationnels, l'agence d'exécution a su créer les conditions d'efficacité du
dispositif de supervision, de telle sorte que les calendriers et programmes ont pu être
rigoureusement respectés pour les 16 sessions de son conseil d'administration, les 15 missions de
supervision de la Banque Mondiale, les 9 audits des comptes, les 2 études d'impact, d'un audit
technique et les 2 missions de terrain des Ministres de Tutelle. Selon les rapports de ces missions
de supervision et d'évaluation, l'Agence d'exécution s'est révélée comme le maillon clef d'un
cadre institutionnel performant en appliquant avec rigueur des procédures qui ont permis, (i) de
dépasser les objectifs opérationnels, (ii) de décaisser à hauteur de 111% les fonds avant terme,



                                                  - 34 -

(iii) de préparer en plus de sa mission initiale un programme d'extension et d'en exécuter 20
sous-projets pilotes, (iv) de faire du PAIB une véritable référence tant au niveau national que
régional avec l'arrivée au Mali de 9 missions d'échanges de projets similaires d'autres pays
africains (Ghana, Burkina, Mauritanie, Bénin, Comores, Djibouti, Gabon, etc.).

IX. LECONS APPRISES ET CONCLUSIONS. Le PAIB a été un véritable laboratoire avec
un large éventail d'enseignements dont les plus déterminants pour l'avenir peuvent se résumer
comme suit:
1. Les villages ayant de réels atouts pour une gestion communautaire efficiente, sont d'une taille
variant d'environ 500 à 1 500 habiitants et assez distants des grands axes routiers. Leurs
populations connaissent généralement leurs besoins prioritaires à caractère communautaire. Le
principe des diagnostics participatifs ne doit pas être pour autant abandonné, parce qu'ils incitent
les bénéficiaires à mieux s'approprier des actions, et les autres acteurs à mieux connaître leur
organisation sociale.
2. La contribution des communautés les plus défavorisées dans la prise en charge de leurs frais
d'éducation, de santé et d'approvisionnement eau potable, restera longtemps si limitée que le
gouvernement doit continuer à soutenir leurs efforts de pérennisation des investissements dans ces
domaines, tel que déjà préconisé par le CSLP. La réalisation d'un nombre limité de sous-projets
pour ces communautés ne permet pas généralement de créer toutes les conditions de durabilité,
même pour les investissements générateurs de revenus. Il convient plutôt d'adopter des approches
consistant à développer pour chacune de ses communautés, un sous-programme villageois
minimum, couvrant de façon intégrée tous les secteurs sociaux de base (éducation, santé et
hydraulique) et des activités dites génératrices de revenus, à travers des groupements
socio-professionnels.
3. Pour créer les capacités et réflexes d'auto-promotion dans des villages d'extrême pauvreté, les
projets d'approche participative doivent accompagner leurs communautés pendant au moins 5
ans, et inciter leurs femmes et leurs jeunes à s'organiser en associations capables de prendre des
initiatives dans tous les domaines, notamment en matière de recherche de financement.
4. Pour certains sous-projets de « type marchand », la gestion communautaire est un facteur
limitant à la pérennisation, parce que les organes villageois de type associatifs peinent
généralement à développer des pratiques rigoureuses de gestion.
5.   Le développement harmonieux des communes nécessitera la poursuite d'une combinaison
judicieuse de l'approche communautaire et de l'approche communale, telle que pratiquée par le
PAIB, d'autant plus que les plans de développement des communes sont très souvent des
catalogues sommaires de besoins d'investissements sociaux, dont les coûts sont sans commune
mesure avec les capacités des conseils communaux en matière de mobilisation financière et
d'exercice de la maîtrise d'ouvrage.

Avec ces enseignements, le PAIB a également accompli avec succès sa mission d'opération pilote,
en plus de ses performances d'ensemble qui constituent aujourd'hui de réels motifs de fierté d'une
expérience de collaboration à laquelle peu de personne croyait au départ. Le PAIB est en effet
parvenu, selon l'étude d'impact, « à atteindre ses objectifs avec efficacité et efficience et à créer
des chances de pérennisation des acquis aux plans économique et financier, politique et
institutionnel, social et écologique, grâce à une approche garantissant l'atteinte des résultats
vérifiables, un suivi rigoureux selon les normes (qualité et prix), un partenariat efficace entre les



                                                - 35 -

acteurs, un climat social apaisé, la remise en honneur des valeurs sociales traditionnelles, et
enfin, l'adhésion des décideurs à tous les niveaux ». Les conclusions des missions de supervision
de la Banque Mondiale convergent vers les mêmes constats que celle du mois de juin 2003 a su
résumer dans les termes les plus percutants, en soulignant que « le PAIB a été véritablement un
instrument décisif de lutte contre la pauvreté en milieu rural et précurseur du processus de
décentralisation en cours aujourd'hui. L'approche de développement participatif choisie par le
PAIB a certainement permis un changement irréversible de comportement des populations
touchées, pour une prise en charge progressive mais durable d'un développement local à la base ».
Pour ce qui concerne les perspectives d'avenir, cette mission a estimé que « le document de projet
préparé pour son extension est très riche en enseignements avec des propositions de pistes et
orientations qui devront faire l'objet d'une analyse approfondie pour alimenter la réflexion pour la
préparation d'un nouveau programme de développement communautaire » que la Banque
Mondiale envisage de financer pour le pays. En toute logique ce programme devrait s'appuyer
sur les leçons du PAIB, et sur l'expérience acquise par ses différents intervenants et les agences
similaires, en visant en priorité la consolidation, les acquis de ses villages et de leurs collectivités
bénéficiaires.




                                                 - 36 -

Additional Annex 9. Minutes of the Implementing Agency Board Session (May 17, 2004)

                 AGENCE D'APPUI AUX INITIATIVES DE BASE (AIB)
                                     ------------------------------
                                     Conseil d'Administration
                                     -----------------------------
                               BP: E2599 - Tél: 22215 89 - Fax: 222 15 90
                             Email : paib@cefib.com - Site: www.aibmali.org
                                              BAMAKO




                          Conseil d'Administration
                           12ème session ordinaire
                             Bamako le 17/05/2004
                                    Compte-Rendu

Sur convocation de son Président M. Bakary Doumbia, le Conseil d'Administration de PAIB a
tenu le 17/05/2004 dans les locaux du PAIB à Bamako, sa 12ème session ordinaire. Ont participé
à cette session :

      a)      en qualité de mandataire du gouvernement

              -     M. Koulou FANS, Conseiller Technique du Ministre du Développement
                    Social, de la Solidarité et des Personnes Âgées

      b)      en qualité d'Administrateur

              -     M. Bakary Doumbia, Président du CCA /ONG et du PAIB

              -     M. Ibrahima Tembely, Président de la Fédération Régionale des Associations
                    des Parents d'Elèves de Mopti, Vice-président de 1'AIB

              -     M. Tidiani Amadou Bocoum : Président de la Chambre Régionale
                    d'Agriculture de Mopti

              -     M. Mohamed El Maouloud Maiga, Vice-président de la Fédération locale
                    des Associations de Santé Communautaire de Tombouctou

              -     M. Hamidou Kebe : Vice-président de 1'Ordre des Ingénieurs Conseils.

      c)      Secrétaire de séances

                -     M. Sekou MAIGA : Directeur Général du Bureau de Gestion des Projets
                      de PAIB (BGP)

II. DELIBERATIONS

Les travaux se sont déroulés selon le projet d'ordre du jour qui a été adopté sans amendement par


                                                 - 37 -

les administrateurs, à savoir :

Point I         Examen et adoption du projet de compte rendu de la 11ème session ordinaire du
                Conseil d' Administration

Point II        Examen et adoption du rapport é1aboré par la Banque Mondiale au titre de
                l'achèvement du PAIB

Point III       Échanges en vue de l'application des principales recommandations du rapport
                d'achèvement de la Banque Mondiale

Point IV        Questions diverses.

Sur chacun de ces points, les délibérations de la session ont abouti aux principaux résultats
ci-après :

Point I : Examen et adoption du projet de compte rendu de la 11ème session du Conseil
                        d'Administration

Les participants ont adopté ce projet sans amendement.

Point II : Examen et adoption du rapport élaboré par la Banque Mondiale au titre du
                        parachèvement

A l'issue des discussions et des échanges, les participants ont conclu que le rapport reflète
fidèlement ce qu'ils ont connu et vécu dans l'exécution, le suivi et la gestion du PAIB, tant sur le
terrain, au niveau des espaces d'échanges d'expériences et d'information, qu'au niveau du conseil
d'administration (CA) et du Bureau de Gestion du Projet (BGP).

Ils ont de ce fait souhaité que de vives félicitations soient adressées à la Banque Mondiale, pour
avoir efficacement contribué à travers le PAIB, à l'amélioration des conditions de vie de ses
populations bénéficiaires, à l'accompagnement du processus de décentralisation du Mali, et au
renforcement des capacités de tous les acteurs impliqués dans sa mise en oeuvre, et en particulier
celles de la société civile.

Ils ont en particulier exprimé leur profonde satisfaction quant à l'exhaustivité, la clarté et
l'excellente qualité du rapport, ainsi que pour la fructueuse collaboration entre les équipes de
supervision de la Banque et les différents acteurs du PAIB, notamment le Conseil
d'Administration et le Bureau de Gestion des Projets du PAIB.

Ils ont chargé M. Koulou FANE, Conseiller Technique du Ministre de Tutelle de transmettre à
son Ministre l'expression de leur profonde reconnaissance pour la confiance placée à l'AIB, en la
chargeant des missions d'agence d'exécution du PAIB, et en lui assurant tout le soutien nécessaire
à leur parfaite exécution.

Avant de clore leurs délibérations sur ce point, les administrateurs ont renouvelé leurs vives
félicitations au Directeur Général du BGP et à l'ensemble de son personnel, pour avoir su
exécuter avec un engagement particulier et de façon dynamique leurs contrats de performances.

De façon spécifique, les administrateurs ont exprimé leur satisfaction pour la nomination du
Directeur Général comme Directeur du Bureau de Préparation du PACR, en lui souhaitant plein
succès pour cette nouvelle mission.



                                                - 38 -

Point III : Échanges sur les recommandations du rapport élaboré par la Banque Mondiale
au titre du parachèvement du PAIB

Les participants se sont réjouis d'avoir constaté que le rapport et très riche en enseignements et en
recommandations, et que toutes les recommandations sont pertinentes et porteuses d'innovations.

Ils ont conséquemment décidé de les soutenir, notamment auprès du gouvernement et des
partenaires, afin qu'elles soient prises en compte dans le cadre des stratégies et politiques
sectorielles, ainsi que dans la conception et la mise en oeuvre de nouveaux programmes de
développement local, notamment le PACR.

Ils ont en outre recommande que les ministères de tutelle de ces programmes soient
conséquemment renforcés pour leur permettre d'en assurer un suivi approprié.

Point IV : Questions diverses

Au titre des questions diverses, le Directeur Général a remercié les participants pour leur appui
cordial, permanent et efficace, en soulignant que sans cet appui, le PAIB n'aurait pas atteint des
résultats aussi satisfaisants.

Il leur a ensuite fait le point sur l'état d'avancement du PACR et la poursuite des activités du PAIB
sur financement PPTE.

L'ordre du jour étant épuisé, le Président a levé la séance à 12h15mn.


LE SECRETAIRE DE SEANCE                                                  LE PRESIDENT

Sékou MAIGA                                                              Bakary DOUMIA




                                                   - 39 -

- 40 -

