Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N037 MLI
Project Agreement
(Grassroots Initiatives to Fight Hunger and Poverty Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator 
of the interim trust fund established with funds 
contributed by certain members of International 
Development Association pursuant to Resolution 
No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of  
International Development Association
and
ASSOCIATION D’APPUI AUX INITIATIVES DE BASE
Dated April 9, 1998
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N037 MLI 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 9, 1998 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund 
(Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the 
Board of Governors of the Association on June 26, 1996 and ASSOCIATION D’APPUI AUX 
INITIATIVES DE BASE (AIB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between Republic of Mali (the Borrower) and the Administrator, the 
Administrator has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
15,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that AIB agrees to undertake such obligations 
toward the Administrator as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and AIB (the 
Convention), part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to AIB on the terms and conditions 
set forth in said agreement; and
WHEREAS AIB, in consideration of the Administrator's entering into the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AIB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry outPart A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, 
and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part A  of 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Administrator and AIB shall otherwise agree, AIB shall carry out 
Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works, goods and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 23 to this Agreemente Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) AIB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A ofof 
the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, AIB shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the 
Administrator and AIB, a plan for 
the maintenance and operation of facilities 
relevant to Part A of the 
Project; and  
(ii)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the 
Borrower and AIB on said plans.
Section 2.04. AIB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Convention. 
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, AIB shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the 
Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) AIB shall, at the request of the Administrator, exchange views 
with the Administrator with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Convention, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
AIB shall promptly inform the Administrator of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, or the performance by AIB 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Convention. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  3
Management and Operations of AIB 
Section 3.01. AIB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical, social, and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. AIB shall at all times operate and maintain its facilities, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, technical, social and environmental practices. 
Section 3.03. AIB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Administrator for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AIB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part A of 
the Project.
(b)
AIB shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), including those for 
the Special Account, for each semester 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available but in any case 
not later 
than three (3) months after  the end of each semester, (A) 
certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement, and all obligations of the Administrator and 
of AIB thereunder, shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate; 
or
(ii)
a date ten (10) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement terminates before the 
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Administrator shall promptly 
notify AIB of this event.
Page  4
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For AIB:
Ministère de l’Economie,
  du Plan et de l’Intégration
Bureau de PAIB
B.P.E. 2599
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AIB or by AIB 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by its Director General, or by such other person or persons as AIB 
shall designate in writing, and AIB shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with funds 
contributed by certain members of International Development 
Association 
pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of 
Governors of  
International Development Association
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  5
ASSOCIATION D’APPUI AUX INITIATIVES DE BASE
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program
1.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, for the purposes of Part A of 
the Project, AIB shall: (i) apply the criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines 
set out in the Manual of Procedures and in this Schedule; and (ii) not amend, or 
abrogate, or permit to be amended or abrogated, the Manual of Procedures, or any 
provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Administrator, may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of Part A of the Project.  
2.
ODHD shall be responsible for the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project, and 
DNSI shall be responsible for the implementation of Part B.2 of the Project. 
3.
AIB shall ensure that the positions of Director General of AIB, and the heads of 
its units responsible for technical matters, administrative and financial management, 
community capacity building, and supervision and monitoring shall, at all times until 
the completion of the Project, be kept filled by persons having qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Administrator.
4.
AIB shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators, satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and
(b)
not later than October 30 of each year, commencing on October 30, 1999, 
undertake, in conjunction with the Administrator and the Borrower, a joint annual 
review on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular the 
progress achieved during the current fiscal year, having regard to the monitoring 
indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, shall furnish to 
the Administrator, for its comments, a report in such detail as  the Administrator 
shall reasonably request, on the progress of the Project; and
(d)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in 
the implementation of the Project, or to implement, such measures as may have been 
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
5.
Midterm Review
(a)
On or about thirty months after the Effective Date, AIB shall carry out 
jointly with the Administrator and the Borrower a midterm review of the progress made 
in carrying out the Project, in accordance with monitoring indicators satisfactory to 
the Administrator (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things:
(i)
an assessment of the adequacy of the implementation arrangements 
for the 
implementation of the Project;
(ii)
an assessment of the accounting and financial management of AIB;
(iii)
a review of the Subprojects financed under the Project, including 
the geographical 
distribution;
Page  6
(iv)
a discussion of the options for ensuring the long-term 
sustainability of AIB; 
and
(v)
a review of arrangements for meeting recurrent costs.
(b)
AIB shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to 
the Administrator a separate report describing the status of implementation of the 
Project and a summary report of Project implementation generally.
(c)
AIB shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare an 
action program, acceptable to the Administrator, for the further implementation of the 
Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement 
such action program.
(d)
take part in the annual and midterm reviews referred to in paragraphs 3 
and 4 of Schedule 4 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, and thereafter, 
take all action necessary on its part to take any corrective action deemed necessary 
to remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of Part A of the Project, 
or to implement, such measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in 
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
6.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, unless AIB 
has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the 
guidelines set forth in the Manual of Procedures, that the Subproject satisfies the 
eligibility criteria specified below and in more detail in the Manual of Procedures, 
which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a)
the Subproject shall be for social and economic infrastructure and 
services;
(b)
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary;
(c)
the Subproject shall be economically, financially and technically viable, 
and environmentally sound, in accordance with the standards specified in the Manual of 
Procedures;
(d)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection; and 
(e)
Subprojects involving involuntary resettlement of population shall not be 
eligible for financing under the Project, unless an action plan for the resettlement 
of the affected population has been agreed upon with the concerned population, and 
approved by the Administrator. 
7.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements, to be 
concluded between AIB and the Implementing Agency, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, which, inter alia, shall include the following:
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation of the Implementing Agency to carry out the Subproject in 
accordance with the Manual of Procedures, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound environmental, technical, financial and managerial standards and 
to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and 
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
Page  7
(d)
the right of AIB to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Administrator, if the Administrator shall so request, the goods, works sites, plants 
and construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(e)
the right of AIB to obtain all information as AIB or the Administrator 
shall reasonably request regarding the implementation, administration and operations 
of the Subproject; and 
(f)
the right of the AIB to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Implementing Agency to use the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit for the Subproject 
upon failure by the Implementing Agency to perform any of its obligations under its 
Financing Agreement. 
8.
AIB shall submit to the Administrator:
(a) 
for its approval, before the beginning of each Project Year, a proposed 
annual work program, including a proposed budget and financing plan, for the 
forthcoming fiscal year; and 
(b)
for its review, quarterly and annual progress reports on the status of 
Part A of the Project, including regular beneficiary assessments and beneficiary 
feedback reports and Subprojects completion reports.
SCHEDULE 2 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
National Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Administrator, and relevant drawings, where applicable. 
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for 
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Page  8
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997, and 
revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part A of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits under Part A.3 estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part A.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  9
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III. Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
