ASC AS 7- CA
Documot of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,   I t  I \    ,    fi  I .   I}x
A,        I .;.> >   a,                                            =Ret No. P-5912-CR
REPORT ANDATION
OF THlE
PRESIDENT OF THE
R NATIONL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELPET
TO THE
EXECUrIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED THI   STRUICTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
OF US$100 lILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
MARCH 10, 1993
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Colon (¢)
US $ 1.0         =    ¢ 136 (December 1992)
C 1.0            =    US$ 0.0074
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AGEF             Agency for the Supervision of Financial Institutions (Audtor(a General de
Entldades Financieras)
BANVIM           Housing Bank (Banco Hipotecado de la Vivienda)
CACM             Central American Common Market
CAT              Tax Rebate Certificate (Certificado de Abono Dibzuaio)
CCSS             National Social Security Institution (Caja Costarricense del Seguro Socil)
CEMPASA          Public Sector Cement Company (Cementos del Pacfflco Socdedad Andnbna)
CNP              Agriculture Marketing Agency (Consejo Naclonal de Produccidn)
CODESA           Development Corporation (CorporacOin Costarricense de Desarrollo)
CPAR             Country Procurement Assessment Review
EEC              European Economic Community
ESW              Economic and Sector Work
FANAL            Public Sector Liquor Company (Fdbrica Naclonal de Licores)
FERTICA          Public Sector Fertizer Company (Fertlizates de Costa Rica)
FODEA            Agricultural Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Agr(cola)
GAIT             General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
EMAS             Social Welfare Institute (Instituto MWo de Asisteia Social)
IF               Interational Monetary Fund
INA              National Traning Institute (nstintwo Naclonal de Aprendiae)
INS              National Insurance Company (Insttuto Nacional de Seguros)
ISMS             Living Standards Measurement Survey
MIDEPLAN         Planning Ministry (MWuisterlo de Plardficacion Nacdonal y Polftlca Econ6mica)
NAFiTA           North American Free Trade Agreement
NTB              Non-Tariff Barnier
RECOPE           Public Sector Petroleum Refinery Company (Refinadora Costarricense de
Petrdleo)
SNE              National Electricity Agency (Servcllo Nacional de Elecricidad)
TA               Technical Assistance
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF           United Nations Children's Fund
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
WFP              World Food Programme



COSI'A RICA                               FOR OFFICIAL U-SE ONLY
Third Structural Adjustment Loan
Table of Contents
LDAN AND PROGRAM SLMMARY ..................................... i
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ....                                                 ........ 1
A. Recent Performance  .               ..........................................   1
(a) Backgrotnd  ............................................                                            1
(O) Recent Economic and Social Developments   ........................  2
(c) Bank's Assistance: Past Experience   .............................  3
Past Operations  .       .........................................   3
Experience with Adjustment lending  .............................  4
B. External Environment  .           .........................................   4
C. Government Development Policy and Country Assistance Strategy   ..............  5
(a) The Need for Adjustment ............                      ........................   5
(b) Government Stabilization and Adjustment Program  ....................  5
(c) Development Issues and Policy Agenda  ...........................  6
Reforming the Public Sector  ..........                    ........................   6
Increasing the Efficiency of Markets  .............................  6
hnproving Infrastructure   ............                   ........................   7
Social Sectors and Poverty Alleviation ............................  7
Protecting the Environment ...........                     ........................   7
(d) Bank's Program  of Assistance .........                    ........................   8
Overview .............................................. 8
Lending Program .......................................... 8
Economic and Sector Work   ..........                      ........................   8
Portfolio Implementation Issues  ................................  9
Aid Coordination .......................................... 9
IFC and MIGA   .         .........................................   9
(e) Medium  Term  Prospects, External Financing Needs and Creditworthiness   ... .. 9
Medium-Term  Prospects  ....................................  9
External Financing Needs ...................................   10
Creditworthiness and Risk Assessment ...........................   11
D. Summary Assessment  .........................................    12
I. THE GOVERNMENT'S  ADJUS`MENT PROGRAM    .......................   12
A. Public Sector Reform   .........................................   12
Privatization of Government Services and Enterprises  ...................   12
Labor Mobility Program   ......................................   13
Budgetary Reform   .........................................   14
Taxation Reform   ..........................................   14
B. Trade Regime and Regulatory Framework .............................   15
Exchange Rate Policy  .......................................   16
Import Tariffs and Trade Barriers ................................   16
Export Promotion ..........................................    16
Price and Profit Margin Controls  ................................   17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 7
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C. Financial Sector       ................................  18
The Banking Sector ........................................18
Prudential Supervision  .....................................  19
Supportive Monet  and Finncial Policies     .........................  19
The Insurance Sector  .....................................  20
D. Social Sectors and Poverty Alleviation ........................0...  2
Socia Targeting ...................................... 21
Labor Retraining ...................................... 22
Pension Reform ...................................... 22
M.LTE PROPOSED LOAN  ...........................  22
A. Background  ............             .........................  22
B. Conditions for Tranche Release ...................................   23
C. Procurement, Disbursement and Auditing ............................ 25
D. Technical Assistance ......................................  6
E. Cofinancing  ............            .........................  26
F. Program Benefits and Risks .....................................   26
IV. IBRDIbIF COLLABORATION .....................................  28
V.RECOMMENDATION .....................................                                28
ANNEX
A. Standard Tables-Economic Indicators
B. Matrix of Policy Actions
C. Letter of Development Policy
D. Status of Bank Group Operations
E. Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
TEXT TABLES
Table 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1980-92
Table 2: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1990-96
Table 3: Financing Requirements and Sources, 1991-96



COSTA RICA: THIPD STRTTU 
LOAN AND PROGlRAIM SUWSMYR
Donrower:        Republic of Costa Rica
Amot:            US$100 million equivalent
Teus:            Repayment In 17 years and 4 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
Objetves:        The proposed Structral Adjustment Loan (SAL) would r-4pport the Government's
Strucural Adjustment Program, which is designed to: (a) reform the public sector
to improve its efficiency and strengthen fiscal policies; (b) improve incentives for
greater export orientation and private sector activity; (c) strengthen competitiveness
oifprivate fincial institutions and prudential supervisionof the fiancial system; and
(d) increase coverage and efficiency of social programs, and reform the pension
sysem.
Desrption:       To help achieve program objectives the proposed SAL will support the foUlowing set
of reforms: (a) maintence of a macroeconomic framework to ensure continued
stability; (b) public sector reform to: (i) privaize government services and
enterpa i, (ii) reduce public sector employment, (iii) improve the budget process,
and (iv) rationalize and expand the tax base; (c) trade reforms to: (i) reduce the level
of protection, (ii) remove price and profit margin contols, (ili) stengthen regulatory
firmework for public utilities; and (iv) improve export icentives; (d) fincial sector
reforms to: (i) reduce discimination against privae finmcial institutions, Cii) limit
subsidized credit, (iii) strengthen prudentia supervision, and Civ) demonopolize the
insurance sector; (e) social sector reforms to: (i) improve targeting and coverage of
social programs, (i) strethen programs to retrain displaced public sector
employees; and (-Ii) reform the pension system to improve equit and solvency.
llbitI: mplemention of the Structural Adjustment Program would lead to a more efficient
and streamlined public sector which, combined with measures to enourage private
sector actvty, would lay -e basis for more prudent fiscal policies, higher export-
oriented economic growth, and improved creditworthiness. In addition, it would
enable continued progress in social development wihin an appropriate fiscal
firameworlk.
Risks:           The principal risks are: to adverse external developments which would prompt the
Government to backtrack on policy reforms; and (i) domestic fat ;rs, including
possible opposition by inerest groups to liberalization measures, delays in approving
the necessary legislative reforms, and the possibility hat a new administaton, which
will take office in May 1994, could be less committed to the structal adjustment
progrm



- ii -
On the external front, the Bank will intensify efforts to monitor economic
performance in consultation with the IMF. Moreover, Costa Rica's experience with
implementation of adjustment measures suggests that the risk of policy reversals Is
small. On the domestic front, the Government has taken a number cf steps to
counter these risks. It has: (i) already begun implementing or pre-announced a
number of the more important reforms included in the program; (ii) taken several
measures through administrative decrees and made considerable progress in drafting,
and in some cases submitting, the necessary legislation to the Legislative Assembly;
and (iii) actively sought to reach a consensus w;th the opposition and key groups
affected by the reforms on the rationale for the proposed program.
Esfimated
Disbursements:   The proceeds of the SAL would be disbursed in three tranches. US$35 million upon
effectiveness, US$35 million after a satisfactory performance review 8-10 months
after effectiveness, and the remaining US$30 million equivalent after a satisfactory
review 8-10 months after second tranche. Retroactive financing will be permitted for
eligible expenditures incurred since September 15, 1992 up to an amount of US$20
million equivalent.
Schedule of
Disbursements:   Bank Fiscal Years                       FY94        EY95
-US$ million-
Annual                                 70.0        30.0
cumulative                             70.0        100.0
Fnanidng Plan:  The Inter-American Develooment Bank (IDB) is cofinancing the public secor reform
component of the proposed SAL with a US$80 million Public Sector Reform Loan
approved by the IDB Board on January 6, 1993. In addition, IDB is expected to
approve a Sector Investment Loan and Multisector Credit Project for US$170 million
to support complementary reforms to strengthen financial and capital markets,
improve the overall investment climate and strengthen labor retraining programs.
The IDB operation would include US$120 million in balance of payments support
and US$50 million for a line of credit to finance private investment.
Appraisal Report: This is a combined staff appraisal and President's Report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRFSIDENT OF
THE    RNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONTUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
THIRD SRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100 MILLON
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
1.   I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Third Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL  o) in the amount of US$100 million equivalent to the Republic of Costa Rica. The proposed Bank
Lan would be on standard IBRD terms, with repayment in 17 years, and a 4-year grace period, and
would support the Government's structural adjustment program, which aims to achieve economic
stabilization and sustainable economic growth. This program is descrAbed in a Letter of Development
Policy received from the Government (Annex C). The public sector component of the proposed SAL is
being cofinanced by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) with a US$80 million Public Sector
Reform Loan. In addition, IDB would be supporting the Government's structural adjustment program
through a proposed Investment Sector Loan and Multisector Credit Project for US$170 million.
Part I: COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSIANCE SRATEGY
A. RECENT PERFORMANCE
(a)   Background
2.   Costa Rica has a per capita income of US$1,940 and a population of about 3 million, which is
growing at 2.4 percent annually. Its extensive social programs have placed the country's social indicators
among the best in Latin America. From the 1950s through the early 1970s, the agricultural and
manufactring secors were the engines of growth, but demand stagnated in the late 1970s and GDP
growth began to be driven more by the expansion of services, especially the putlic sector. Although its
share has been falling, agriculture still accounts for 19 percent of GDP, employs about 30 percent of the
labor force, and generates two-thirds of merchandise exports-mostly bananas, coffee and, lately,
nontraditional products such as vegetables, fruits, flowers and decorative plants. Industry represents 26
percent of GDP, with food processing, textiles, and chemicals accounting for about three-quarters of
manufacturing value added. The services sector has expanded rapidly-especially the public sector,
fincial services and tourism-and it now accounts for 55 percent of GDP and employs close to one-half
of the labor force. Tourism has been a dynamic sector in recent years and is currently a major foreign
exchange earner.
3. In the early 1980s, the Costa Rican economy was severely affected by external shocks, including
deteriorating terms of trade and rising international interest rates. The economy, which had been
weakened by expansionary domestic policies and an overvalued exchange rate, plunged into its worst
recession in 30 years. Real GDP dropped by over 7 percent in 1982, open unemployment increased to
9.4 percent, and inflation reached 90 percent. Since the 1982 crisis, successive Governments launched
a series of stabilization and adjustment efforts supported by the IMF and the World Bank, respectively.
Ihese programs succeeded in reducing major macroeconomic imbalances and renewing growth. The



-2 -
consolidated public sector deficit was cut from about 14 percent of GDP in 1982 to less ta 4 percent
in 1987-88, while inflation was brought down to 15-20 percent during the same peiod. The econmy
recovered strongly, with GDP averaging annual growth of 4.5 percent over 1983-88, while the me of
open unemployment fell to S.5 percent by 1988. Costa Rica's external debt, however, bnreasd rapidly
durng the 1980s-from US$1.7 billion in 1980 to US$4.2 billion by end-1987. At that level, breign
debt was almost equivalen to total GDP and three times annual expor;t.
4.   Ihe fiscal accounts deteriorated in 1989 and 1990, contributing to a worening of the eoxnal
position and higher inflation. Public expenditures rose during 1989 (a pre-election year) and adjustment
of public sector prices lagged. High import demand and adverse terms of trade led to hier car
account deficits in 1989 and 1990, and economic growth began to slow in 1990.
(b) Recent Economic and Social Developments
S.     In an attempt to correct fiscal and external imbalances, the present administrion which took
office in May 1990, adjusted the prices of public services, introduced a new tax package, increased the
number of mini-devaluations, and implemented other temporary fiscal measures. These actions succeoded
In preventing a firther deterioration in the fiscal and balance of payments situation, but were    lfiient
to render significant improvement (Table 1). In Janary 1991, the Government  onsified its adjustmnt
effort by introducing a temporary import surcharge, increasing the prior deposit for imports, and
accelerating the pace of devaluation. These reasures helped to slow import growth in the first half of
the year. In April 1991, the IMB   Board approved a new stand-by arrangement which set tit limits on
central government expenditures and on net domestic financig of the non-fcial public sector. On
the revenue side, key measures we-e an increase in the sales tax from 10 to 13 percent and periodic
adjustments in the prices of pubzic sector services. Ihe emphasis on the expendiu  side was on
controlling the wage bill, both by limitng wage increases and by reducing persomeil.
Table 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1980-92
*980    1986    1987,    loB       198     *990   1991       1992
Real Growth Rates MX)
CDP                          0.8      5.5      4.8      3.4      5.6      3.6     2.1      4.0
Per Capita GDP               -2.3     3.3      2.1      0.7      2.9      1.1    -0.3      1.6
Public Sector CZ GDP)
N f in. Pub. Sector Palance    -13.3    -1.7    -0.3    -0.3    -2.8    -3.0    -0.4       0.2
Revenues                    21.0    25.1    26.1    26.9    26.9    26.2    27.8    27.1
Expenditures                34.3    26.8    26.4    27.2    29.7    29.2    28.2    26.9
Central Bank Losses           ..      3.8      3.5      3.4      2.7      2.0      1.9     2.1
Consolidated Balance        -13.3    -5.5    -3.8    -3.7    -5.5    -5.0    -2.3    -1.9
Balance of Payments tX GDP)
Resource Balance             -9.6     0.9    -4.3    -1.9    -3.9    -6.8    -1.6    -2.8
Current Account Balane      -13.6    -4.5    -10.1    -8.4    -10.9   -10.2    -4.8    -5.2
Prices CXI
CPI (average annuAl change)   18.1    11.8    16.8    20.8    16.5    19.0    28.7    18.0
Reel Exchange Rate (1988=100)  ..   101.4   107.5   100.0    92.4    89.9    96.8    92.3
Data for 1992 are estimates.
Sources: Ninistry of Planning and staff estimates.
6.    Performae durIng 1991 was mixed. There was a markd turnaround in the balance of payments,
but although the fiscal sace was tightened considerably, the budget deficit and Inflatn fel short of
targets. The current account ddicit fell froir 10.2 percent to 4.8 percent of GDP ad the high inret
rate differential between domestic and foreign currency deposits brought about a steep rise in private



- 3 -
capital inflows. Although the fiscal adjustment was quite substantial, there were overruns in cental
government expenditures due to transfers and emergency expendiures following the strong earthquake
In AprI and the floods In August. At the same time, the Government began implementing a labor
mobility program to reduce employment in the public sector and improved its revenue collection efforts.
Economic activity slowed futher, with GDP growth at 2.1 percent, and inflation increased to 28.7
percent reflectng exchange rate movements, adjustment in prices of public services and the lagged effect
of expansionary fiscal policies.
7.   Preliminary indications sugest that the economy improved considerably in 1992, but continued
to face balance of payments pressures. GDP grew by about 4 percent and the non-financial public sector
balance showed a small surplus (0.2 percent of GDP), while inflation fell to about 18 percent. Ihe
current account deficit increased from 4.8 percent ot GDP in 1991 to about 5.2 percent in 1992.
Aithough exports continued to record strong growth in 1992, especially nontraditional exports and
tourism, this was insufficient to offiet high import growth. Import demand increased rapidly during 1992
in response to higher economic growth and the temporary appreciation of the Colon =aly in the year,
following the full liberalization of the exchange rate system and the capital account. As part of the IMP
stand-by arrgemt (para. 83), demand management policies will have to be tightened considerably in
1993 in order to reduce the external deficit.
8.   Costa Rica nas attained an Impressive record in terms of social development. Progress in poverty
alleviation was main ned during the 1980s despite the country's considerable economic difficulties. In
1990, about 20 percent of the population was estimated to be poor, of which 11 percent lived in extreme
poverty-compared to 25 percet and 14 percent, respectively, in 1980. Social progress has relied
heavily on high levels of public social expenditures, made possible by relatively high economic growth
and a sustained Government commiment to social development. Public social spending increased
continuously during the.'1960s and 1970s, reaching more than 20 percent of GDP and representing more
an half of total public expenditures by the end of the 1970s. The economic crisis of the early 1980s,
however, forced a reduction In social spendin-from 23.3 percent of GDP in 1980 to an average of 15.7
percent during 198245. Public social spending has recovered since, averaging 20.3 percent of GDP over
198749, but it is clear that the Government will no longer be able to rely on increasing spending levels
to continue improving social conditons.
(C)  Bank's AssIstance: Past Exeiec
9. last Operations. To date, a total of 35 loans and one IDA Credit have been approved for Costa
Rica, amounting to US$744 million equialent (Annex D). Of this total, US$136 million is undisbursed,
and US$325 million has been repaid. Prior to 1981, Bank lending was concentrated on developing basic
infrstructure.  One half of the 36 opetions approved have been in the power, transport, and
telecommunications sectors, and 4 operations supported agricultural development. The remainder
supported development in the social sectors and strutural adjustment. With the growing economic
deterioration in the early 1980s, the Bank's assistance stey  was reoriented to support structural
reforms through policy-based leondig. Project lending was deferred and made conditional on satisfactory
progress in the implementation of a medim-term strucural adjustment program. An export development
loan approved in 1983, was followed by intensive assistance in preparing the Government's medium-term
structral adjustment program, which culminated in the approval of SAL I (US$80 million) and a
companion Technical Assistce Loan in April 1985. It was succeeded by a second SAL (US$100
million) approved in December 1988. An agriculure sector investment loan approved in March 1992
has been submitted to the Assembly for ratfication.



-4-
1).  Experience with Adjustment Lending. SAL I focused on reducing the level of protection and
the growth of public sector employment. Considerable problems were encountered in complying with
requirements for second tranche release, which was disbursed only in June 1986 after a new government
took office, as efforts to .eform the public sector were not fully successful. The Government rationalized
the public investment program and divested public enterprises owned by the state holding company
(CODESA), but was unable to reduce public sector employment and substantially lower losses of the state
agricultural marketing organization (CNP). A reduction in public seceor employment was to be achieved
through attrition, with employment frozen for three years. Despite legislation establishing these targets,
the Government was unable to achieve a meaningful reduction in public employment.
11.  SAL II focused on measures to stimulate exports and agricultural productivity, increase public
savings and the efficiency of public investment, and improve financial intermediation policies. After
initial delays caused mainly by a protracted legislative process, presidential elections and a change in
government, Costa Rica made satisfactory progress in implementing the program. Steps were taken to
further liberalize the trade regime, reduce consumer and credit subsidies, open agricultural trade to the
private sector, continue progress in rationalizing the public investment program, and strengthen the
portfolios of state-owned commercial banks.
12.  There are two important lessons to be drawn from Costa Rica's SAL experience. First, although
progress was made in reducing the large fiscal imbalances that prevailed during the early 1980s, the
process of fiscal adjustment was incomplete due to the Government's inability to address the major
structural weaknesses in the public sector, especially the growth in public sector employment, and their
links with fiscal policy. As a result, the economy remained vulnerable to the reemergence of
macroeconomic disequilibria prompted by inappropriate fiscal policies. Second, general Government
undertakings to reduce public sector employment, to be successful need to form part of a more
comprehensive effort to restructure the role and functions of the state. In this way, actual employment
reduction depends on the public sector restructuring effort rather than being an independent objective.
A comprehensive public sector reform program, then, needs to focus on szeamlining government
structures and functions, transferring some activities to the private sector, and designing a phased
employment reduction program consistent with the refashioning of the state. At the same time, budgetary
procedures must be redesigned to accommodate and facilitate the transition to a more streamlined public
sector. The lessons from this experience have been internalized by the Government and underpin the
design of the public sector reform component of the current structural adjustment program.
B. EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
13.  External conditions have a considerable influence on Costa Rica's prospects. Although the terms
of trade are expected to remain approximately constant after 1992, there is some uncertainty regarding
market conditions for coffee and bananas, and the impact of the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA). A resumption of the International Coffee Agreement would likely improve prospects for
Costa Rica's high-quality coffee exports, as would the expected recovery of Arabica prices beginning in
1993. On the other hand, earnings from banana exports would be negatively affected by likely European
Economic Community (EEC) restrictions on imports of dollar zone bananas. NAFTA is likely to
adversely affect Costa Rica as it will increase the scope for trade displacement by Mexico in U.S.
markets. Also, it will negatively affect the volume of prospective foreign investment flows to Costa Rica.
Recently progress has been made toward revitalizing the CACM in the context of the Central American
Economic Community. The benefits from the ongoing trade liberalization effort should be seen in the



- 5 -
coming years through more competitive markets and less distorted price systems. Costa Rica, particularly
stands to gain by becoming a net intra-regional exporter. The planned financial integration should also
promote capital mobility within the region facilitating investment and improving economic pros:%ects.
Additionally, Costa Rica is advancing bilateral trade negotiations with ether Latin American countries
including Mexico and Chile.
C. GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT POIICY AND COUNTRY ASSIrANCE STRATEGY
(a)   The Need for Adjustment
14.   Up to the early 1980s, successive administrations followed a development strategy based on: (i)
extensive government involvement in the economy, through public ownership of major banks, the
insurance industry and some large productive enterprises, as well as widespread controls on factor and
product markets; (ii) the pursuit of counter-cyclical policies ained at maintaining full employment,
including rapid growth in public sector employment; (iii) import-substitution industrialization within the
highly protected regional market; (iv) assistance to small producers and traders through a complex system
of subsidies, exemptions, and controls; and (v) rapid expansion of public social services and welfare
programs. These policies contributed to substantial economic and social progress, but the economic crisis
of 1981-82 underlined the limitations of this development strategy, with growing public sector deficits,
expansionary and inflexible fiscal policies, and increasing inefficiency of government activities. The
efforts to reign in fiscal deficits in the wake of the 1981-82 crisis, although successful, relied mostly on
short-term measures: cuts in public investment, discretionary tax measures, compression of civil service
salaries, and across-the-board expenditure cuts which distorted and adversely affected the efficiency of
government programs. Neglect of the public sector's underlying structural weaknesses left the economy
vulnerable to external and domestic shocks which periodically threaten to derail the Government's
stabilization efforts.
15.  In parallel with public sector improvements there is a need to deepen reforms aimed at improving
resource allocation in the economy and generating a strong and efficient supply response from tW, private
sector. Although the Government has lowered considerably the level and dispersion of effective
protection, the process needs tc be continued to further expose the Costa Rican economy to external
competition. As protection is lowered further, the ability of the private sector to respond to a new set
of incentives should be strengthened by removing the existing anti-export bias in the system and
elimiting price and other administrative controls that currently hinder private activity. These measures
should be complemented by a more competitive and better regulated financial sector, and more efficient
social services.
(b) Government Stabilization and Adjustment Program
16.   As noted above, over the past ten years. successive governments have begun to gradually reorient
the country's development strategy and, in addition to improving economic management, hive taken a
number of major steps to begin the process of economic restructuring. The Government is aware that
while important progress has been achieved, the reforms must be deepened and consolidated if they are
to provide a solid base for sustained and equitable development into the next century. In pursuit of this
goal, the Government's longer-term development strategy focuses on: (i) restructuring of the public
sector to improve its efficiency, strengthen its flnatcial base, and reorient it away from activities that can
be undertaken more efficiently by the private secte.; (ii) channeling social spending to those in greatest



-6-
need while improving coverage and efficiency; fii) accelerating the integration 0o Costa Rica into dhe
world economy; (iv) improving efficiency and competition in the financial system; (v) encouraging private
sector initiatve to expand output and diversify the economy's export base; and (vi) improving
anvironmental management.
17. Public sector reform is at the core of the Government's long-term strtegic vision. Costa Rica's
stabilization and adjubtment experience during the 1980s, as well as the dramatic changes taking place
worldwide, are hel'ping to forge an emerging national consensus on the urgency of implementing a
fundamental transformation of the role and functions of the state. Entrepreneurs strongly support the
need for far-reaching reform of the public sector, viewing it as an essential complement to the structural
adjustment that is underway in the productive sectors. While agreement on the need to reform the state
is becoming evident among the major political and economic forces in Costa Rica, there is also concern
that this transformation must be gradual in order to preserve the country's important political, economic
and social achievements. The challenge for policy makers will be to manage this process so that it
contributes to fiscal stability, preserves and extends social gains, minmizes direct social costs, and
complements efforts to deregulate and expose the economy to international market forces.
(c)   Development Issues and Policy Agenda
18.  Reformdng the Publc Sector. In an economy with a floating exchange rate and open capital
account, fiscal policy becomes the key instrument to ensure domestic and exteral stability. Public sector
reform is essential both to provide a sounder base for fiscal policy and to improve economic efficiency.
Two aspects of this process will be critical. MFrst, overall public resource mobilization efforts and public
expenditure levels must be appropriate. Reform will need to focus on the structure of Government
revenues and the efficiency of expenditures. On the revenue side there is a need to increase the yield of
direct taxes, which are currently equivalent to 9 percent of GDP, reduce taxtion on employment, and
increase reliance on cost recovery for public services. On the expenditure side policy measures need to
increase efficiency, improve targeting and reduce the large share claimed by the public sector payroll.
Savings from employment reduction in the public sector and lower transfers that would result from
increased reliance on cost recovery, need to be allocated to non-wage operations and mainenance to
improve the quality of public services. Second, achieving a leaner and more efficient public sector will
require a redefinition of its role, functions and incentive system. This will involve transforming the state
into one that transfers to the private sector many of the actvities it currently performs, ensures an
appropriate regulatory framework for public utilities and natural monopolies, and acts as a watchdog to
guarantee the free play of market forces. This transformation will also require a major effort to re-tool
public sector employees with a new set of skills and, over the medium tetm, carry out a comprehensive
civil service and salary reform to attract the necessary skills.
19.  Increasing the Efficiency of Markets. Once the present trade reform program is completed, the
next stage should involve moving to a uniform tariff in the range 10-15 percent. To complement the
trade liberalization effort, reforms will be needed to increase the flexibility of labor markets and fully
liberalize financial and capital markets. High payroll taxes required to fmance the social security system
and national training programs need to be gradually reduced to increase employment generation in the
private sector. In addition, the large number of minimum wages (77) exerts pressure on overall wage
levels and contributes to rigidities in labor markets. Finandal sector reforms will need to be deepened
by liberalizing remaining restrictions on private banking and privatizing the state-owned banking sector.



20. Improving Infrastructure. Although Costa Rica's physical infrastructure is relatively well
developed, fiscal constraints have led to the postponement of new investments and reduced allocations
for operadons and maintenance. Over the medium term the Government will need to concentae on
arng private capital and management to key infrastructure sectors, especially power generation,
telecommunications, ports and water. In addition, Government reform efforts will need to focus on the
petroleum, and water and sanitation sectors. Liberalization of the different stages of the petroleum sector
and the privaization of the public sector refinery will need to be considered. In water and sanitation,
there is an urgent need to strengthen management, reduce system losses, and improve the protection of
water sources and treatment facilities, especily in small communities and rural areas.
21.  Social Sectors and Poverty Alleviation. Although the rapid expansion of social seices and
programs has enabled Costa Rica to attain an impressive social development record, further progress will
require increased targeting and efficiency. At the same time, the Government needs to develop
mechanims to encourage private sector participation in the provision of social services and widen choices
to consumers. In education, there is a need to reduce the large share of the education budget claimed
by universities through the adoption of cost recovery measures. In health, reform efforts need to focus
on improving efficiency, strengthening the referral system, channeling increasing resources to
disadvantaged areas, better targeting of nutrition interventions, integrating curative and preventive
services, and introducing cost recovery. Over the medium term there will be a need to deepen reforms
of the pension and social security system in order to expand the role of the private sector and increasingly
restrict Government subsidies to the poorest workers-those whose accumulated funds are insufficient
to cover a minimum pension and to the needy not enrolled in the social security system.
22.  Costa Rica has made substantial progress in terms of incorporating women in the development
effort and is at the forefront in promoting women's rights. Women have equal access to all basic social
services and benefit from a number of specific social programs. In addition, the Law to Promote the
Social Equality of Women, approved in March 1990, w iich seeks to accelerate elimination of remaining
dicimintory practices, is comparable to or, in some cases, more progressive than legislation in
developed countries. Dramatic improvements in the human capital formation of women, however, have
yet to be fully matched by changes in cultural factors and attitudes which would permit a greater and
more equal incorporation of women in the labor force. In addition, greater efforts are required to reduce
fertlity rates and a relatively high incidence of teenage pregnancy.
23. Protecting the Enviromment. Costa Rica's environmental legislation is relatively advanced and
the country has an extensive system of national parks which generates considerable tourism benefits.
Rapid deforestation, however, due to inappropriate policies and weak institutional capabilities has been
the most urgent eavironmental problem in recent years. Major contributing factors have been: unclear
land tenure legislation, problems with land titling, subsidized credit to the livestock sector, and
inappropriate incentives coupled with weak enforcement of forestry legislation. The Government is
addressing these problems by improving land titling, strengthening forestry legislation and its
enforcement, and eliminting livestock subsidies. Greater efforts, however, are required to improve the
institutional framework for environmental management. Reforms need to focus on strengthening the
system of protected areas, reforming the Directorate of Forestry by moving from enforcement and control
toward private sector promotion and support, and deregulating forest activities outside protected areas
within an improved incentive structure that promotes the environmentally sustainable exploitation of forest
resources. Other major environmental problems which need to be addressed include water pollution due
to discharge of untreated sewage and industrial residues, inadequate solid waste collection and disposal
in major urban centers, and ineffective management of wetlands and coastal ecosystems.



-8 -
(d) Bank's Program of Assistance
24.  Overview. The Bank supports the Government's development strategy and there is broad
agreement on the major elements of the policy agenda. The Bank's assistance strategy will concentrate
on assisting the Government strengthen its institutional capacity, strengthen the social sectors, and
improve infrastructure and environmental management in selected areas. Past adjustment operations and
preparation of SAL m have helped Costa Rica adequately define the medium-term reform agenda. Given
IDB's expanding role and the policy agenda that remains, the Bank's assistance strategy will need to be
highly selective and focussed in areas where the Bank has a comparative advantage. This has a number
of important implications: (i) over the next 2-3 years the Bank will concentrate on implementation of
SAL I11 reforms, and no further adjustment operations would be considered under the proposed lending
program; (ii) instead, individual investment projects and ESW will provide the vehicles to focus on sector
policy reforms; (iii) to increase the effectiveness of the Bank's lending program, greater reliance wIll be
placed on cooperation and coordination with IDB; and (iv) efforts to improve project implementation will
be strengthened.
25. Lending Program. Bank lending to Costa Rica over the period FY93-97 would amount to about
US$280 million (including the proposed SAL III), and would include projects for water and sanitation,
health, forestry and biodiversity, transport, urban development, and education. A common objective in
designing the lending program will be to build on and complement the wider public sector reforms being
implemented by the Government. In addition to meeting project-specific objectives, the proposed
operations will aim to improve public sector management by strengthening sector institutions and policies,
elimnating overlaps and duplications among agencies, emphasizing the rehabilitation and maintenance
of infrastructure and services, supporting cost recovery and a more active private sector role. The
program is predicated on an appropriate macroeconomic framework and the successful implementation
of the Government's adjustment program, especially the public sector reform component. Ihe public
sector reforms to be implemented over the medium term constitute an essential policy umbrella to enhance
the development impact of the proposed lending program.
26.  The water and sanitation project would support the rehabilitation of sector infrastructure,
strengthen management, improve cost recovery policies and address environmental issues related to water
pollution. The health project would aim to improve management, increase efficiency, support alternative
delivery mechanisms which assign a greater role to the private sector, and develop equitable cost recovery
instruments. The forestry and biodiversity project would support reforms in forestry policy,
institutional strengthening and improvements in the management of ecological resources. About half of
the resources under the transport project would cover investments identified under the ongoing
Transport Sector Project, which were reallocated to provide assistance in earthquake reconstruction. The
other half would aim to improve infrastructure and management. The urban project would focus on
urban transportation, housing, municipal strengthening, and urban environmental issues (solid waste
disposal, and water and air pollution). The education project would target quality improvements at the
secondary level, with particular emphasis on expanding opportunities for female education.
27. Economic and Sector Work (ESW). A focused ESW program would: (i) underpin the policy
dialogue; (ii) support the policy content of the lending program; (iii) carry out the analysis required to
monitor creditworthiness; and (iv) assist in coordinating the efforts of other donors. A Country Economic
Memorandum focusing on public sector reform, will help define the policy agenda for discussion with
the new Government that will take office in May 1994. The ongoing forestry sector review will support
an operation to improve forestry and biodiversity management. A sector study will define policy issues



-9 -
to be addressed under the proposed urban project. A Poverty Assessment would review progress in
poverty alleviation and analyze the need to strengthen targeted interventions and improve the poverty
orientation of social spending.
28.  Portfolio hnplementation Issues. Costa Rica's US$150 million portfolio of approved operations
faces relatively few serious implementation problems, reflecting satisfactory but not outstanding
performance. In general, there is good compliance with financial covenants and audit requirements
reflecting the country's improving policy performance and increasing Bank supervision efforts. However,
availability of counterpart funds and lengthy delays in procurement approvals by the Controllers Office,
continue to impede timely implementation. Moreover, there are significant delays between Loan
Approval and Effectiveness due to lengthy legislative procedures. These issues will be addressed during
the Bank's comprehensive Country Strategy Implementation Review planned for FY93. In addition,
following the recommendations of a recent procurement assessment mission, the Bank plans to hold a
workshop and a series of procurement training seminars.
29.  Aid Coordination. Formal Consultative Group Meetings will continue to be used selectively to
update donors on Government progress in stabilization, structural reform, and the longer-term
development agenda. The Bank's aid coordination strategy, however, will increasingly focus on the
establishment of less formal sector coordinating groups, which may be appropriate where there is multi-
donor interest in supporting specific sector programs or larger investment projects. As part of aid
coordination efforts, the Bank also will continue to explore cofinancing opportunities, especially with IDB
given its expanding role in sector and project lending.
30. IFC and MIGA. IFC has made seven investments in Costa Rica totalling US$28 million in
companies involved in cement and construction materials, pulp and paper products, food and food
processing, ornamental plants, commercial banking, communications, and tourism. IFC's strategy targets
the natural resource area, including agribusiness and tourism, capital markets, and power generation in
the private sector. In particular, IFC is interested in promoting ecologically-oriented projects, possibly
in the tourism sector which has considerable potential. IFC also expects that the proposed public sector
reforms would provide opportunities for attracting additional private capital to the country. Costa Rica
has signed the MIGA convention and, following ratification and subscription, MIGA would be prepared
to move forward with investment guarantees, and policy and advisory services.
(e) Medium-Term Prospects, External Financing Needs and Creditworthiness
31.  Medium-Term  Prospects.  Assuming the Government maintains economic stability and
implements the policies set out in its adjustment program, medium- and longer-term growth prospects are
favorable. Costa Rica has a relative advantage in the production of high-quality coffee, and would be
able to expand production somewhat to partly make up for the recent loss in coffee revenues due to the
collapse of world prices. As lower trade restrictions reduce the anti-export bias of the trade regime, non-
traditional exports are expected to contimue growing strongly. Tourism has been growing rapidly and
has considerable potential for further expansion, particularly in speciized areas such as ecotourism.
Also, measures to decontrol prices and deregulate economic activity would provide a powerful stimulus
to the private sector.
32.  The projections sunmarized in Table 2 assume continued implementation of the Government's
adjustment and stabilization program. Provided the fiscal adjustment can be consolidated, recent
downward pressures on domestic interest rates should continue and inflation would decline. Private



- 10 -
consumption is projected to average real growth of 1.7 percent during 199296 and 5.2 percent during
1996-01. Domestic savings as a share of GDP are expected to recover to levels attained in the early
1980s, mainly due to increased public savings, lower inflation and structural reforms in finanicW and
capital markets. This would allow investment levels to be maitained as foreign savings decrease. The
liberalization of the exchange regime has provided a powerful stimulus to the repatriation of priva
capital. Although clearly these inflows are responding to high domestic interest rates and could be easily
reversed if conditions change, it Is expected that as the domestic economic and investment climat
Improves some of these finds would become available to finance imports, investment and working
capital. As the next stage of the adjustment program is implemented, GDP growth would increase to 4-5
percent per year over 1992-96.
Tab.e 2: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1990-96
1990     1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996
Annual Real Growth Rates (X)
GDP                                        3.6       2.1      4.0       3.5      4.5       5.0      5.2
Per Capita GDP                             1.1      *0.3      1.6       1.2      2.2       2.8      3.1
National Accounts (X GOP)
Total Conmumption                         79.7      78.5     80.6      77.9     77.0      76.3     76.3
Total Fixed Investment                    22.4      19.7     19.3      20.1     20.2      20.5     20.S
Public Investment                         4.7       4.3      4.6       4.6      4.6       4.6      4.6
Private Investment                       17.7      15.4     14.7      15.S     15.6      15.9     15.9
Gross Domestic Savings                    16.9      18.2     17.0      19.6     20.9      22.0     22.1
Exports of Goods & NFS                    34.6      38.8     37.4      37.8     38.7      39.6     39.9
Imports of Goods & NFS                    41.4     40.5      40.1     38.7      38.9     39.3      39.7
Uonf n. Pubtic Sector (X GDP)
Current Revenues                          26.2      27.8     27.1      26.6     26.4      26.4     26.4
Current Expenditures                      23.9      24.1     22.3      21.0     20.9      21.2     21.2
Capital Expenditures                       5.2       4.1      4.6       4.9      5.1       5.0      5.0
Overall Balance                           -2.9      -0.3      0.2       0.7      0.4       0.2      0.2
Consolidated Balance                      -5.0      -2.2     -1.9      -1.3     -1.1      -0.8     -0.3
Balance of PaYments
Exports Goods & NFS (real growth)          7.1       4.8      6.2       9.6      7.8       7.8      6.5
lnports Goods & NFS (real growth)         11.2      -4.5     10.7       1.8      5.7      6.5       6.2
Resource salance (X GDP)                  -6.8      -1.6     -2.8      -0.9     -0.2       0.2      0.2
Current Account (X GDP)                  -10.2      -4.8     -5.2      -3.4     -2.4      -1.6     -1.4
Soure:. Staff estImates
33.   External lFSnaning Needs. External financing requirement and likely financing sources for the
1992-96 period are presented in Table 3. Total requirements would average US$570 million anually
over the period. Requirements decline gradually, largely as a result of the reduction in the current
account deficit. Official grants are expected to continue their downward trend, while foreign invetment
flows would recover gradually in response to an improved investment climate, averaging US$130 million
over the period. Disbursements from multilateral institutions will remain the major source of exten
financing, accounting for about 39 percent of total financing. Multilateral disbursements increase
substantially in 1993-94 as a result of SAL m  and IDB cofinancing.  Disbursements from  biateral
sources would remain low, averaging US$39 million anmally over the period. No new borrowing from
commercial banks is enilsaged, but the projections assume increased reliance on suppliers and export
credits to finance capital goods imports, with disbursements averaging US$28 million anmnally over the
period. With an open capital account, a convertible currency and a dynamic private sector, higher non-
guarteed private inflows can also be expected. Under this scenario, Costa Rica would face relatively
small fiancing gaps, averaging US$29 million annually over the period.



-11-
Table 3: Financing Requirements and Sources, 1991-96
(US$ millions)
1991       1992        1993       1994        1995        1996
FinanciMa ReMirements                79n        61          Am          Di         L1           m
Current Accout Deficit               270        328         239         180         133        132
of which: Interest Payments        240        212         243         273         291        295
Amortization Payments                216        285         299         252         274        321
Buitdup of Reserves                  305         48          68         119        109          80
Imurcessa                            2                                                         5 "n   49  504  511
Offilctal Grants                     108         79          70          70         70          65
Net Direct Investment                 90        125         120         131        143         152
Public NLT Disbursements             32                     3           VA         2           240
Nultilateral                       144         163        261         264         17Z        175
Bilateral                          174         25          63          37          38         31
NLT Other                           11         28          29          23          25         34
Other Inftloas                      264         165          30          24         56          54
Finaming G8D                                                 11 am                  12          la
IU Includes arrears, net private non-guaranteed capital, net short-term capital, and errors and omissions.
Semwce: Staff estimates.
34.   CredItwortiness and Risk Asessmet. In early 1990, Costa Rica agreed with Its commercial
bank creditors on a debt reduction plan whereby the large outstanding arears were regularized, 62
percent of commercial bank debt was bought back at an 80 percent discount and the remainder
restuctured with 20 years matuity. This agreement was financed with bilateral support only, as Costa
Rica was out of compliance with its IBE program due to slippage on the fiscal deficit (thus precluding
Bank and IMP fnancing). The debt agreement reduced Costa Rica's external debt by about 20 percent,
and lowered the share of debt at floating interest rates to about 30 percent of the total, thereby greatly
reducing the vulnerability to interest rate changes. As a result, however, the remaining debt is highly
inflexible. The bulk of debt service is due to official creditors and the share of debt service to
mutilateral lenders will remain high, flucutating around 50-60 percent of public debt service throughout
the 1990s. This would limit severely the scope for manoeuver in case of future payment difficulties.
Given the inflexible structre of Costa Rica's debt, the avoidance of arrears will depend critically on the
Government's ability to adhere to its stabilization and structural adjustment program.
35. Over the medium-term, Costa Rica should maintain macroeconomic policies to avoid public sector
deficits and excessive reliance on extemal financing. The Bank will continue periodic analyses of
macroeconomic management and dialogue on it with the Government. Provided the Government can
maintain progress in stabilization and structural reforms, creditworthiness indicators would improve
gradually over the next five years. The ratio of total external debt to GDP would fail from 67 percent
in 1992 to 48 percent in 1996. Ihe rado of MLT debt service to exports. (20 percent in 1992) would fall
gradually to 16 percent in 1996. Although debt service to preferred creditors as a share of public debt
service would remain above 50 percent, the Bank's share of total external debt is projected to remain
relatively low, averaging 9.8 percent during 1992-96. Moreover, the ratio of BRD   debt service to
eots is expected to fail from 3.2 percent in 1992 to 2.2 percent in 1996, while the share of IBRD debt
service in totl public debt service would fall from 5.0 percent to 3.9 percent.



- 12 -
D. SUMMARY ASSESSMENT
36.  Costa Rica is seeking to deepen the structural reform process in order to ensure macroeconomic
stability, carry out a fundamental transformation of the public sector, integrate the economy with world
markets, strengthen infrastiucture, enhance the competitiveness and efficiency of its financial system,
improve the coverage and efficiency of social programs to further reduce poverty, and strengthen
environmental management. The aim of the Government's strategy is to provide a solid base for
sustained and equitable development into the next century.
37.  The Bank would assist in the implementation of the Government strategy through the proposed
SAL m and new lending focusing on infrastructure, human resources and the environment. The Bank's
program would be complemented by focused ESW, intensive policy dialogue to assist in implementation
of structural adjustment reforms and to monitor economic developments, increased supervision efforts
to improve project implementation, and close coordination with other donors.
38.  Costa Rica's development performance over the medium term should be judged on: (i) adherence
to fiscal and monetary targe J required to ensure macroeconomic stability; (ii) implementation of the
adjustment program supported by the proposed SAL m, especially the public sector reform component;
and (iii) the adoption and successful implementation of policy reforms at the sectoral level, in line with
the overall adjustment framework provided by SAL III.
Part H: THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
39.  The Government's reform program is designed to both redraw the boundaries between the public
and private sectors and to increase the former's efficiency. Within its new vision of the state, the
Government has decided to redefine a smaller set of core functions which will remain the responsibility
of the public sector--the rest will be privatized or carried out in partnership with the private sector. Ihis
objective will be pursued through the following means: (i) contracting out to the private sector the
construction and operation of major infrastructure; (ii) contracting out to businesses and cooperatives the
provision of selected services; and (iii) privatization of the three remaining industrial parastatals.
Measures to increase the efficiency of the public sector include: (i) restructuring of key institutions in
line with the state's new role; (ii) budgetary reform to improve management and resource allocation; and
(iii) taxation reform to expand the base, rationalize incentives and improve adminision. Reforms in
the trade regime, the financial system and the social sectors will complement and support this process.
40. Privatization of Government Services and Enterprises. The Government's public sector reform
program relies critically on the enactment of two laws: the Law of Public Works Concession [Board
presentation condition; para. 700)] and the Economic Democratization Law [effectiveness condition,
para. 710)]. The Law of Public Works Concession will allow the private sector to construct and operate
major infrastructure, which the state will control upon termination of the concession and after the private
sector operator has recovered an appropriate return on its investment. The Economic Democraization
Law, currently being debated in the Assembly, will allow the privatization of selected state activities.
Public employees who now work in the provision of these services will have incentives to organize into
cooperatives or businesses that will contract their services out to the state, rather than being covered by



- 13 -
the public sector payroll, and will also be able to offer their services to the private sector. For ancillary
services (ie., those provided directly to the Government where third parties are not involved), contracts
will be awarded for up to three years. For secondary services (i.e., those involving services provided
on behalf of the Government to third parties or the public at large), concessions or contracts will be
awarded for up to five years and the Government will retain an oversight function to safeguard the quality
of service delivery and the interests of users. This program would produce budgetary savings (an
estimated reduction of about 10-15 percent in the costs of providing these services) and allow for civil
service employment reduction without adding excessive pressure on the labor market. At the end of each
contract or concession, these entities will have to compete with the rest of the private sector for
Government contracts or concessions.
41.  The Government will privatize the two remaining public sector enterprises held by CODESA-the
cement company (CEMPASA) and the fertilizer company (FERTICA)-and the liquor company
(FANAL). To this end, the Assembly has approved the Law to Privatize CEMPASA and FERTICA,
and the Government has submitted to the Assembly the Law to Privatize FANAL [Board presentation
conditions; para. 70(i)]. These three companies will be brought to the point of sale during the program
period [tranche release conditions; paras. 72(i) and 73(i)]. The privatization laws provide for three
sequential tendering steps. The companies will first be offered for sale through public tenders with a
fixed minimum percent of the estimated value of each company. If no acceptable offers are received,
a second tendering will be carried out offering the companies at a lower minimum of their estimated
value. If this fails, the companies will be sold to FINTRA (a non-Government entity financed through
a trust fund arrangement with USAID) with a mandate to sell. The Government's reform program also
targets the petroleum sector. Currently, the state has a legal monopoly on exploration and drilling, and
owns the only refinery (RECOPE), which in turn has a legal monopoly on the wholesale distribution of
petroleum products. The Government believes that liberalization of the sector, including eventual
privatization, will be required to improve efficiency. To this end, the Government will form an ad hoc
group to study the petroleum sector, including the need for an appropriate regulatory framework, the role
of RECOPE, and measures to improve efficiency and increase competition in the sector [Board
presentation condition; para. 70(0]. Based on the study's recommendations, the Government will
prepare and begin implementing a satisfactory reform action plan [tranche release conditions; paras.
72(1) and 730()1.
42.  LAbor Mobility Program. Through the privatization of infrastructure, services and enterprises,
the Government aims to achieve a smaller and more efficient public sector. A key outcome of this
process will a be significant and sustained reduction in the level of public sector employment, which will
be carried out through the Government's labor mobility program. The program targets a gradual net
reduction of 25,000 public sector positions over the period 1991-94 (about 19 percent of total non-
financial public sector employment). The program will exclude essential categories such as education,
health and security. To arrive at this target, its phasing, and the required incentive package, the
Government carried out a detailed analysis by sector, including a survey to determine interest among
public sector employees and extensive consultations with the labor unions affected by the program.
Preliminary estimates suggest that once completed, the Government's labor mobility program would
produce savings equivalent to 12.7 percent of the 1991 public payroll, 4.3 percent of total expenditures,
or about 1.1 percent of GDP. During the first phase of the program (1991-92), the Government has
achieved a total employment reduction of about 13,000 positions [Board presentation condition; para.
701)1. During the first phase, the program has relied on the elimination of unfilled vacancies, natural
turnover and the provision of incentives for early retirement. The second phase of the program, to be



- 14-
implemented during 1993 will target elimination of an additional 5,900 positions [second tranche
condition; pars. 720)] through continuation of the measures used in the first phase combined with
implementation of the privatization mechanisms incorporated in the Laws of Public Works Concession,
Economic Democratization and the privatization of enterprises. The third phase of the program will
target the elimination of an additional 6,100 positions during 1994 [hlrd tranche condition; parm.
73(i)]. Line managers will decide the flnal allocation of employment cuts within each sector, taking into
account the need to retain essential personnel and ensure the efficient functioning of activities that will
remain within the purview of the state. The Government will implement a retraining program to facilitate
labor absorption in the private sector (para. 66).
43.  To complement the privatization of services and infrastructure operation, the Government will
implement an institutional restructuring program designed to eliminate duplication, merge overlapping
activities, and streamline key institutions in line with their new functions and responsibilities (Letter of
Development Policy). The institutional restructuring program will cover Housing, Agriculture, Health,
Transportation and Public Works, and Internal Security, for which specific action plans and timetables
have been formulated by sectoral working groups. Measures currently under preparation include
consolidation and rationalization of functions (Housing, Agriculture, and Health), the merging of two
ministries (responsible for internal security), redefinition of functions where activities will be contracted
out to the private sector (Housing and Transportation), and strengthening ministerial budgetary oversight
and policy formulation capabilities in each sector.
44.  Budgetary Reform. Reform of the budgetary system is a critical complement to the Government's
efforts to restructure the public sector and increase Its efficiency. Preparation of the annual budget is
currently a mechanical exercise largely based on increments to historical allocations. Ihe Government
has little flexibility, especially on the recurrent side, to reallocate expenditu   as priorities change and
as programs evolve. This lack of flexibility leaves public investment and non-wage maintece
expenditures as the residual components to be squeezed at times of fiscal stringency. Moreover,
budgetary control mechanisms are weak or ineffectal, and the Government lacks operational tools to
effectively monitor and evaluate expenditures. The budgetary reform program aims to gradually shift
from an input-oriented system to one increasingly based on outcomes and results. This will be
accomplished by establishing an integrated financial management syste, which can increase budgetary
flexibility, impart greater programmatic content to public expenditures, and strengthen control and
monitoring systems. Over the past year, with the assistance of experienced international consultants
financed by USAID, the Government has been preparing a new budgetary system along these lines and
will initially apply the new procedures on a pilot basis in six institutions-Water Agency, Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock, CNP, Agricultural Development Institute, National Social Security Institution
(CCSS), and Ministry of Health-during 1993 [Board prestation condition; parm. 700)]. To carry
out the reforms, the Government has strengthened the role of the Budgetary Authority and set up a
coordinating body headed by the Authority, including representatives of the Ministry of Planning and
Controllers. Based on its experience with the pilot phase, the Government will prepare a satisfactory
action plan for a comprehensive reform of the budgetary system [second tranche condition; para. 720)].
Satisfactory implementation of an agreed action plan would be maintained [third tranche condition;
parm. 730)].
45. Taxation Reform. While the Government's reform program will curtail the growth of public
expenditures and improve their efficiency, parallel reforms are needed on the revenue side. Costa Rica's
tax system performs poorly in terms of four key public finance criteria: revenue adequacy, allocative
neutrality, equity, and administrative efficiency. Many minor taxes fall the test of revenue adequacy



- 15 -
given their meager collections. Allocative neutrality is hampered by the combined impact of payroll and
income/corporate taxes which have an anti-labor bias and favor capital and debt financing. Equity, both
vertical and horizontal, is constrained by numerous exemptions and special treatment to various groups.
Finally, administave efficiency is hampered by an inappropriate instional organization and
inadequate resources. TIis applies both to the administration of domestic taxes and foreign trade taxes
administered by customs. As an initial step, in March 1992 the Assembly approved legislation
eliminatng some of the most important exemptions in sales, income, and foreign trade taxes. In addition,
the Government's public sector reform program also includes a major overhaul of the tax system and its
adminitration. These reforms, which would be supported by IDB's Public Sector Reform Loan, will
aim to: (i) expand the base, simplify the structure and increase the efficiency of the tax system; (ii)
reorganize functionally tax administration to improve efficiency; and (iii) streamline customs
administration.
46. The Govermnent has prepared and wi1l enact a Tax Efficiency Law and a Property Tax Reforn
Law [Board presentation and second tranche release conditions; paras. 700) and 720i)1. The Tax
Efficiency Law will: (i) expand the income tax base to include all sources of income, which will be taxed
according to a progressive scale of 0-30 percent; (ii) index key items of the corporate balance sheet and
income staement to elimmate distortions caused by inflation; and (iii) integrate corporate and personal
axation to eliminate double taxation of profits and dividends, which discourages equity financing. The
Property Tax Law will consolidate land/property taxes, applying uniform tax rates, and adjustng property
values for iftion. Revemnes from property taxes will be chamelled to the Municipalities, which will
provide them with an important and independent revenue base. In addition, the Government will prepare
and adopt a Tax Package designed to: (i) rationalize sectoral incentive regimes to further broaden the
tax base; (ii) expand the sales tax to previously excluded scvices; and (iii) consolidate selective sales
taxes [Board prentation and tranche release conditions; paras. 700), 720) and 730i)1. Concerning
t  admix  bD, the Government will take measures to restmcture the management of domestc
axation, increase the autonomy of the tax collection agency, update the registry of taxpayers, simplify
the process of regisaion, and strengthen training and information systems. In customs administration,
the Government will establish an appropriate institutonal structre to rationalize functons and
responsibilites, complete the revision of the outdated regional customs system, improve control
mechanis, and introduce a system of er post audits to reduce adminive delays on trade (Letter
of Development Policy).
B. TRADE REGIME AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
47. Reform of the public sector will make a major contribution to improving the investment climate
by reducing crowding out of the private sector, increasing the efficiency of public services, and
rationalizing the structure of the tax system. To complement this process and achieve sustained export-led
growth, reforms are needed to improve the economy's competitiveness, reduce the current anti-export
bias in the incentives system, and enhance the supply response of the private sector. To this end, the
Government will take steps to reduce further the level and dispersion of effective protection, improve
export incentves, remove price and profit margin controls, and modernize the regulatory framework for
public utflities. While these reforms are designed to increase competitveness they are also an integr
part of the effort to achieve a more transparent system of incentives and a less interventionist stat. With
a more radonal and ransparent set of incentives, the Government's role will increasingly focus on
ensuring the efficient operation of markets and safeguarding the interests of consumers.



- 16 -
48.  Exchange Rate Policy. Costa Rica maintained a crawling-peg exchange rate policy since the early
1980s under which the exchange rate was devalued in frequent small steps, interrupted by infrequent
discretionary step devaluations. In January 1992, the Government deregulated the foreign exchange
system, floated the exchange rate, opened the capital account, and eliminated foreign exchange controls,
including prior import deposits for purchases of foreign exchange. At present, the exchange rate is freely
determined by market forces, although the Central Bank intervenes to prevent wide fluctuations in the
value of the Col6n.
49.  Import Tariffs and Trade Barriers. Continuing the process started under the two previous
SALs, the Government will move toward a lower and more uniform tariff structure in order to reduce
the level and dispersion of effective protection. The aim of the Government is to bring most tariffs within
the range 10-20 percent by December 1994, with the exception of items which are bound by GA1T or
are exempted under the Central American Common Market (CACM) agreement. For all the GAIT and
CACM exceptions, excluding apparel, tariffs remain below the 10 percent floor. The import tariff on
apparel will be reduced gradually to a maximum of 25 percent by December 1994, in line with the
CACM agreement. In December 1991, the Government lowered tariffs on motor vehicles from 50-100
percent to 5-20 percent, and announced a timetable for the introduction of tariff cuts every quarter to
reach a maximum tariff rate of 20 percent for most imports by December 1994. The next stage of the
process involved reducing most tariffs to a 10-27 percent range [Board presentation condition; pana.
70(ii)]. During the second stage, by April 1993 most tariffs will be within the range 10-20 percent, with
the exception of footwear, apparel, textiles, and tires [second tranche condition; para. 72(ii)J.
Footwear, textiles and tires will be brought within the 10-20 percent range by December 1994 [third
tranche condition; para. 73(i)].
50.  Costa Rica generally does not rely on non-tariff barriers as an explicit means of protection, but
a number of products have been subject to import or export licensing requirements. As part of its trade
reform program, the Government has eliminated all import and export licensing requirements that are not
mandated by law. There are currently 14 product categories which, through a number of specific laws,
are subject to import or export licensing requirements. Approval of the Deregulation Law (Law to
Promote Competition and Consumer Protection) will eliminate these remaining licensing requirements
(para. 53). The Government will also monitor the application of health, brand registration, phytosanitary
and safety regulations on imports to ensure they are not being used with protective intent (Letter of
Development Policy). As the import liberalization program proceeds, the Government is concerned that
with lower tariff protection, domestic producers will be vulnerable to dumping. To address this
possibility, the Government is preparing anti-dumping regulations to counteract unfair trading practices
including dumping, subsidies and subventions. The regulatory provisions are being elaborated within the
overall framework agreed under CACM and embody principles of independent review, proof of inquiry,
and public scrutiny. The Government will consult with GATr to ensure that its anti-dumping regulations
are GATT-consistent (Letter of Development Policy).
51.  Export Promotion. In addition to the Temporary Admission Scheme (Maqula), and Free Trade
Zones, the Government's main instrument to promote exports and offset the anti-export bias of the trade
regime has been the Export Contract. The Export Contract consolidated export promotion measures
under the stabilization program of 1985-86, and currently covers about 1,200 firms through 1996.
Contract holders receive full tax exemption on income earned on non-traditional exports to non-regional
markets and full tariff exemption on imports used in export production. About 90 percent of the firms
covered also meet minimum national content requirements and therefore qualify for additional subsidies
in the form of tax credit certificates (CATs). CATs are based on a fixed percentage of export value



- 17-
which declines throughout the life of the export contract, and upon maturity may be used to offset
outstanding tax payments owed to the Government. Since holders of export contracts receive virtual tax
exempt status, a secondary market for CATs has developed.
52.  Although the system of Export Contracts has contributed to the growth of non-traditional exports,
it is a discretionary and countervailable subsidy, and carries an extremely high fiscal cost-increasing
from an amount equivalent to almost 1 percent of total government expenditures in 1980 to 5.5 percent
in 1990. Moreover, the sharp reduction in the anti-export bias which will result from the trade reforms
included in the structural adjustment program effectively eliminates the rationale for providing such costly
subsidies to a relatively few firms. Under SAL II, the Government took a number of steps to reduce the
fiscal cost of CATs. Under the current program the Government has announced that no new CATs will
be offered beginning December 2, 1992 [Board presentation condition; para. 70(ii)1. To replace the
system of export subsidies, the Government will adopt and implement a system of drawbacks for duties
paid on imports used in export production based on agreed criteria and procedures [tranche release
conditions; pares. 72(ii) and 73(ii)J. The aim of the Government is to adopt a duty drawback system
which is transparent, simple to operate and which does not subsidize exports.
53. Price and Profit Margin Controls. Over the past 20 years Costa Rica has implemented a
complex system of price and profit iargin controls. The Consumer Protection Law allows the
Government to fix the prices and/or profit margins of all goods, domestically produced or imported. As
of early 1992, the Government fixed the prices of 89 product categories and imposed wholesale and retail
margins (profit margin controls) on all goods. While the Consumer Protection Law requires the
Government to impose specific margin controls on items included in the basic consumption basket, all
other goods have been subject to maximum margins of 30 percent at the wholesale and retail levels. In
addition, the National Electricity Agency (SNE) sets tariffs on public utilities (electricity, telephones,
water, and transport). To improve the efficiency of markets and enhance the supply response of domestic
producers to external trade reform, the Government has initiated a process designed to elininate controls
on economic activity and strengthen the regulatory framework for public utilities. The Government has
adopted a two-pronged strategy to dismantle the system of price and margin controls. The first stage of
the process, initiated during 1992, involves the gradual elimination by decree of price and margin controls
(as well as import and export licenses) that the Government is not legally bound to enforce. The
proposed Deregulation Law will enable the Government to complete the process by eliminating all the
remaini'4, legally-mandated, margin controls (about 170 products in the basic consumption basket) as
well as all remaining import and export licensing requirements. In addition, as part of its efforts to
improve the efficiency of public utilities, the Government has presented to the Assembly a Law for the
Regulation of Public Services, which seeks to strengthen and modernize the regulatory framework, and
to transform SNE into an independent Regulatory Agency for Public Services.
54.  To implement its deregulation program, the Government has eliminated price controls on all goods
except for three products (milk of 2 percent fat content, white sugar, and palm oil/lard) which operate
within highly distorted markets [Board presentation condition; para. 700)]. In order to dismantle the
system of profit margin controls, the Government has prepared a Dereguation Law [Board presentation
condition; para. 70(i)1, which upon enactment [effectiveness condition; pam. 710)1 will enable the
Government to eliminate remaining profit margin controls unless it can be established that existing
distortions seriously constrain market access and competition. The Law will also permit the elimination
of all remaining import and export licensing requirements. The Law will establish an independent
Commission charged with reviewing, at the request of any party, prevailing market conditions. Where
it can be demonstrated that serious market distortions hamper free trade, controls may be imposed on a



' 18-
temporary and exceptional basis only. The Government will Implement the Law in a manner consistent
with the respective objectives in the Letter of Development Policy Itranche release cendidons; paras.
7201) and 73(1)]. As part of its efforts to increase the eficiency of public services, the Government has
established a working group to prepare the necessary regulations to implement the proposed Law for the
Regulation of Public Services and an action plan to administratively restrucwre SNE in line with its new
functions and responsibilities [Board presentation condidon; para. 7001)1. The Government will enact
the Law for the Regulation of Public Services, enact the reguations to Implemet the Law, and
implement the action plan to restructure SNE Itranche release condidons; paras. 72i1) and 7301)J.
C. FINANCIAL SECTOR
55. An efficient and competitive financial system is essential to support the structural transformation
king place in the productive sectors. The ability of the system to mobilize and allocate capital
efficiendy will be critical to the success of the Government's efforts to achieve a more competitive and
export-oriented economic structure. Under SAL II, the Government took steps to reduce discrimination
against private banks, upgrade the portfolio of state-owned banks, and improve supervision of the
financial system. Although considerable progress has been achieved, the development of Costa Rica's
fimancial and capital markets, wid the involvement of the private sect%s have lagged considerably relative
to other sectors of the economy. Given the current lack of political consensus for privatization of state
banks, the Government has aimed at strengthening the competitive position of the private sector, thereby
exaerting pressure on state banks to improve efficiency and gradually weaken the political case agait
privaization.
56.  The financial sector faces a number of constraints. First, statowned commercial banks have
benefitted from discriminatory regulations vis-)-vLs private financial intermediaries: exclusive access to
the Central Bank as lender of last resort, a legal monopoly on demand and savings deposits, no mii
capital requirements, and a higher leverage ratio. Despite these advantages, state-owned banks are highly
inefficient, mainly as a consequence of political interference, overstffing and operational rigidities.
Second, the rapid growth of private financial intermediaries has outstripped the system's regulatory
capacity. The attention of AGEF, the supervisory agency, has focussed largely on vering compliance
with exisig regulations in a mostly public financial system, where little risk to depositors was assumed
to exist. AGEF's supervisory capabilities and powers to enforce sanctions are not well defined and need
to be both clarified and strengthened. Moreover, a number of important instiutions are not subject to
AGEF supervision or Central Bank oversight, namely the Popular Bank, the Housing Bank (BANHVI
and credit cooperatives. Third, although monetary and financial policies have become increasingly
liberal, there is a need to ensure that progress is maintined by improving the transparency and market
orientation of monetary policy, and by avoiding new generalized debt reschedulings and limiting credit
subsidies. Fourth, development of an efficient insurance sector is constrained by the sta 's legal
monopoly on all insurance and reinsurance activity.
57.  The Banking Sector. Most of Costa Rica's banking institutions were nationaized in 1948. Only
in recent years have private financial intermediaries become again significan players in the financial
system. In 1983, private commercial banks provided only 4 percent of total bank credit, whereas today
they account for over 30 percent of all new loans. However, the system is still dominated by the four
state-owned commercW banks. Although finmce companies were initially conceived as longer-term
borrowing and lending instiuons, the dramatic term shortening that occurred in financial operations as
a result of the macroeconomic imbalances of the 1980s, blurred the disfinctions between banIs and



- 19 -
fhnance companies. The present operations of finance companies are essentially the same as commercial
banks.
58. To reduce discrimination against private financial institutions, increase competition and lower
intermediation costs, the reform program will provide all regulated private financial intermediaries access
to a lender of last resort facility at the Central Bank, and will allow all private commercial banks to
accept investment certificates of any maturity which can operate as close substitutes for short-term
deposits. At present, only state-owned commercial banks and cooperative banks have direct access to
the Central Bank facility. Providing private banks a lender of last resort facility would increase safety
and confidence in the private financial system. As part of the reform process, in January 1992 the
Central Bank established a fund (externally financed) for lending to private banks facing temporary
liquidity shortfalls. The Government will maintain the lender of last resort facility for private banks and
extend the scheme to private finance companies [second tranche condidon, para. 72(1)]. In January
1992, the Central Bank also authorized private commercial banks to receive 31-day and over local
cunrency deposits (imvestment certificates) and lowered the reserve requirement for 31- to 180-day
deposits. Since under the Banking Law private bans cannot accept deposits, the Government has firther
strengthened the deposit base of private banks by allowing them to accept short-term deposits (investment
certificates) of any maturity [Board presentation condition, para. 70(1i)].
59. Prudential Supervision. The reforms designed to level the playing field for private fimancial
institutions and increase competition in financial intermediation require a strong and effective supervisory
body. Under SAL I the Government took some initial steps to modernize AGEF, especially in terms
of developing its capabilities for financial analysis and asset valuation. AGEF's modernization program
needs to be continued with particular focus on strengthening prudential norms, their enforcement, and
their coverage. To this end, the Government has prepared [Bcard presentation condition; para. 70(i1)]
and wi1l implement [trandbe release conditions; parms. 72fi1) and 73(11)] an agreed action plan to
strengthen the prudential supervision of the financial system and continue with the AGEF modernization
program. The action plan, which is being supported by IlDB under the Sector Investment Loan and
Multisector Credit Project, includes time-bound actions to: (i) develop prudential norms; (ii) enable
AGEF to enforce prudential norms and apply sanctions; (iii) restructure AGEF to increase its
Independence and efficiency; and (iv) implement a technical assistance program to support these reforms.
As part of the reforms supported by IIDB, the Government will also propose legislation which extends
the concept of financial intermediary to include Banco Popular and BANHVI, thereby bringing these
institutions within the purview of Central Bank and AGEF supervision (Letter of Development Policy).
In addition, the Government will enact legislation establishing AGEF oversight of credit cooperatives
[second tranche release condition; para. 72011)1, many of which are in severe financial distress.
60.  Supportive Monetary and lFlanclal PoUdes. Present monetary and financial policies followed
by the Central Bank are fairly liberal: interest rates are mostly set by the market, credit allocation is y
longer practiced, restrictions on asset-liabilities growth have been lifted, reserve requirements are
reasonably low, and a high rediscount rate prevails. The current liberal monetary policy for local and
foreign currency transactions will be maintined. Although under SAL II the Government discontinued
geaeralized debt reschedulings, the topic of a moratorium or some similar arrangement resurfaces from
time to time. Even raising the possibility that further reschedulings are being considered is in itself
detrimental to the collection efforts of state-owned banks, given that borrowers must have overdue loans
to benefit. In the context of the proposed Loan, the Government has provided an undertaking tt no new
generalized debt reschedulings will be considered during the program period (Letter of Development
Poliy). Limits on subsidized credit introduced under SAL I will be maintained as well as their



- 20 -
definition broadened to include loans granted from external sources and by adding an intermediation
margin to determine the reference rate [Board presentation and tranche release conditions; paras.
701iii), 72(iii) and 73(iii)]. At present, any loan carrying a rate below the Central Bank basic rate (an
average of deposit rates) is considered subsidized credit. The reference rate will be increased by adding
a spread of 3 percentage points to the basic rate. In the area of monetary policy, the Central Bank will
adopt open market operations and develop an auction system for the sale of Government securities (Letter
of Development Policy). In addition, the Government will resolve the problem of the Central Bank's
losses aLetter of Development Policy). These losses, which the Central Bank finances by issuing its own
paper, are mainly the result of losses on domestic and external indebtedness incurred on behalf of the
Government. Central Bank assets which incur losses and are managed on behalf of the Government wIll
be transferred to the Central Government in exchange for long-term bonds issued to the Central Bank by
the Government, and the Government will assume responsibility for meeting external debt payments
currently serviced by the Central Bank. These changes wil! have no net fiscal impact but will rationalize
the Central Bank's balance sheet.
61.  The Isurance Sector. The public sector enjoys a legal monopoly in the insurance sector, which
it exercises through the national insurance company (INS). The Government intends to demonopolize
the sector, which would allow competition and thus improve the availability, quality and price of
insurance services. Opening up the insurance sector combined with the establishment of a private pension
system (para. 67) will provide a powerful stimulus to the development of capital markets in Costa Rica.
The establishment of private insurance companies will require not only eliminating the state monopoly,
but also setting up a competent supervisory body and developing an appropriate regulatory framework
for the operation of private companies. Insurance for work-related accidents currently provided by INS,
which in Costa Rica is considered a social benefit, will be transferred to CCSS. The Government has
prepared a satisfactory proposal to eliminate the insurance monopoly by 1996 and a time-bound program
for the creation of an insurance supervisory body [Board presentation condition; para. 700ii)J.
Legislation will be enacted to enable the operation of private insurance companies no later than 30 months
after the legislation enters into force, and to set up an insurance supervisory body [second tranche
condition; para. 72(iii)J. The transition period is required to staff and train the regulatory agency and
to prepare an appropriate regulatory framework for the sector. The Government will issue all the
necessary regulations relating to the insurance legislation and make the insurance supervisory body
operational [third tranche condition; para. 73(ii)].
D. SOCIAL SECTORS AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION
62.  Costa Rica's problem is not lack of social spending, but rather, the relatively inefficient operation
of existing programs. Social sector programs and poverty alleviation efforts suffer from a number of
problemg: (i) with a few exceptions, the distribution of subsidies in social assistance programs is not
effectively channeled to the poor but is widely dispersed across income groups; (ii) the administrative and
personnel costs of social programs absorb a large share of total spending, thereby leaving insufficient
amounts for actual transfers to the poor; (iii) there is lack of coordination and considerable duplication
among institutions and programs-rather than specializing, most agencies seek to cover a full range of
social programs, with their own selection criteria and list of beneficiaries; and (iv) the pension system
is highly discriminatory, largely untargeted and financially unsustainable. The combination of these
factors has led to a system where some beneficiaries are receiving duplicate benefits while others,
especially in backward rural areas, receive few or no benefits. Moreover, the system's fragmentation



- 21 -
makes It difficult to determine how much is effectively spent in each area and to evaluate the impact of
social programs.
63.  The current administration has taken a number of steps to protect vulnerable groups during the
adjustment period and improve the redistributive impact of social spending. Flrst, in 1991 the
Government launched a food stamp program for single women with small children, old people not
covered by the pension system, and the disabled. The program is proving effective and will directly
reach about 37,500 beneficiaries in 1992. Second, the housing subsidy program, initiated under the
previous administmion, consisted of a voucher for a variable amount (depending on income and family
size) given to selected families to help them purchase a house. The voucher was not a direct subsidy but
a loan to be repaid at low interest rates over a number of years. The present administration converted the
voucher into a direct subsidy financed through the budget. Over the past two years vouchers have
assisted in the construction of over 40,000 new homes, with over half in rural areas. There is litde
information, however, on the redistributive impact of the program and the effectiveness of the selection
criteria. To further strengthen the program, the Government is considering a system along the lines
developed in Chile whereby points are assigned to qualify for the subsidy based on a minimum and
sustained level of savings, and the number of dependents. Third, in August 1991, the Government
initiated a program of community-based child care centers with support from UNICEF, WFP and other
donors. These centers are targeted to children less than six years of age in poor urban areas and are
mndeled on the Colombian and Venezuelan programs. The centers are run by the mothers themselves,
with the Government providing only limited resources and supervision. Despite the short duration of the
program these centers currently cover about 2,700 children in major urban areas. Given the successful
experience in other countries in terms of increasing coverage at relatively low cost, the Government is
evaluatn the potential for expanding this program.
64. In addition to the measures discussed above, the Government's social sector reform program to
be supported by SAL HI has three major components: (i) improving the targeting and coverage of social
programs; (ii) strengthening retraining efforts to absorb displaced public sector workers in the private
sector; and (iii) reforming the pension system. These reforms are designed to protect groups affected by
the structural reform program, improve the efficiency and equity of social spending, and provide a
sounder fiscal base for social programs. Other key reforms in the social sectors will be supported under
the Bank's ongoing Primary Education and the proposed Health Sector Projects.
65. Social Targeting. Recognizing the need to avoid duplications and gaps in coverage, as well as
improving the monitoring and evaluation of social programs, the Government is making efforts to
improve Information systems. Two types of information systems are being developed with UNDP
support. The first is the national registry of beneficiaries of social programs, based on a single form
containing basic information on age, sex, employment status, education, housing conditions and income.
IMAS (the Social Welfare Institute) will manage the registry, which will cover all beneficiaries of social
programs (an estimated 120,000 households) and will be used by social sector institutions to help detect
duplications and gaps in coverage. The second is a Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS),
which will complement the base line data gathered in the registry and will provide the mechanism to
evaluate the impact of major social programs. The national registry of beneficiaries and the design of
the LSMS have been completed [Board presentation condition; pars. 70ov)J. The LSMS field survey
will be finalized by March 1993. These two information systems will provide the basis for the
preparation and implementation of a social action plan to improve the impact of social programs [tranche
release conditions; paras. 72(lv) and 73Qv)].



-22 -
66. Labor Retraining. In order to enhance the effectiveness of its labor mobility program and to
assist employees leaving the public sector, the Government has developed and will implement an agreed:
program to retrain displaced government workers [Board preetation and tranche conditions; pas.
70(iv), 72fiv) and 730v)J. This program will form part of a wider effort, currently under preparation
with assistance from IDB, to strengthen the national trairing institution (INA) and encourage the
development of effective firm-based training programs for displaced workers. Under this program, INA
will assign priority to the retraining of public sector employees both in terms of specific courses offered
and the development of firm-based training programs.
67. Pension Reform. Costa Rica's public social security system, which is financed by contributions
from employers, employees and the Government (a mixture of pay-as-you-go and public funding) is
highly discriminatory due to the large number of different pension regimes, financially unsustainable and
carries a high fiscal cost. Over the long-term, the Government's aim is to develop a self-financing
system, including increased participation by the private sector, which will enable the state to restrict
subsidies to the poorest workers-those whose accumulated funds are insufficient to cover a minimm
pension and to the poor who are not enrolled in the social security system. The Government's pension
reform program, which represents the first critical step in this process, has four major elements; (i)
improving the actuarial position of the national social security agency (CCSS); (ii) unifying all pension
regimes under common rules regarding benefits and contributions; (ii) transforming the public pension
system from an entitlement program to a capitalization fund; and (iv) creating a system of complementary
private pensions. In early 1992, the Government adopted new operational rules for CCSS, which
increased the minimum pensionable qualifying age and modified other elements of the benefit structure
in order to strengthen the financial position of CCSS. At the same time, the Government reformed the
pension scheme for teachers, by far the largest and most generous of the special pension regimes, by
capping the maximum fiscal contribution, tightening eligibility criteria, and modifying the formula to
determine benefits. Two additional legal changes are required to complete this phase of the pension
reform program. In order to unify special regimes outside of CCSS a new General Framework Pension
Regime Law has been approved [Board presentation condition; para. 70(lv)J which brings special
regimes (except for teachers and employees of the judicial system) under common rules and sets limits
to the overly generous benefits of these regimes. To complement the public pension system, the
Government has presented to the Assembly a Law of Complemertary Pensions whicih upon enactment
[second tranche condition; para. 720v)] will stimulate the development of private pension funds, and
thus enable employees to supplement their public pensions and tailor their contributions and benefits to
their own needs.
Part .I. THE PROPOSE LOAN
A. BACKGROUND
68. The Bank initiated an active policy dialogue with the Government soon after the new administration
took office in May 1990. A first outline of the Government's structural adjustment program was
presented in a letter to the Bank in July 1991, which was later followed up with a more detailed statement
presented to the Consultative Group meeting in September 1991. During this period, the Government
took a number of steps to initiate some of the preparatory work to design its reform program and in a
number of instances began adopting some key measures. At the Consultative Group Meeting held in
March 1992, the Government provided additional details of its refbrm program and updated the donor



- 23 -
community on progress achieved to that date. Further progress was made during a pre-appraisal mission
In April 1992. On the basis of this program, appraisal of SAL m took place in June-July 1992.
B. CONDMTIONS FOR TRANCHE RELEASE
69.  The loan proceeds would be disbursed over an estimated 16-20 month period in three tranches of
US$35 million (effectiveness), US$35 million (second tranche) and US$30 million (third tranche). The
first tranche would be available for disbursement upon loan effectiveness. A further 8-10 months would
be required to meet the conditions for second tranche and another 8-10 months for third tranche. The
proposed closing date is April 30, 1995. In addition to the monitorable actions specified below, tranche
releases would be contingent upon the maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework and
satisfaory progress in overall program implementation as outlined in the Goverment's Lewer of
Development Policy (Annex C).
70.  The following polcy actions have been taken before Board presentation:
(I)   Publc Sector Reform: approval of the Law of Public Works Concession (para. 40), and the Law
to Privatize CEMPASA and FERTICA (para. 41); submission to the Assembly of the Law to
Privatize FANAL; formation of an ad hoc group with agreed terms of reference to study the
petroleum sector (para. 41); achievement of the 1991-92 target for employment reduction (para.
42); initiation of the new budgeting system on a pilot basis for the 1993 budget in six public sector
etties (para. 44); and submission to the Assembly of the Tax Efficiency Law and the Property
Tax Reform Law, and preparation of a Tax Package (para. 45);
(ii)  Trade Regime and Regulatory Framework: reduction of most import tariffs to a 10-27 percent
range (para. 49); announcement that no new CATs will be offered (para. 52); eliminaion of price
controls on all goods (except for milk, sugar and palm oil/lard); preparation of an acceptable
Deregulation Law to eliminate most remaining profit margin controls, and import and export
licensing requirements; and establishment of a working group to prepare the necessary regulations
to Implement the proposed Law for the Regulation of Public Services and an action plan to
restructure SNE in line with its new functions and responsibilities (par. 54);
(iii)  lnancal Sector: allow private commercial banks to accept short-term deposits (investment
certificates) of any maurity (para. 58); agreement on an action plan to strengthen the regulatory
framework of the financial system and continue AGEF's modernization ptogram (para. 59);
maintenance of restrictions on subsidized credit, and broadening of the definition to include loans
from  xternl sources and change the reference rate to basic rate plus three points (para. 60);
preparation of legislation enabling the operation of private insurance companies not later than 30
months after legislation enters into force, and providing for the setting up of an insurance
supervisory body (para. 61); and
(iv)  Soial Sectors and Poverty Alleviaon: completion of the national registry of beneficiaries and
design of the Living Standards Measurement Survey (para. 65); agreement on a program to retrain
displaced public sector workers (para. 66); and approval of the General Framework Pension
Regime Law (pam. 67).



- 24 -
71. The following actions would be conditions of effectiveness:
(i)   Enactment of the Economic Democratzation Law (para. 40) and the Deregulation Law (para. 54).
72.  The following actions would be second tranche conditions:
(i)   Public Sector Reform: bringing to the point of sale CEMPASA and FERTICA, and completion
of a study and action plan for reform of the petroleum sector (para. 41); substantial achievement
of the 1993 target for employment reduction (para. 42); preparation of a satisfactory action plan,
based on an evaluation of the pilot experience, for a comprehensive reform of the budgetary
system (para. 44); and enactment of the Tax Efficiency Law and the Property Tax Reform Law,
and submission to the Assembly of a Tax Package (para. 46);
(ii)  Trade Regime and Regulatory Framework:  implementation of import tariff range 10-20
percent, except for the exempted items (para. 49); adoption of export duty drawback scheme based
on agreed criteria and procedures (para. 52); implementation of the Deregulation Law in a manner
consistent with the objectives of the Letter of Development Policy; and enactment of the Law to
Regulate Public Services, enactment of the regulations to implement the Law, and initiation of the
action plan to restructure SNE in line with its new functions and responsibilities (para. 54);
(iii) Financial Sector: implementation of a scheme to allow private finance companies access to the
Central Bank as lender of last resort in cases of temporary liquidity shortfalls (para. 58);
satisfactory progress in implementation of action plan to strengthen the regulatory framework of
the financial sector and the modernization of AGEF; enactment of legislation establishing AGEF
oversight of credit cooperatives (para. 59); maintenance of restrictions on s nbsidized credit (para.
60); and enactment of legislation enabling the operation of private insurance companies not later
than 30 months after legislation enters into force and setting up of insurance supervisory body
(para. 61); and
(iv) Social Sectors and Povery Alleviation: adopt and begin implementation of agreed social action
plan based on results of the national registry of beneficiaries and the Living Standards
Measurement Survey (para. 65); satisfactory implementation of the retraining program for
displaced public sector workers (para. 66); and enactment of the Law of Complementary Pensions
(para. 67).
73.  The following actions would be third tranche conditions:
(i) Public Sector Reform: bringing FANAL to the point of sale, and begin implementation of agreed
action plan to reform petroleum sector (para. 41); substantial achievement of the 1994 target for
employment reduction (para. 42); satisfactory implementation of action plan to reform the
budgetary system (para. 44); and enactment of the Tax Package (para. 46);
(ii)  Trade Regime and Regulatory Framework: implementation of tariff range 10-20 percent for
footwear, textiles, and tires (para. 49); satisfactory progress in implementation of export duty
drawback system (para. 52); implementation of Deregulation Law in a manner consistent with the
objectives of the Letter of Development Policy; and satisfactory implementation of the action plan
to restructure SNE (para. 54);



- 25 -
(iii) IFinandal Sector: complete implementation of action plan to strengthen the regulatory framework
for the financial sector and the modernization of AGEF (para. 59); and enactment of all the
necessary regulations relating to insurance legislation and having made the insurance supervisory
body operational (para. 61); and
(iv) Social Sectors and Poverty Alleviation: satisfactory implementation of social action plan (para.
65); and satisfactory implementation of the retraining program for displaced public sector workers
(para. 66).
C. PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
74. Loan proceeds would be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of general imports (goods and
relevant foreign services), excluding goods financed by other bilateral and multilateral agencies, luxury
goods, military equipment, and other goods specifically prohibited in a negative list defined under the
Standard International Trade Classification or equivalent classification. Retroactive financing not
exceeding 20 percent of the loan amount (US$20 million) would be allowed for eligible expenditures
incurred since September 1, 1992.
75.  A recent draft Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) by the Bank concluded that the
Financial Administration Law [Ley de la Adminstracidn F7aciera de la Repdbllca No. 12799 dated
Aprfl 30, 1951 and its Contracting Regulations [Reglamento de la Contratacidn Admirsrativa, No. 7576-
Hi dated October 26, 1977, which govern public procurement, promote contracting on the basis of
competitive bidding and follow procedures which are generally consistent with Bank guidelines. Under
the CPAR, the Bank carried out a survey of the procurement procedures followed by the private sector
and determined that private companies generally follow acceptable commercial practices, among which
the most current is the request for price quotations from suppliers included in established lists. On the
basis of the CPAR findings, the following procurement procedures would be applied:
(i) Imported goods by public and private sector entities valued at US$5 million equivalent or more
would be procured through simplified international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines, except for future petroleum imports for which competitive
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, would be used. For petroleum imports being supplied under
existing contracts, relevant expenditures would qualify for reimbursement under the loan in an
amount not to exceed on a per unit basis the reference average FOB price published in the Platt's
Oilgram for the US Gulf Coast or the Caribbean, as applicable, on the date of loading and adjusted
for the type and quality of crude or product. No finance charge on such contract would be eligible
for reimbursement under the loan. A similar criterium would apply to the reimbursement of
expenditures under existing contracts for other commodities for which the reference unit price
would be the average price posted by a recognized commodity exchange; and
(ii) Imports valued at below US$5 million equivalent would be procured in the case of: (a) public
sector entities, in accordance with the procedures applicable to them as governed by Law No.
1279; and (b) private importers, in accordance with established commercial pracices which have
been reviewed and found satisfactory to the Bank, including whenever appropriate price quotations
from eligible suppliers from at least two countries, except where direct contracting may be
appropriate under para. 3.5 of Bank procurement guidelines.



- 26 -
76. Disbursements of each tranche would be made against import documentation received from the
Central Bank of Costa Rica, which would be responsible for collection of the relevant documentation and
submission of loan withdrawal applications. The Bank will follow the simplified documentation
procedures for adjustment operations described in the recent Board note on this subject (SecM92-767;
June 8, 1992). For those contracts valued at less than US$5 million equivalent each, the Bank would
reimburse the Ministry of Finance on the basis of Statement of Expenditures prepared from the customs
certificates. They would show that eligible goods at least equal in value to the amount requested from
the Bank had been imported into the country during the period under consideration. The custonu
certificate and other supporting information will be retained by the Central Bank for review by Bank
supervision missions and for subsequent audit by external auditors acceptable to the Bank. In addition
to standard auditing covenants providing for annual audits and audit reports submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of each calendar year, a separate pre-audit report would be submitted
to the Bank before the disbursement of each tranche.
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
77. The Government has secured external funds from UNDP and USAID for technical assistance (TA)
to support preparation and implementation of actions included in the adjustment program. The
Government is also receiving technical assistance from IDB and a number of bilateral sources, including
Norway and Mexico, in the design of some key reform components. In addition, the Government plans
to allocate US$ 2 million of SAL m counterpart resources to finance TA needs. In consultation with the
Bank, the TA will be targeted on priority areas, including: (i) implementation of public wors
concessions; (ii) restructuring of the petroleum sector; (iii) budgetary reform; Civ) strengthening of the
regulatory framework for public utilities; (v) implementation of deregulation legislation; (vi) design and
Implementation of export duty drawback scheme; (vii) implementation of AGEF modernizationplan; and
(viii) processing of LSMS results.
E. COFINANCING
78.  IDB is cofinancing the public sector reform component of SAL m with a US$80 million quick-
disbursing Public Sector Reform Loan approved by the IDB Board on January 6, 1993. IDB
disbursements will be timed with the Bank's tranche releases under the proposed loan. Another IDB
operation, the Investment Sector Loan and Multisector Credit Project (US$170 million), would
complement the reforms included in SAL m by deepening financial sector reforms, encouraging the
development of capital markets, improving the overall investment climate, and strengthening labor
retraining programs. The 1DB loan would include US$120 million in balance of payments support and
US$50 million as a line of credit to finance private investment. USAID has supported the proposed SAL
m thrugh TA and has conditioned debt forgiveness of about US$200 million through the Enterprise for
the Americas Initiative on satisfactory progress in implementation of the Government's structu
adjustment program.
F. PROGRAM BENEFITS AND RISKS
79. Successful implementation of the Government's adjustment program is necessary to achieve a
structural reform of the public sector that can both lay the foundation for more prudent fiscal policies and



-27 -
Improve efficiency. Complementary reforms to liberalize the economy and improve competition in the
financial system are required to stimulate efficient private sector growth, absorb former public employees
into the private sector, and diversify the economy's export base. A more streamlined public sector and
a more diversified production base wiUl encourage higher economic growth, improve creditworthiness and
reduce Costa Rica's vulnerability to external shocks and the recurrence of macroeconomic disequilibria
prompted by inappropriate fiscal policies. On the social front, the proposed reforms would enable Costa
Rica to resume progress in further reducing poverty and maintaining its impressive social record, while
at the same time limiting the fiscal cost of ensuring a more equitable society.
80.  The proposed operation faces a number of external and domestic risks. Although there has been
substantial progress in economic management, Costa Rica's external position will continue to be fragile
over the next 2-3 years, and especially vulnerable to external shocks. Any further marked deterioration
in coffee prices and increased restrictions on banana imports by the EEC would substantially increase
balance of payments pressures. Net official reserves are currently equivalent to just under two months
of imports. Under these circumstances, the Government could be tempted to reverse its structural reform
program, especially trade liberalization and/or allow arrears to build up. Given the external debt
structure further recourse to the Paris Club in the event of unforeseen debt servicing problems would be
difficult. Costa Rica's experience with the implementation of adjustment measures, however, suggests
at the risk of policy reversals is small. Although reform measures have been delayed at times due to
the legislative and consensus-building process, there have been no major policy reversals over the past
decade. Nonetheless, to address the risk of external shocks the Bank will intensify efforts, in consultation
with the IMF, to monitor economic performance and be prepared to advise the Government in the event
of adverse external developments.
81.  On the domestic front, there are three major risks. First, the Government could waver on its
commitment to implement the comprehensive measures in the program, especially given that 1993 is a
pre-election year and vested interests may have greater sway in the political process. Second,
implementation of SAL m will be inidated under the present administration, but will be completed under
a new government which will take office in May 1994. ThIrd, implementation of many of the reforms
supported by the SAL program will require legWative changes which must be approved by the Assembly.
Approving legislation can be a slow, drawn out process. Moreover, Costa Rica has an active
Constitutional Tribunal (la IV) which, at the request of any individual or group, is empowered to
review the constitutionality of any existing regulation or law. Thus, the possibility exists that some of
the reform measures may take a long time to be implemented or may be contested.
82. The Government is aware that effective implementation of its reform program will require a
number of legal reforms and a strong national consensus. The program has been designed to minimize
these risks. Fhrst, the Government has pre-announced or began implementing many of the more
important reforms included in the program. In addition, many of the critical steps required to sustain
progress have been taken as conditions of Board presentation. Second, although implementation of the
program will have to be completed by a new administration, key reform actions will have been initiated
or be substantialy under way by this date. Over the past year, the Government has implemented a
number of reforms through administrative measures, made considerable progress in drafting the necessary
legislation, and in a number of critical cases has already submitted new legislation to the Assembly.
Third, in desZgning its program, the Government has actively sought the early involvement of the
opposition, including through the formation of a bi-partisan Parliamentary Commission for Reform of
the State, and has periodically consulted the opposition and affected groups on critical reforms in other



-28 -
areas. Although the legislative agenda remains large, the Government expects that these preparatory steps
will help facilitate approval of the needed reforms.
Part IV. IBRD/IMF COLLABORATION
83. The Bank has worked closely with the IMF in preparing SAL III. The IMF has provided technical
assistance to the Government on reform of the tax system and in options for dealing with Central Bank
losses. The last stand-by arrangement was finalized in September 1992 and the Government has reached
agreement with the IMF on a new 12-month arrangement. The IMF expects to present the new stand-by
arrangement to its Board in early May 1993.
Part V. RECOMMENDATION
84.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with IBRD's Articles of Agreement and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 10, 1993



ANNEX A
STANDARD TABLES
ECONOMIC INDICATORS



Social Indicakn ofD*vWm%Ig991
*;sto Rke                        OD 2.10 -- Annex A
Page  1 of 2
Su%gr0w1%pj mpi ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     Smr~aiaeugra
~Mew                                      uf 2
l5q64G t; 49~~~~~~~~~~~,wa   4333fl                                         6210       45831
1~~~~~t  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    3 ~~~~~  3.8
F  pal t pl Omaha                                     311         1        471       73J        586        71.8
Frbn p-  100
a1~~~~ ~3.2          2.5        2.6        19        2.0       1.7
4.0       393        35        2a         32        287
UA=Numdv0n&Fbwdi                      _dium               12         13        La         2.9       2.4        3.6
pop_:   2000                                 .A _   51507    768,976    541X29
sP~~~~~~~~~~~~57                                                        . .   .   -W_
DateltDi fbrqwe wo
Tude irtho4                                                       29.5       25.6      27.0       29.5      24.9
Toaal fenlBzyvuin        lJIsewrajt,                    6.26   ,407          30        3.30       3.74      3.1t
ChW(0-4)/w-    t     L(" d
un                    -        43         44
1~~                                            ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~ 77-  59         _         ..        _
Onde-  PF.#tLSF.  7L.8   4.8                                       7.9
71.8      3784                .474  4      9.5      41.8
W2   57.0      75         49.
Ueexpeqeth:> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 661B7Q7J 2 
Labor t ern (9                                                                R696)
Toml bwfo                                                 446       63        1,      13S43    27,840    17,335
AgvicWm                            *1                                                         23a 469  26  12
IN        19.1                 2627 
PLhape lOmsAm                                                      118       114        106
fault                                       iQi                            35.2       4Q.6      383
1Q.2               1U3        186        25.6      233
Edmrtbnasl a*SIm.Adibr fr
Slcol yewn    _wm                                                    64          _    _ 
NATURAL RESOURCE
Area                                       . l           51         Si        51     20397      22,765     18709
tloadah                                        30    411    A                  3          4 3    343
9nd  =   g56 9     66          70
D_(^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. *.0.QO                                         *5    .0.5   .05
Ace= toa =to                               fp                       72.0      910        732                  80u0
Usban                                                             lQ        IIIQ       83.6       782        88.7
Rmural                                                                                           560   #"0 ^1 46.9  63.8
Populatio  grwibIfatmrtlt                                                   Primary school enrolm t
sU
4 
s leo               40 * - -
zb*    *^                * ,                             -* -^  _                       p7b       ma
72



Soe    Indk        fDevelopueut 1991-92
Costa Rca                             OD 2.10 -- Annex A
Page 2 of 2
S.. ?q         ..   -   --ee~e~    N
25.30      15.20      Aeea,      L.         La -
Unaof           YWn  ati i
XCOME AND POVERTY
Income
ONPprchaz(mme-1990)                          USS              400        950       1.900      2480        1.530      3,450
rotalushodoldmcn
Sbar ta lq1%  fos6 aids                 Ii of mome.          44                     39          ..     9    .
Shba to top 20%f hof Old                % * 9:a  _ 
Shar to bcsu  4of hansswlda5
ShaeoWtbom4f0%obomsely"                                       13         32         12          _           _
S o 56 .   3          3          .3          -          .
Povet 7
Aoutepovtyicom b                        UMpan      _ _   _ _
Pop. in *bsOuI  powv:                        of _ _ Pop, 
Prvalaca o(manutridam (mndees)           %of age slowP          .          _
WENDrrURET
Food                                       %*(GDP
Staples
MtPek fib milk, ch_e qRp *                                                                       - _.
Mcaun    r *ish. mil .,               ,Lim                   74         113        326      19.47,     38.868      39.280
Food sid                                  - cai  '    ~                1         60
Foodpwducdaz per caplia                  1979-81=100         763        107.9       91.2       11B2        98        106.
aGPo2*23.5  2.3       16.0        10.2       168         9.0
Shar  .f a       nperv                                       2-D7 2? ,573          2,.86      2,726       2,78       3
grampcr=u              58         60         66         68          72        077
HooUsng                                    S  of GDP            _          ..          -          _                      -
A e:hosehoA sizep perb ehold
Fixed mvtumac hoasizg                 pmwaaPehabi                          6                      -     
Fixcd    n _ h                  S of GD?                   ..               _          __ 
Fud and  er                                * of GDP_?           -           -          .                                 _
Eslagypq. a          kg of oil equival     267.1      500.4       6220      1.060.     1,102.2    1.7944
Ulban                                  *ofbuseolds          9 S
Rurl                                                        31.6
Transport and cammcsok                     I of GDP             -    _                 -    _                  
Plaapunperpu#Ca      . 'cat.                                  66         33          19         14         24          11
Fixed imvawia  uasuponequipmet             %oGD                                                     
Totul road lngth                             kIn                _                 35,S34
Poplnopertelepka                      -    peracau        _                16          6     _     .     _    .
Mmdcalcame                                 %otGD?                                      -
Ppulaidnpcr.pbysdc                          perfaaa          2.M1          ..        97         96.
nun..                                         63          6           5          7
hospdb_d
Ac    tohmadcam                            %of pop.
Immutiza (ueder 12 wls):niiraam          % of at'smo WV                     -        90.        74:7       6S.3       783
Im 1d  u12o DPr  'f-dtv,we                        - _      9S.0        745        67.1       815
Ol RbdidoalE Thsry usa (MdeS)             % of co                *                 78.0        44.5       39.8
EducaUco                                   %OfGDP               ...                               .          .
Gross  uxsrOl %a                              o oup          106.0      107.0       100.0      107.4      100.       1OS.9
Px y                                  -     "       105.0      106.0       ".0                    97.4
Seondazy total            .                                208        42$0        41.0       471        5            3
finale                                25.0~~~~~~~~w  45.0    42.0       Su.        56.        589
T% ofs gUisy Sm a       32        14.4        1l3 I                    _
parb padt              27         29          32         25         26          25
18         24         22          -          15
Pupilsma Vd 4            .                                                           Tofaot  _-  79  94  693  86.7    77.8
Repeals,   pI *of a                                towrownt   13.9        6.         113        19.9        66         17.6
Micnicy MA. ovmu    s                      11S         IIA~~11.    7.2       15         22.9        15.1
f] jtsovemU               q %Off=     lSj)         .0        l            9        17.2       28.         17.7
Newsperciwladaz                         per thou p.          74.2       84          71.2       $1.9       72.0       100.9
Soaa.v              ..    .9 *



STANDARD ANNEXES
COSTA RICA - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS oDtioAunas
Paelot i
| . ~~~~~EMMMM"                                                                                  . - M. ME  
REALGROWTH RATES:
Oross Domestic Product (ODP)        0.8    3.4    5.6    36    2.1    4.0    3.5    4S         52     5.5
Orm Domestic Income (GDI)           1.1    2.8    33      13     4.S    2.8    3.3    4.S    51       53
REPAL PER CAPITA GROWTH RATES:
Gnss Domestic Product (GDP)        -2.3    0.7    2.9    1.1   -03       1.6    12     2.2    3.1    3.6
Total ConsumptIon                  -43    -0.4    3.2    3.0    1A       2.8   -3.7    0.8    29      3.6
Private consumption                4.8    0.5    3.8    3.8    20    4.0    4.9    0.3    1.6    S.6
DEWT INDICATOR9:
Total DOTO (Mllion USS) /a.      2,738  4,265  4,218  3,691   4,032  4,184   4,392  4,481   4,441  4,174
Total DOD/Expos O&S (%) Ia.       220.0  257.1  216.2  177.7  1783   1712   160.5  143.7  113.8   65.4
Total DOD/Curent GDP (%) Ia        56.7   93.0   813    64.7   72.    66.7   63.4   58.8   48.0   31A
Debt see MLT (Minion USS) /b.     338    665    755    581    46S    487    S18    541    613    720
Debt service MLT/Exports G&S (%)    272    40.1   38.7   28.0   20.6   19.9   18.9   173    15.7   11.3
Debt service MLT/Current GDP (%)    7.0   14.5   145    10.2    8.4    7.8    75       7.1    6.6    SA
Interest MLT (Milon USS) lb.       174    294    342    229    240    190    217    273    29S    284
Interest MLTlExports G&S (%)       14.0   17.7   17.5   11.0   10.6    7.8    7.9    8.8    7.6    4A
Interest MLT/Current GDP (%)        3.6    6.4    6.6    4.0    43       3.0    3.1    3.6    3.2    2.1
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (as a shre of GDP)
Total Investment                   26.6   24.0   26.0   27.1   23.1   222    23.0   232    23.S   24.0
Public fixed                       92     4.1    4.5    4.7    43       4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6
Pdvat fxed /c.                    17.3   19.9   215    22.4   18.8   17.6   18.4    16    18.9   19.4
Domestic Savings                   12.9   15.7   15.1   16.9   18.2   17.0   19.6   20.9   22.1   23.3
Public                            -2.3    4.9    3.2    2.2    3.8    4.8    5.6    5.5    52        S2
Priate                            1S.2   10.7   11.9   14.6   14.S   12.1   14.0   15.4   16.9   18.1
Foreign Savings                    13.6    8.4   10.9   102      4.8    5.2    3.1    2.3    1A       0.7
ICOR                               3S.7    7.8    4.3    6.9   12.0    5.0    6.0    4.8    42        4.1
NON FINANCLAL PUBIC SECTOR (as a share et GDP)
Total Curent Reeipts              21.0   26.9   26.9   262    27.8   27.1   26.6   26.4   26.4   2S.7
Total Current Expenditures         23.3   21.9   23.7   23.9   24.1   22.3   21.0   20.9   212    20.5
Public Savings                     -2.3    4.9    3.2    2.2    3.8    4.8    5.6   SS        5.2    5.2
Capital Expend. & Net Lending /d.  11.0    53      5.9    5.2    4.1    4.6    4.9    5.1    5.0    4.9
Overa Balance                     -133    -0.3   -2.7   -2.9   -0.3    02       0.7    0.4    02      0.3
Central Bank Lose                   0.0    3.4    2.7    2.0    1.9    2.1    2.0    1.S    0.5    0.0
Consolidated Public Balance e/.   -133    -3.7   -55    -5.0   -2.2   -1.9   -13    .1.1   -0.3    0.3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports GNFS (real growth rate)    -4.3    8.1   15.6    3.2    4.8    6.1    7.0    7.8    6.9    5.9
Expors GNFS/Current GDP            25A    35.3   35.5   34.6   38.8   37A    37.8   38.7   39.9   46.1
Imports GNFS (real growtb rate)    -3.4   -2.2   19.0   12.3   -6.0   10.5    1.8    5.7    6.2    5.7
Imports ONfESCurrent GDP           34.9   37.2   39.4   41A    40.5   40.1   38.7   38.9   39.7   45.7
Import EBasticity                         40.6    3.4    3.4   -2.8    2.6    0.S    1.3    1.2    1.0
Resource Balance/Curent GDP        -9.6   -1.9   -3.9   .6.8   -1.6   -2.8   -0.9   .0.2    0.2    0.3
Curr. Acoount Balance/Current GDP    -13.6   484   -10.9  -10.2   -4.8   -52    -3.1   -2.3   -1A    40.7
Terms of Trade Index (1988a100)   109.2  100.0   96.0   91.0   965    942    94.0   94.1   93.9   92.6
PRICE AND EXCHANGE RATl.
Consumer Price Index /f.           18.1   20.8   16.5   19.0   28.7   18.0   12.0   10.0    8o        5.0
Nominal Exange Rate (C/US$)         8.6   75.8   81.    91.6  122.S  135.6  142.3  1487   157.8  182.9
GD?        US$):                   4,831   4,     5,191   5,702  5,559  6,276  6,928  7,621   9,2S5  13,305
A.niatodMlt tUi 1 Me Fr WdO*tTabSes 10-92 (Mbbus).Pny9 buaMan R3p1pdW6pIiBneMwkndn
hosaemal0b                               C. WAIn  duda dine bok
AL/ Is netdof$J cvenum                      Dend u Oveef NM Bale= Sp    Cena Bank Loome
RtAOuWmlbegetpcaWravea.



STANDARDANNES
COSTA RICA - NATIONAL ACCOUN15
POtAu Cumni Pike Data
(bxi   Of Colom)
991 Per Capita GNP inUSS          1,951                                                  ODZlOAnne1
Mid-1991 Po  aton  wl:             301(
Gross Domesstic Poduct             41.4  347.6  423.1  522.2  680.7  850.7  986.1 1,133.5 1,460.4 2,433.7
Not ldirectTaes                     4.9     ..    ..    .. 
GDP at Factorost                   36.5     ..     .                 ..    ..    ..    ..
Impot (GNFS) 1/                    15.2  129.4  166.7  2163   275S   341.5  381.7  441.1  579.2 1,1126
EBrs (GNFS) 1/                     11.0  122.8  150.1  180.9  264.3  317.8  372.7  439.0  582S  1,120.9
Resource Balance                   *4.3   .6.6  -16.7   35.4  -112   -23.7   -9.0   .2.0    33    8.3
Total Expendture.                  45.7  354.2  439.7  SS7.6  691.8  874.4  995.1 1,13S5S 1,4S71 2,4254
Total Consumption:                 34.7  270.6  329.7  416.1  534.6  68S5  7683   876 1,1139 1,841.3
Govement                           7.S   54.6    2.3   94.9  111.1  130.7  1S2.7  177.0  240.0  386.7
Prdvate                           27.1  216.0  2574  321.2  423.S  SS4.8  615.6  695.5  879 1,4S4.6
OGa Domestic wInesmet              11.0   83.6  110.1  141.5  1S72  18U8  226.8  263.0  3432   584.1
Governmn V/                        3.8   14.4   19.2   24.7   29.3   39.1   45.4   52.1   67.2  112.0
Prate 2/ 3                         7.2   69.1   90.8  116.8  127.9  149.7  181A   210.8  276.0  472.1
memorandum items
GrssDomestleaSavings                6.7   77.0   93.4  106.1  146.1  165.2  217.8  260.9  346.5  592.4
Net Factor lonome                 -2.0  -25.   -32.8  -23.1  -29.1  -28.5  -33.4  -33.7  -33.8   37.2
Net Cunat Transfen                 0.1    3.0    32    5.0    7.2    7.7    8.4    9.1    15    12.0
National Savinp                     4.9   S4.5   63.9  8S.0  124.2  144.4  192.8  236.4  323.1  567.2
p a detaib forRSM-X
Net  Indiect Taxes                   -.    ..    ..    ..    ..    .. .
Indt Taxes
Subsidies                            .      .      .       .     -       .
Pu  Constant PIke9 Daft
Gras. Domestle Product            299.7  347.6  367.1  380.3  3883   403.8  4179   436.7  482.4  6299
Imports (GNFS) 1/                 115.3  129.4   12.S  169.7  162.1  179.4  182.6  193.1  2185   288.0
Epts (GNMS) 1                      82.5  122.8  141.5  151.5  1S8.8  168.6  184.7  199.1  228.7  307.2
ResoueBlance                         *3  *6.6  -11.1  -18.    -3.3  -10.8    2.1    6.1   10.2   19.1
Total E;xpendIture.               3325   3S42  378.1  398.4  391.5  414.6  415.8  430.7  472.2  610.8
Total Coumptm                     242.9  270.6  286.6  302.5  314.1  3304   3253S  335A   36S.7  468.7
Govenment                         54.1   54.6   56.5   S7.7   S82   S8.1   60.6   63.9   74.2   93.7
Private                          188.8  216.0  230.1  244.9  2SS.8  272.3  264.9  271.6  291A   375.0
Total Inest. Expendt    /          896   83A6   91.5   95.9   77?   84.3   90.4   95.2  106.6  142.1
Goverment                         253    144   16.4   17.9   165    17.5   18.1   189   20.9   27.2
Prate 31                          643   69.1   75.1   77.9   61.0   66.8   72.3   76.4   85.7  114.9
TermsofTade (M  Effdct             11.4    0.0   -5.7  -14.1   *.56   -103   -11.5  -12.0  -144   -22.9
GmossDomesticncome                311.1  3476  361.3  366.2  3826   393.5  406.5  424.7  468.0  607.0
Domestl  ag OT OJ                  682   77.0   74.7   63.7   685   63.1   81.0   89.3  102.3  138.3
iI   sancoaagaflaUuo.           h1um aaIU.
V1/GISDOuewtei _wummn



STANDARD ANNEXES
COSTA RICA - NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Pad C: Value Added by Sntor (%)                ODIAi1
Dg2d3
Agrcultum                          17.8   18.4   17.6   16.1    .8   18.5   1&6    1&S   18.1   16.7
Industry, of vwAcb:                27.0   26.5   26.1   25.1   26.4   26.2   26.4   26.4   26.1   24.7
Mining                               I.     ..     ..     ..      ..     .              ..             .
Manufacturing                      186   205    19.5   1&8        ..    ..    ..
Servie                             5'.2   SS2   562    58.8   54.8   SS3    55.    S5.1   SS.8   S8.6
Total                             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Note: Hktodcal sam  antated ttomaim pdosdaa PmJat. dam ta (mrm co0ant pdoe d
Pao D: LasuTerm Growth Rtes
(AM8 geaa gwdh rxaes fom conat p?iedata)
Gross Domestic Product mp.                 7.1    4.8    2.4    2.1    4.4    5.S
Agriculture                                7.0    15    3.2    5.6    3.6    3.8
Industry, of whicb:                        93     6.9    1.8    0.4    4.2    43
Mining
Manufacturing                               ..    65    2.2
Servias                                    6.1    5.0    2.5    1.8    4.8    6.5
Epors of GNFS                              14.1    4.0    6.6    4.8    7.6    6.1
Imports of GNFS                            10.0    6.8    3.9    4.5    6.2    S.7
Total Exenditures                           6.5    5.9    1.4   -1.7    3.8    5.3
Total Consumption                           S.8    5.0    1.6    3.8    3.1    5.1
Govenment                                  6.8    6.2    0.6    1.0    5.0    4.8
Private                                    5.5    4.8    1.8    45    2.6    5.2
OrossDomestic nvedment                      93     8.7    0.7  -19.2    6.6    5.9
Government                                  ..  11.6   -3.3   -81       4.8     5
Private                                     .    6.2    4.2  -15.5    7.1    6.0
Capacity to Import                        10.9    4.6    5.5   11.4    6.9    5.8
GrO   Domstic xncome                       6.5    5.1    1.7    4.5    4.1    5.3
Gross National Intome                      6.4    4.6    1.7    5.1    4.5    5.6
Gross National Product                     7.0    43      2.5    2.6    4.8    5.7
Gross Domestic Savings (adj. M             10.4    4.3    4.9    7.6    83      6.2
Gross Nations Savings (adj. TI)            9.9    1.7    6.2   13.6   10.8    7.1
Population                                  2.9    2.9    2.8    2.4    22    1.9
Labo" Force 
GDP per Capita                             4.2    1.9   -0.4   -0.3    2.2    3.6



STANDARD ANNEXES
COSTA RICA - NATIONAL ACCOUNIS
Part E Antnual Growth Rate
(wal growth rates cculated from coneawu prce data)        ODLOA n0Ie
" "|  m m  !.~ ZS4' .t |'    '19 t                                                        J94 - ,w   ww
Gross Domestic Product m.p.          0S    3.4    5.6    3.6    2.1    4.0    3.5    4.5    5.2    5.5
Agricdulture                       -0.5    4,6    7.4    2.7    S.6    23       4.0    4.0    3.9    3.8
Industry                            1.2    1.9    4.8    2.3    0.4    3.S    4.0    4.5    4.5    4.3
Services                            1.0    3.9    5.4    4.6    1.8    4.8    3.1    4.7    6.0    6.5
Gross Domestic Income                1.1    2.8    3.3    1.3    4.5    2.8    3.3    4.5    5.1    5.3
Gross Domestic Investment            7.0   -6.8    9.5    4.8  -19.2    8.8    7.2    5.4    5.2    5.9
Total Consumption                   -13     2.3    4.9    5.6    3.8    5.2   -1.5    3.1    5.0    5.4
Population                           3.0    2.7    2.6    2.5    2.4    2.4    2.3    2.2    2.0    1.8
Per Capita Gowth Rates:
Gross Domestic Product m.p.         -2.3    0.7    2.9    1.1   -0.3    1.6    1.2    2.2    31        3.6
Total Consumption                  -43    -0.4    3.2    3.0    1.4    2.8   -3.7    0.8    2.9    3.6
Private Consumption                 -4.8   4.05    3.8    3.8    2.0    4.0   -4.9    03       1.6    5.6
Part F: Priee Indices
(Nadonal Accounts Deflators; 1988=100)
Gross Domestic Product              16.3  100.0  1363   162.4  207.4  244.8  274.1  301.6  351.7  448.9
Import (GNFS)                       17.0  100.0  137.9  162.8  210.7      ..      __
Export (GNFS)                       16.9  100.0  132.2  146.7  198.9       ..     _ 
Total Expenditures                  16.0  100.0  140.2  171.1  219.4       ..    ..
Conswmption                         16.6  100.0  140.1  170.5  214.6      ..      .       _
Investment                          14.4  100.0  140.7  172.6  2375  . .          ..
Ariculture                          14.3  100.0  108.9  119.4  166.9      ..      _       .
Industry, of which                  13.5  100.0  114.5  132.9  174.7       _      ..
Mning                                 ..     _
Manufaduring                       12.6  100.0  112.2  129.8  1693         ..     _       .
Services                            13.9  100.0  117.7  145.1  1783        _       .      .
Part G: Other Economlc Indicators
1/
Import Elasicity (GNES) (constnt)           0.3    3.4    1.4    1.1    09    -4.6   -Z8
Marginal Saving Rates
Gross DomesticSavings                      0.20   0.80   0.40   0.32   0.25   0.23   0.19
Gross National Savings                     0.08   0.84   0.42   0.33   0.23   0.19   0.17
ICOR (period averages)                      8.7    7.5    5.4    3.6    2.6   35.7   12.0
Labor Force (%)
Agricultue                                 34.7   27.8     ..      _    39.3   273
Induatzy                                   22.1   23.2     ..    ..  20.8   24.5
Serices                                    43.2   49.0      _      .   39.9   48.2 
Total                                    100.0  100.0      ..    ..  100.0  100.0
IL W   ad  ft 199reWIA



STANDARD ANNEXES
COSTA RICA - ENXERNAL TRADE
A-. VoIM, Value, and Primes                         OD 1QA=BZ
Volume ldis 1987u100
XBEV.COFFEE                         60.0  100.0  109.1  117.0  121.0  125.0  1280   132.6  140.9  153.8
XFOOD3ANANA                         912   100.0  124.0  1262   13S.0  145.1  1S52   1652   183.4  2292
X.POOD.BAT                         1121   100.0   86.8  1162   U5.6  16O   181MA   193   2t0 
XFOODSUGAR                         147.0  100.0   933   130   189.5  214.8  223.4  2234   223.4  216.7
OtherEVt                            710   100.0  119.3  1187   120.0  1272   137.9  1S1.7  1843   27.9
Total Merc.Exports (FOB)            693   10OO   11S.6  1193   12S.1  1328   142.1  1S3.1  177.0  240.5
Cuamt Prie (USS$mUil.)
X.EV.COPFBE                        247.9  3164   2862   2454   263.6  231.6  267.0  321A   4028   661.2
XFOOD31ANNA                        207.5  221.1  284.4  315.0  399.7  433.5  447.8  466.5  532.1  721.7
X.FOODM£EAT                         70.7   55.7   S1.    48.6   58.    602    683    793    97.2  150.7
X.FOOD.SUGAR                        40.7   12.4   1S3    25.1   24.7   283    30.9   353    40.8   55.0
OtherExport                        433.1  571   69S.6  720.1  743.1  809.6  911.9  10412  13673  25162
Totdal MenrcL Eixors (FOB)         999.9  1180.7  1333.4  13S4.2  1489.9  1632  1726.0  1943.7  24403  4104.8
Volume Indes L987LOO
Mehand e Imports
Food                                823   100.0  128.7  172.0  162.8  1666   1704   1742   1815   1991
OtherConsumerGoods                 1202   100.0  117.7  141.7  125.2  172.8  180.0  212.4  294.7  411.S
POLl/and OtherEnergy                885   100.0  102.4  104.0  121.1  1264   130.8  136.7  151.0  201.4
Intermediate Goods a."12/           93.5  100.0  117.7  117.6  114.7  122.0  123.7  130A   146.9  1982
Prima  Goods                          -      -   _          .       -      -       ..    .. 
ManfatuedGoods                     .       .      -      .       .      .                
capi2alooods                       135   100.0  122.9  154.2  126.1  153.8  154.9  163.3  183.6  250.6
Totad MariL imports (CuI)          101.9  100.0  119.0  133.7  12S.7  139.0  141.5  149.6  1693   2226
0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Mer6andise Imports
Food                               19S.   220.0  266.4  328.9  302.2  310.2  322.9  349.9  405.5  580.6
Other Consumer Goods                36.S   99.2  114.8  139.0  119.2  169.1  183.1  2242   336.1  571.1
POLand Other EnarU                 264.1  133.8  164.8  215    20S.0  197.9  2202   250.2  321.8  656.S
Intermdiate Goods                  747.4  6753   8093   8452   8474   926.9  976.5  1068.4  1300.0  2134.6
Pdrma  Goods                          _      _       ..                ..    ..    ..    ..
Mtanufacured vGoods                   - 
Capitl Goods                       283.7  287.2  3S7.9  467.S  389.9  489.1  S11.8  560.0  680.4  1129.7
Total MarhL. nports (CI)          1527.5  1415.5  1713.7  1996.4  1863.7  2093.2  2214.5  2452.8  3044.0  5072.4
USS Price Ides 1987-100
Tems of Trade
MPercdndiBe Eobts Prkcs            1162   100.0   97.6   96.0  101.1  100.2  103.9  109.0  1192   149.2
Merchandise 1mports Pris           106.3  100.0  101.7  105.S  104.7  106.4  110.6  115.8  127.0  161.0
Merchandise Tn  of Trade           109.2  100.0   96.0   91.0   96.5   94.2   94.0   94.1   93.9   92.6
IV4AaSDUCw8%MIVU      wk



STANDARD ANNEXES
COSTA RICA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Shaes od Total and GroCwh Rates
OD1O1A-B2
We2df2
m_  i
Merchandise Exports (%)
XBEV.COFFEH                         24.8   17.7   16.5   16.1              6.9    3.4    3.1    1.8
XFOOD.BANANA                         20.8   26.8   21.8   17.6             3.2    7.0    63      4.6
X.FOOD.MEAT                          7.1    3.9    4.0    3.7              0.4   33.9    6.4    3.2
XFOOD.SUGAR                          4.1    1.7    1.7    13              -1.0   42.5    33    .0.6
Other Exports                       433    49.9   56.0   613               3.9    1.1    9.0    8.6
Total Merch. Exports (FOB)         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0              6.1    4.8    7.2    63
Merhandise Imports (%)
Food                                12.8   162    13.3   11A              14.7   -53      2.2    1.9
Other Consumer Goods                 2.4    6.4   11.0   113              19.9  -11.7   18.7    6.9
POLand Other Energ                   173    11.0   10.6   12.9             5.0   16.4    4.5    5.9
Intermediate Goods n&J:             48.9   45.5   42.7   42.1              8.2   -2.5    5.1    6.2
Pninary Goods                        ..    ..    ..    ..                  ..
Manufactured Goods                   ..    ..    ..         -              ..
Capital Goods                       18.6   20.9   22.4   22.3              83   .182      7.8    6.4
Total Merob. IMports (CIE)         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0              9.2   .6.0    6.1    5.6
C. Trends In Nonfactor Sevies
INPORMA¶nONNOrAVAIUABLB
Volume Indices 1987-100
Exports of NoforSetSices               ..    ..    ..        .       .      ..    ..
Imports of Nonfactor Sevices                  ..    ..       _      ..      .      ..
US$ Pre Indices 1987100                           ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
Exports of Nonfactor Sevices           ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..              _
Imports of Nonfactor Services          ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..



STANDARD ANNEXES
COSTA RICA - BALANCE OF PAYMENT
(US*MiloatwMiw p )
0D2.lOAanD3
A. Expotu of GNFS 11              12249  1620.1  18413  19733  2158.5  23443  2618.5  2951.7  3691.7 6127.9
1. Merchandise (FOB)              999.9  1180.7  1333.4  1354.2  1489.9  1563.2  1726.0  1943.7  24403  4104.8
2. Non-factorServices             225.0  439.4   07.9  621.1  668.6  781.1  8925  1008.0  1251.4  2023.1
B. Imposiu of ONFS                168&1  1707.2  2045.7  2361.8  2249.6  2S19.1  2681.6  2965.4  3670.9  60823
1. Merchandise (FOB)             1405.6  1273.5  1539.1  1796.7  16783  1893.  2018.7  2232.6  2760.8  4574.1
2. Non-factor ServIces            282.5  433.7  506.6  565.1  S713   625.4  662.9  732.8  910.0  1508.2
C Resource Balance                463.2  -87.1  -204.4  -386.5  -91.1  -174.8  -63.1  -13.6   20.9   45.6
D. Net Factor Incame              -215.7  -336.8  401.9  -2S2.5  .237.6  -210.5  -208.1  -226.4  -214.4  -203.2
1. Factor Reeipts                  193    38.6  110.0  101.6  102.7   99.1  117.4  166.8  210.0  256.8
2. Factor Payments                235.1  375.4  511.9  354.1  3403   309.6  325.5  393.2  4243   460.0
a.Total Inteest                  178.0  218.6  167.4  2062   224.5  2053   2685   307.8  335.5  332.0
b.lnterest Arars                     ..  97.7  204.5   54.8   34.9   222   -26.8    0.0    0.0    0.0
c.Other Factor Paymeats           S7.1   59.1  140.0   93.1   80.9   82.1   83.7   8SA    88.9  128.0
. Net Curmt Tansfers                19.8   40.0   393    55.0   59.1   57.0   59.2   61.5   66.4   65.4
1. CrentRecepts                    30.9   49.2   40.5       .      .              .
a. Workes remittances                -      .. 
b. Other cmre. transfers            ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..                    .. .
2. Curent Paynents                 11.1    9.2    12        ..          ..     ..    ..
F. CurrentAcount Balance
1. Before ofL transfers           09.1  -3839  -567.0  -S84.0  -269.6  -3283  .212.0  -178.6  127.1   92.2
z Official tafen                   14.6  215.4  152.2  136A   108.0   785    70.0   70.0   65.0   30.0
3. After off. tansfen            *644.6  -1685  -414.8  -447.6  -161.6  -249.8  -142.0  -108.6  -61   -62.2
0. LT Captal nflow n  21           416.5  -35.9  -141.1  -10.9  201A   103.9  2322   222.8  112.8  103.4
1. Direct Investmt 3/              48.1  167.8  146.0  135.0   90.0  12S.0  120.0  130.9  1522  204.8
2. Net LTBonwlng                  368.4   46.9  -16.6  -61.7  1S9.4    3.9   863    91.8  -39.5  -1013
a. Disbursemnts                  532.1  167.1  125.6  206.5  336.8  300.5  4133   3593   2952   376.3
b. Repayments                    163.7  120.2  142.1  268.1  177.4  296.7  327.0  267.4  334.7  477.8
3.OtherLTbIflows(net)4/             0.0  -250.6  -270.5  -842   -48.0  -25.0   25.9    0.0    0.0    0.0
H. Total Othertems (net)            552   309.5  571.0  153.0  265.1  240.7    4.7   20.6   293    33.8
1. Net ST Capital n.e               0.0  3483   475.0  139.0  112.9  164.4  -28.6   20.0   133        83
a.InterestArrears                   ..  97.7  204.5   S4.8   34.9   222   -26.8    0.0    0.0    0.0
b. Other Net ST Capita             0.0  250.6  270.5   84,2   78.0  1422    -1.9   20.0   133        8.3
2. Capital Pows ne.!L St            0.0  -45.8  -475   -273      0.0   763    33.3    0.6   16.0   25.5
3. Errs & Omisdons                 SS2    6.9  1435    413   152.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
L Changes in Net Raerves           172.8  -104.9  -15.1  305.5  -304.9  -47.6   68.2  -134.7  -80.0  -75.0
1. Net Credit From IMO             -0.8  -61.0  -35,9  -242   71.0    2.4   38.0  -22.8  -32.3    0.0
2. Reserve Changen.L              173.6  -43.9   20.8  329.7  -375.9  -50.0  -106.2  -111s    47.7  -75.0
3. Emrow Account                     ..    ..    ..    ..          -      ..      _      .       ..    ..
?Ja*.Ldwd-adstbat d
4fAMostioadw ea



STANDARD ANNEES
COSTA RICA - BALANCE OF PAYMEN1
(USmiinsncuwmupiew)
OD210hmas3
J. As shas of GDP (cur.USS):
1. Resource Balanc                  -9.6   -1.9   -3.9    6.8   -1.6   -2.8    4.9    42      02      0.3
2. Interest Pymnts(LT+IMF+SI)       3.7    4.      32     3.6    4.0    33    3.9    4.0    3.6    2.5
3. Curr. Ace. Bal. (See F.1.)     -13.6   484   -10.9  -10.2    4.8   -S2    -3.1   -2.3   -1.4 4.7
4. LTCapital Inflow (F2.+G)         8.9    3.9    0.2    2.2    5.6    2.9    4.4    3.8    1.9    1.0
5. Net Credit from IMP              -0.0   -13    -0.7   .0.4    13      0.0    0.S   403    403      0.0
IC Foreig Exchange Reservs
1. Llquid Resrves (exdd. gold)    145.6  447.0  742.6  S20.6  823.9  871S   939.7  10744  1273.6  16366
2. Gold (end-Yr London Price)      S1.0    9.0      ..      .      ..     .      ..    ..    ..        -
3. Total Res. (ineld. gold)       196.6  456.0  742.6  520.6  823.9  871.5  939.7  1074.4  1273.6  16366
4. Total Res.Qn mothslImports)      1.2    2.6    3.5    23      18      3.7    3.7    3.8    3.7    3.0
L Exhage Rates (LCU/US5):
1.Nom. Off. Ech. Rate
a. Annual average                  &6   75.8   81.5   91.6  122.5  135.6  1423   1487   15.8  182.9
b. End-of-year                     8.6   76.0   81.0   89.7  1235        .      ..      _      .
2.RcaIEtX-Rate(n980-100)
a.MUV/PACestlrnte S/6/               .    73      1.4    4.1    2.0    2.8    3.9    3.8    4.0    3.8
b. Index real Ex  rate            100.0   60.0   55.4   53.9   S&1   S54   53.5   5S5    513    56.7
& X-Rate for GNP Convession         8.6   75.8   81.5   91.6  122S   13.6  1423   148.7  157.8  182.9
14 Memoandum Itemn
GD? (c nt US$ millins)          48314  4S8S4  5190.9  5702.2  Z5S8.8 62755  69282  7621.0  925S3 13304.6
N. Optional Detaib for RMSMX
1. Total Factor Payments             ..      .      ..      .      ..    ..    ..-
a. Government Interest              ..    ..        .      ..     .      .       ..
b. Pivate Sedo Intfest             ..    ..    ..    ..          .      ..    ..    ..        .      .
e Profits on dIrfrn.inv.             ..    ..       .      .      .      ..      .
2. OffIdal Capital OGants            ..       .     ..    ..       .      ..    ..    ..    ..         -
a. For budgetaiy financing           -      -      .       .      .      ..      .      -      .      .
b. To extra budg. Entities          ..      -      .       .      .      -       .      ..     .
3. Gov. aet LTBorown                  ..    _.      -       ..     .       .      .
a. Dlsbursments                      -                     ..    ..                     _ ..    ..
b. Repayments                        .       .     ..      .      -      .       ..     .
4. Private net LTBorroww                     ..     .       .      .      ..    ..       .      .
a. Dsburseeents                      -                     ..    ..    ..    ..                       ..
b. Reipayments                       -      ..    ..    _.    ..    ..    ..            .       .      .
Fmace ,,,MV.   U8. USA todeWaimtri
4/maustOWOinnk         AM=d=clskt
_PAUta oWI  k nbAqda



VIANDARDANNEXES
COSTA RICA  EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Public & Publiely Guw. LT         430.6  137.1  125.6  201.   328.  215.5  3S33   3293   2402   296.3
1. Offbhl Crodltow                197.7  136.4  121.7  170.0  3183   187.7  323.9  306.4  2063   176.9
a. Multilatea                     89.6   86.6   822   89.4  1443   162.9  261.1  299.8  17S.4  166.9
of which IDA                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
of which 1RD                    29.4    4.7   42.8    S2    40.6   46.5   S8.1   97.9   36.8    83
b. BIlateal                      103.1   49.8   39.5   80.6  174.0   24.7   62.7    6.5   30.9   10.0
Concessions                      0.1   26.0    5.0   76.0   76.0       _      _.
No _conoesalonal                83.0   23.8   34.5    4.6   98.0      ..                      
2. Pdwe Credtos                   237.9    0.7    3.8   31.S   10.5   27.9   29.4   22.9   34.0  119.5
a. Bonds                          97.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
b. Commerdalmla                  123.9    0.0    0.0   302      S.0    1.5    0.5    02      0.0    0.0
c. Suppilers + Other Prate        17.0    0.7    3.8    12    S5.   26.3   29.0   22.7   34.0  119.5
Prvate No _guamteed               1015   3Q0       0.0    S.0    .0   85.0   60.0   300   5S.0   80.0
Total froaLTloanm                 531   167.1  12S.6  206.5  336.8  300.5  413.3  3S9.3  29S2  3763
IMFPur es                          20.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   7S.1    5.4   38.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Net Short-Term Capita                 -    0.0    0.0    0.0   30.0   70.0   S0.0   20.0   30.0   S0.0
Tot Dhb. (LT+IMW+SI) 11           552.1  167.1  125.6  206.5  441.9  452.2  534.6  379.8  3412   4SL8
B. Repaymnot
Public & PublicyGuar. LT           75.7  1042   142.1  263.1  168.4  2S9.9  2994   2S2.1  307.8  392.5
1. Offical Creditom                209   84.8  112.6   92.4  1262   23S.1  293.1  245.  290.6  324.7
a. Multilateral                   13.5   74.1   86.1   78.7   972   1272   127.6  135.8  169.2  205.9
of whih IDA                      0.1    02      02    02    02       02    02       02     02      02
of which IBRD                    6.6   37.5   34.1   452    S32   47.6   4&7   52.9   S0.4   48.3
b. Bilatera                        7.4   10.7   26.5   13.7   29.0  107.9  165.  109.7  121.4  118.8
Concesana                        3.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
N-nconceulonal                   4.4    9.7   255    12.7   28.0  106.9  164.5  108.7  120.4  117.8
2. Prvate Cedltom                  54.8   19.4   29.5  170.7   42.2   24.8    63       6.6   172   67.8
a.Bonds                            1.0    8.1   15.8   41.6    9.6   146    12        13    73    3S.5
b. CommavlalBaul                  42.0    7.6   10.9  1242    28.9    6.1    12       L2     0.8    0.0
a. Suppser + OtherPdate           118    3.8    2.       5.0    3.8    4.0    4.0    4.1    92    32.3
P"tb N      _uguzaod              "880   16.0    0.0    5.0    9.0   36.8   27.6   1S3    142    56.7
Total fm LTkaws                    163.7  120.2  142.1  268.1  177.4  296.7  327.0  267.4  322.0  4492
Short-Tem                           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.    16.7   41.7
IMFPurchasu                        122   610   35.9   242    4.1    3.0    0.0   22.8   32.3    0.0
TotalRemnb                        17S.9  1812   1780  292.3  181.5  299.7  327.0  2902   383.7  S195
2TnduduuMmW           VdIDUI*



STANDARD ANNEXES
COSTA RICA - EXTERNAL CAPfTAL AD DEBT
(USS mifUion atcumvn pnces)
ODZlOAnneB4
FaR.2of 4
C Net Disbutsements
Public & Publily Guar. LT         354.9   32.9  -16.6  -61.7  160.4  -443   53.9   77.1   67.6  -96.2
1. Official Creditor.            171.8   51.6    9.1   77.6  192.1  -47.4   30.8   60.8  -843  -147.8
a. Multibtral                    76.1   12.5   -3.9   10.7   47.1   35.8  133I5   164.0    6.2  -39.0
of which IDA                    40.1    4.2   -0.2   -0.2   4.2   -0.2   40.2   -02    -0.2   .0.2
of which IBRD                   22.8  -32.8    8.8  -40.0  -12.6   -1.1    9.4   45.0  -13.6  -40.0
b. Bltral                         95.7   39.1   13.0   66.9  145.0  -832  -102.8  -1032  .90.5  -108.8
Coneassional                   17.1   25.0    4.0   7S.0    ..    ..    ..
Nouconcesalonal                 78.6   14.1    9.0   -8.1     ..    ..    ..
2. Private Creditors             183.1  -18.7  -25.7  -1392  -31.7    3.1   23.1   163    16.7   51.7
a. Bonds                         96.0   -8.1  -15.8  -41.6   -9.6  -14.6   -12    -13    -73   -35.5
b. Commercal Banks               81.9   -7.6  -10.9  -93.9  -23.9   -4.6   -0.7   -1.0   -0.8    0.0
c.Suppiezu + OtherPiate           5.2   -3.1    1.0   -3.7    1.7   2.3   25.0   18.6   24.8   872
Private Nonguaanted                13.5   14.0    0.0    0.0   -1.0   482   32.4   14.7   40.8   233
Total from LT loans               368.4   46.9  -1o.6  -61.7  159.4    3.9   863    91.8  -26.8  -72.8
IMFAreements                        7.8  -61.0  -35.9  -24.2   71.0    2.4   38.0  -22.8  -32.3    0.0
D. lnterest
Publc & Publiy Guar. LT          129.5  163.6  132.7  169.2  172.9  164.9  203.1  223.4  2413   2232
1. Officia Credltom               41.1  102.5  104.8  104.0  12S.1  123.8  160.8  179.0  194.0  1552
a. Multilateral                   263   66.8   693    77.4   82.4   86.9  106.8  129.4  153.1  13S2
of which IDA                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
of which RIRD                   14.6   363    32.8   333    35.    31.6   31.5   33.5   33.5   212
b. Bilatera                       14.8   35.7   35.5   26.6   42.6   36.9   S4.0   49.7   40.8   20.0
Coneesional                      3.0    3.0   10.0    9.0     ..    ..    ..
Nonconcesslonal                 11.8   32.7   25.5   17.6   42.6   36.9   S4.0   49.7   40.8   20.0
2. Pdvate Creditors                8.4   61.1   273    652    47.8   41.1   423    44A    473    68.0
a. Bonds                          6.0    S.9    5.5   24.1   402    352   34.8   34.7   34.4   30.9
b. Commerial Banus                782   51.7   17.9   36.1    25    0.6    0.4    0.3    0.1    0.0
c. Suppliers + Other Private       42    35    4.4    5.0    5.1    5.3    72    9.4   12.9   372
PrivateNonguanteed                 41.0   25.0    0.0    2.0   26.0   15.1   22.8   302    38.5   49.8
Total on LTIeom                   170.5  188.6  132.7  1712   198.9  180.0  225.9  253.5  279.8  273.0
IMFServioecharges                   3.7    8.0    5.2    3.0    6.1    8.5   11.6   11.1    5.0    1.0
Net Short-Term Capital              3.8   22.0   29.6   32.0   19.5   15.0   252   34.6   40.8   48.1
Total interest   +IMP+ST) it      178.0  218.6  167.4  2062   224.5  205.3  268.5  307.8  335.5  332.0



STANDARD ANNEES
COSTA RICA - EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(USSnsatuatpia)
ODllOAannS84
E. Exmal Debt (DOD)
Public & Publicly Guar. LT      1,694.1 3,560.6 3,559.2 3,0763 3,316S 3,272.1 3,326.0 3,4032 3,2863 2,8M4
1. Ofricial Creditom             777.8 2,136.4 2,02.4 2,374.6 2,648.6 2,601.2 2,632.0 2,692.8 2,S453 1,85.6
a. Multiateral                  434.6 1,048.4 1,073.9 1,140.8 1,188.5 1,2243 1,357.9 1,521.9 1,562.7 1,343.9
of which IDA                    5.0    3.8    3.6   3.5    0.0    0.D   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
of which IBRD                 1783  418.3  415.0  408.9  406.9  405.8  415.2  4603   4363  2703
b. Bilateral                    343.2 1,087.9 1,1285 1,233.8 1,460.1 1,376.9 1,274.1 1,170.9  982.6  506.7
Concoual                      128.0  S2.0  500.0  626.0      .      ..    ..
Nonconnoesaonal               215.2  561.9  6285  607.8 1,460.1 1,376.9 1,274.1 1,170.9  982.6  S06.7
2. Private Creditors             9163 1,4243 1,356.8  701.7  667.9  670.9  694.1  710.4  740.9  991.7
a. Bonds                        146.0   56.9   41.0  609.0  S99.4  S84.8  583.6  S82.2  570.8  4862
b. Commerial Banks              7193 1,312.1 1,261.9   41.1   17.0   12.4   11.7   10.7    8.9    7.8
c. Suppliers + Other Pivate      51.0    5.2   53.9   51.6   51.4   73.7   98.8  117.4  1612  497.7
Private Nonguaanteed             411.9  317.0  30 .0  304.0  303.0  3S12  383.6  3983  489.1  62S.0
Total Long-term DOD             2,106.0 3,877.6 3, .2 3,3803 3,6195 3,6233 3,709.6 3,8015 3,775.4 3,467.4
iMFCrdit                          56.9   71.4   35.0   11.0   S2.0   84.4  122.4   99.6   35.0   (6.8)
Net Short-Term Capital           S75S0  316.0  320.0  300.0  330.0  400.0  450.0  470.0  S083  591.7
Total DOD (LT+JMF+ST) 11        2,737.9 4,265.0 4,2182 3,6913 4,031.5 4,184.1 4,391.7 4,4813 4,441.0 4,173.8
F. As hamr of Total DOD (%)
Public & Publicly Guar. LT        61.9   833   844   833   82.3   782   75.7   75.9   74.0   68.1
. Officil Creditom                28.4   50.1   S2.2   643   65.7   622   59.9   60.1   573   443
a. Mulateral                     15.9   24.6   25S3   309   293S   29.3   30.9   34.0   352   32.2
of whi IDA                      02    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
of hich IBRD                    63    9.8    9.8   11.1   10.1    9.7    93S   103    9.8    63S
b.Bilateral                      125   25.5   26.8   33.4   36.2   32.9   29.0   26.1   22.1   12.1
Coneesdlonal                    4.7   12.3   11.9   17.0    ..       _      .      ..    ..      -
Nonconceional                   7.9   13.2   14.9   1635      -      ..    ..    ..    .. 
2 Prite Creditos                  33.5   33.4   32.2   19.0   16.6   16.0   15.8   15.9   16.7   23.8
a. Bonds                          S.3    13    1.0   165   14.9   14.0   133   13.0   129   11.6
b. Commel Bank                   263   30.8   299    1.1    0.4    03    03    02    02    0.2
c-SupplEa+OtherPrivate            1.9    13    1.3    1.4    13    1.8   2.2    2.6    3.6   11.9
Prate Nonguaranteed               15.0    7.4    72    82    7 S       .4    8.7    S.9   11.0   15.0
Total Long-term DOD                76.    90.9   91.6   91.6   89.8   86.6   843   84.8   85.0   83.1
IMFCraft                           2.1    1.7    0.8    03    2.0    2.0    2.8    2.2    0.8   -02
Net Short-Term Capital            21.0    7.4    7.6   8.1    82    9.6   10.2   105   11.4   142
Total DOD (LT+ MF                100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0



I   STADARDANNES
COA RICA - EXTERNAL CATAL AND DEBT
C0210A=x4
0. Perct nf Total FPG DOD
onConomAlnTam                      153    2.9   221    26.5    -.
Wdh Vauable lL. Rats               7        9    0.0 
IL IBRD and Reltd Ratios
3IRD DeSevic%exorts                 1.7    4.     34      8    38 9    3.2      .      8    2.2    1.1
IBRDDeService/PublS DS             103    7.9    7.7    4.9    62    5.0    42    4.5    19         14
Pit Creditor DS/Publb DS           194   526   566   36.1   S26   50.4   46.6    5.8   57   55.4
Shareof IRD?Ortfolio                 ..            ..     .     0.       4    0.4    0.5    0.5    03
L DOD4*to-    tRato 1/
Long-Tem DebtERpoiI               169.3  233*   198.0  162.8  160.1  1483   135.6  1219   9.    543
Limdt/Expits                        4.6    4.3    1.8    05    3.6    3.5    45       32    0.9    41
Shbrt-Team DetExorfs               46.2   19.1   16.4   14.4   14.6   16.4   16.4   151   13.0    93
LT+IMF+STDODbWxpor                220.0  257.1  216.2  177.7  1783   1712   1605  143.7  111    65.4
J. DOD-to-GD? Ratios
Log-Ter Debt/GDP                   43.6   84.6   74.4   593   65.1   57.7   515    49.9   40.    26.1
ICaedIt/ODP                         12    1.6    0.7    02    1S    13    1B          13     0.4    01
Short-Ter Debt/GDP                 11.9    6.9    62    53    5.9    6.4    6$5    62    I5         4.4
LT+DAF+STDOD/GDP                   567   93.0   813   64.7   725   667   614   S88   48.0   31.4
X DebtSewvo /Exoa 1/2/
PuNlc & CuawnedLT                  165   16.1   141    20.8   15.1  .17.4   184   1S2   14.1    9.6
Pivate Nos-uaranteed LT            10.4    25    0.0    03    1S    21         L8    1.5    13    L7
TotalLngTemDdAtSevI                26.9   18.6   14.1   212   16.6   19.5   20.2   16.7   154   113
DtO Repurcham+Serv. Cge.            13    42    21    13    0.         0.5    04    Li    1.0    0.
lnaten lyonSTDebt                   03    13    LS    1S        0.9    06    0.9    1        1.0    08
ToWl (LT+IMF+STJht.)               28.4   24.1   17.7   24.0   1&0   20.7   21.8   19.2   18.4   133
L bIaerat Burdo Ratios
Total InteresGD  2/                 3.7    4.8    32    316    4.0    3.3    3.9    4.0    3.6    25
TotallntretlEpots/                 143    132    8.       .      .       4     9.8    9.9    8.6    5.2
2/ FlopmmlincubhbO4



STANDARDANNEXS
COSTA RICA - NON FINANCLAL IUBUC SEMCTR
(bilos of lCab)
DiedTaxe                                   31.7   405   487    6L0    758    87.7  1835   139   227.6
IndIeATan              .                   423    51.6   61.1   843   104.4  1184   13.   1621   2517
Noutax Receipt                        ..  195   21.7   269   432          03    56     612    84    143.7
Total Cumrt Revew                    .7   935   1138   136.7  1895   2305   262.3  209.6  3853   625.0
bIteret o Ex3sal Deb(                 -    3.8    4.4    4.8    63        7.8    7        6    9.9   10.6
Intearton EWmss* Dek                  -    6.0    92    12.8   22.4    26    2SS    27.0   35.2   56.7
OtberCuntTranfer                      ..   24S    33.1   42.1   53.4   61.9   613    713    87.7  146.4
Sub s                                 ..      .             ..      ..     ..      .      .      .
cQuapum-   42.0   517    6S.2   81.8   962   1124   130L4   17                                       284.7
TOWl C    ar Expedurs               9.6   763   100.4  125.0  163.8  189I    27.0  2373   309.6  4985
Budgeay Savings                     -1.0   172    13.4   11.7   2S.7   41.0   55.2   62.3   759   126.6
CapitRalRveu  I/                     0.1    0.2    03  4n.0    0.7    a.   DAL           a.     ..   o..
Caial Tiaer l/                       0.8    8.2   12.4   103    93    10.    11        16      161    243
Bodgtasylnwsam I/                    3.8   103    12.9   166    19.1   29.5   36.7   44.4   573   9"A
Total C a h pu    1             -   4.6   1&5    25.2   269    283    39.5   48.    58.0   733   1198
ToalDefitFincn                      -5.3   -1.1  -11.S  -153    -2.0    L5    67        43      26    6.8
lxeral a,pitl ..t            .       .   ..   ..   ..             . .             ..    ..    . . -
ExtaraBowoAg (ue)                   L9    -O.6    1i8    1.8    9.4    86   216    22.2   1L0    14.4
MnetarSystm        t(net)           2.7    1.3    9.0   12.1    41    4-9    0.0    0.0    0.0    Q0
OthrDo.B_orowfng(ind),i             09     0.2    0.7    I4    1.4   -52   -28.3   -A    -136   -21.2
Det (at end of the yr)
External Debt
(In BllslLcu)                    S235   323.3  3438   338.0  493.7  5672  651   666.5  70.7  7635
(ilBIUloastUS$)         us     *: t 2.7    43     42     17    4.0    4.2    4A        45     4A      4.2
Dom.snoDeb
ToMonetarySynem?/                    ..   80.6   8S.1   972    84    83.5   83.S    8.5   83.5   US
Other Doetic Deb                     ..     .       ..     -      ..      .         _      .       .
Memornadum kmn
Prm    Balance                        -    8.6    2.1    23    26.6   329    4Q0    399    47.8   74.1
Central ank Le                       0.0  117   11.6   10.7   12.7   173    19.7   17.0    73          0.0
CBo km" %  od                       0.0    3.4    2.7    2.0    L9    2.1    2.0   LU          05    0.
urmpmueu_ aEe.g
llwpTtlcm.ld*I



STANDARD ANNEXES
COSTA RICA - MONErARY SURVEY
(bilioiwat colone)
OD11Oh2u6
0a ltlOAnz9
A. Annual Flows
Net FoepAssets                      -1.1   21.5   13.8  4121    68.5       ..    ..
NetDomestlcredlt                     4.8   16.2    9.1   262    93         ..    ..
To Govenmet Budget                  2.5    1.7    2.8    8.8   -7.2       ..    ..
To Other Official Entitles          1.0    4.6   40.9    5.6    3.0       ..    ..
To Pdrate Sector                    1.2    9.9    7.3   11.9   13.        ..    ...
Total Assets & Liab{itles          ..  37.7   22.9   14.1   77.8               ..    ..
Money and Quas_money                24    43.1   24.6   482    613        ..    ..
Net Other Libitles                  13    -5.4   -1.7  -34.0   16.5       ..             .       .
B. End-of-Year Stoe 
Net Foreip gAsets                    05    473    61.1   49.0  117.5             _.
Net Dometic Credit                  22.4  120.9  130.1  1563   165.6       ..    ..
To Government Budget                8.0   213    24.0   32.8   25.6       _       __
To Other Officil Bnttltes           3.4   36.0   35.1   40.7   43.7       .       .
ToPrivate Sector                   11.0   63.6   70.9   82.8   963        ..    ..
TotdaAsaet&  abities              21.8  168.3  1912   2053   283.1       ..      _.
Moey and Quasimoney                17.2  150.2  174.8  223.0  284.3       _      __
Net Otheriabillties                 4.6   18.0   163   -17.7   -12        ..    ..
C. Offbet to Expansion of MQM 1/
Inase In Money+Quadtmoney %        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0       _      _
Neot Foei Assets                   -44.5   49.8   55.9  -25.1  111.7       ..     _.
NetDomesticCredit                  201.0   37.6   372    S4.4   152        _              _      _
Credit to Govermet Budget         104A     4.0   112    182   -11.7                      _      _
Crdlt to Official Ents             44.1   10.6   -3.6   11.5    4.9  _.          -
Credit to Pritesetor               52.6   23.1   29.S   24.7   22.0       -      __
Net OtherliabilitieB                38.6   87.5   93.0   29.4  126.9       _      _.
Memorandum Items
Net Int. Resere (mIl US$)
Change during the year            -26.9   41.9  -295.6  221.9  -398.9     _      ..      .
Stock at end of yar               145.6  447.0  742.6  S20.6  919.5              ..      _
DrATAI U.C5. IF



ANNEX B
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS



AOGrA lRllC&SI                            ADJUSTNW lPROGR  - AT  OF W)LCY ACTIOM
1,AC .ROECO_IC
FRAMEWORK
Ensure appropriate            Maintain supportive             Naintain supportive             aintain supportive          I Maintain supportive
macroeconomic framework.   [eroeeonmic framework.             macroeconomic framework.      macroeconomic framework.    [macroeconomic framework.
II. PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
A. Privatization of           Approved Law of Pubtic         Approve Econamic
govoenment services and       Works Concession and           Democratization Law.
enterprfses.                  presented to Assembly
Econcoc bemocratization
Law.
Approved Law to privatize                                     Sring to the point of sate    Bring to the point of sale
CENPASA and FERTICA, and                                      CENPASA and fERTICA.           FANAL.
presented to Assembly Law
to Prvsatize FANAL.
Formed ad-hoc groq with                                       Complete study and agree on   Begin foplementatfon of
agreed TORs to study the                                     an action plan satisfactory   agreed action plen.
petroleuw  sector, including                                  to the Bank for reform of
the role of RECOPE  and                                       petroleum sector.
regulatory framework.
S. Eptloyment reduction       Achieved employant                                            Substantially achieve 1993    Substantially achieve 1994
in the public sector by       reduction of about 13,000                                     employment reduction target   employsent reduction
about 25,000 net positions   positions to end-1992                                          during second phase of         target during third phase
to increase efficiency and   through labor mobility                                         labor mobiLity proram.         of labo- mobility progrem.
reduce spending.              prograq.
C. tnstitutional              Designed institutionat
restructuring to increase    restructuring program in
efficiency in key sectors,   housing, agriculture,
incLuding consolidation of   health, transport and
agencies and redefinition internal security.(')
of functions.



C06fsrA RW.JU                i    ADUT                          ROGRAM - MY^l[AT= O>F ACn                                           2
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*rw   e    yAk *~EFa. 
D.  Reform the budgeting      Began iplemavting new                                        Preper  action plan for        Satisfactory
process to teprove the        budgeting system on a pilot                                   comprehensive reform of the  iuplementatfcn of sgreed
control, monitoring and       beass for the 1993 budget                                     budgetary system.              action plan.
evatuation of govemerent      in 6 maJor public sector
expenditures.                 entities.
E. Reform tax system to       Submitted to Asseabty Tax                                     Enact Tax Efficiency Law       Enact Tax Package.
overhaul and simpLify the    Efficiency Law and the                                         and Property Tax Reform
tax structure, fncrease       Property Tax Reform Law,                                      Law, and submit Tax Package
Its efficiency and expand    and prepared Tax Package.                                      to Assesbly.
the base.
Prepared action plan to
reform tax and customs
administration.()
III.  TRADW  REGINE
A. ReJuce tevet and           Reduced most ixport tariffs                                   Achieve tariff range of        Achieve tariff range of
dispersion of protection      to 10-27m range in tine                                       10.201 except for shoes,       10-20X for shoes, textites
to Inprove resource           with pre-amounced                                             apparet, textites and          and tires.
atLocation and                schedule.                                                     tfres.
cocetitivonass.
E. Eliinate import and        Elimirnted altl iport and
export licenses, and          export ticenses not
ensur no protective           Iendated by taw.
ffect of anti ping
cob. ad N mpoft               Prepared anti-dUlinf
registration r.Wiremt.   rutations cnlstent with
rwegol  framework an
UATT.(*)
Nonitor  port registration
requirments to ensure no
_erteve effect.(*)          _
C.  mprvev the effitciency      nnoe  that no ne  CATs                                      Adoption of export dty         Satisfactory progress in
of export prowtion            will eb offered.                                              drasesck schme based on       flplementatfon of export
mehnisms.                                                                                   agreod certerfa and            duy drawback sches.



C0fA^ RW:                             ADJEb"RWEN PROGRAM^i    - MAI  OF Acnom                                            3
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D. Owereutate arkwts to    Eliinroted price eontrols
edw       iqlfit of tariff  an att gooos (with 3
reform, ad strengthen       exceptiln).
regulatory framewok for
psbLic utfilities.          Eliminated profit smrgin    Enact Derqulation Law.       Implement Lae In a mer    Implent Lam in a mimr
controls that are not                                    consistent with objectives   cofistent with objectives
legalty-meaileted, nd                                   of the Letter of             of the Letter of
prepared Dereulation Law                                 Development Policy.         Developent Policy.
to eliminate re1ining
WArgin controls, nd import
end export licernes.
Established working group                                Enact Law to Regulate       Satisfactory
to prepare the necessary                                 Pubtlic Services, enact    iplementation of SUE
regulations to implement                                regulations to implement     restructuring plan.
Law for the Regulation of                                Law, and nitiate action
Publtc Servfces and action                               plan to restructure SUE.
plan to restructure SUE.                                                           I
IV. FINAICIAL SECTOR
A. Reduce discrimination    Allomed private comercial                               Itplement schenm to allow
against private finamcial    banks to accept short-term                              private finance companies
interwdiaries, increase     deposits (investment                                     access to Central Bank as
copetition, and lower       certificates) of any                                     lender of Last resort.
funding costs.              maturity.
B. Strengthen prudenttal    Prepared agreed action plan                              Satisfactory progress in    Complete action plan to
supervision of financial    to strengthen prudential                                 implementation of action    strengthen regulatory
system.                     supervision of financial                                 plan to strengthen          frameork and AGEF
system and continue with                                regulatory frameork and      mernization plan.
AEF modernization program                                AGEF modernizatin plan.
Prepared law to extend                                  Enact ltw establishing AGEf
concept of finanial                                      oversight of credit
intermediary to include                                 cooperatives.
Banco Popular and Baneo
_ipotecario de Viviende.C)  _                           _ __ _- __   __|



CCWTA RICA:                              ADUT                    PROGA - MI   OF ACOM                                             4
IA i.             :zk                                :     : .   ; : E:, r.  . .
C. Ensure supportive          No neww  eneraltied debt
monetary and o inancial       reschedulings  itll be
policies.                     considered during the
progran period.(*)
Limits on subsidized credit                                 Maintain limits on             Maintain limits on
will be maintained, and the                                  s.bsidized credit.            subsidized credit.
definition broadened to
include loans from externa
sources and the reference
rate increaed by adding a
spresd of 3 points.
Central Bank has adopted
open market operations and
auction system to sell
Governuent securities.(*)
Prepared a satisfactory
plan to deal with Central
| _________________       _   Sank   losses.(*) 
D.  Demcnopolize insurance   Prepared draft legislation                                    Enact legislation to allom    Enact all necessary
sector to improve             enabling the operation of                                    private companies In 30       regulations and make the
efficiency.                   private companies no later                                   months and to set up          supervisory body
than 30 months after                                         supervisory body.             operational.
legislation enters Into
force.
V. SOCtAL SECTORS
A.  Improve impact and        Completed nationrl registry                                  Prepare and begin             Satisfactory
cost-effectiveness of mno    of beneficiaries and design                                   implementing social action    implementation of sociel
social programs.              of LSIS survey.                                              plan based on results from    action plan.
the registry and LSIS.            _
B.  Improve labor mobility   Prepared agreed program                                       Satisfactory implementation   Satisfactory
through retraining of         for retraining displaced                                     of retraining program.        irplementation of
displaced workers.            public sector workers.                                                                    I retraining program.



CG6TA RICA:                                  ADJUTlr                             M - MARUK OF AIOM5
I~~~~                                                 ~~ ~ _,..  =mE' ,,,,,,_______________
C.  Ensure solvency of           Approved General Framework                                        EEnact Law of Complementary
pension system, uniformity    Pensions Regime Law.                                                  Pensions.
of benefits and encouragel
development of private                                                                                                                                              l
pensions.
)    Indicates actions included in the Letter of Development Policy only, to be monitored as pert of overall program lmplementation and not as
specific trenche release conditions.



ANNEX C
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY



Rqfael Angel Calderdn Fouder
President of the Republie
LE[TER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
FOR THE TIMD STUCTURAL ADJUSTNT WOAN
(SAL [II)
San JosE, November 17, 1992
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.   Since the early eighties, Costa Rica has advanced in a process of stabilization and
adjustment. This process has been supported through a number of stand-by arrangements with the
International Monetary Fund and two structural adjustment programs with the World Bank. Despite these
efforts, in 1988 the country faced a high fiscal deficit, a weak balance of payments and high inflation.
Measures to address these problems had mixed results. Although GDP grew by 5.6 percent in 1989 (vs.
3.4 percent in 1988) and inflation fell to 10 percent (vs. 25 percent in 1988), structural problems
persisted. The public sector deficit reached 5.5 percent of GDP and reduced access by the Government
to external financing led to an increase in domestic interest rates, adversely affecting investment.
RECENT ECONOAIC SffUATION
2.   The deterioration in the fiscal accounts and the balance of payments in 1989 and the first
part of 1990, was due to both domestic and external factors. While the sharp fall in coffee prices lowered
government revenues and inturnational reserves, during a pre-election year public spending increased
(ncluding in a major way salary increases), but price adjustments for public services lagged. If
corrective measures had not been taken, these trends would have led to an increase in the public sectr
deficit from 5.1 percent of GDP in 1989 to about 7.5 percent in 1990.
3.   To prevent this, my Government, which took office in May 1990, initiated a stabilization
program through which prices of public services were adjusted, new revenue measures were introduced,
and depreciation of the currency was accelerated. These measures prevented a greater deterioration in
the fiscal accounts. Nonetheless, and as a result of prevailing negative structural factors, over the short
run it was not possible to correct the imbalance in the external account, which worsened due to the rise
in petroleum prices during the second half of the year. Thus, the current account deficit reached over
US$500 million in 1990, leading to a substantial loss of international reserves. Reflecting expansionary



2
domestic policies during the first semester of the year, the consumer price index increased by 27 percent
in 1990 and GDP grew by 3.6 percent.
4. In January 1990 the Government increased temporary import surcharges and prior deposits
for the purchase of foreign exchange, and accelerated the rate of devaluation of the Col6n with the aim
of reversing the negative trends in the external accounts. Nonetheless, the Government is conscious of
the fact that control of the fiscal deficit is critical to reduce macroeconomic disequilibria and change the
long-term growth trends. This was the focal point of the stand-by arrangement which the Executive
Board of the IMF extended until September 30, 1992. TIus, the program establishes a reduction of the
consolidated fiscal deficit to 1 percent of GDP for 1992. The strengthening of public finances will be
the result of a reduction of the Central Government deficit from 3.2 percent of GDP in 1991 to 2.2
percent in 1992, while the consolidated deficit of the public sector will be maintained at last year's level
(2 percent of GDP). The Government intends to continue the stabilization program with the continued
support of the International Monetary Fund.
5.   Due to an improvement in the efficiency oftax adminisaion, Central Government revenues
wlll rise from 15 percent of GDP in 1991 to 15.5 percent in 1992, despite the elimination of some
temporary taxes which accounted for close to 1.1 percent of GDP in 1991. The recently-approved Law
to Eliminate Exemptions will also make an important contribution to meeting this target. On the other
hand, Central Government expenditures will contract from 18.4 percent of GDP in 1991 to 17.7 percent
of GDP in 1992, despite the proverbial inflexibility of spending which takes up 33 percent for salary
payments, 35 percent for current transfers mandated by law, and which only allows 4 percent for real
investment. With this aim, the public sector employment reduction program wlll be continued to reach
a cumulative reduction of 25,000 positions by the end of 1994, of which 12,000 positions have already
been reduced. Excluded from the program are teaching, police, and the medical personnel. Displaced
staff have not created pressure on the labor market as workers have been absorbed in the private sector.
6.   In the fiture, the mechanisms to achieve the stated targets will be volunary separation,
privatzation of public sector enterprises and the establishmen of worker enterprises in the private sector
whin the framework provided by the Law of Democratization of the Public Sector. Other legal
mechnisms may also be used such as the elimination of vacancies and the freezing of positions through
application of the recently-promulgated General Framework Pension Regime Law. In addition, the
enactment of new legislation which rationalizes export subsidies witl generate savings close to 0.3 percent
of GDP in 1992. At the same time, the revenue base of the national teacher's pension regime and the
other regimes which will now be included in the General Framework Pension Regime Law (which covers
19 regimes), will be strengthened by an increase in contributions from active workers which will also
cover retirees. All these steps designed to improve public finances, are consistent with a long-term plan
to place the public sector on a more solid financial base and to provide an appropriate framework for the
private sector to grow and develop to its maximum potential.
7. The Government of Costa Rica is strongly committed to the process of structural adjustment.
Today the country presents an appropriate setting of macroeconomic stability and importat progress has
been achieved in terms of liberalization and a significant removal of controis in the incentives system,
which wiU lead to increased competition in product and factor markets. It is necessary, however, to
consolidate stabilizaton efforts and deepen reforms to faciitate trade in goods and services, increase
competition in financial and money markets, and reduce discriminatory taxes and subsidies, to strengthen
factors that can lead the country on a path of sustained long-term development. These element fal
wihin the development strateg being followed by the Government and which is described below.



3
DEVELOPMENT POLICY
A.   Objecdves
8.   While the goal of development policy is to improve the welfre of citizens, it is also
importat to specify the objectives of the economic and social transformation ta wil achieve this goal,
and thus be able to translate this overall aim into more specific objectives which reflect the priorities of
a society such as that of Costa Rica. ITe structural adjustment process that was initiated with IBRD's
first structr adjustment loan in 1985, must continue in areas that stll require transformation.
9. Adjustment is predicated on the basis of four principles: i) opening of the economy, Ii)
reform of the State to empower the process of economic openness, Hii) refom of the financial sector and
capital markets, and iv) the moral obligation to protect natural resources to support sustnable long-term
development. In other words, Costa Rica must achieve sustainable growth based on greater opening of
the economy and the elimination of current distortions to optimize the use of our productive resources.
It is essenta to modernize the institutional apparatus of the State so that it can cease being an obstacle
and, on the contrary, can contribute to the desired transformation of productive sectors. In addition, the
rational use of natra resources must be assured, together wih the prervation and restoration of
essential ecological processes. Lasdy, mechanisms must be designed wbich can ensure that economic
growth will be accompanied by an effictive and just process of income redistribution.
10.  The Government of Costa Rica understands that  ere is a high sequeni  correlation
between transformation of productive sectors-education-development, which is critical for the success of
the adjustment process. Forunately, the country has achieved high levels in its key physical and social
indicators, and sector reform programs are underway in health (financed by IBRD/IDB and the
Government of Spain) and education (financed jointly by IBRDIIDB). In addition, the objective of
improving the investment climate Is part of the program to transform productive sectors which supports
the adjustment process. To support these objectives we would count on SAL m, to be financed jointly
by IBRD/IDB, and the eventual Sector Investment and Multisector Credit Loans from IDB. In this way,
SAL m wfll support reform of the public sector, the Sector Invetment Loan WiHI atdess financial sector
reorm, and the Multisector Credit Loan will support the transformation of productive sectors.
B.   Components
1.   MaareconomIc  anework
11. An appropriate macroeconomic framework is a necessary condition for achieving growth
and development. The Government will continue its stabilization effort to correct enalt and domestic
disequilibria, and to reduce inflation and interest rates. In this context, fiscal policy must seek to
eliminate wasteful spending or allocations to non-priority programs, which wfll require an effort to
evaluate the effectiveness of the State in the various areas in which it operates. A consev e monetay
policy which can limit growth of monetary aggregates in line with real growth in the economy, is the
necessary complement to an appropriate fiscal policy. Temporary deviations must be corrected through
indirect Intrments such as open market operations, and wifth incase  anpareanc in the d   on
of the cost of money. As a last element, an exchange rate policy compatible with the country's



4
Integration into the world economy must guarantee the free convertibility of the Col6n, thereby ensuring
a favorable climate for foreign investment.
2.   Reform of the State
12.  In past decades, public sector institutions played a positive role in the productive
transformation of the country, while being a key element of the development process. The political
framework enabled the country to achieve satisfactory development indicators in the Latin American
context.
13.  Despite this, the very Institutional structure, because of its size and lack of operational
flexibility, has proven inadequate to meet the country's current development needs. Duplications in
budgetary programs, functional overlaps, and excess staffing are some of the factors which lead to a high
level of inefficiency. The public sector's heavy burden on the economy-reflected in indicators such as
spending as a share of GDP (52 percent), total employment share (16 percent of the labor force), output
share (27 percent of GDP), and the domestic debt burden (23 percent of GDP)-require a fundamental
reformlation of the role of the State in the economy and society. This is compounded by rigidities in
the allocation of available resources, both financial and human, and the low share allocated to capital
formation. Given this reality, reform of the State apparatus cannot be postponed in order to: rationalize
mts size, reducing resources allocated to its operation and thus releasing resources for public investment;
allow more room for the private sector, which requires implementation of a deregulation process; and
finally, strengthen citizen participation in the democratic process. In sum, the process involves moving
from a model which favored an active State role in the economy to one where it plays a more dynamic
and modern role. The major reforms included in the Program for Reform of the State are detailed below.
2.1. Triggering Actions
14.  Within the reform process there is a set of measures or actions, some already taken others
in the process of being implemented, which will of themselves generate change or which cut across the
different areas of public administration.
15. Law of Public Works Concession: This law, which has already gone through a second
debate in the Legislative Assembly, will enable the private sector to be responsible, at its own cost and
risk, for the construction and operation of major public works, which would return to the State at the end
of the concession. In this way there will be less pressure on fiscal resources to construct and operate
infrastructure.
16.  Law of Economic Democratizaion: This law, which has already received a unanimous
favorable opinion in the Legislative Assembly, will strengthen the role of the State in the performance
of essential functions, while transferring the provision of minor or non-essential services to third parties
in the market. In addition, it includes a series of incentives to encourage the formation of enterprises by
public sector employees, who are presently involved in the provision of these services and who will then
be part of the private sector selling their services to the State. In this way the cost of providing services
will be lowered, unemployment avoided and productive sectors strengthened. Co-management is
envisaged for some essential public services, where the State will concenate on ensuring quality control
in the provision of these services.



5
17.  Qpening of Monopolies:  As part of redefining the role of the public sector and to
reestablish the role of the private sector in a dynamic capital market, it is necessary to remove monopolies
stll in place: insurance, and production and sale of ethyl alcohol.
18.  To enable participation of third parties in the insurance market, it is essential to create an
agency charged with supervision of the sector which safeguards the interests of those insured and builds
confidence in the system. This opening will be gradual. In a first phase, work-related insurance will be
transferred to the Social Security Agency (Caja Costarricense del Seguro Social - CCSS) because of its
social security characteristics, and the training of staff for the supervisory agency will begin. In a second
phase an insurance supervisory agency will be established and licenses will be issued to a relatively small
group of insurance companies, thereby allowing the system to gradually develop the necessary operational
and control procedures. In a final third phase, the market will be fully opened. This whole process,
which will be specified in a single law, will be completed within a maximum period of 30 months
following approval of the law by the Legislative Assembly. Concurrently, measures will be taken to
restructure the National Insurance Company (INS) to transform it into a solvent company capable of
compedng in the insurance market.
19.  In the cast) of the monopoly on ethyl alcohol, there is no justification for its existence as it
is not an essential public sector activity which should be in the private sector. Therefore, the current
monopoly must be eliminated over the short run. However, mechanisms will need to be developed to
ensure q-ality control to protect the health of consumers, and to offset the loss of fiscal revenues.
20. The monopoly on refining and distribution of petroleum derivatives presents a particular
problem. Tais activity is undoubtedly of great economic importance, and thus any decision taken about
the future organization and structure of the sector must be the result of an exhaustive evaluation of the
different options available and be the result of a national consensus. Therefore, the first step taken was
the establishment of a high-level working group to evaluate the various options to structure the sector,
based on a detailed study of the three links in the petroleum chain-exploration, refining, and
distribution. The working group will prepare a plan to implement the Government's strategy for the
sector, including: i) decentralization of petroleum sector activities; ii) liberalization of activities that do
not consttte natura monopolies; iii) a general and a specific regulatory framework; and iv) an
institutional framework which defines the role of the State, including reforms to the National Oil Refinery
(RBCOPE) so that it can perform its proposed new functions.
21.  PrivataUions: Lastly, in addition to the actions described above, privatization of the cement
company (CEMPASA) and the fertilizer company (FERTICA), which is being discussed by the
Legislative Assembly, will complete the process of liquldating, transferring or selling all the 39
subsidiaries of the state-owned Development Corporation (Corporacidn Costarricense de Desarrollo -
CODESA). At the same time, the sale of the state-owned liquor company (FANAL), which will be sent
to the Legislative Assembly, and in line with the objective stated in paragraph 17, will also contribute
to the process of transferring to the private sector non-essential productive activities.
2.2. Institutional Reform
22.  Addressing the struchtral deficiencies of the development model followed in past decades,
requires a search for new and different alternatives to support growth and to ensure a solid economic
structure as we enter the next century. That is, long-term growth will require a structural transformation



6
where the State sets appropriate conditions and clear rules of the game, so that the productive sctor can
generate wealth, maximize growth and spread the benefits to a majorty of the population
23. It therefore becomes essential to modernize the public sector to make it more responsive to
actl and future international conditions, where the State will continue to play a critical role in
stimulating and coordinating the process to improve competitiveness in an international context and to
assign the leading role to the private sector.
24.  Institutional  tucturing and Consolidation:  Eliminating overlaps and reducing
inefficiencies in public sector institutions must be a continuing goal of the Administration. As a first
effort, progress was made in setting up sector working groups in health, agriculture, housing, transrort
and public security, which have already presented their reports and conclusions, together with proposals
for secor restructuhing. These studies, which were complemented by those done by the Government,
provide the basis for national sectoral reform programs in the areas mentioned. These programs include
an action plan and a timetable for the implementation of institutional reforms, as well as esthnates of
labor reduction where appropriate, and the potential savings that would ensue. Tle next phase in this
process will include sectoral restructuing in line with the overall objective of economic opening and
export promotion.
25.  The public sector reform measures aim toward a restructuring of key areas of public
admistration in order to remove institutional constraints which impede sustained development over the
medium and long term. Of the thiteen sectors in which the Government is involved, five strategic
sectors have been chosen to advance the reform process. Thus reforms in health, housing, transport,
agricuture and intenal secrt, seek to eliminate instutional ovedaps (within and across instutions)
to ensure the more efficient and rational use of public resources. In addition, reforms seek to reduce
ineficiencies in the provision of public services, so as to ensure incased coverage and quality at the
lowest cost postible. At the same time, sectoral reforms seek to ensure that line ministrie have the lead
responsibility for setting policy in each sector, and tha ministries asume a policy-formulating role and
not necessarily an executing one. In each sector the Government has defined a National Plan for Reform
of the Sector, with a specific timetable of actions, many of which are already underway through
adminis ve means or are part of legislation submitted to the Legislative Assembly. It is estimatd that,
in general, the process wiUl be completed in 1995.
26.  In sum, reform actions in each sector include:
i) Agriculture Sector: a) specialization and modernizaion of the sector as contemplated in the
Agriculture Sector Reform Program; b) elimination of transfers from the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MAG) to institutions in the sector, by converting the Coffee Institute (CAFE), the Rice
Agency (OFIARROZ), the Tobacco Council (JUDETAB) and the National Seed Agency (ONS), into
prvate sector entities; c) setting ceilings on the grain marketing shares of the State Marketing Agency
(CNP) as identified under the Agriculture Sector Reform Program; d) sale of FANAL and
demonopolization of the production of ethyl alcohol; and e) reforms in PL-W, pdvatizing its operation
currently in the hands of CNP.
I) Internal Security Sector: a) creation of the Ministry of the Interior by merging the curreant
Ministry of Security and the Miity of Governance; b)       ao n ad decentralization of the
National Prit Shop and the Department of Immigration; c) resructuring of the Postal and Telegraph



7
Corporation (CORTEL) into an autonomous self-financing corporation which does not require budgetary
transfers; and d) promulgation of a Statutory Police Law.
iii) Health Sector: a) implementation of the agreement to integrate services between CCSS and
the Ministry of Health; b) transfer of work-related insurance from INS to CCSS; and c) transfer of
municipal irrigation facilities to the national water agency (AyA).
iv) Transport Sector: a) restructuring of the Transport Ministry through the creation of national
councils specializing in air, water and rail transport policies; b) restructuring of the Adantic
Administrative and Development Council (JAPDEVA) to separate activities related to ports from those
related to regional development; c) restructuring of the Pacific Ports Institute (INCOP); and d)
restucturing of the railways corporation (INCOFER).
v) Housing Sector: a) establishment of the legal basis for the Ministry of Housing; b) transfer of
the Urban Department from the Urban and Housing Institute (INVU) to the Ministry of Housing; and c)
transfer of the responsibilities for construction of housing of the Emergency Housing Commission (CEV)
and the Social Welfare Institute (IMAS), as well as the financial resources of CEV, to INVU.
27.  As part of the institional reform program, a special commission is being created to review
the status of the Ministry of Extnal Trade, and the Ministry of the Economy, Industry and Trade with
the view to determining the optimal structure to be adopted in order to rationalize resources currendy
allocated to each Ministry.
28.  Budgv    Rf: The objective is to improve the budgetary process as well as the
control, monitoring and evaluation of public expenditures. Ihe new system will involve the use of
modern budgetary techniques, with sufficient flexibility to reflect Govenmment priorities in budgetary
allocations (e.g., program budgeting and other methods). It will include determination of unitary costs
for public services in order to control efficiency and evaluate the attainment of pre-defined objectives.
29.  Managers will be subject to a system of personal accountability and an appropriate set of
Ientives and penalies. The process was iniated by strengthening the Budgetary Authority, and by
defining and adopting the norms which will underpin the new budgetary system for 1993 and which will
enable the identification of programs that are redundant, inefficient and overstaffed. An important
objective will be to enable the Leslative Assembly to adopt a global view of public sector budgets and
in this way be able to better evaluate the performance of public sector agencies. In this task, the
Assembly will be assisted by the Controller General's Office. The new system is being implemented
gradually, s6Dtg in 1993 with a pilot program in the Ministries of Agricul.ure, CNP, the Agriculture
Development Agency (IDA), AyA, the Ministry of Health, and CCSS. The system will be gradually
etended to the entire public aminion. In addition, given the importance of personnel, a payroll
control system is being developed for the non-financial public sector. This system will provide a basis,
not only to monitor the voluntary labor mobility and horizontal mobility programs, but for the first time
will also provide a complete inventory of the State's human resources. A pilot program will be in
opeation by the end of this year.
30. Tax and Customs Reform: The adoption of a plan which will enable the productive sector
to meet its fiscal obligations wil make an important contribution to the aim of ensuring that the State
ceases to be an obstacle to development, especially in terms of encouraging foreign trade through the
process of economic liberalization. Tne reform strategy in this field will lead to a substantial



8
improvement in the tax structure and coverage of the tax base, as well as increased efficiency in revenue
collection. The collection mechanisms for income tax will be strengthened in order to improve efficiency
and its redistributive impact.
31.  At present, tax rates vary according to the sources of income. While this differentiated
structure seeks to promote certain economic activities, it does so at the expense of introducing serious
distortions in the allocation of productive resources and eroding the tax base. The fact that the income
tax does not consolidate all income sources, seriously undermines the progressivity of the system. A
genuinely progressive system is necessary to ensure that those who have a higher income contribute a
higher proportion than those who have a lower income, irrespective of the sources of their total income.
This aggregation of all sources of income or consolidation of the income tax, the integration between
individuals and legally-constituted entities to avoid double taxation, as well as the elimination of
distortions caused by inflation, are the key elements to ensure a more equitable and efficient tax structure
and to avoid disincentives to capital formation and savings.
32.  At the same time, administrative tax efficiency will be improved through the consolidation
of existing taxes, strengthening the 8-10 taxes which generate the largest share of revenues and expanding
their base. In addition, mechanisms to update property assessments will be reviewed in order to
strengthen the base of property taxes. The general process of property reassessments will be continued
but at the same time an adjustment mechanism will be introduced to ensure that pruperty taxes are levied
on the basis of real values and avoid the inequities that result from the present practice of updating values
only when properties are transferred.
33.  Recently-approved legislation reduced a large number of tax exemptions to increase the base
and tax equity, but there is a need to expand this effort. Consequently, consideration is being given to
the rationalization of sectoral incentive regimes which favor certain economic activities at the expense of
others. Efforts will be made to strengthen the inspection powers of the tax administration agency and
the system of sanctions applied to tax evaders, while regionalization will improve services for taxpayers.
These improvements in tax structure and administration are being initiated through the draft Tax
Efficiency Law and the Property Tax Law presented to the Assembly.
34.  The action plan initiated to improve tax administration details the measures to achieve a
modern tax system and will be supported by a technical assistance program for tax administration. In
order to provide a better service to taxpayers and, at the same time, increase fiscal revenues these efforts
include: (1) reviewing the legal framework and developing norms for the implementation of the changes
introduced in the tax system and to regulate the new procedures for collection, management and
enforcement; (2) adoption of the new organizational structure in the Directorate General of Direct
Taxation; (3) the development and implementation of new information systems at the marazgerial and
enforcement levels; (4) the execution of specific training plans for the implementation of the new tax
system and the use of information systems; and (5) defining and implementing a tax system for "large
taxpayers".
35.  The reform process in these fields, both in tax and customs administration, will also involve
the creation of a national collection agency, decentralized and under a special employment scheme within
the Ministry of Finance. The appropriate legislation, presented to the Assembly, provides for this special
employment regime which will enable the adoption of a new organizational structure and the hiring of
qualified staff to carry out the tax and customs administrative processes. In the case of customs, the new
processes will aim to facilitate international trade, the coordination of the various administrative steps



9
within a single window, and enforcement through a better use of information systems. Ihe administrave
restructuring of customs is being carried out in line with an action plan supported by technical assistance.
36.  Stengningublic   uns: Although measures in this area are not specifically covered
by SAL, in order to complement the transformation of the State there is a need to implement a series of
reforms designed to improve the quality of public functions. This process will involve training of staff.
The efficient operation of the State will require an important reduction of the payroll. To support this
process, it will be necessary to strengthen compensation mechanisms and retraining programs that can
accelerate the absorption of public sector employees in the private sector. At the same time, a monitoring
system will be established to better track the evolution of both the quantity and quality of staff. Lastly,
reforms will be necessary in order to increase flexibility of resources allocated to meet the payroll and
ensure an appropriate incentive system for public sector employees, which will be included in a planned
Law of Public Sector Employment.
37. Pension Regime: In order to develop a more equitable system, which prevents abuses, it is
necessary to consolidate special pension regimes by unifying parameters. In addition to improving
pension regimes, the aim of these measures is to increase the dynamism of financial markets by
channeling resources from pension contributions to productive activities with high returns that can
guarantee the solvency of pension funds. To this effect, administrative measures have been taken to
guarantee the financial viability of CCSS's disability, old age, and death (IVM) regime; the Teacher's
Pension Regime Law was approved, which provides for more equitable contributions by the State while
transforming the regime into a capitalization fund; the General Framework Pension Regime Law was
approved, which unifies 19 regimes financed by the State; and the Legislative Assembly is processing the
Pension Law for Employees of the Judicial System and the Law of Complementary Pensions. The latter
establishes the necessary conditions for the creation of voluntary pension funds. These reforms will also
require the establishment of a supervisory agency to audit and control the different regimes.
2.3. Trade Reime
38.  In parallel with a stable macroeconomic framework, it is necessary to take a number of
additional steps to enable the successfl penetration of our exports in world markets, while consolidating
the benefits derived from foreign investment.
39.  Efforts must be continued to place exporters under conditions similar to those of their
competitors, allowing them access to duty free inputs and eliminating bureaucratic constraints (one-
window scheme), but also eliminating direct subsidies such as the Tax Rebate Certificates (CATs). The
latter type of incentives have a high fiscal cost, discriminate against some exports (e.g., services), and
causes problems with our trading partners. The elimination of the anti-export bias removes any
justification for their continuation. In this respect, a key role wiUl be played by the implementation of
a mechanism to remit indirect taxes paid by exporters (duty-drawbacks) which will replace exemptions
granted through export contracts. Hence too the need to rationalize the taxation of imports and protection
to domestic activities. To this end, and as part of the tariff reduction program, most import duties have
been reduced to a range 10-27 percent. In addition, the Government is committed to achieving by April
1, 1993 a tariff structure with a maximm of 20 percent and a minimum of 10 percent, with the
exceptions agreed user GATIr and the Central American Common Market agreement.



10
40.  The Government has elimined the majority of no-taiff bariers t trade, such as import
and export permits issued by government entities, quantive restrictons, and has streamlined
registration requirements for those products that require them for reasons of public health, environment,
and security. In addition, the Government is committed to diminati  all non-tarff barriers which
remain for legal reasons, either administratively or by virtue of the Law to Promote Competition and
Consumer Protection. In any case, an ad hoc commission will roview elements which contribute to the
anti-export bias. In addition, the Government will ensure that import registration requiements are not
being used with a protectionist int.
41.  The Government is committed to elminatig the curreat system of price and profit margin
controls, replacing it with a more efficient system of consumer protection, which in tum is based on the
promotion of compettion though the elimination of distortions which Impede fre access to markets due
to high tariffs, licenses or trade restraints. Price controls will be applied only in exceptional cases, when
it can be demonstrated that monopolistic or oligopolistic conditions exist; these controls would be
temporary and would be maintained only while these market distortions prevail. This objective will be
achieved through implementation of the Law to Promote Compettion and Consumer Protection. In
addition, the Government will develop anti-dumping mechanisms in line with thnse agreed at the Central
American level, and will ensure that such mechanisms are consistent with GATr. Within this context,
the Gcvernment will only regulate prices for public services, for which it requires an appropriate
instittifnal framework. To this end, the Executive Branch has submitted to the Lgislative Assembly,
where it is currently being discussed, a draft law for a comprehensive reform of the National Electricity
Agency (SNE), which will transform the Agency into the Regulatory Authority for Public Services, will
provide the Authority with greater functional responsibility from the Government, and set up mechanisms
for the public review of the tariff-etting process in order to ensure greater tsparency in the pricing
of public services.
2.4. Strategic Programs
2A.1 Transformation of itrductive Sectors
42.  The increase in competitiveness which is sought at an aggregate level dt also take place
at the enterprise level; microeconomic competidveness also must be enured. Many of the actions
described above point in this direcdon, such as the reduction of extena  trade obstacles, strengthening
domestic markets to increase their transparency, transmitting corect signals to entrepreneurs, and
improving the efficiency of services provided by the State to productive sectors. In addition, it is
necessary to launch a program which empowers and consolidates the t on  of Costa Rican
enterprises in all sectors-industry, agriculture and services. This program will include: public
investment which assures the provision of services and infrastucture critcal for the process of productive
transformation; improvements in standardization and metrology sytems, and active participation in
technology management by productive entities; market iformtion sysms; and impro s in human
capital and the availability of long-term resources to finance necesary investments.
43.  In the area of humn- capital formation, which is a critical eement for the nsation
of productive sectors, efforts will be made to integrate the activities of the National Taining Instiu
(INA) and the Ministries of Labor and Education, through their technicd training centers, so that the
system can become more flexible and better able to deal with the changing needs of enterprises. In
addition, retraining programs financed by the State and incentives for manpower and vocational training



11
developed by the private sector will be strengthened and will include new schemes Involving joint
parlcipatlon.
2.4.2 Tourism
44. Tourism has become the country's second most important source of foreign exchange.
Growth In the sector must be chadDelled toward employment generation and a better regional distution
of Income and activities. To this end it is necessary to ensure efficient support by the public sector which
encourages development of tourism activities, provides appropriate incentives to attract productive
Investmets to the sector, identifies and supports small-scale etreprenurs at a regional level, and ensures
appropriate coordination between tourism activities and efforts to promote opporuities offered by the
appropriate and sustnable exploitation of the country's natu  resources.
2.43 Environment
45.  To avoid environmental deterioration which ultimaey affects productive processes and the
wefiar of Costa Ricans, the national strategy seeks to preserve the country's environmental
dcarate cs and potential. Tbis strategy ivolves: incorporating in the planning of productive activities
al elements that have an impaDct on the environent and heath, which requires ensuring the consistency
between short- and long-run effects of resource use; encouraging the adoption of sustainabiity as the
cenral criteria of development, minimizing environmental damage and limiting i to an acceptable range
where mitigatin measures can be implemented; developing technological processes which are highly
slective in terms of imported technological packages and consistent wih the need to develop indigenous
tehnologies; and, lastly, encouraging a chage in public atitudes regarding the protection and use of the
environment.
2.S.  FhnandW Secor and NPivate Invesnt
46. As an integral part of efforts to improve the economy's competitiveness, it is necessary to
carry out a number of structural changes that can improve the efficiency of domestic and foreign
investment, and that can geneate new investment opportunities for private capital. At the same time,
to guaree a stable macroeconomic environment it will be necesary to ensure that monetary policy Is
managed in a transparent and non-dicretionay manner. Among the refoms designed to improve the
investment climate are ftose related to reducing State participation in productive activities, continuing the
process to open the economy, and retraining of the labor force, whicn have been described above. The
actions to be taken in the financial and regulatory areas are detailed below.
2.5.1 Fncal Sector
47. Measures to be taken in tiis area, which are being developed and deepened as part of IDB's
sector investment credit, seek to increase efficiency in the sector through: i) a reduction of financial
intmediation margins, and il) the development of financial savings insumen to promote the long-term
expansion of capital markets. This will be achieved through policy measures, some already adopted, such
as: (a) allowing public and private bans to accept investment certificate of any maturity, which will
reduce financial intrmediation costs and lower the domestic cost of credit; (b) the estblishment of a
lender of last resource fund in the Cenl Bank of Costa Rica for private banks and financial institutions
with temporary liquidity problems, which improves confidence in the system; (C) the decision not to grnut



12
new generalized debt reschedulings to creditors of state banks. Other measures to be implemented are:
(a) implementation of the Plan to Strengthen the Agency for the Supervision of Financial Institutions
(AGEF), which seeks to provide the Agency with greater independence and make its decisions binding;
(b) establishment of more modem prudential norms which can guarantee a solvent financial system; (c)
carrying out a review of capital adequacy in major institutions; and (d) training agency staff to carry out
these functions.  To achieve these objectives it is necessary to define clearly which financial
intermediaries operate within the system; the Housing Mortgage Bank (BANHVI) and the Popular Bank
(Banco Popular) as well as credit cooperatives must be subject both to AGEF supervision and monetary
policy of the Central Bank. Together with these measures, a plan is under implementation to reduce
reliance on reserve requirements as a mechanism of monetary control by the Central Bank, placing
greater emphasis on open market instruments. The development of this plan is direcdy linked to the
program to reduce Central Bank losses. In turn, an electronic auction system is already in operation
which is used by both the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank, and will be a critical tool to
implement the above-mentioned plan.
2.5.2 Private Investment
48.  Due to overlaps in responsibility in some cases and inappropriate definition of functions in
others, the current institutional framework acts as a constraint on investment decisions by the private
sector. Regulations applicable to foreign investment and the environment, as well as the absence of
intellectual property rights are particular problems. To address these issues it is necessary to: ensure
that foreign investment is treated in the same way as domestic investment, establish clear enviromental
legislation which, while protecting our natural resources, can clearly identify the requirements and
procedures to be followed by investors; and ratify international agreements which guarantee the protection
of intellectua property rights and foreign investment. These reforms must be accompanied by a
transparent exchange rate policy which, as is currently the case, guarantees the free movement of capital
and currency convertibility.
2.6. Social Polieies
49.  Social development policies seek to preserve and deepen the levels of welfare achieved in
past decades through the continuation of universal programs in health, education and public goods, as
well as the implementation of policies to target social welfare and housing on the more disadvantaged
groups. Three types of policies are involved:
*    Policies on human capital investment which are related to the structural causes of poverty
and which enable upward social mobility from one generation to the next. In this area,
measures are related to health, education and nution.
*    Policies to transfer physical iesources to the more rulnerable groups which can increase
their assets, such as housing program, construction of rural irrigation, land titling, and
promotion of entrepreneuria capabilities and microenterprises.
*    Policies designed to guarantee minimum income levels tirough direct subsidies which can
meet the needs of the permanent or transitory poor, who due to old age, unemployment or
lack of education are unable to generate by themselves the income necessary to guarantee
a dignified existence.



13
50. In parallel and over the short run it will be necessary to improve coordination mechanisms
and restructure institutions in order to rationalize the provision of social services. Over the medium term,
it will be necessary to integrate non-govermnent agencies within the social services structure in order to
ensure improvements in service quality and coverage without having to rely for this on the expansion of
State activities. To this effect, the National Registry of Beneficiaries (SISBEN) and the Living Standards
Measurement Survey (ENISO) are the two mechanisms being implemented to enable the Governmont to
direct more accurately its policies to benefit disadvantaged groups, and provide the basis for better
coordination among State agencies involved in the social sectors.
51.  Edlcatio : The national education system allows the country to enjoy a privileged position
within Latin America. This enables improved conditions for the development of productive activities
which require trained manpower. This is not to imply that the system does not require improvements.
In fact, over the short term, it is necessary to take a number urgent steps to avoid its collapse. Among
these are investing in educational infrastructure, teaching materials and an expansion of the curriculum,
and improved training of teachers, especially in rural areas. The Government has made progress in this
direction having approved an education sector loan, financed by IBRD and IDB, designed to meet the
needs described above. Over the medium term, it will be necessary to change the basic education model
so that education policies are directed toward civic development, productivity, and social solidarity. At
the institutional level, there is a need to strengthen the lead role of the Ministry of Education and deepen
efforts to decentralize the management and execution of administrative functions.
52.  Health: It is necessary to ensure that the Ministry of Health has a lead role in the planning,
management and evaluation of the sector, while programs to ensure integrated services and to shift
emphasis from curative to preventive services are consolidated. The process of regionalization and
decentralization together with efforts to strengthen local health systems, will underpin this transformation.
It will be necessary to develop new models to finance and administer health services, allowing
participation of third parties under the supervision of sector institutions, in order to improve service
delivery and levels of consumer satisfaction.
53.  Housing: In this area, functions have been spread over a number of institutions which has
led to duplications and inefficiencies in program execution, with the atendant waste of resources. In this
light, it is important to make progress toward a more appropriate institutional structure for the sector,
whereby the lead role of the Ministry can be strengthened and the use of resources to solve the housing
problem can be rationalized. It will also be necessary to establish altenative mechanisms to channel
financial resources to strengthen the nation's housing finance system.
54. Social Promoton: A set of measures will be required to stimulate economic democratization
by opening up access to the means of production. The aim is to increase the number of small-scale
entrepreneurs so as to achieve a more egalitarian and integrated society. A comprehensive approach will
be adopted which includes improving the ability of credit agencies to reach this type of clients,
implementing technical assistance programs which rely on the advantages offered by non-governmental
organizations, and streamlining administrative processes, especially those related to property rights.
55.  The measures described above constitute the main elements of the Government's structural
adjustment program. This comprehensive program will support the process of structural transformation
through a more efficient allocation of resources. The elimination of the structural fiscal deficit will
reduce pressure on domestic prices and interest rates, leading to higher foreign and domestic investmen
levels. Improved targeting of social services will channel increased resources to those groups and areas



14
tha need It most, and will improve the allocation of expenditures toward the poor, thereby achieving a
more just and equitable society.
56.  Developing the economy to its maximum potential and distribudag these benefits among the
entire population will be a difficult task. The measures taken by the Govenmen of Costa Rica are key
steps to achieve these aims. The support of IBRD and 1DB is critical for the success of the program.
We are confident that, together, we wDI be able to build the road that will lead Costa Rica toward
accelerated economic growth and social development, within the frmework of democacy, social justice
and peace that charaterize the country.
R4fael Angel CAdler&n Foe ier
President of the Republic
Redo(Jo Mua   Ma                                                    Os Vaqas Aqda
Minister of Finance                                          MfmisterofNationl Planning
and Econor-lc Policy



ANNEX D
STATUS OF
BANK GROUP OPERATIONS



STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA
._.. ._. ......................................
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
.......................................
(As of December 31t 1992)
Amount in USS mitlion
(less cancellation)
Credit/          Fiscal                                                   ---------------....---------------
Loan No.          Year         Borrower              Purpose                Bank        IDA       Undisbursed
31 loans and one credit futty disbursed                                    588.70        5.48
Of which SECALs, SALs, and Program Loans ax
Ln. 2274-COS      1983    Costa Rica         Export Devetopment             25.20
Ln. 2518-COS      1985    Costa Rica         Structural Adjustment          80.00
Ln. 3005-COS      1989    Costa Rica         Structural Adjustment         100.00
Subtotal                                                              205.20
Ln. 2764-COS      1987    Costa Rica         Attantico Agricutture          26.00                       15.96
Ln. 3205-COS      1990    Costa Rica         Transport Sector               60.00                       56.31
Ln. 3414-COS  b*  1992    Costa Rica         Basic Education Rehab          23.00                       23.00
Ln. 3447-COS  b>  1992    Costa Rica         Agric Sector Investment        41.00                       41.00
Total                                                                 738.70        5.48          136.29
Of which has been repaid                                              322.73        2.43
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                        415.97        3.05
a=5 ==m
Amount sold              :   11.10
Of which has been repaid:   11.10
Total undisbursed                                                     136.29        0.00          136.29
..............................................
a. Approved during or after FY80.
b>' Not yet effective.
SAL, SECAL, or Program Loan.



COSTA RICA
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as d Deoomber 3S.1102
(USS MUon)
Or*iWl Gro Cocnwnimrbn        HlJ Hold by Un          _
FPeeY Veer                                                                  IFC     WC   Peetlel-            by   PQse- (iEld
Q_llbd    Ob                       TU ypet of    ne           Ln-   Ewlb    nt   Tetl' IFC                      :   h
9Isom       Productos de Concreto, SA el       Cement & Constucton Mat       0.38      -     021    0.50       -       -            -
1978187     Scot Papar Company do Coste Rca    Pulp & Paper Products          4.00      -       -     4.00      -       -            -
1079        Ms,8leulSAe/                        Food&FoodProoessing           1.40    0.70      -     2.10
1083        Mates da Costs Rica, SA.           Ornamental Plants              1.52      -       -     1.52
1001         BnexCrdtLIne                       Development Finame            5.00    0.85      -     58.85    8.85                0.08
1003        Mmlem                               Communcatkon                  2.50    1.00    3.50    7.00    3.50      -          1.50
1003        Hotl Camino Real                   Towlsm                         7.00      -       -     7.00    7.00      -          7.00
.~~~~~:>:; -    *tao*- :. n5  8-.s...
Lees Canoellaons,Trmlnarorm,
Repayment, and SWes                                            7.30    0.70    3.71   11.72
.140      As5  -0.00T
al Inveents whlch hae been fully canoelled. tenrinated, wrtten-off, sod, redeemed or *epaid.
b/ GossCommlnn    onss do approvdand signed prcqects.
e/ Held Coenm _bnen consist of dsbuwed and undlbursed lnvesbnwit.



ANNEX E
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET



COSTA RICA
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Secion I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the loan: 18 months
(b) Project prepared by: Ministries of Planning and Finance, and Central Bank.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: July 1991
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: June 1992
(e) Completion of Negotiations: November 1992
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1993
Section Ik: Specal llmplementation Actions
None
Secon IUI: Spedal Conditions
Actions Tak  before Board Prentation:
(i)   Public Sector Reform: approval of the Law of Public Works Concession, and the Law to
Privatize CEMPASA and FERTICA; submission to the Assembly of the Law to Privatize FANAL;
formation of an ad hoc group with agreed terms of reference to study the petroleum sector;
achievement of the 1991-92 target for employment reduction; initiation of new budgeting system
on a pilot basis for the 1993 budget in six public sector entities; and, submission to the Assembly
of the Tax Efficiency Law and the Property Tax Reform Law, and preparation of a Tax Package;
(i) Trade Regime and Regulatory Framework: reduction of most import tariffs to 10-27 percent
range; announcement that no new CATs will be offered; elimination of price controls on all goods
(with three exceptions); preparation of acceptable Deregulation Law to eliminate most remaini
profit margin controls, and import and export licensing requirements; and establishn of working
group to prepare the necessary regulations to implement the proposed Law for the Reguation of
Public Services and an action plan to restructure SNE in line with its new functions and
responsibilities;
(iii)  lF1naidl Sector: allow private commercial banks to accept short-term deposits (mvestment
cericates) of any maturity; agreement on an action plan to strengten the regulatory framework
of the financia system and continue AGEF's modernization program; maitenance of restrictions
on subsidized credit, and broadening of the definition to include loans from external sources and
change of the reference rate to basic rate plus three points; and preparation of legislation enabling
the operation of private insurance companies not later than 30 months after legislaon enters into
force, and providing for the setting up insurance supervisory body; and



(iv)  Socal Setors and Poverty Alleviation: completion of the national registry of beneficiaries and
design of the Living Standards Measurement Survey; agreement on a program to retrain displaced
public sectr workers; and approval of the General Framework Pension Regime Law.
Loan Effectiveness Conditions:
Enactment of the Economic Democratization Law and the Deregulation Law.
Second Tranche Release Conditions:  satisfactory progress in implementation of the
Government's structural reform program, including the maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic
framework, and the following actions:
(i)   Public Sector Reform: bringing to the point of sale CEMPASA and FERTICA, and completion
of study and action plan for reform of the petroleum sector; substantial achievement of the 1993
target for employment reduction; preparation of a satisfactory action plan, based on an evaluation
of the pilot experience, for a comprehensive reform of the budgetary system; and enactment of the
Tax Efficiency Law and the Property Tax Reform Law, and submission to the Assembly of a Tax
Package;
(ii) Trasde Regime and Regulatory Framework: implementation of import tariff range 10-20
percent, except for exempted items; adoption of export duty drawback scheme based on agreed
crt:eria and procedures; implementation of the Deregulation Law in a manner consistent with the
objectives of the Letter of Development Policy; and enactment of the Law to Regulate Public
Services, enactment of the regulations to implement the Law, and initiation of the action plan to
restructure SNE in line with its new functions and responsibilities;
(iii) IlBnancdal Sector: implementation of a scheme to allow private finance companies access to the
Central Bank as lender of last resort in cases of temporary liquidity shortfalls; satisfactory progress
in implementation of action plan to strengthen the regulatory framework of the financial sector and
the modernization of AGEF; enactment of legislation establishing AGEF oversight of credit
cooperatives; and enactment of legislation enabling the operation of private insurance companies
not later than 30 months after legislation enters into force and setting up of insurance supervisory
body; and
(iv)  Social Sectors and Povey  Aleviation: adopt and begin implementtion of agreed socia action
plan based on results of the national registry of beneficiaries and the Living Standards
Measurement Survey; satisfactory implementation of the retraining program for displaced public
sector workers; and enactment of the Law of Complementary Pensions;
Third Tranche Release Conditions: satisfactory progress in implementation of the Government's
structural reform program, including the maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework, and
the following acdons:
(i)   Publc Sector Reform: bringing to the point of sale FANAL, and begin implementationof agreed
action plan to reform petroleum sector; substantial achievement of the 1994 target for employment
reduction; satisfactory implementation of action plan to reform budgetary system; and enactment
of a Tax Package;



(i)  Trade Regime and Regulatory Franework: implementation of tariff range 10-20 percent for
footwear, textiles and tires; satisfactory progress in implementation of export duty drawback
system; implementation of Deregulation Law in a manner consistent with the objectives of the
Letter of Development Policy; and satisfactory implementation of the action plan to restructure
SNE;
(iii) Financial Sector: complete implementation of action plan to strengthen the regulatory framework
for the financial sector and the modernization of AGEF; and enactment of all the necessary
regulations relating to insurance legislation and having made the insurance supervisory body
operational; and
(iv) Social Sectors and Poverty Alleviation: satisfactory implementation of sezial action plan and
retraining program for displaced public sector workers.



