Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16081
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
COSTA RICA
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3594-CR)
July 8, 1996
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
COSTA RICA
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3594-CR; US$100 million)
1.    This is a Project Completion Note for the Third Structural Adjustment Loan to Costa Rica
(SAL III). A poLicy dialogue was initiated with the Borrower soon after a new Administration
took office in May 1990. Following two Bank preparation missions in June and October 1990,
the Government completed a first outline of a structural adjustment program in July 1991, and
presented a more detailed statement to a Consultative Group meeting in September 1991. It then
presented a full reform program to the next Consultative Group meeting in March 1992. Pre-
appraisal took place in April 1992, appraisal in June 1992, and negotiations in November 1992.
The Loan was approved by the Board on April 15, 1993, and signed on April 19, 1993. The
deadline for effectiveness was extended six times, but the Loan was terminated on March 1, 1995,
when some conditions of effectiveness had not yet been met.
2.    Background.  Despite impressive achievements, most notably in the areas of human
resources development and poverty alleviation, in the early 1980s Costa Rica faced a severe threat
to its development prospects, in the form of a major debt crisis. Although prompted by external
shocks, the severity of the crisis was also partly the result of a public sector-led growth strategy
that had been quite inward-oriented in focus and had depended excessively on rapid increases in
net domestic credit and extemal financing. By 1980, Costa Rica had accumulated one of the
highest per capita debts, surpassing Argentina, Brazil and Mexico. Unable to service this
mounting debt, in 1981 Costa Rica suspended most principal and interest payments to creditors,
other than multilateral institutions.
3.    Since that time, successive governments have carried out structural reforms to deal with
the underlying causes of the crisis. These have been supported by the international donor
community, including the Bank under Loans 2518-CR and 3005-CR (SAL I and II). Although
some important progress was made in reducing domestic and external imbalances, nearly a decade
later the country nonetheless remained vulnerable to macroeconomic disequilibria because of
continuing public finance rigidities. SAL III was designed to address these issues, by supporting
a fundamental restructuring of the role and functions of the public sector, improving the;
functioning of markets and promoting further globalization of the economy.
4.     The Administration inaugurated in May 1990 initiated preparatory work for SAL III while
SAL II was still under implementation (SAL II was approved by the Board in December 1988 and
closed in July 1992). The agenda facing the Government was significant-if corrective measures
were not taken, by end-1990 the overall public sector deficit was projected to reach above 8
percent of GDP and inflation would exceed 20 percent. Some decisive actions were taken early
on-prices of public services were raised, a new tax package was introduced, and the number of
mini-devaluations was increased. These measures contained further deterioration, with the overall
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onry in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherAise be disclosed wi.hout World Bank authorization.



2
public sector deficit falling to 5 percent of GDP in 1990, inflation holding under 20 percent, and
the current account deficit declining slightly from 10.9 percent of GDP in 1989 to 10.2 percent in
1990. In April 1991, the ITMF Board approved a stand-by arrangement which set tight limits on
goverrunent expenditures, including the public payroll, on net domestic financing of the non-
financial public sector, and included tax increases and periodic adjustments in the prices of public
sector services.
5.    The Program.  SAL III was prepared in close collaboration with the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) and the US Agency for International Development. The program
supported the following set of reforms: (i) maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomnic
framework; (ii) public sector reform, including privatization of government services and
enterprises, reduction of public employment, budgetary reform, institutional restructuring, and tax
reform; (iii) trade reforms to reduce the levels of protection, remove price and profit margin
controls, strengthen regulation of public utilities and improve export incentives; (iv) financial
sector reform to reduce discrimination against private financial institutions, limit subsidized credit,
strengthen prudential supervision, and demonopolize the insurance market; and (v) social sector
reform to improve targeting and coverage of social programs, strengthen retraining programs for
displaced public sector employees and pension reform. SAL III, for US$100 million, was one of
three inter-related loans. The DB's Public Sector Reform Loan, for US$80 million, co-financed
the public sector reform component of SAL III. In addition, IDB's Sector Investment Loan and
.Multisector Credit Project, for US$170 million, supported complementary reforms to strengthen
financial and capital markets, improve the overall investment climate and strengthen labor
retraining programs.
6.    The preparation period of SAL m  was lengthier than expected for two reasons. First,
SAL II itself was experiencing delays in obtaining ratification of legislation by Congress; it was
proving difficult to comply with public savings targets in a pre-election year; and compliance with
audit covenants was weak.' Second, conditions for negotiations included the drafting of all laws
included in the SAL III reform program, so as to minimize ambiguity concerning the nature and
scope of reforms to be supported by the Loan.  It took until end-October 1992 for the
Government to complete drafting 12 bills in the areas of deregulation, pensions, privatization,
public works concessions, public sector labor mobility, economic democratization, insurance, and
taxation.
7.    The design of SAL III was ambitious. The reforms envisioned a substantive restructuring
of the public sector, to redefine its role in the economy and increase private participation in the-
financial sector. The Bank and the Government were aware that these reforms would face strong
opposition from some quarters, but on balance felt that there was enough support for their
inplementation. It was originally planned that passage of all key legislation (except the Law of
the Insurance Market) would be a condition for Board presentation. These included: the Law of
Economic Democratization, the Law of Economic Deregulation, the Law of Public Works
Concession, and the Law for the Privatization of CEMPASA and FERTICA. The Law of the
Insurance Market was to be a second tranche condition, to allow a more gradual opening of the
See Program Completion Report Costa Rica: Structural Adiustment Loans I and II, Report No. 12952, April
12, 1994, World Bank.



3
insurance monopoly to competition from private insurance companies. However, when it proved
difficult to ratify so many laws in a relatively short period of time, it was agreed that passage of
the Law of Economic Democratization and the Law of Economic Deregulation would instead be
conditions of effectiveness.
8.    Ultimately, the key conditions for Board presentation were maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic framework, the enactment of the Law of Public Works Concession, the Law for
the Privatization of CEMPASA and FERTICA, and completion of the first phase of the Labor
Mobility Program (public employment reduction of 13,000 positions by end 1992).. The
President's Report discussed two principal risks: (i) adverse external developments which could
lead to backtracking on policy reforms; and (ii) domestic factors such as opposition to the
reforms, delays in approving enabling legislation and the possibility that a new administration
could be less committed to the program. Domestic factors turned out to have a large weight on
the outcome of SAL III.
9.    Soon after Loan 3594-CR was signed in April 1993, SAL III became enmeshed in the
June 1993 - February 1994 presidential campaign. Opposition to the reform program focused on:
(i) the targets for public sector downsizing; (ii) the demonopolization of the insurance market; and
(iii) the heavy reliance of SAL III on legislative changes to achieve the reforms. The new
Government which took office in May 1994, confirmed its commitment to the broad objectives of
the Loan, but disagreed with some specific conditionalities. At the same time, the party of the
outgoing Administration continued to insist on full implementation. The polarization surrounding
SAL III delayed its legislative approval (necessary for effectiveness under Costa Rican law, and
requiring a two-thirds majority). Progress in the implementation of other effectiveness conditions
was also delayed.
10.   Meanwhile, general econornic conditions deteriorated sharply in 1994-the overall public
sector deficit increased to 8 percent of GDP from 0.9 percent in 1993; growth declined from 6.4
percent to under 4.5 percent; and inflation more than doubled to 20 percent.  Costa Rica
maintained a dialogue with the IMF toward a stand-by arrangement, but was unable to reach
agreement in 1994.
11.   The Bank granted five extensions of the effectiveness deadline from  July through
December 1994. A sixth and final 45-day extension was granted on January 15, 1995 (to March
1, 1995), to allow time to review the status of effectiveness conditions. The Government had
submitted documentation on December 28, 1994 and January 12, 1995. A review rnission whichi
visited Costa Rica in January 1995 concluded that: (i) the macroeconomic framework was not
appropriate and that reducing macroeconomic imbalances would require a series of actions
unlikely to be achieved in the time remaining before March 1, 1995 (particularly with respect to
Congressional approval of a new tax package); (ii) enactment of the Deregulation Law No. 7472
substantially fulfilled the effectiveness condition; (iii) the Democratization Law had not been
voted on by the Legislative Assembly, and that the approved Law of Sociedades An6nimas
Laborales, which the Government maintained fulfilled the effectiveness conditions of the
Democratization Law, was not a satisfactory substitute hence requiring a waiver of this condition;
and (iv) although the Government was unable to provide precise data on the number of positions



4
created and canceled in the public sector, partial information appeared to show that there had
been substantial deviations from public employment levels at the time of Board presentation. In
addition, the Government opposed the setting of quantitative targets for employment reduction,
and reiterated its position that it did not intend to demonopolize the insurance sector, and would
therefore not meet this second tranche condition. Some 22 months after Board approval, SAL III
was terminated on March 1, 1995.
12.   Lessons Learned. Perhaps, the most important lesson of the SAL III experience concems
the importance of ownership of a reform program. SAL III was eventually terminated because
the program had been designed, negotiated and signed by one Administration, but had to be
implemented by a new Administration that had a markedly different approach to the issues
involved. This lesson was already identified in the Project Completion Report No. 12952 and
OED Audit Report No. 13263 of SAL I and II.
13.   A second lesson relates to the natutre of conditionality, particularly enactment of laws.
Although it is true that the reforms envisioned in SAL III required legislative changes to
implement them and ensure their sustainability, it is also the case that the actual enactment of such
laws was beyond the direct control of the executive branch. The aforementioned OED Audit
Report of SAL I and II pointed out that delays in effectiveness of SAL III could be traced partly
to the normally slow process of consensus-building in Costa Rica, but also to the inclusion of
legislative actions as conditions to be met after Board approval. If enactment of laws is absolutely
necessary, these are best required as conditions for negotiations or for Board presentation.
14.   Final Considerations. Although Loan 3594-CR never did become effective, the SAL III
program was not without achievements, and Costa Rica has continued to make progress on the
macroeconomic front and in several important reform areas after the Loan lapsed. First, a
number of reforms were implemented prior to Board approval, including: approval of the legal
framework for the granting of concessions for the construction of public works; privatization of
CEMPASA and FERTICA; trade liberalization, including tariff reductions and the elimination of
most import and export licenses; price decontrol; initial steps to strengthen prudential supervision
of the financial system; and reform of the General Pension regime. Second, the national debate
surrounding SAL III probably contributed to the process of consensus-building on the need for
public sector modernization and financial sector reform. In areas where consensus was eventually
reached as to the appropriate strategies to be followed, legislation has been adopted and structural
changes have occurred, in some cases going beyond the scope of the SAL III reforms themselves.
SAL III may have also acted as a catalyst in spurring other reforms which are currently being.1
pursued, to streamline and make the state more efficient and to improve competition and
efficiency in financial markets.
15.   Some of the Government's main achievements since SAL III was canceled include:
approval of a new tax package; significant reforms to the special pension regimes; reductions in
the scope of the public sector by scaling down operations, mergers and the transfer of functions to
the private sector; approval of legislation to allow the private sector to build, own, operate and
transfer projects in the telecommunications and electricity sectors, enhanced competition in the
banking sector through the removal of the state banks' monopoly on current deposits and access



5
to Central Bank rediscounts; strengthening prudential supervision in financial markets; and
increased autonomy for the Central Bank and the agency supervising the financial system. Some
of these developments are being supported by IDB under its policy-based loans. The IMF Board
approved a 15-month stand-by arrangement for Costa Rica in November 1995. The World Baznk
is also continuing to work with Costa Rica on public sector modernization issues under a bilateral
technical assistance grant and through some ongoing investment operations and various non-
lending activities. In particular, the Bank is providing technical advice on further pension reform
and strengthening of capital market legislation.
16.   This text and the attached basic data section were prepared by the Central America
Country Department (LADCN) of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office, and are
based, inter alia, on the President's Report, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






Annex
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
COSTA RICA
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3594-CR)
Basic Information
Country:                 Costa Rica
Project:                 Third Structural Adjustment Loan
Loan number              3594 - CR
Loan amount:             US$100.0 million
Borrower:                Republic of Costa Rica
Implementing agencies:    Ministry of Finance
Benefits:                A more efficient and streamlined public sector which would lay
the basis for more prudent fiscal policies, higher export-oriented
economic growth, and improved creditworthiness.
On-lending terms:        Repayment in 17 years and 4 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Time taken to prepare
project:                 Two years (June 1990 - June 1992)
Project Appraisal:       June 1992
Completion of
negotiations:            November 1992
Board presentation:      April 15, 1993
Loan signing:            April 19, 1993
Loan termination:        March 1, 1995









; MAG I fAG  !,
Report No:         160fo1
Type: PCN



