Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3594 CR
Loan Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 19, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3594 CR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 19, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 17, 1992 from the 
Borrower describing a program of objectives, policies and actions, taken and to be 
taken, designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently 
needed imports required during such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Loan Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the  accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.";
(c)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(d)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have their respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AGEF" means the Borrower's Banking Supervision Agency, Auditoria General 
de Entidades Financieras;
(b)
"AGEF's Action Plan" means the action plan described in the Borrower's 
document entitled "Plan de Accion: Area de Supervision del Sistema Financiero", 
attached to the Borrower's
letter to the Bank dated November 13, 1992;
(c)
"CEMPASA" means the Borrower's Cementos del Pacifico Sociedad Anonima, 
the cement public company controlled by the Borrower;
(d)
"Consejo" means the Central American Council on Tariffs and Customs, El 
Consejo Arancelario y Aduanero Centroamericano, created under the Treaty (as 
hereinafter defined);
(e)
"Displaced Workers Program" means the Borrower's plan for retraining 
displaced workers from the public sector, described in its document entitled 
"Propuesta Sobre Programas Especificos para Trabajadores Desplazados y Sobre Las 
Reformas Organizacionales y de Financiamiento del Instituto Nacional de Aprendizaje", 
attached to the Borrower's letter to the Bank dated November 13, 1992;
(f)
"Exempted Items" is the list of items (partidas arancelarias) referred to 
in the Borrower's letter to the Bank dated November 12, 1992;
(g)
"Labor Mobility Program" means the Borrower's program of objectives, 
actions and targets designed to achieve a reduction of staff positions in the public 
sector, as such program is described in the Borrower's document entitled "El Programa 
de Eliminacion de Plazas Publicas en Costa Rica", attached to the Borrower's letter to 
the Bank dated November 13, 1992;
(h)
"FANAL" means the Borrower's Fabrica Nacional de Licores, the liquor 
public company controlled by the Borrower;
(i)
"FERTICA" means the Borrower's Fertilizantes de Costa Rica, the 
fertilizer public company controlled by the Borrower;
Page  3
(j)
"First Tranche", "Second Tranche" and "Third Tranche" means the amount of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated, from time to time, to the Categories (1), (2), and 
(3), respectively, of the Table and to be released by the Bank: (A) in the case of 
Category (1), on or after the Effective Date; and (B) in the cases of Categories (2) 
and (3), in accordance with paragraphs 5 and 6, respectively, of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(k)
"LSMS Data" means the data to be obtained from the implementation of the 
Living Standards Measurement Survey described in the Borrower's document "Encuesta 
Sobre Inversion Social en Costa Rica Antecedentes y Situacion Actual", dated October, 
1992, as such document is attached to the Borrower's letter to the Bank dated November 
13, 1992;
(l)
"Pilot Entities" means the following Borrower's entities: Ministry of 
Agriculture, Agrarian Development Institute (Instituto de Desarrollo Agrario), 
National Council for Production
(Consejo Nacional de Produccion), Water Company (Acueductos y Alcantarillados), Social 
Security Agency (Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social) and Ministry of Health;
(m)
"Pilot Program" means the Borrower's ongoing program in the Pilot 
Entities designed to establish an integrated financial management system in order to 
increase budgetary flexibility,
incorporate greater programmatic contet to public expenditures and strengthen control 
and monitoring systems; as such program is described in the Borrower's document 
entitled "Programa de Reforma Presupuestaria", attached to the Borrower's letter to 
the Bank dated November 13, 1992;
(n)
"Proposed Complementary Pensions Law" means the Draft Law entitled 
"Proyecto de Ley Regimen Privado de Pensiones Complementarias", attached to the 
Borrower's letter to the Bank dated November 13, 1992;
(o)
"Proposed Deregulation Law" means the Draft Law entitled "Proyecto de Ley 
de Promocion de la Competencia y Defense Efectiva del Consumidor", attached to the 
Borrower's letter to the Bank dated December 1, 1992;
(p)
"Proposed Law of Economic Democratization" means the Borrower's Draft Law 
entitled "Proyecto de Ley de Democratizacion del Sector Publico", attached to the 
Borrower's letter to the Bank dated November 13, 1992;
(q)
"Proposed Property Tax Reform Law" means the Borrower's Draft Law 
entitled "Proyecto de Ley Sobre el Impuesto Territorial", attached to the certificate, 
dated February 17, 1993 and received by the Bank, issued by the Secretary (Primer 
Secretario) of the Legislative Assembly and which certificate is referred to in the 
Borrower's letter to the Bank dated March 4, 1993;
(r)
"Proposed Tax Efficiency Law" means the Borrower's Draft Law entitled 
"Proyecto de Ley de Eficiencia Tributaria", attached to the Borrower's letter to the 
Bank dated March 4, 1993;
(s)
"Public Commercial Banks" means Banco Nacional de Costa Rica, Banco 
Anglo-Costarricense, Banco de Costa Rica and Banco de Credito Agricola de Cartago, or 
any successor thereto;
(t)
"Registry" means the Borrower's Sistema de Beneficiarios, National 
Registry of Beneficaries, as described in the Borrower's document entitled "Analisis 
de Validacion del Sistema
de Seleccion de Beneficiarios" dated October 1992, as such document is attached to the 
Borrower's letter to the Bank dated November 13, 1992;
(u)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M. No. 
34/Rev. 3 (1986);
(v)
"Subsidized Credit" means credit granted at interest rates lower than the 
six-month average deposit interest rate paid by all Public Commercial Banks for a 
comparable period (as such rate is published by the Central Bank of Costa Rica) plus 
three (3) percentage points;
Page  4
(w)
"Table" means the Table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(x)
"Tax Base Program" means the provisions to rationalize tax incentive 
schemes and extend the application of the Borrower's sales tax (impuesto de ventas), 
as such provisions are included in the document entitiled "Programa Ampliacion de Base 
Tributaria" and which document is attached to the Borrower's letter to the Bank dated 
November 13, 1992; and
(y)
"Treaty" means the Agreement on the Central American Tariff and Custom 
Regime, Convenio Sobre el Regimen Arancelario y Aduanero Centroamericano, entered into 
force on September 17, 1985, and published in the Ordenamiento Juridico de la 
Integracion Economica Regional en America Latina (1986) of the Institute for Latin 
American Integration.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred million dollars 
($100,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
Page  5
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower's Central Bank is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts its Central Bank with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal 
applications under the Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence 
to be furnished to the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal 
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for 
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 
ninety days after the date in which the amount 
Page  6
allocated from time to time 
under each category of the Table 
has been fully withdrawn, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall have enacted legislation which substantially adopts 
the provisions of the Proposed Deregulation Law and such legislation is in full force 
and effect.
(c)
The Borrower shall have enacted legislation which substantially adopts 
the provisions of the Proposed Law of Economic Democratization and such legislation is 
in full force and effect.
(d)
Any action of the Program taken prior to this Agreement has not been 
modified in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, is inconsistent with the 
policies or objectives of the Program.
Section 5.02. The date July 19, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  7
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 5016-1000
San Jose, Costa Rica
Telex:
2277 MIN HAC
Fax:
(506) 338267
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By /s/ Rodrigo Mendez Mata
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Carlos Vargas Pagan
Honorary Witness
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Imported goods to         35,000,000        100% of foreign
    be financed under                           expenditures
    the First Tranche
(2) Imported goods to         35,000,000        100% of foreign
    be financed under                           expenditures
    the Second Tranche
(3) Imported goods to         30,000,000        100% of foreign
    be financed under                           expenditures
    the Third Tranche
                             ___________
         TOTAL               100,000,000
                             ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
 
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
 
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
 
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
stones, unworked or worked
718
 718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, 
fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated 
for
nuclear reactors
728.43
   -
Tobacco processing machinery
 
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths' or 
silversmiths' wares (including set
gems)
Page  9
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$20,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
date but after December 19, 1992;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $25,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption; and
(g)
any imports eligible for financing under the Loan unless the Borrower 
shall have furnished to the Bank a statement from independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank showing in terms
satisfactory to the Bank that such imports: (i) have been paid for; and (ii) have 
entered into the country.
4.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of 
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
5.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan under Category (2) of the Table, unless the Bank shall 
be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank (such evidence to include legal 
opinions if required by the Bank): (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in 
the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and (c) that the actions 
described in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
6.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan under Category (3) of the Table, unless the Bank shall 
be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank (such evidence to include legal 
opinions if required by the Bank): (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in 
the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and (c) that the actions 
described in Parts A and B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
7.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraphs 5 or 6 above, the Bank 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory or that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is not 
consistent with the objectives of the Program and, within 90 days after such notice, 
the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the 
Bank, or the macroeconomic framework of the Borrower continues to be not consistent 
with the objectives of the Program, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Page  10
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
August 15, 1997                                 
2,320,000
February 15, 1998                               
2,410,000
August 15, 1998                                 
2,500,000
February 15, 1999                               
2,595,000
August 15, 1999                                 
2,695,000
February 15, 2000                               
2,795,000
August 15, 2000                                 
2,905,000
February 15, 2001                               
3,015,000
August 15, 2001                                 
3,130,000
February 15, 2002                               
3,245,000
August 15, 2002                                 
3,370,000
February 15, 2003                               
3,500,000
August 15, 2003                                 
3,630,000
February 15, 2004                               
3,770,000
August 15, 2004                                 
3,915,000
February 15, 2005                               
4,060,000
August 15, 2005                                 
4,215,000
February 15, 2006                               
4,375,000
August 15, 2006                                 
4,540,000
February 15, 2007                               
4,715,000
August 15, 2007                                 
4,895,000
February 15, 2008                               
5,080,000
August 15, 2008                                 
5,275,000
February 15, 2009                               
5,475,000
August 15, 2009                                 
5,680,000
February 15, 2010                               
5,895,000
 
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day 
of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                       
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                         
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                       
1.00
maturity
Page  11
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Business; 
or
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Subject to paragraph 3 below, contracts for the procurement of goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank; and
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers, except that direct contracting 
procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where considered appropriate under 
paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded commodities may be 
procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; 
provided, however, that: (a) in respect of petroleum imports under existing contracts 
entered into with oil suppliers,
the Bank shall finance out of the Loan an amount not to exceed, per unit, the average 
between lower and higher FOB (free on board) prices as reflected in the Platt's 
Oilgram for the US Gulf Coast or
the Caribbean, as applicable, for the relevant date of loading (with due adjustment 
for type and quality of crude or petroleum product) plus the ocean freight rates that 
would apply to the largest tankers that can be handled at the receiving terminal, 
insurance and inspection costs, and ocean losses allowances; or (b) in respect of 
Page  12
other commodity imports under existing contracts entered into with the corresponding 
suppliers, the Bank shall finance out of the Loan an amount not to exceed the average 
FOB (free on board) price posted (for the commodity in question and for the relevant 
date of shipment) by a commodity exchange acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank plus 
the additional costs referred to above, if applicable.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and tendering 
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect 
thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to 
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of
expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Referred to in Paragraphs 5 and 6
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part A:
1.
The Borrower shall have brought CEMPASA and FERTICA to the point of sale.
 
2.
The Borrower shall have completed a study on its petroleum sector under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank and submitted to the Bank an action plan, based on 
the results and recommendations of the referred study and an exchange of views between 
the Borrower and the Bank on such results and recommendations, for the reform of its 
petroleum sector.
3.
The staff reduction targets for 1993 included in the Labor Mobility Program 
shall have been substantially achieved.
4.
The Borrower shall have submitted to the Bank an action plan, based on the 
evaluation by the Bank and the Borrower of the results of the Pilot Program, for a 
comprehensive reform of its budgetary system.
5.
The Borrower shall have: (a) enacted legislation which substantially adopts the 
provisions of the Proposed Tax Efficiency Law and the Proposed Property Tax Reform Law 
and such legislation
shall be in full force and effect; and (b) through its Executive Branch, submitted to 
its Legislative Assembly a proposed bill or bills of law incorporating the provisions 
included in the Tax Base Program.
6.
The Borrower shall have enacted legislation which substantially adopts the 
provisions of the Proposed Complementary Pensions Law and such legislation is in full 
force and effect.
7.
The Borrower shall have revised its import tariffs to the effect that the 
maximum tariff shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) and the minimum tariff shall not 
be lower than ten percent (10%) of the dutiable value of all imported items, except 
for the Exempted Items; provided, however, that if as a result of a binding decision 
by the Consejo under article 26 of the Treaty, the Borrower shall have been unable to 
apply the above minimum tariff on any specific item or items, in such case the 
Borrower shall have taken alternative measures to achieve the objectives of the 
Program.
8.
The Borrower shall have: (a) enacted legislation which adopts a comprehensive 
Page  13
regulatory framework for public services and all necessary regulations related thereto 
and such legislation and regulations shall be in full force and effect; and (b) 
submitted to the Bank a plan to restructure the Borrower's SNE (Servicio Nacional de 
Electricidad), or its successor, in accordance with its new functions pursuant to the 
legislation and regulations referred to in paragraph (a) above.
9.
The Borrower shall have adopted a duty draw-back system based on criteria and 
procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
10.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the AGEF's Action 
Plan.
11.
The Borrower shall have enacted legislation, and regulations related thereto, 
for extending AGEF's authority over credit cooperatives, and such legislation and 
regulations shall be in full
force and effect. 
12.
The Borrower shall have enacted legislation enabling the operation of private 
insurance companies in Costa Rica not later than thirty (30) months from the date of 
publication of the
respective legislation and establishing a supervisory body for all insurance 
institutions; and such legislation shall be in full force and effect.
13.
The Borrower shall have: (a) adopted an action plan, based on the results from 
the Registry and the LSMS Data, to improve the targeting and coverage of its social 
programs; and (b) commenced the implementation of such action plan.
14.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the Displaced 
Workers Program.
15.
The Subsidized Credit granted by Public Commercial Banks from any of their 
resources shall be maintained, at all times, at the June 30, 1992 level of 
9,594,000,000 colones.
16.
The Borrower shall have implemented a system whereby private finance companies 
(entidades financieras de caracter no bancario) are granted access to the Central Bank 
as lender of last resort in cases of temporary liquidity shortfalls.
17.
The legislation referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement is being 
implemented in a manner consistent with the objectives of the Program.
Part B:
1.
The Borrower shall have brought FANAL to the point of sale.
 
2.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the action plan 
referred to in Paragraph 2 of Part A of this Schedule.
3.
The staff reduction targets for 1994 included in the Labor Mobility Program 
shall have been substantially achieved.
4.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the action plan 
referred to in paragraph 4 of Part A of this Schedule.
5.
    The Borrower shall have enacted legislation which substantially adopts the 
provisions of the proposed bill or bills of law referred to in paragraph 5 (b) of Part 
A of this Schedule and such legislation shall be in full force and effect.
6.
The Borrower shall have revised its import tariffs to apply the tariff range in 
paragraph 7 of Part A of this Schedule to tariffs imposed on imported footwear, tires 
(llantas) and textiles.
7.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the plan referred 
to in paragraph 8 (b) of Part A of this Schedule.
8.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the duty 
draw-back system referred to in paragraph 9 of Part A of this Schedule.
Page  14
9.
The Borrower shall have completed the implementation of the AGEF's Action Plan.
 
10.
The Borrower shall have enacted all necessary regulations relating to the 
legislation referred to in paragraph 12 of Part A of this Schedule and made 
operational the supervisory body established under such legislation.
11.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the action plan 
referred to in paragraph 13 of Part A of this Schedule.
12.
The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of the Displaced 
Workers Program.
13.
The legislation referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement is being 
implemented in a manner consistent with the objectives of the Program.
