Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2833 CH
(Alto Jahuel-Polpaico Transmission Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
Dated December 16, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2833 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1987 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Republic of Chile (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Legislation" means the Guarantor's Decreto con Fuerza de Ley No. 1, 
dated September 13, 1982, as amended up to the date of this Agreement, and any other 
legislation of the Guarantor including, without limitation, constitutional provisions, 
laws, legislative decrees, decree-laws, supreme decrees (reglamentos), and any other 
legal provision of a similar nature, which regulates the pricing of electricity in the 
Guarantor's territory; and
(c)
"By-laws" means the by-laws of the Borrower approved on April 29, 1986, 
as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty one million five hundred thousand dollars 
($21,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
a bank acceptable to the Bank a special account in dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such 
Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, 
Page  3
including the Interest Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the 
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 
30, 
1982, expressed as a percentage per annum, as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six 
months of a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and public utilities and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, and public utilities practices, 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utilities practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including separate records and accounts reflecting the resources and 
expenditures for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
Page  4
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than five 
months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year 
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements, as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain at all times a ratio of debt to equity not greater than 60 to 40.  
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired, paid-up 
capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of the Borrower not allocated 
to cover specific liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period 
ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at 
least 1.3 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for 
Page  5
the immediately following fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt 
to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take 
account of the Borrower's rates in effect at 
the time of the incurrence of 
debt even though they were 
not in effect during the twelve-month period to 
which 
such revenues relate, the amount represented by the sale of assets and 
net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of: (i) all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest 
and other charges on debt; and (ii) any dividend payment, or payment to any 
shareholder for the repurchase or redemption of shares of stock, 
or any 
other payment to any shareholder which would 
result in a reduction of the 
Borrower's equity.
 
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt.
 
(vi)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of the Borrower not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
(vii)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable 
in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, 
waived or otherwise modified in such a way which would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
Page  6
materially and adversely affect the mechanisms and methods for the determination of 
electricity prices to be charged by electric power utilities in the Guarantor's 
territory, including PEHUENCHE;
(b)
the shareholders of the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Borrower or 
for the suspension of its operations; and
(c)
the By-laws shall have been amended or otherwise modified so as to 
materially and adversely affect the operations of the Borrower or its ability to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date March 15, 1988 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S.A.
Casilla 1392
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
240491-NDSA-CL
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
By /s/ Agustin Le‡n
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                 2,100,000      75%
(2)  Goods                      18,800,000      75%
(3)  Fellowships abroad            600,000      100% of foreign
     and equipment under                        expenditures
     Part B of the Project
                                __________
          TOTAL                 21,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Guarantor.
3.
Nothwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to expand the power transmission capacity in the 
country in order to transmit additional electric power generated in the South region 
to consumer centers in the city of Santiago and in the North region.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
(i)
Construction of a 500 kV power transmission line of about 63 km from the 
area of Polpaico to the area of Rodeo;
(ii)
construction of a 220 kV power transmission line of about 17 km from the 
Page  8
area of Rodeo to the area of Alto-Jahuel; and
(iii)
construction of a 220 kV switching station at Polpaico and expansion of 
the following 220 kV substations: San Isidro, Alto Jahuel and Colbun.
Part B:
(i)
Training of about 50 of the Borrower's professional staff, including 
about 135 man-months of fellowships and courses abroad and in local universities, and 
in-house seminars; and
(ii)
acquisition of micro-computers and software.
 
* * * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
     beginning March 1, 1992
     through   March 1, 2004                            825,000
On September 1, 2004                                    875,000
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per annum) applicable
                                           to the balance out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the day of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                             .18
before maturity
More than three years but                             .35
Page  9
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                               .65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                            .88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years                                   1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 in the aggregate 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to all contracts, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, 
if and when required, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall 
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on 
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by 
Page  10
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting 
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, 
minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall 
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
Page  11
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account for immediate 
cancellation.
