Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3559-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$60.2 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
May 5, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori7ation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Through April 1977       US$1.000 = J$0.909        J$1.000 = US$1.100
April 1977 - May 1978           - Dual exchange rate system -
May 1978                 US$1.000 = J$1.550        J$1.000 = US$0.645
December 1978            US$1.000 = J$1.695        J$1.000 = US$0.590
May 1979 - Jan. 1983   LUS$1.000 = J$1.781         J$1.000 = US$0.561
Jan. 1983 - Present
Official rate:   US$1.000 = J$1.781        J$1.000 = US$0.561
Parallel rate:   US$1.000 = J$2.40-2.80  J$1.000 = US$0.357-0.417
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
List of Acronyms
CARICOM  =  Caribbean Community
CIDA     =  Canadian International Development Agency
EDF      =  Export Development Fund
EFF      =  Extended Fund Facility
EMO      =  External Marketing Organization
FAO      =  Food and Agriculture Organization
GOJ      =  Government of Jamaica
GDP      =  Gross Domestic Product
IDB      =  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      =  International Monetary Fund
JDB      =  Jamaica Development Bank
JOS      =  Jamaican Omnibus Service
JPSC     =  Jamaica Public Service Company
JRC      =  Jamaica Railway Corporation
MINAG    =  Ministry of Agriculture
NDB      =  National Development Bank
NWC      =  National Water Commission
PSIP     =  Public Sector Investment Program
QR       =  Quantitative Restriction
SAL      =  Structural Adjustment Loan
TA       =  Technical Assistance
UNDP     =  United Nations Development Programme
USAID    =  United States Agency for International Deve:Lopment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA - SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN SUMMARY ..........................................i-u.
I.    THE ECONOMY ........          .................... o  ..............       1
A.   Introduction ..............1....................... 
V                 B.   The Jamaican Economy to 1980 .................             O...       2
C.    Economic Performance in 1981 and 1982 ............                   4
II.  THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM   .....................                   7
A.    Overall Strategy  .................................                  7
B.    The First Structural Adjustment Loan               8............     8
C.    The Technical Assistance Loan ....................                  13
III. STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT POLICIES AND ACTIONS UNDER
THE PROPOSED SECOND SAL ..............................                   15
Introduction ..........................................                   15
Balance of Payments Management  ........................                  16
Savings and Investment  .............       ...... . ............         17
Industry ....          ..........................................        21
Agriculture ........ .       ........... ........................         25
Public Administration ......          ...........................         29
The Structural Adjustment Program and the
Extended Agreement with the IMF  .....................                 31
IV.  PROSPECTS FOR THE JAMAICAN ECONOMY 1983/84-1986/87   ....                  38
V.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA   .                     .46
VI.  THE PROPOSED LOAN...... . ..........                                       48
VII. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY ............. ...... .                     50
VIII.RECOMMENDATION                    . . .50
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page
ANNEXES
I.  Social and Economic Data                     ..                   51
II.    Status of Bank Group Operations ....... I ......     ... .   57
III.   Supplementary Project DaLta Sheet ................. ...   63
IV.    Development Policy Statement  .....................             65
V.     SAL I:  Action Programs and Actions Taken .............   73
VI.    Status of Public Enterprises ........................   77
VII.   The Public Sector Investment Program .,,,........,   91
VIII.  Items Removed from the Restricted List .94
IX.    Scheme for Passing oa the Benefits to Farmers
of the Export Incentives        ...     ........ ......   96
MAP



JAMAICA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Jamaica
Amount:                       US$60.2 million equivalent, including a
capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:                        Payable in 17 years, including a grace period of
4 years at the standard variable interest rate.
Loan Description:             The first Structural Adjustment Loan approved by
the Bank in March 1982 was designed to address
four main economic problem areas: (i) a diffi-
cult balance of payments situation; (ii)
inadequate public savings;(iii) sluggish
performance of both the industrial and
agricultural sectors; and (iv) an overregulated
economy. The program required the Government to
take actions and perform studies to identify
constraints and design appropriate remedies. In
addition to the areas identified in the first
SAL, the proposed second SAL includes action
programs to improve public administration. The
program aims to achieve economic deregulation and
export development. Deregulation will permit
market forces to determine more adequately the
allocation of scarce resources. Export
development is essential to the achievement of a
viable balance of payments in the medium term.
The loan would finance imports of raw materials,
intermediate goods, non-luxury consumer goods,
capital equipment and spare parts.  Counterpart
funds would be used for economic development
related expenditures in the public sector
investment program. Technical assistance to
support the program will be financed in part from
the 1982 Technical Assistance Loan.
Disbursement Estimates:       The loan would be disbursed in two tranches.  It
is anticipated that the first tranche of US$35.2
million would be disbursed soon after loan
effectiveness. The second tranche of US$25
million would be released subject to a review of
the structural adjustment program scheduled to be
held within six months from loan effectiveness.
Disbursement of the entire loan is expected to be
completed within nine months of loan
effectiveness.



- ii -
Risks:                         The success of the Government's program faces
four significant risks: (i) the vigor of the
economic recovery in Jamaica's external markets,
which will determine the level of foreign
exchange earnings for traditional exports and the
ability of Jamaican industries to expand
nontraditional exports; (ii) the capacity of the
private sector which has produced manufactured
goods for protected markets to make the
acjustments required to produce competitively for
interrLational markets; (iii) the level of
national support to carry out the
program--particularly if it proceeds less rapidly
than anticipated; and (iv) the administrative
capacity of the Government to carry out the
program. Some of the risks are beyond the
Government's and the country's control. The
Government has, however, demonstrated a
willingness to take politically difficult
economic actions. In so doing, it has continued
to enjoy national support. As a result, the
risks associated with the program are acceptable.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$60.2 million to Jamaica for a second
structural adjustment operation. The loan, which includes a capitalized
front-end fee of 0.25%, would have a term of 17 years including 4 years of
grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE-ECONOMY
A. Introduction
2.        An Economic Report entitled "Structural Adjustment, Export
Development and Private Investment" was distributed to the Executive
Directors in June 1982. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        After almost a decade of sustained decline, the Jamaican economy
has begun to experience a certain amount of growth. A new Government,
elected in October 1980, is following policies designed to bring the
economy out of its long depression, and to correct serious structural
weaknesses. The economy registered real growth of 1.9% in 1981, and 0.7%
in 1982.
4.        The deterioration of the Jamaican economy over nearly a decade is
particularly striking as the country is endowed with varied natural
resources, has well-educated, skilled manpower, enjoys the advantage of
proximity to the large North American markets, and possesses a relatively
developed financial system. However, it also suffers from considerable
disadvantages. The openness of the economy makes it highly sensitive to
international price and demand changes; in particular, the lack of domestic
energy resources makes the economy very vulnerable to changes in the price
of oil; imports of this fuel provide about 99% of Jamaica's commercial
energy consumption. Jamaican labor and capital are internationally mobile,
and massive outflows of both have occurred. Recently, the size of the
external debt at variable rates has also made the economy more vulnerable
to changes in interest rates in international capital markets. In the face
of these external pressures, the careful management of the country's
resources to promote short-term economic recovery, financial stability, and
structural reform simultaneously, is the central challenge to the
Government.



- 2 -
B. The Jamaican Economy to 1980
5.        The economy of Jamaica was affected by severe disturbances during
the 1970s. The first years of the decade had repeated the brisk growth
performance of the 1960s, but the trend was abruptly reversed as a result
of external shocks and the impac:t of domestic policies. As, a result, per
capita GDP declined every year after 1973. On the externa:L front,
increases in energy costs, the impact of the mid-decade recession in the
industrial countries on sugar arLd aluminum, and the increase in interest
rates in international capital uarkets, all affected Jamaica negatively.
Domestically, the Government's programs to tackle unemployment and
redistribute land coincided with the deterioration in the external
environment and eventually led to an overextended public sector and a
disruption of production; at the same time an increasingly populist image
of the Government destroyed the confidence of the private sector, both
domestic and foreign, contributing to a reduction of productive investment
and to an increase in the outflow of capital and skilled migrants.
Output, Unemployment and Inflation
6.        In 1980, total GDP stood 18% below the 1973 peak, and while
consumption expenditures, particularly public, increased their relative
importance (although real per capita private consumption fell by almost 30%
from the 1974 peak), investment expenditures decreased from 22% of COP in
1974 to about 13% at the end of the period.  The agricultural sector was
one of the few sectors whose output did not decline. However, while
agricultural production for the domestic market increased aLt 3.8% per
annum, export agriculture declined at a rate of 4%.
7.        Sugar and bananas fared particularly badly.  Sugarcane output
fCell from 4.2 million tons in 1970 to 2.7 million tons in 1980.  Of major
significance in this decline were the failure of the sugar cooperatives
created in 1974, returns to private cane farmers, smut disease in 1979-80,
and a deterioration of cultivation practices. Output of bananas had
already fallen from 384,000 tons in 1971 to 172,000 tons in 1979, before
Hurricane Allen reduced the 1980 output to only 69,000 tons. A major
reason for the decline was inadequate prices, which led to the diversion of
lands to crops for the domestic market. Other export crops suffered a
similar fate, a consequence of the combined effect of inadequate returns to
farmers, competition with illegal export crops, and the shortage of foreign
exchange for the purchase of imported food, which led to high returns to
crops produced for the unregulated domestic market. =
8.        The role of the bauxite/alumina sector as a leading force in
Jamaica's economic development came to an abrupt end following the
imposition by the Government of a bauxite production levy in 1974, coming
as it did at a time of recession. Jamaica's competitive position
deteriorated, and its share of world trade in these commodities declined byr
a third from 1974 to 1980.  Value added in the sector fell by 15% over the
period, although Government's revenue from the sector increased fivefold.
In late 1979, the Government of Jamaica, in the face of deteriorating
de1aand, had to negotiate an agreement with the companies which reduced the
levy rates  n return for increased output.



-3..-
9.        Total manufacturing production peaked in 1973, and by 1980 it had
declined by 31%. The general decline of the economy caused, and was fed
by, the contraction in manufacturing; although the apparent cause was the
unavailability of imported inputs arising from the shortage of foreign
exchange, the root of the problem lay in the shocks undergone by the
economy. Frequent labor unrest, unavailability of skilled manpower (caused
by intensified emigration) and the deterioration of the country's
infrastructure, compounded the sector's problems. The unfavorable
investment climate led producers to shelve expansion plans. Although
manufactured exports registered some nominal growth during the period, they
did not compensate for the decline in the domestic economy.  The
import-substitution-oriented industries set up in the 1950s and 1960s were
ill prepared to face the challenge of world markets. Moreover, the
structure of incentives, resulting from a protective system based on
quantitative restrictions, made sales to extraregional markets less
profitable than sales to the sheltered but limited CARICOM market, and
these in turn less profitable than sales to the domestic market.
10.       The decline in economic activity significantly increased
unemployment during the latter half of the 1970s, which reached a level of
28% in 1980.1/ Joblessness was even more acute for youths and women, with
rates of 60% and 39% respectively. Inflation was moderate before 1973, but
by 1980 the rate had reached 29%, after a peak in 1978 of 50% following the
devaluation of that year.
Public Finances
11.       The financial performance of the Jamaican Central Government was
weak throughout the period, deteriorating particularly sharply between 1974
and 1976. Large increases in both current and capital
expenditure-associated with the Government's new social programs--outpaced
revenue growth. As a result, the current account, which had registered a
surplus in 1974, showed a deficit equal to 6% of GDP in 1976, while the
overall deficit increased from 8.6% to 19% of GDP in the same two year
period. As financial performance declined, the Government relied
increasingly on domestic financing, mostly from the banking system. During
1977-78 the Government took a number of measures to increase revenues and
control expenditures in order to correct the fiscal imbalance and stabilize
the economy, and by 1978 the current account deficit had decreased to 2.6%
of GDP and the overall deficit to 13.7%.
12.       In spite of a program which in 1979 aimed to improve further the
financial performance of the Central Government, the fiscal position
continued to weaken, and the current account deficit rose to 4% of GDP.
The financial performance of the Central Government deteriorated further in
1980, with current expenditures growing 20%, while revenues rose only 5%.
Thus, the current account deficit increased to 8.1% of GDP and the overall
deficit rose to about 18.1% of GDP.
1/   It should be noted that Jamaica's statistics overestimate unemployment
compared to other countries because non-seekers are included in the
unemployed labor force. A more comparable figure would put 1980
unemployment at about 14%.



-4-
External Sector
13.        In 1973-1980 Jamaica's lbalance of payments was under continuous
pressure. The reasons were: poor export performance reflecting
unfavorable conditions in the international economy as well as the impact
of domestic policies; a sharp`Ly rising oil bill provoked by higher oil
prices and a lack of exploitedl domestic energy resources; mounting debt-
service caused by increased recourse to public capital inflows aggravated
by the surge of interest rates in international capital markests; and pri-
vate capital outflows caused by the deterioration in private sector confi-
dence. By 1976, an acute scarcity of foreign exchange became apparent; in
1977 and 1978, stabilization policies adopted by the Government and the
refinancing of commercial debt: eased the shortage, although the situation
remained serious.  But in 1979 ancd 1980 the balance of payments position
deteriorated significantly again, after the stabilization efforts
weakened, and the foreign exchange shortage became even more critical.
14.       The large and sustained current account deficits in the balance
of payments were financed by increased borrowing, and by running down
reserves.  As a result, Jamaica's external debt rose from US'$349 million
(17% of GDP) in 1973 to US$1209 millon (46% of GDP) in 1980, with a debt
service ratio of 16%. Net internattional reserves declined over the same
period from US$37 million to 1US$-532 million, with gross reserves down to
about four weeks' imports.
C. Economic Performance in 1981 and 1982
15.      In 1981, the Jamaican economy grew for the first time since 1973,
registering real growth of 1.9%. The leading growth sectors were
construction (5.3%) and non-government services (2.3%). Most productive
sectors also responded positively to the improvement in the business
climate, and the greater availability of foreign exchange. In 1982,
however, in spite of continued growth in most sectors, the economy as a
whole expanded by only 0.7%, as the bauxite/alumina and the agriculture
sectors shrank by 26% and 4% respectively. The decline in bauxite/alumina
resulted from the international recession, and its severity in 1982
reflects the decision by the companies to maintain output in 1981, which
resulted in large stocks, and the presence in Jamaica of the aluminum
companies most affected by the recession. The decline in agriculture
reflects primarily the depressive effect on output of domestic crops of the
greater availability of foreign exchange to finance food imports, which
increased by 40% in 1981, and by 20% in 1982, and continued stagnation in
the sugar sector.
16.       The recovery in output has yet to produce any significant effects
on the level of unemployment, despite some early gains. On the other hand,
the rate of inflation has fallen dramatically.  The end of period
statistics show a change in the consumer price index of only 4.8% in 1981,



- 5 -
compared to 28.5% in 1980, and under 7% in 1982, despite average wage
increases of over 10% in both years.  Particularly low increases were
registered in 1981 for food and transportation, and in 1982 for personal
clothing. These rates primarily reflect the slow growth in import prices,
particularly for food and petroleum.
17.       Central Government finances have had a mixed performance in the
last two years. In FY81/82, there was a major improvement in the current
account, reflecting improved tax administration, which increased income tax
revenues by 25%, together with strict controls on expenditure.  In FY82/83,
the current account worsened, largely on account of a reduction in
bauxite/alumina revenues, which fell by the equivalent of 2% of GDP
(compared to the current account worsening of 1.9% of GDP).  At the same
time, tax revenues continued to rise rapidly, but this increase was offset
by a 24% increase in interest payments reflecting recent growth in debt.
The overall deficit has mirrored the performance on current account, but
most of the deficit in both years has been covered by the high levels of
foreign financing that Jamaica has received. This has reduced Government's
use of domestic credit from the 1980 level of J$611 million to J$244
million in 1981, and J$314 million in 1982, thus permitting a rapid
expansion in private sector credit.
18.       It was recognized at the start of the economic recovery program
that a higher level of imports would be required to support an increased
level of production, and that this would entail a higher current account
deficit on the balance of payments. This has occurred; merchandise imports
rose by 24% in FY81/82, before falling back slightly in FY82/83, reflecting
lower bauxite/alumina production. Because of the bauxite/alumina
situation, exports have not performed as expected, but non-bauxite/alumina
merchandise exports have maintained their own in spite of worsened markets,
largely on account of nontraditional exports to CARICOM. The consequent
rapid increase in the deficit on merchandise trade has been partially
offset by increases in tourism revenue, which has increased by over 50%
since FY80/81, as public confidence in Jamaica has grown, and as a result
of an active promotional campaign carried out by Government. Nevertheless,
the current account deficit has increased sharply, to twice the 1980/81
level, reaching 13.4% of GDP in FY82/83.
19.       These deficits have been made possible by extraordinary levels of
net capital inflows to the public sector, largely from donors and
multilateral institutions, on soft terms. Net capital inflows to the
public sector have averaged US$410 million in the last two years, twice the
FY80/81 level. Although net international reserves increased in 1981/82 by
US$43 million, the net capital inflow in FY82/83 fell short of the
projected level, and net reserves declined by US$146 million in that year.
This exceeded the target under the IMF program, and consequently there has
been an appropriate upward adjustment to the target for the third year of
the EFF arrangement (see paras 95-97). The high levels of capital inflows
have resulted in a rapid increase in the level of external public debt, and
of debt service, and in FY82/83, debt service was at the level of 24% of
export of goods and services.



-6-
Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators FY80/81-FY82/83
(As , of GDP unless indicated)
1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
Real GDP Growtha/ (% change)                   -5.4         1.9        0.7
Central Government Current I)eficit              6.5        2.0        3.9
Central Government Overall I)eficit             16.5       14.2       15.5
Central Government Foreign Finanicing            4.5        9.6       10.0
Merchandise Imports (US$ million)            1202        1488       1370
Merchandise Exports (US$ million)            1010         889        737
Gross Tourism Earnings (US$ million)          242        328         369
BOP Current Account Deficit                      7.2       15.6       13.4
Net Capital Inflow to Public Sector           211        427         392
BOP Overall Deficit (US$ million)              151       -43         146
Net International Reserves                   -583       -473       -619
Public and Publicly Guarante!ed D)ebt          51          54         62
Debt Service/Exports GNFS                       16.4       16.9       24.0
a/ Calendar years.



- 7 -
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Overall Strategy
20.       As indicated above, the new Government which came to power in
October 1980 was faced with a most severe economic situation: negative
growth, high unemployment, low capacity utilization, flight of skilled
labor and of capital, high inflation, and other problems. The strategy was
to stimulate an expansion in exports, through higher capacity utilization
and new investments in industry, agriculture, mining, and tourism. An
essential feature of this was to be a revival of confidence through a
reduction in state participation in productive and regulatory activities,
and a reversal in the previous public pronouncements which had suggested
animosity toward the private sector. A re-establishment of civic law and
order was another--if implicit--element in the strategy.
21.       An immediate devaluation of the Jamaican dollar, which is tied to
the US dollar, was ruled out as a policy option by the new Government,
because it believed that Jamaican exports had become competitive after the
1978/79 devaluations, and also because of the fear that further devaluation
would merely fuel the fires of inflation through wage demands. Rather, the
need for a devaluation would be avoided through an attack on inflation and
restraint on wages, with the public sector acting as an "example" to
others. The Government further argued that the short-term responsiveness
of Jamaica's main exports--bauxite, alumina, sugar and bananas--to a
devaluation would be low. The Government also rejected at that time a dual
exchange rate system, but did agree to the de facto decriminalization of
the parallel foreign exchange market.
22.       The first stage in developing an economic recovery program came
with the preparation of the EFF agreement with the IMF, approved in March
1981. The conditions for the drawdown of these funds relate primarily to
the reduction of the public sector deficit--through controls on the use of
credit by Central Government, both from the Bank of Jamaica and the
commercial banking system--and improvement in the level of confidence in
the economy, through the elimination of the commercial arrears of the Bank
of Jamaica, a limit on contracting of additional public short- and
medium-term debt, and targets for an improvement in the net reserves
position of the Bank of Jamaica.
23.       A structural adjustment program was worked out during the course
of 1981 in consultation with the Bank and this formed the basis of a
Structural Adjustment Loan approved in March 1982 for a total of US$76.2
million (including US$1.2 million front-end fee). It was recognized that
in several areas further study was required prior to the elaboration of
specific programs, and that in other areas, such as the elimination of
quantitative restrictions (QRs) to imports, such a program would have to be
introduced gradually. It was therefore recognized at an early date that
there would be a need for more than one SAL-type operation to support a
program of economic reform that would last over a 3-5 year period.



-8-
B.  The First Structural Adjustment Loan2/
24.        The first SAL was implemented satisfactorily.  The first
disbursement took place in March 1982, and the second tranclhe in November
1982.  In general, while performance in relation to the poli.cy measures
agreed under the SAL was satisfactory, not all the expected results were
achieved, both because of the depth of the international recession, and
because of the excessive regulation of the economy, which was found to be
even deeper rooted than had teen anticipated at the time of the preparation
of SAL I. There were four main areas in which actions were contemplated:
(i) balance of payments management; (ii) savings and investmaent; (iii)
agricultural sector policies; and (iv) industrial sector policies.
(i) Balance of Payments Management
25.        It was recognized in 1981 that the balance of payments would
continue to be a binding constraint on economic growth. Therefore, efforts
were made to improve the foreign exchange allocation mechanism, and to
attract private capital. As an initial step, the informal foreign exchange
market was de facto decriminalized3/ in March 1981; "no funds" licenses4/
were issued in large numbers for the import of raw materials, spare parts
and capital goods but with frequent, sometimes extensive delays for
bureaucratic reasons; licenses were granted automatically for Export
Development Fund (EDF) users; and a system of retained accounts was
established for net exporters.  A study was carried out to analyze ways of
further improving the import licensing system. However, the conclusions of
this study have been superseded by the decisions referred to in paragraph
27 below.
2/   The progress achieved in the execution of the SAL I action programs is
summarized in the matrix shown in Annex V. The main aspects of the
programs are described in this section.
3/   Whilst the de facto decriminalization succeeded in attracting back
some private capital and permitted a higher level of imports, it
created some problems of its own. Foreign companies in particular had
difficulty in using the market, both because of problems of accounting
and verification, and, in the case of US companies, because of the
possibility of prosecution under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act. Furthermore, access was in effect limited to producers for the
domestic market, who could pass on the higher costs in prices, and
importers of consumer goods.
4/   A "no-funds license" is one that is issued to an importer who does not
need foreign exchange from the Bank of Jamaica to finance the imports
for which the license is required.



-9-
26.       With regard to the attraction of private capital, the main target
was to reestablish confidence in the country and its economic management.
Several direct measures were taken to further this end. As noted earlier,
with IMF assistance all commercial arrears were eliminated. A "one-stop"
investment promotion company5/ was set up to launch a vigorous campaign,
and this organization was assisted by the establishment of groups of
businessmen in several major countries (US, UK, Canada, Venezuela, West
Germany) to stimulate interest in direct investment. Finally, a study has
been carried out of a scheme to attract migrants' savings (see paragraph
59).
27.       In the course of discussions prior to release of the second
tranche of SAL I, and of the mid-year review of the IMF/EFF, a major
revision of the foreign exchange markets was decided upon by the
Government. This reform is far reaching and is the basis in this policy
area not only for the completion of the first SAL and the second year of
the EFF, but also for the proposed second SAL and the final year of the
EFF, as the reforms that were agreed went further than originally
envisaged. There are four main components to the program:
(a)  The existing informal foreign exchange market has been
formalized, legalized and widened, and it is being operated by
commercial banks.  It buys foreign exchange on a "no questions
asked" basis, and thus receives not only existing flows to this
market (some of which represent unregistered exports) but also
some tourism receipts (non-hotel expenditures) and some
transfers. It sells foreign exchange to whoever demands it, in
the form of certificates of deposit, which will be usable for the
import of goods and services not on the restricted list, or, for
restricted items for which a license has been obtained.
Exporters6/ have unrestricted access to this market, but, in
order to avoid a sudden very large increase in import demand,
producers for the domestic market and traders are subject
initially to annual global quotas. Foreign exchange at the
official rate is now available only for imports of oil, food, and
a few other essential goods. All other consumer goods, as well
as raw materials and capital goods, have to be financed through
the parallel market, or through foreign exchange loans provided
by the EDF.
5/   Jamaica National Investment Promotion Limited (JNIP) assists potential
foreign investors by guiding them through the red tape, and obtaining
the various permissions that the investor needs prior to establishing
a business in Jamaica.
6/   An "exporter" is defined as a producer who either has access to EDF
resources or who exports more than 5% of production.



- 10 -
(b)  All nontraditional exporters--i.e., all exporters except those
operating in bauxite/alumina, sugar, and bananas--are now
permitted to retain 50% of foreign exchange earnings from exports
outside CARICOM. These are held in commercial banks which issue
certificates of deposit to the exporters.  These certificates are
freely transferable to any other producer for a period of 30 days
after issue. The certificates are usable to finance imports of
raw materials, spare parts and capital goods.  The remaining 50%
of export earnings are used either to repay EDF, or, for non-EDF
borrowers, are converted by the Bank of Jamaica at the official
exchange rate.
(c)  The import licensing system has been radically si'mplified, with
automatic issue of licenses to exporters for all their import
needs when financed through export certificates, EDF resources,
or parallel market purchases, and for other importers, on an
automatic basis up to the limit of their quotas.
(d)  The role of the EDF has been expanded.  It has become the main
source of foreign exchange for imports required by exporters. To
achieve this, the scope of its activities has been widened and
some of its procedures have been simplified. It will also
require some additional resources and a third loan from the Bank
to the EDF is being processed now.
28.       The effect of these reforms lies in two main areas.  Firstly, the
incentive to export outside CARICOM is enhanced and Jamaica's
competitiveness is improved.7/ Secondly, the exporter not only has the
incentive to export, but also a guarantee of the availability of foreign
exchange for inputs. It is expected that this will result in an increase
in production for export, and will act as an inducement to switch
production from the domestic market to the export market. It is a major
reform in the degree to which it deregulates the foreign exchange market,
and it may be an important step towards the eventual complete elimination
of the licensing system. It remains to be seen, however, whether it will
be sufficient to induce the increase in nontraditional exports that is
necessary. To this end, a review of the competitiveness of Jamaica's
exports of goods and services would be carried out prior to the release of
the second tranche of the proposed SAL II, to be followed by any necessary
further corrective measures. Sirmilarly, the possibility of simplifying
further or eliminating the quota system for the access of non-exporters to
the parallel market will be reviewed at that timae.
7/   The parallel market rate at present is about J$2.60 per US$1, or 46%
above the official rate. Thus, the export incentive scheme increases
the receipts in Jamaican dollars from exports outside CARICOM by about
23%.



- 11 -
(ii) Savings and Investment
29.       By 1980 savings had fallen to a level that was insufficient to
finance a suitable portion of an investment level that was itself
inadequate to ensure future economic growth. With regard to savings,
efforts are being made to raise both Government and private savings. For
the public sector, the current deficit of 1980/81 of 2.7% of GDP improved
to a surplus of 2.6% of GDP in 1981/82, before deteriorating again to a
deficit of 1.6% of GDP in 1982/83, largely because of a decline in the
bauxite levy. A surplus of 2.7% of GDP is projected for FY83/84. The
aggregate current deficit of the major public enterprises, which was zero
in 1980/81, worsened to 1.4% of GDP in 1981/82, and 1.5% in 1982/83,
particularly because of heavy losses by the publicly owned sugar industry.
This is projected to be reversed to a surplus of 1.7% of GDP in 1983/84, as
the action programs of the public enterprises begin to show results. The
Government's aim, as outlined in the Development Policy Statement of SAL I,
had been for the public enterprises to achieve a current surplus equivalent
to 2% of GDP in FY83/84. Specific action programs have been prepared for
several of these enterprises, and others are in the course of preparation.
This program would be continued in the proposed second SAL (see paras 50-52
below). The overall Central Government deficit, which stood at 17% of GDP
in 1980/81, was still at a level of 15.5% of GDP in 1982/83, and the aim is
to reduce this to 12.3% of GDP in FY83/84, not least by a reduction in
capital transfers to the public enterprises, which are expected to increase
gradually their contributions to their own investment programs, to the
point when they can finance 30% of the programs from internally generated
savings.
30.       With regard to personal savings, apart from the restoration of
confidence, interest rates have been permitted to adjust freely to market
prices, and relief from personal taxation on interest received on time
deposits has been granted. Further, Government is undertaking a review of
the progressivity of the tax system, and of the functioning of capital
markets.
31.       With regard to investment, a major effort has been made in the
preparation of a Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) and the
establishment of an adequate monitoring system. The present program covers
the fiscal years 1983/84 to 1985/86, and this will be rolled forward each
year. The PSIP is in general well-balanced and is within the agreed
ceiling of 15% of GDP per annum, but is presently under revision to take
account of current expectations concerning the likely availability of
financial resources. The emphasis now will be on the integration of the
PSIP with the budgeting process, which is itself to be reformed as
indicated in paragraphs 92-93 below, and on the development of a "core"
program within the overall PSIP. (See paras 54-57.)
32.       Since it was decided, in early 1981, to close down the
financially-troubled Jamaica Development Bank (JDB), a major factor
limiting indigenous private investment had been the absence of medium-term
credit and of a viable institution for the channelling of such credit. To
improve this situation, the Government has established the Agricultural
Credit Bank and the National Development Bank. These development banks
will operate initially as apex institutions, channelling resources through
the commercial banks, who in turn would bear the commercial risk.



- 12 -
(iii) Agricultural Sector Policies
33.        The agricultural sector retains considerable importance for the
Jamaican economy, accounting for about 9% of GDP, 36% of the employed labor
force, and 7% of merchandise exports (including sugar as an agricultural
rather than a manufacturing export). The last decade has seen a gradual
decline (by about 30%) of the area under export crops, and a growth of
agricultural production aimed at the domestic market. The aim of the
programs adopted in 1981/82 for agriculture was to restore the incentives
to producing export crops, together with various other measures designed to
induce an increase in agricultural production. In the area of marketing,
the external marketing organ:izations for coffee, cocoa, pimento and citrus
have had their monopsony powers formally eliminated, and management audits
have been carried out. Studies are under way to determine the optimum
scope both for their marketing role and for their non-marketing functions
(seeds, fertilizer distribution, extension, research, etc).
34.       Another program has involved an attempt to ensure that farmers
receive the rewards for their work, by introducing much harsher penalties
for praedial larceny (crop theft) and by establishing a system of
agricultural wardens.
35.       For sugar and bananas, the above provisions did not apply,
because of the special nature of the market for these crops. However,
special action programs have been developed for these two crops, with the
initial aim of restoring the level of exports to that guaranteed by the
protected European market. With regard to sugar, based on the results of a
wide-ranging management audit and other studies, an action program, which
is described in paras 79-81 below has been put in place. For bananas, an
in-depth management audit has been completed, as well as a plan for the
restructuring of the production and marketing of bananas.
36.        The final area where action has been taken in the agricultural
sector relates to land use.  A variety of measures have been carried out,
including a program to sell or lease government-owned lands to farmers. To
provide a better basis for overall agricultural planning, a land resource
inventory has been carried out, and a study is nearing completion of the
returns to different crops. Measures have also been taken to improve the
control of hillside erosion, and to develop a program for improved
irrigation methods. Further work in all these areas is continuing.
(iv) Industrial Sector Policies
37.       The system of protection in Jamaica has encouraged since the
1960s the development of industries oriented towards the domestic market,
at levels of efficiency incompatible with the development of exports. The
changes in oil prices in 1973 and 1979 have created the need to increase
rapidly the level of manufactured exports, and the SAL action programs are
designed to support this aim at the macro and micro levels. At the macro
level, two programs have been developed. An export promotion program for
nontraditional products has been described in paragraph 27 above. To



- 13 -
complement this, the Government agreed, in the framework of the SAL I
negotiations, to eliminate the existing quantitative restrictions to
imports over a five year period.  The first 64 of the 364 QRs were removed
in 1982, and 60 more were removed in February 1983. A study is under way
to determine the optimum order for the removal of the remaining QRs, and to
ascertain whether additional tariffs and/or excise taxes will need to be
introduced on a temporary basis to replace them. The removal of the QRs is
designed to reduce the anti-export bias of the existing system of
protection, and, through increasing competition, to increase efficiency and
competitiveness.
38.       At the micro (or sub-sector) level, action programs were
developed for the garments and sewn products, footwear and leather
products, and construction materials subsectors.  These are areas of
particularly heavy protection, but where there is also considered to be
potential for a major increase in exports.
C. The Technical Assistance Loan
39.       A $6.1 million technical assistance loan to Jamaica was
authorized by the Bank in March 1982 to help the Government implement and
monitor its structural adjustment program.  The loan has been used to
finance experts for advisory positions and studies to help carry out the
structural adjustment program. The UNDP's office of Project Execution has
assisted the Government in contracting for the necessary services.
40.       Major activities that have been, or are being financed by the
loan are the following:
(a) Studies and audits of public enterprises, so that measures may be
taken to increase their financial viability.
(b) Support for the two new and principal development lending
institutions--the National Development Bank and the Agricultural
Credit Bank--so that they may better carry out their
responsibilites.
(c) Assistance to the Ministry of Finance in establishing better
financial controls, loan monitoring systems and improved
statistical and data gathering and presentation services.
(d) Assistance in improving the methods that are used to prepare and
monitor a rolling three year public sector investment program.
(e) Assistance in establishing a migrant savings scheme.
(f) Assistance in designing export incentive schemes.



- 14 -
(g) Development of programs for better utilization of agricultural
lands.
(h)  Analysis of and recommendation of programs for the agricultural
external marketing organizations so that they may better serve
the needs of export agriculture.
(i)  Studies and assistance for the strengthening of agricultural and
industrial sector :institutions.
(j)  Studies for the phased elimination of quantitative restrictions
to imports and their replacement by increased tariff protection.
(k)  Management audit of the Banana Company.
41.       As a result of some contracts costing less than anticipated and
some posts or positions being eliminated because they were no longer
required, or other funding became available, funds will be available under
the existing loan to finance technical assistance required to support
activities under the second SAL, at least for the initial stages of that
program.



- 15 -
PART III - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT POLICIES AND ACTIONS
UNDER THE PROPOSED SECOND SAL '/
Introduction
42.       Although the Jamaican economy has begun to turn around--a factor
which is all the more remarkable given the depth of the international
recession and the effect of this on the bauxite/alumina sector in
particular and on tourism in the rest of the Caribbean--there remain major
obstacles and serious economic problems. Industry cannot become
competitive overnight; export markets have to be found and cultivated;
utility tariffs can be raised only gradually and in line with improved
services; buyers must be found for public enterprises scheduled for
divestment; and institutions have to be nurtured. A start has been made,
and it is proposed to provide continued support to the structural
adjustment effort. It must, however, be recognized that the first SAL has
essentially been a preparatory exercise, with the development of a variety
of programs designed to achieve a reorientation of the economy. Under the
proposed second and subsequent SALs, these and other programs would be
implemented.
43.       There are four main areas of economic difficulty that both the
first SAL and the IMF's program were designed to address: a difficult
balance of payments situation, fiscal imbalance caused by inadequate public
savings and excessive public investment, sluggish performance of both the
industrial and agricultural sectors, and an overregulated economy. The
program supported by the first SAL began the process of adjusting the
economy to cope with the four major problem areas identified above (see
para. 24), both by taking certain actions and by mounting studies in other
areas to identify critical constraints and design appropriate action
programs. The Government is continuing with the program and the same
direction would be maintained for the proposed second SAL, and efforts
would continue to be concentrated in these critical areas, rather than
attempting to diversify the program at this stage. The only addition to
the four main program areas supported by the first SAL is the proposed
inclusion of action programs to improve public administration, as this has
emerged as a constraint to the successful implementation of reform
programs.
44.       In addition to the proposed second SAL, there are several project
loans which are scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors in
the near future. Among them are EDF III, Industrial Credit, Export Crops,
and Highway Maintenance. In several cases the conditionality of the
proposed second SAL, and that of the proposed project loans is overlapping,
and a certain amount of complementarity is involved. Where this occurs, it
is indicated in the text.
8/   A summary of this chapter is included in the SAL Matrix which appears
in pages 34-37.



- 16 -
(i) Balance of Payments Management
45.       The balance of payments continues to act as a major constraint to
economic growth in Jamaica. The solution to this problem lies primarily in
the development of exports, t:he achievement of efficiency and competi-
tiveness in the productive sectolrs, and the reduction of the public sector
deficit. This latter element is being addressed through the IMF's Extended
Facility Arrangement, and through the SAL programs in relation to the
public enterprises and the Public Sector Investm1ent Program. However, even
in the present situation of an excess demand for foreign exchange, there
are measures that can be taken tc, improve the allocation of foreign
exchange, and to eliminate the excess regulation of the present system.
Action Program
46.       The steps that have been taken already in this area have been
described in paragraph 27 above, and include the institutionalization of
the informal foreign exchange market, the introduction of export
incentives, the expansion of the Export Developmnent Fund, and the
simplification of the import licensing system. The new system was put into
place on January 10, 1983, and it has been functioning satisfactorily.
The program is expected to be a significant incentive to exporters and
should also improve their competitiveness by improving production runs
through unrestricted access to the foreign exchange required not only for
export-related imports but also for the imported inputs needed for
production for the domestic market. It is therefore expected that this
will lead to a rapid increase in nontraditional exports to third country
markets.
47.       However, the somewhat unpredictable results of what will continue
to be a dual exchange rate system make it particularly important to monitor
the effects of the incentive program and revised foreign exclhange market
artangements carefully, and to ascertain whether there are good grounds for
modifying the scheme in some way. Therefore, prior to the release of the
second tranche, there will be an in-depth review of the competitiveness of
Jamaica's exports of goods anc services, at both the macro and micro
levels. This study would be reviewed with the Jamaican Government at the
time of the second tranche review, and any necessary correctjive action
would be agreed prior to release of the second tranche of the proposed
loan.
48.       The import licensing system has been radically overhauled, with
the abolition of the Trade Administrator's Department, and its replacement
by a Trade Board with private sector representation. As explained in
paragraph 27 above, exporters will receive unlimited licenses on an
automatic basis. However, producers for the domestic market only, as well
as traders, would be subject to annual global quotas. For producers, this
would be based on their previous years' use, and for traders, according to
their market shares. Up to the limit of the quota, licenses would be



- 17 -
automatic, but any license above this limit would be discretionary and
subject to evidence of use of the previously imported goods. The above
procedure refers to non-restricted items for import with funds obtained on
the legalized parallel market. The only goods not covered by this are
restricted items, and "essential" commodities such as oil, certain foods,
timber and drugs. The latter would continue to be imported by the Jamaica
Petroleum Corporation and the Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation.
Restricted items would continue to be controlled and licenses would be
issued on a discretionary basis by the Trade Board, except for production
inputs, for which exporters are now assured of import permits for their
export production.  The revised system has been put into place
satisfactorily, and import permits (as they are now called) are being
issued within 4 hours of application, compared to delays of 2-6 weeks
previously. However, the quota system remains a significant administrative
control over the foreign exchange allocation mechanism, and therefore it
will be monitored carefully, and its operations would be reviewed prior to
release of the second tranche of the proposed loan, with a view to its
elimination at an early time.
(ii) Savings and Investment
49.       Under the first SAL, various measures were taken in this area, as
described in paras 29-32 above. For the proposed second SAL, these
programs will be continued, but with a greater emphasis on public sector
savings and investment, given the urgency of the fiscal situation described
earlier.
1. Public Sector Savings
50.       In the development policy statement accompanying SAL I, the
Government committed itself to eliminating some current operating deficits
of public enterprises by FY82/83, and the remainder in FY83/84. The
enterprises would be expected then to improve their financial performance
gradually so as to generate surpluses "equivalent to a rate of return on
fixed assets sufficient to pay corporate taxes, service debt payments and
contribute up to 30% of the costs of prospective investment expansion
programs." It was the intention to generate savings equivalent to 2% of
GDP by FY83/84. As noted in paragraph 29 above, this target is not
expected to be achieved, with a current surplus equivalent to 1.7% of GDP
if current targets are achieved. Even so, the projected surplus in FY83/84
would make a significant contribution to the required overall improvement
in public finances. The aim of the action program in this area is to bring
about those changes that are necessary for specific public enterprises to
achieve their financial targets. Profiles of the major public enterprises
for which action programs are being carried out are included in Annex VI.



- 18 -
Action Program
51.       There are nine enterprises which are performing be:Low
expectations. Action programs would be included in the cond;tionality of
the proposed SAL for six of these enterprises.  With regard to the other
three (Air Jamaica (AJ), National Hotels and Properties (NHP), and the
Jamaica Broadcasting Company (JBC)), no specific conditionality is
envisaged, but it should be noted that Government does have action programs
for each of these enterprises whic.h are designed to improve their financial
performance.9/ Special subsector programs have 'been developed for sugar
and bananas, and these are described in paras 79-84 below.
52.       For the remaining four enterprises, the action programs and
associated conditionality are as follows:
(a) Jamaica Public Service Company (JPS): in the context of the
Third Power Loan, Government took actions in February 1983 which
will enable JPS to achieve a 5% rate of return on revalued assets
during 1983. This will result in JPS generating savings
equivalent to 0.9% of GDP, compared to 1981, when JPS just broke
even. During 1984, JPS is required to achieve an 8% rate of
return on assets, and plans for this would be revie'wed prior to
release of the second tranche;
(b) Jamaica Omnibus Service (JOS): by June 30, 1983, Jamaica Omnibus
Service will cease to operate, and will be replaced by the
privatization of bus operations on a basis acceptable to the
Bank. The reorganization is being designed through and in
association with the preparation of the proposed urban transport
project;
(c) Jamaica Railway Corporation (JRC): a tariff study is under way
and will be completed in mid-year. Government accepts the need
to restructure.the tariffs in such a way as to cover costs and to
attract more cargo, and to close any lines that the analysis
proves to be uneconomic. Upon completion of the study, an action
program would be agreed, and any necessary tariff measures and
lines closures would be undertaken prior to the release of the
second tranche of the proposed loan;
(d) National Water Commission (NWC): consideration of the NWC must
be separate for the K(ingiston Corporate area, and the rural
9/   For Air Jamaica, the deficit is caused essentially by the recession,
and the price-cutting strateg:ies of most airlines. Routes are being
rationalized, staff reduced, and inefficient aircraft are being sold
and replaced by new, fuel--eff:icient planes. For National Hotels and
Properties, Government is trying to lease its hotels, and has to an
extent succeeded, but the initial rents may be written off by the
lessees against the costs of refurbishing.  For the Jamaica
Broadcasting Company, the deficit of 1982/83 is projected to be
converted into a modest surplus in 1983/84 through cost reductions.



- 19 -
areas, for which responsibility has recently been transferred to
NWC from the Parish Councils. The major recommendation of a
management audit of NWC, that was carried out in 1982, was that a
major external technical input was required in order to
reorganize completely the management, financial, and technical
functions of NWC. Government has accepted this proposal, and has
recently signed a US$l million contract with a consulting firm
for the provision of such services over a one-year period. The
consultants are now in place, and they are examining the
financial situation of the Kingston Corporate area on a priority
basis, and will determine actions that are necessary to achieve a
4% rate of return on revalued assets in this area. Such actions
would be put in place by July 31, 1983. (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06(a)) With regard to the rural areas, satisfactory
progress in the preparation of a financial plan for these areas
and for the administrative integration of the rural and corporate
areas would be a condition for the release of the second tranche.
2.  Public Sector Investment Program
53.       Under the first SAL, major emphasis was placed on the preparation
of a three-year Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) and financing plan,
consistent with the Government's overall development strategy. An overall
ceiling was set and agreed at 15% of GDP per annum, in view of likely
financial constraints, and the need to increase the level of resources
available to the private sector. A physical and financial monitoring
system was established. Three monitoring reports have been prepared to
date for FY82/83. Based on preliminary estimates for FY82/83, public
sector capital expenditures in that year totalled 13.5% of GDP. A major
effort has been made in this area by the Government, and this work will
continue under the proposed SAL II. A description and analysis of the
existing PSIP is included in Annex VII.
Action Program
54.       Public sector investment activities will continue to play a
critical role in stimulating economic growth over the coming period,
although this role will be increasingly one of providing the economic and
social infrastructure necessary to underpin private sector investment in
the directly productive sectors. Under SAL I, a three-year PSIP and
financing plan was developed for the years FY83/84-FY85/86, and the program
was generally endorsed by the Bank. This action would be continued this
year, with the PSIP being rolled forward by one year to include FY86/87,
together with a revision of the program for FY84/85 and FY85/86, based on
progress achieved to date, and the lessons learned over the past two
years. Completion of the revised PSIP for FY84/85-FY86/87 would be a
condition for the release of the second tranche of the proposed loan. In
addition it has been judged necessary to develop a "core" PSIP. This is
because the current and projected fiscal situation may not permit public
investment at the level of 15% of GDP, and it will be important to ensure
that if the actual level of investment has to be reduced, it will be done
in the context of a clear set of priorities.



- 20 -
55.        In this context a "core" PSIP would be developed for the three
years of the program at the same time as it is rolled over. The level of
the core program will be determined on macroeconomic considerations in
consultation with the Bank and the IMF. It has been agreed that the two
main criteria to be applied to projects for inclusion in the core program
would be as follows:
(a)  rehabilitation and deferred maintenance expenditures required to
maintain and extend the useful life of existing capital stock and
of essential economlIc and social infrastructure; and
(b)  capital expenditures essential to underpin the Government's
export-oriented development strategy and provide a favorable
atmosphere for private investment.
Completion of the core program for FY84/85-FY86/87 would also be a
condition for the release of the second tranche of the proposed loan. A
similar exercise was carried out f-or FY83/84 in t-he context of the Jamaican
Government's negotiations with the IMF for the third year of the Extended
Arrangement, since the fiscal situation would not permit the level of
capital expenditure included in the PSIP.  In thi s exercise, the PSIP was
reduced by some J$215 million in preparing the capital budget: for FY83/84,
and would be at a level of about 12.8% of GDP.
56.        Good progress has been maade in the establishment of a monitoring
system, and in the integratiorL of the PSIP with the capital budgeting
process. Quarterly monitoring reports have been prepared by the National
Planning Agency and Ministry cof Finance since August 1982, and this will
continue.
57.        Finally, it has been agreed that within the context: of the
rollover of the PSIP, the coverage would be extended to include two major
parastatal organizations whicL had previously been excluded; the Banana
Company and the Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica. No revision to the
overall ceiling would be made to accommodate this extension of the
coverage. If this extension were applied to the 1983/84 program, it would
rise from 12.8% of GDP to 14%, which is still below the present ceiling.
It has also been agreed that any substantial change in the PSIP--including
any major future purchase of assets by public entities--would be subject to
prior consultation with the Bank. (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.08)
3. Private Savings and Investment
58.        Until 1981, the major obstacle to the promotion of private
savings and investment was the poor political climate, and the absence of
confidence. Much has been done to restore an appropriate climate in this
sphere and this is beginning to have positive results, with deposits
growing at almost 30% per annum, and a major increase in investment
expenditures.  In addition, to stimulate medium-term investments,



- 21 -
Government has establshed two medium-term credit institutions, the National
Development Bank and the Agricultural Credit Bank, as noted in paragraph 32
above. These institutions are now operational and should soon begin to
contribute to the investment effort. Loans are being considered by the
Bank to both these institutions. Therefore, no further conditionality is
considered necessary in this field within the context of the SAL, and any
actions that are considered necessary in order to improve the effectiveness
of these institutions will be carried out in the context of the project
loans.
59.       With regard to private savings, several measures have already
been taken. Under SAL I, a study was carried out of ways to increase
migrants' savings, and the major recommendation of this study has been
implemented via foreign exchange denominated accounts which may now be held
by migrants in the commercial banking system, and may be converted into
Jamaican currency at the parallel exchange rate. In addition, private
transfers can also be converted at this rate. Also, as noted earlier, a
study of the functioning of Jamaica's capital markets is under way, and
legislation has already been passed to permit the establishment of a
venture capital company.
Action Program
60.       The two main areas for potential action are tax reform and the
development of capital markets. With regard to tax reform, a study was
recently completed which will be reviewed with the Jamaican Government in
mid-year, with particular emphasis on import duties (see paras 70-71
below), but at the same time, issues of tax reform in relation to private
savings would be discussed, and agreement on these matters would be reached
prior to release of the second tranche. At the same time, the capital
markets study referred to in paragraph 30 would be discussed, and any
necessary measures arising from this study would be defined.
(iii) Industry
61.       The issues that were addressed in the context of SAL I remain the
major priorities. The basic issue is that the anti-export bias of the
existing protection system has led to an inward-oriented, inefficient
manufacturing sector. This has resulted primarily from the system of
QRs to imports, which has guaranteed the availability of the domestic
market for domestic producers regardless of the efficiency of their
production. In addition, the common external tariff of CARICOM guarantees
similar, though lower protection for the regional markets. However, the
size of that regional market (5 million people) is not large enough to
generate a volume of nontraditional exports sufficient to achieve a viable
balance of payments in the post-oil-crisis era.



- 22 -
1. Increasing NontraditionaL Exports
62.       A four part prograra has thus been developed to increase the
efficiency of domestic production vis-a-vis worLd markets, and to encourage
the development of nontraditiona:L exports.  The four elements to this
program are:  (a) the phased elimination of the 364 QRs over a five-year
period.  This will increase domestic competition and force do-.stic
producers to become more efficient; (b) the establishment of an export
promotion program designed to increase the profitability of exporting and
thus offset the anti-export bias. This program was described in para 27
above; (c) increasing the availability of foreign exchange to
nontraditional exporters to give them the means to export and to provide
longer production runs and thus t:o lower unit costs; and (d) the
preparation of action programs for priority subsectors of the manufacturing
sector which are considered to have good potent-ial for increasing exports
to third country markets and generally to contribute to the revival of the
economy. These four elements of the program were all started under the
first SAL, and under the proposed second SAL they will be continued and be
elaborated where necessary.
Action Programs
l(a): Quantitative Restrictions
63.        Of the original 364 QRs, 64 were removed in February 1982, prior
to the approval of SAL I, and a further 60 QRs were removed in February
1983.  A list of such items is included in Annex VIII.  The study to
determine the level of tariff required to maintain adequate protection
after removal of the QRs is proceeding on schedule and will be completed
shortly. Using the initial resu]Lts of this study, Government decided that
with the transfer of all the goodls removed from the list from the official
exchange market to the parallel market, and considering present tariff
levels, the existing level of protection was adequate, and no additional
tariffs were imposed on these goods.
64.        In addition to the removal of the 60 items from the restricted
list, two further measures have been agreed.  Firstly, a schedule for the
removal of the remaining items on the list, together with the tariffs that
will apply to them at that time, will be published prior to the release of
the second tranche. This will have the benefit of giving maximum notice to
producers of such goods, and permit them to draw up plans for adjusting to
the new situation. Secondly, Government has agreed to take immediate
action with regard to those production inputs which are still on the
restricted list. Whilst it is accepted that complete immediate removal of
such items, such as packaging mat:erials, cans, and glass bottles, would be
excessively disruptive, Government has agreed that exporters should have
full access to the importation of such items for their export production,
for reasons both of competitiveness in export markets, and of the need to
meet export specifications. This move should be of major benefit to
exporters.



- 23 -
l(b): Export Incentives
65.       The export promotion program is designed to improve the
competitiveness of nontraditional exports and to increase the profitability
of exporting to third country markets. It is thus conceived as a redress
to the anti-export bias of the present system of protection. It is also
linked inextricably with the program for the removal of the QRs, for as
these are removed, the profitability of the domestic market is reduced and
it becomes necessary to improve the profitability of the export market, for
otilerwise the QRs program would merely result in a reduction in
manufacturing output. The scheme was described in paragraph 27 above, and
essentially consists of a system whereby exporters to third markets may
retain 50% of the export proceeds, and, if they so wish, sell this foreign
exchange at the parallel market exchange rate, The program has been put
into place satisfactorily with effect from January 1983. As noted in
paragraph 47 above, however, a review of the competitiveness of Jamaica's
exports of goods and services is being carried out, and will be completed
prior to the release of the second tranche. This will determine whether
further export promotion or incentive programs are required in order to
generate the volume of nontraditional exports that is necessary.
l(c): Lack of Foreign Exchange for Exporters
66.       The problem most often cited by manufacturers as a barrier to
exporting has been the lack of foreign exchange for production inputs.
This is not simply a problem of inputs for export production, but also of
inputs for production for the domestic market, especially for the marginal
or new exporter who has to be assured of reasonable production runs. The
system of allocating foreign exchange has therefore been restructured to be
entirely in favor of exporters. Firstly, the quota system for importers
does not apply to exporters, who are free to purchase any quantity of raw
materials, spare parts and capital goods, with funds available from the
EDF, the export earnings retention scheme, or from purchases on the
parallel market. To facilitate this, the EDF has issued certification to
exporters, and these certificates guarantee freedom from quotas both for
the purchase of foreign exchange, and for import permits. Whilst the price
of foreign exchange will remain a constraint, the retention scheme should
compensate adequately for this, and it means that all administrative
constraints to the acquisition of production inputs for exporters have been
removed. In addition, the EDF is being expanded, and its operating rules
have been simplified considerably. No further actions in this area are
being considered at the present time, but the revised system will be
monitored carefully to ensure that it is working satisfactorily.
l(d): Action Programs for Priority Subsectors
67.       The Government of Jamaica has identified seven priority
subsectors which are considered to have potential for a rapid expansion of
exports or for efficient import substitution. These subsectors are:
garments and sewn products, footwear and leather products, construction
materials, food and agro-industry, automotive products, furniture, and
electronics and electrical products. These programs are essentially
concerned with the targeting of technical assistance towards these



- 24 -
subsectors, and the prioritization of the programs of the institutions
working within the industrial sector. Several of the subsectors have
additional, specific programs, such as a contract with a major consultant
in the garments area for the provision of marketing and training services
within a garments factory complex, and the establishment of a "model"
electronics factory within the Kingston Free Zone. The implementation of
these programs would be reviewed prior to the release of the second tranche
to ensure that they are proceeding in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Institutional Reform
68.       There is a problem of bureaucracies with overlapping
responsibilities in the industrial sector, particularly with regard to
investment and export promotion. There are some fourteen major
institutions whose roles and responsibilities are not clearly defined. For
example, both the Jamaican National Export Corporation (JNEC) and Jamaica
National Investment Promotion (JNIP) have recently mounted exporters
exhibitions. This can also lead in some cases to excessive red tape.
Although considerable progress has been achieved with respect to external
investors through the establishment of JNIP as Ea "one-stop" investment
promotion agency, there remains major scope for rationalization and
clarification.
Action Program
69.       A study to examine the possible reform of the institutions within
the industrial sector has been completed, with financing provided by the
1982 Technical Assistance Loan, aad this study has made recommendations for
major changes. It has identifEied the functions to be carried out by
parastatal institutions, and has defined a logical institutional framework
for the performance of these Eunctions.  This report is being discussed
with the Government, which accepts the need to make such reforms in this
area. However, given the sensitivity of reforms of this nature, some time
should be devoted to the preparation of a detailed timetable of actions.
This will be completed by July 31, 1983. (Draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.07(i)) Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the agreed program
would be a condition for the release of the second tranche of the proposed
loan.
3. Import Duties and Tax Reform
70.       The present level of import duties in Jamaica is very low, with
the average rate of import duty onl all imports being about 5%, or 7.5% if
oil imports are excluded. A major reason for the low level is the virtual
exclusion by Jamaica of raw materials, intermediate products, and capital
goods from duties under various industrial incentive laws and the CARICOM
agreement. This has several consequences, including a bias towards capital
intensity in new investments, and, to replace the foregone revenue,
excessive taxes on income. However, action in this area will have to be



- 25 -
planned carefully, because it is Government's intention not to increase the
overall tax burden, and because certain changes (such as duties on raw
materials) would have to be coordinated with other CARICOM countries, for
otherwise there could be a loss of competitiveness for Jamaica's exports
within CARICOM. Furthermore, any program of reform would have to be
consistent with the existing CARICOM treaty.
Action Program
71.       Studies of industrial policy and tax reform in Jamaica have
recently been completed. These studies are now being examined by the
Government. It has been agreed that there would be a review in mid year of
the import duty regime in connection with other tax reform measures, such
as changes in the level of corporate taxation, and industrial incentives,
and agreement on these matters would be reached prior to the release of the
second tranche of the proposed loan.
(iv) Agriculture
72.       As in other sectors, the program in the field of agriculture is
essentially designed to stimulate production for export.  In the past
decade, the real value of export crops has been declining, whilst domestic
crops showed positive growth. This partly reflected marketing
arrangements, with heavy control on prices of export crops through the
external marketing organizations (EMOs), and with free market determination
of prices of crops for the domestic market. Under the program, this
situation is to be changed through the gradual introduction of competition
in export marketing. The export promotion program described earlier will
also apply to agriculture (except sugar and bananas), making the
introduction of this aspect of the program all the more urgent. In
addition to these programs, which are essentially designed to stimulate
nontraditional agricultural exports, specific action programs for sugar and
bananas are included in the program.
73.       In the case of agriculture, there is a very close relationship
between the proposed SAL and the proposed Export Crops Project. In the
first SAL, there were a variety of programs in the agricultural sector
which would fall more naturally into project lending, such as land use
planning, soil erosion, irrigation techniques, etc. Good progress has been
made. Further action that is considered necessary in these areas would be
incorporated into the conditionality of the proposed Export Crops Project,
which is due to be submitted to the Executive Directors for approval
shortly. This has permitted a simplification of the programs included
under the SAL in the field of agriculture.
1. External Marketing Organizations
74.       The monopsony powers of the EMOs were formally abolished under
the first SAL, with the exception of the special cases of sugar and
bananas. However, the merely formal abolition is not sufficient to ensure
competition in external marketing, because of various informal barriers to
competition such as quality control, registered brand names ("Blue Mountain
Coffee") and others. Moreover, the EMOs have a variety of non-marketing



- 26 -
functions, such as fertilizer supplies, extension systems, and farmer
credit.  Studies are therefore being carried out of the marketing and
non-marketing functions of the EN[Os.
75.       In addition, the introduction of the export promotion scheme,
which will increase the earnings from the nontraditional exports marketed
through the EMOs, makes it necessary to find ways of passing the benefits
of this scheme to the producers. If not, the scheme would serve only to
reinforce the position of the EMOs, and would not encourage increased
production for export.
Action Program
76.       The studies of the marketing and non-marketing functions of the
EMOs are under way and will both be completed by mid year. These would be
reviewed by the Government and the Bank, and an action program would be
agreed and adopted by July 31, 1983. (Draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.07(ii)) A covenant to this effect is included in the Loan Agreement for
the proposed loan. Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the
agreed program would be a conditiLon for the release of the second tranche
of the proposed loan. In addition to these programs, managiement audits for
each of the EMOs have been completed, and their recommendations are being
implemented. Further progress in this area wouLd be monitored under the
proposed Export Crops Project.
77.       There are four crops which are marketed through EMOs and are
affected by the export incentives scheme: coffee, cocoa, citrus, and
pimento. In all cases, the benefits of the incentives scheme are being
passed on to the farmers, bul: because of the different situations for each
crop, it is necessary to have crop-specific programs. The additional
revenues which the scheme are generating are used for four purposes: (i)
price increases to farmers; (ii) removal of price subsidies; (iii)
contributions to crop insurance/price stabilization schemes; and (iv)
refurbishing of processing facilities. In Annex IX is shown the scheme
adopted for each crop.  As can be seen, the bulk of the benefits is passed
on in the form of price incrteases, in the range of 8-28%.
78.       It has also been decided to take advantage of these price
increases to reduce certain other subsidies, which relate primarily to the
provision of planting material/seedlings, and crop care. Not only will
this make the provision of such services more efficient, it will also
remove a constraint to production, for at present such services can only be
provided to the extent of the subsidy available, and this has been
constrained for budgetary reasons. Full cost recovery of such services
will permit the satisfaction of the present excess demand, and thus
overcome an existing constraint to the expansion of production of these
crops.



- 27 -
2. Sugar
79.       The sugar industry is one of the oldest in Jamaica, the largest
single employer and the source of 5-10% of foreign exchange earnings over
recent years. Over the past decade, however, sugar production and exports
have experienced a declining trend, with accelerated deterioration in the
last four years. In 1981 and 1982, production had fallen to about 200,000
tons per annum, compared to 360,000 tons as recently as 1976 and a peak of
about 450,000 tons achieved in the mid-1960s. Government participation in
the sugar industry began in 1970, when the Government purchased three large
estates with the original intention of subdividing the land and selling it
to independent cane farmers. Instead, twenty-three cooperatives were
formed which took control of virtually all the lands formerly owned and
operated by the estates. The Government also established the Sugar
Industry Authority (SIA), an agency with responsibility for both foreign
and local marketing of sugar, in 1970. During the next few years, it
acquired most of the sugar factories and established the National Sugar
Company (NSC), which now accounts for about 75% of total production. The
sugar cooperatives were plagued by severe managerial and industrial
relations difficulties, resulting in declining production of cane and
deteriorating agronomic practices; similar problems, as well as substantial
overmanning, affected the production, efficiency and finances of the
Government-owned factories. During the last four years, these problems
were exacerbated by smut infestation of the cane crop, an increasingly
acute shortage of foreign exchange and fiscal resources for insecticides,
fertilizers, and spare parts for field and factory equipment, and an exodus
of skilled personnel.
80.       While access to the EEC market provided some protection from
swings in international sugar prices, the appreciation of the US dollar
against the pound sterling in the last few years has partially eroded
modest increases in the sterling-denominated EEC price. Pressures to
increase compensation to field and factory workers led to a sharp increase
in the factory-gate price of cane in 1981 to a level substantially in
excess of the Jamaica dollar export price for sugar. As a consequence, in
1982, the SIA made losses on its export sales; these were only partially
compensated for by profits from domestic sales.
Action Program
81.       The Government has taken a number of steps to address the
deep-seated problems of the industry. In 1981, the sugar cooperatives were
dissolved and the lands were transferred to NSC. The Government closed one
of NSC's least efficient factories and is presently considering the closing
of another. At the same time, increased foreign exchange was allocated by
the Bank of Jamaica to NSC for essential inputs and spare parts, although
the NSC's continuing financial difficulties have prevented it from taking
full advantage of this availability. New disease-resistant varieties of
cane were introduced in 1981. In keeping with its overall policy of
reduced involvement in the public sector, the Government has indicated its
intention to divest through sale or lease some of NSC's factories: in this
regard, discussions with a number of local and external interests have



- 28 -
taken place but not yet borne fruit. A three-year investment program to
put the field and factory operations back on a viable basis has been
prepared; a financing package for the program was arranged and NSC began
execution of the program at the beginning of 1983. Based on the
recommendations of a management audit carried out in 1982, the Government
is attempting to strengthen medium- and long-term planning for the
industry, decentralize NSC's operations and increase accountability of
factory managers, promote clear organizational separation of the SIA and
NSC, and implement a number of other specific recommendations with regard
to internal operations of both entities. Finally, the Government has taken
a number of steps to improve the financial viabil:ity of the industry; the
factory gate price for sugar has been frozen at the 1981 level, the local
price of sugar (already substantially in excess of the international price)
has been increased by 30%, a subsidy to the local condensary has been
eliminated, and NSC reduced its staffing by 650 at the end of 1982, and is
committed to further substantial reductions over the next two years.
Further satisfactory progress :in the implementation of the program for the
restructuring and rehabilitation oiE the sugar sector would be a condition
for the release of the second tranche.
3. Bananas
82.       The problems of the banana industry are at two levels.  With
regard to production, this has declined steadily over the last decade, to
the extent that in 1981, banana exports were only 18,000 metric tons,
compared to 136,000 tons in 1970, and an available protected market (in the
UK) of 150,000 tons.  Under SAI I a rehabilitation program was started, and
some progress has been achieved, wiith exports in 1982 estimated at 26,000
tons, and the start of a major joint venture between Government and the
external private sector (who will rmanage the project) to replant 2,050
acres under modern cultivation practices. This project alone is expected
to supply 31,000 tons of export: quality bananas with effect from mid-1984,
and would be followed by a second phase involving an additional 2,000
acres. In addition to the problems of production, the Banana Company has
had severe financial and management problems, with an operating loss of
J$22 million in 1982.
Action Program
83.       The Government is currently considering means to rationalize the
financial operations of the Banana Company and to reverse the declining
trend in banana exports through the adoption of a strategy which would
earmark large contiguous areas with yields potentially in excess of 9 tons
per acre (compared to an average of less than 2 per acre for the
industry).  This would enable economically effective provision of services,
such as aerial spraying against leaf spot, irrigation, mechanical



- 29 -
harvesting, transport arrangements and shipping facilities. Medium and
small holder production on marginal lands would be directed toward the
domestic market or diverted to the production of other crops. Operations
of the banana boxing plants would also be rationalized. The means by which
this transition would be accomplished are presently under review by the
Government.
84.       A draft management audit of the Banana Company was recently
completed and is presently under review by the Government. The audit was
undertaken with the above framework in mind and would make recommendations
concerning managing structure, pricing formulae, and revised accounting
practices. Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the Government's
restructuring program for the industry and the agreed upon recommendations
of the audit would be a condition for the release of the second tranche.
4. Land Use
Action Program
85.       Under SAL I, a program was started to reduce the uncertainty
faced by tenant farmers on government-owned lands through a program to sell
or lease those lands to producers. Progress of this program has been good,
and continued satisfactory progress would be a condition for the release of
the second tranche of the proposed loan.
(v) Public Administration
86.       One of the main features of the Jamaican economy which the
structural adjustment program is attempting to change is the excessive
burden of Government, and the over-bureaucratization of the economy.
Several of the sectoral programs address this problem, for example through
the rationalization of industrial institutions and the removal of the
monopsony powers of the EMOs.  In addition, there are specific problems
within the administration, in particular with relation to financial
management and information. The existing pool of talent in the public
sector is relatively small, is spread too thin, is not allocated properly
towards priority functions, and does not have the techniques and systems to
manage properly.
87.       There is a problem in attracting and retaining staff in
Government service, particularly at senior levels. One cause of this
problem (as well as a symptom) has been the creation of an increasing
number of parastatal organizations without revenue generating functions.
Such organizations are not bound by Government salary levels, and are able
to attract staff from the civil service, as well as the private sector,



- 30 -
regardless of whether such an activity is of higher priority than that
being carried out in Central Government, which is consequently being
drained of personnel with talent and experience.
88.       The present budget system does not provide the Government with
the appropriate tools to allocate funds on a rational basis. The system
has evolved into a monthly cash provision to the Ministries, with the
managers attempting to allocate the available finance as best they can to
meet payments coming due. Consequently, financial management has become
concerned primarily with balancing the "monthly checkbook" rather than with
ensuring that commitments are controlled in accordance with realistic
forecasts of the availability of funds.
89.       Finally, there are weaknesses in the three "core" Government
establishments--the Ministry of Finance and Planning, the Ministry of the
Public Service, and the Public Service Commission. Some of these are due
to a lack of personnel, and others relate to policies, organization, and
work methods. Until these three agencies have been strengthened, it would
be difficult to attempt any more general reform of the administrative
system, since any such reform wouLd depend crucially on the effectiveness
of these very agencies.
90.       These three issues are to be addressed under the proposed second
SAL, utilizing technical assistance where necessary, to be financed under
the existing Technical Assistance Loan.
Action Program
l. Public Service Staffi'ng
91.       Government fully accepts the need to address the problem of
imbalances between the civil service and the parastatals/statutory bodies,
and to find ways and means of directing staff to its priority needs. Two
areas of action are contemplal:ed: firstly, to prevent further distortions
in the system, no new non-revenue generating public agencies will be
created, except in exceptiona]L circumstances, until a full solution to the
problem has been devised; and secondly, a high-level task force, which will
report to the Prime Minister, has been set up to formulate a strategy to
address the problem. Development of such a strategy would be a condition
for the release of the second tranche of the proposed loan.
2.  Financial Management
92.      Government has decided to move from the present budgetary system,
which is essentially one of object accounts (salaries, equipment, supplies,
etc.) and monthly cash allocations, to one of performance budgeting. Under
such a system, the budget wouLd bes reformed along program lines,
identifying specific outputs of Ministries and Departments, and the
resources required to produce these outputs. Budgetary controls would
shift from payments to commitments. Such a reform can only be achieved
over a period of years, and the program has been split into three phases.
Consultants have been selected to assist Government in this area, and the



- 3 1 -
initial phase of the program will be financed under the 1982 Technical
Assistance Loan. The three phases are:
Phase I: Diagnostic/Preliminary: this stage will involve a diagnosis
of the capacity of selected Ministries to carry out their
budgeting/financial management system, and a program to sensitize
financial and operational staff to the concepts of performance
budgeting. It would also involve some initial improvements to the
present system to prepare for later phases, such as the preparation of
quarterly work plans and budgets. Finally, it would include the
preparation of a detailed program for Phase II, including the
"architecture" for an improved budget and financial management system.
Phase II: Initial Implementation: the second phase will consist in
the preparation of a full system, training of financial officers, and
installation of the system in the Ministry of Finance, its departments
and agencies, the Ministry of National Security, and the Ministry of
the Public Service. Upon completion of the latter exercise, all other
Ministries would be trained in the system using the initial budgets as
guidelines.
Phase III: Full Implementation: under the final phase, which could
not take place for at least two years, the revised system would be
extended to all Ministries and Departments.
93.       Completion of Phase I, and the adoption by Government of a
detailed program for Phase II would be a condition for the release of the
second tranche of the proposed loan.
3. Improvement of the Core Agencies
94.       It has been agreed that management audits would be carried out
for the three core Government agencies--the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Public Service and the Public Service Commission. These have
already started and are being carried out under the authority and
supervision of the Bureau of Management Support in the Prime Minister's
office, with some consultant support provided under the Technical
Assistance Loan. Completion of the audits and adoption of resulting action
programs would be a condition for the release of the second tranche of the
proposed loan.
(vi) The Structural Adjustment Program and the Extended Arrangement
with the IMF
95.       The first SAL and the IMF's Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
arrangement with the Government of Jamaica were fully consistent and
complementary, and where overlap occurred, there were several areas where
the SAL was able to cover programs in greater detail. Coordination between
the two institutions was close, and, for example, the reforms described in
paragraph 27 were negotiated jointly by the Bank, IMF and Government. This
process has continued during the preparation of the proposed second SAL and
the third year of the Extended Arrangement.



- 32 -
96.       There are five essential components tc the third year of the
Extended Arrangement between the IMF and the Government of Jamaica:
(i) a target for a balance of payments surplus of US$125 million,
which would ensure a small improvement in the net international
reserves position of thes Bank of Jamaica over the three years of
the program;
(ii) the achievement of t:his target through the transfer to the
parallel market from the official foreign exchange budget of
US$334 million of transactions, or some 26% of transactions
previously financed at the official exchange rate. These include
half of oil imports, US$74 million of other goods, private debt
payments, and most private service payments;
(iii)  a 3% surcharge on sales on foreign exchange at the official
exchange rate;
(iv) an overall Central Government fiscal deficit of 12.3% of GDP,
compared to 15.5% of GDP in 1982/83:  this fiscal deficit to be
financed primarily from foreign and domestic non-bank sources,
with only limited recourse to the resources of the domestic
banking system; and
(v) a contingency plan consisting of additional transfers to the
parallel market and fiscal measures if there is a major shortfall
of expected official capital inflows or projected export
receipts.
97.       The proposed second SAL supports a variety of measures designed
to assist the Government of Jamaica to achieve these targets. Five
particular areas should be highlighted:
(i) Balance of Payments Target. The competitiveness study described
in paragraph 47 will form the basis for discussions in the area
of balance of payments management for the release of the second
tranche of the proposed SAL, and will also be taken into account
during the mid-year review of the EFF. This study will focus on
measures designed to ensure the achievement of, at least, the
level of exports assumed under the program. Moreover, the review
of the import quota system (paragraph 48) will also assist in
this area).
(ii) Central Government Current Savings. Under the Bank's ongoing
Technical Assistance Loan, the Bank has agreed to finance a
zero-based budget exercise, which will help to ensure that the
targets for Central Government current expenditure are not
exceeded during the current fiscal year.
(iii) Central Government Capital Expenditure. The ongoing Public
Sector Investment Program exercise was crucial in enabling
Government to set priorities for public investment during the
current year and to set a level of expenditure that was
consistent with the t:arget for the overall Central G3overnment



- 33 -
fiscal deficit. Moreover, although this is the final year of the
current EFF, the IMF program is still set within a three-year
context, particularly concerning the overall fiscal deficit, and
the revision of the PSIP, which is a condition for the release of
the second tranche of the proposed SAL, will be set within this
context.
(iv) Savings of the Public Enterprises. The fiscal targets assume an
improved performance of the public enterprises, both with regard
to reduced capital transfers from Central Government, and also
higher transfers of profits to Central Government. The programs
included under the SAL for the enterprises (paragraphs 50-52,
a                    79-84) will help to ensure the achievement of this aim.  It has
been estimated that programs included under the SAL may generate
in FY83/84 alone (which is a partial year for several of the
action programs) some J$117 million (1.8% of GDP).
(v) Contingency Planning. The contingency plan in case of a major
shortfall in capital inflows or projected export earnings would
call for an equivalent fiscal adjustment. Inevitably, a
significant part of the adjustment would fall on capital
expenditure, and the core investment program exercise described
in paragraph 55 above would be of major importance in determining
the size and scope of any reduction in capital expenditure that
was necessary, and would ensure that such an exercise was carried
out in the context of an established set of investment
priorities.



- 34 -
JAMAICA: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTME7NT LOAN PROGRAM
STRUCTURAL, ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SECTOR AND POLICY  ISSUE                          ACTION ALREADY TAKEN                                STEPS TO RE TAKEN
I. BALANCE OF PAYMENTS MANAGEMENT
1.  Foreign Exchange Allocation           The informal foreign exchange                   Action:  The onerations of the paral lel
Mechanism                             market nas been fully legalized and            exchange m.qark> ,pill be carefulyv
institutionalized within the                   monitored to determine whether anv
commercial banks, with rates                   additional measurs are necessarv.  A
varying according to demand/supply             review of the competitiveness of
conditions.                                    Jamaica's exports of goods and services
will be carried out prior to release of
the second tranche, and any necessarv
corrective action would Ye decided upon
at that time.
2.  Import Licensing System               The import licensing system has                 Action:  The operations of the new
been conpletely reorganized.                   system will he carefully monitored to
imports now either receive an                  ensure that automaticity  is maintained.
import cluota in US$ by broad                  The quiota system will be reviewed prior
category of goods, or if they are              to release of the second tranche with a
non-marginal exporters, they are               view to its early modification or
quota-free except for imoorts of               eliminatiorn if necessary.
consumer goods. All import permits
are issued automatically to holders
of quotas and holders of exporter
statuis certification.
II. SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT
1.  Public Sector Savings                 Government is committed to
eliminating all current subsidies
to the pdblic enterprises in
FY83/84. For most enterprises,
action programs have already been
adopted Co achieve this, and to
increase the enterprises
contributions to the financing of
their investment programs.  For six
enterprises, specific
conditiornality is included in the
SAL, including sugar and bananas
(see IV below).
Jamaica Omnibus Service:  A                    Action:  JOS - The JOS is to be fully
decision has been taken to             .       privatizedT)y June 30, 1983, in
privatize JOS by Jtune 30, 1983.               accordance uith the plan agreed with the
The detailed plan for this has been            Bank.
approved by the Bank.
Jamaica Public Service Co.:  A                 Program Development:  JPS is required to
tariff increase designed to achieve            make an 8% return on assets in 1984.
a 5% rate of return on assets was              The plans for this would be reviewed
put into place in February 1983.               prior to release of the second tranche.
National Water Commission:  A team             Action:  NWC - Prior to July 31, 1983,
of management and financial                    measures incltuding tariff changes, would
consultants has been hired to                  be uindertaken to ensure a 4% rate of
overhaul the management and                    return on assets in the Kingston
structure of NRC over a one-year               Corporate area.
period. First priority would be
given to the corporate area.                   Program Development:  NWC - Satisf'actory
progres& in the preparation of an action
program for water supply in the rural
areas would be a condition for the
release of the second tranche.
Jamaica Railway Corporation:  A                Action:  JRC - Prior to release of the
consultant- has been recruited to              second tranc'he, the action program would
review the tariff structure and                be agreed, and any necessary tariff
identify uneconomic lines, and to              measures/lines closures would be
devise an action plan to achieve               undertaken.
economic viability.



- 35 -
JAMAICA:_ SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN PROGRAM
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUE                         ACTION ALREADY TAKEN                               STEPS TO BE TAKEN
2. Public Sector Investment
Program                             A three-year PSIP for the years                Action:  Prior to release of the second
FY83/84 - FY85/86 was prepared.               tranche, the PSIP woild be rolled over
Regular quarterly monitoring                  to cover the years FY84/85 to FY86/87,
reports are being prepared and                and within this program, a core program
submitted to the Bank.  For FY83/84           would be developed.  The ceiling for the
a "core program  has been developed           overall PSIP would be reviewed and if
which is identical with the capital           necessary revised downwards in the light
budget and is consistent with IMF             of expected available financing.  The
targets.  Economic criteria for the           program would be extended to include all
selection of roads projects have              the major public enterprises, by the
been agreed with the Bank.                    addition of the Banana Company and the
Petroleum Corporation.
3.  Private Savings                      Foreign exchange denominated                  Program Development:  A review of tax
accounts can now be held by                   reform measures designed to increase
migrants within the commercial                private savings wotuld be carried out in
banking system, and these may be              mid-year, with the adoption of an action
converted at the parallel exchange            program as a condition for the release
rate.  Similarly, migrants'                   of the second tranche.
transfers can now be converted at
the parallel rate.  A study of the            Action:  Satisfactory progress in
tax reform program has been                   the formulation of measures to improve
completed.  A study to determine              the functioning of the capital markets
ways to improve the functioning of            would be a condition for the release of
capital markets has been completed            the second tranche.
and reviewed by the Government and
the Bank.
4.  Private Investment                   Government has established the
National Development Bank and
Agricultural Credit Bank and these
are now operational. Bank loans
for each of these institutions are
being processed at the same time as
the SAL, and any necessary measures
would be inclujded in the
conditionality of those loans.
III. INDUSTRY
1. Increasing Nontraditional
Exports
(a) Phased elimination of           Under SAL I, a program to eliminate           Action:  Prior to release of the second
quantitative restrictions.           the 360 QRs over a five-year period           tranche, a list will be published
was agreed upon.  64 were removed             showing the order for the removal of all
in February 1982, and a further 60            remaining ORs, and the tariffs that will
in February 1983.  A study has now            apply to each item after removal.
been completed to determine the
level of tariff that would be
appropriate for each item upon
removal from the list. In
addition, all QRs on production
inputs and capital goods required
by exporters for their exports have
been removed.
(b) Establishment of export         An incentive program under which              Action:  A review of the competitiveness
incentives.                         exporters of nontraditional goods              of Jamaica's exports of goods and
may retain 50% of their foreign               services would be completed prior to
exchange earnings from outside                release of the second tranche, and
CARICOM, or sell these retained               corrective action wouild be taken if
earnings on the parallel market has           necessary.
been satisfactorily put in place
through the commercial banks.



- 36 -
JAMAICA:  SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN PROGRAM
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SECTOR AND POLICY iSSUE                           ACTION ALREADY TACKEN                               STEPS TO BE TAIKEN
(c) Lack of foreign                  Import licensing is now fully                   Action:  Prior to release of the second
exchange for exporters.               automatic for exporters, and                    tranche, the quota system and import
exporters are free from quotas,                 licensing system would be reviewed, both
i.e., they have unrestricted access             to ensure the full automaticity of
to imports pu-rchased through the              licensing for exportors, and also to
parallel maricet.                              determine any modifications necessary
for the quota system.
(d) Action programs for              Action programs for most of the 7               Action:  The implementation of the
priority subsectors.                  priority subsectors have been                  action programs would be reviewed prior
defined, and the work is                       to release of the second tranche and any
continuing.                                    corrective  necessary measures would be
taken.
2.  Institutional Reform                  A study to develop a programn for               Program Developmnent:  By July 31, 1983 a
the rationalization of institutions            program for the reform of the
within the irndustrial sector has               institutions would he adopted, together
been carried out.                              with a timtetable of actions.
Action: Satisfactory progress in the
implementation of the program would be a
condition for the release of the second
t ranche.
3.  Import Duties and Tax                 Reviews of industrial and trade                 Program Developnment:  A mid-year review
Reform                                policy, and cf the tax reform                  of taxes on imports, together with othner
program have been carried out by               possible  tax reform measures, would be
the Bank and Government.                       carried out, anid agreement on these
matters would be reached prior to
release of the second tranche.
IV. AGRICULTURE
1.  External Marketing                    Management audits of the EMOs for               Program DevelopmerLt:  Upon completion of
Organizations                         coffee, cocoa, citrus and pimento              the two studies, action programs wouldl
have been carried out and the                  be agreed, together with a timetable for
recommendatlons are being                      implementation, prior to July 31, 1983.
implemented.  Studi-es of the
marketing and non-marketing                    Action:  Satisfactory progress in the
functions of the EMOs are being                implementation of the action programs
carried out.  A program has been               would be a condition for the release of
agreed for each of the four                    the second tranche.
commodities for the passing on to
farmers of the benefits of the
export incentive scheme. At the
same time subsidies to farmers on
seedlings/planning material and
crop care for these products have
been eliminated.
2.  Sugar                                 DE-tailed studies of the sugar                  Action:  Satisfactory  progress ir the
sector have been carried out, and a            implementation of the program would be a
revised rehabilitation program has             condition for the release of the second
been developed, adopted and                    tranche.
financed.  The Bank accepts the
program.  Already, NSC staffing has            Program Development:  A study is to be
been reduced by about 650, and the             carried out to determine the optimum
domestic price of sugar has been               size for the sugar industry in Jamaica,
raised by 30%, as well as the                  including an assessment of which
introduction of important changes              factories, if anv, should be closed
in the managerment structure.                  down.
Efforts are continuing to
sell/lease the sugar factories.
3.  Bananas                               A management audit of the Banana                Action:  Satisfactory progress in the
Company has been completed and is              implementation of the recommendations of
under review by the Government.  A             the management audit and of the
strategy for restructuring the                  restructuring plain would be a condition
industry has been developed; a                 for the release of the second tranche.
detailed program of action is
currently being prepared.



- 37 -
JAMAICA: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN PROGRAM
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUE                       ACTION ALREADY TAKEN                            STEPS TO BE TAKEN
4.  Land Use                           A program for the sale/lease of             Action:  Contintued satisfactory progress
Government-owned lands is under way         in the implementation of the program
and progressing satisfactorily.             would be a condition for the release of
the second tranche.
V. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
1.  Public Service Staffing            A task force has been set up to             Program Development:  Prior to release
investigate ways of ensuring that           of the second tranche, Government will
staffing policy and procedures are          adopt a strategy to enable it to fill
consistent with Government's                priority posts in Government.
priority needs.
2.  Financial Management               Deficiencies and weaknesses in              Action:  Completion of Phase I of the
GOJ's budgeting and financial               reform program, and adoption of a
managenent systems and practices            program for Phase 1I would be a
have been identified and a                  condition for the release of the second
long-term plan to improve these has         tranche.
been agreed to. Consultants have
been appointed to assist in the
implementation of Phase I of the
program.
3.  Improvement of the Core            Management audits for the Ministry          Program Development:  The audits would
Agencies                           of Finance and Planning, Ministry           be completed and action programs adopted
of Public Service, and the Public           prior to release of the second tranche.
Service Commission have been
started through the Bureau of
Management Support in the Prime
Minister's Office.



- 38 -
PART IV - PROSPECTS FOR THE JAMAICAN ECONOMY 1983/84-1986-8710/
(i) Prospects Under Economic Recovery Program
98.        The economic recovery program has already succeeded in beginning
to reverse the negative trends of the economy, and this process is expected
to continue.  It should be noted that the projections outlined in this
section are predicated upon a gradual recovery of the economies of the OECD
countries, which are assumed tc grow by 2% in 1983 and about 3% thereafter;
this is a critical assumption, particularly with respect to
bauxite/alumina, tourism, and manufactured exports.1 /  On this basis, GDP
is projected to grow by 3.3% in 1983 and 4-5% in 1984-86. With this
scenario, GDP per capita (measured in 1981 US dollars) would rise to
US$1449 at the end of 1986, 16% above the 1981 level, but still 12% below
the 1972 peak.
99.       All sectors of the economy are expected to show strong growth
over the period, except for government services and utilities. Agriculture
is expected to grow by about 5%, particularly as the rehabilitation
programs for sugar and bananas take effect, and current investments in
coffee, floriculture and horticulture begin to show results. The mining
sector is projected to recover rapidly in the latter half of the period,
and manufacturing is expected to grow steadily at an average rate of 4.6%.
The rate of growth of construction is expected to fall from its present
very high levels, but still average a rate of 10.1% over the six years.
lO/  Figures presented in this section are on a fiscal year basis (April 1
- March 31) to permit comparison with IMF data.
ll/  The projections presented in this section are relatively conservative,
particularly with regard to the speed of recovery of bauxite/alumina
exports, the prices of these exports, and the price of sugar and
banana exports. If a slightly more optimistic picture :is assumed,
with the 1980/81 level of bauxite/alumina exports being restored by
the end of 1985, instead of 1986, and with prices of the major
commodities 5-10% higher, a different scenario could be drawn. Total
exports would in this case be some US$200 million higher per year.
This would permit either a faster improvement in the current account
of the balance of payments, a higher level o-f imports, or a
combination of the two. GDP would also increase slightly faster than
projected, at an average rate of 4.9% per annum. If the level of
investment were to remain at the projected level, this would permit
private consumption to rise at the rate of up to 3% per annum over the
1981-86 period, permitting a 2% per annum increase in private
consumption per capita, and about a 1% per annum increase in total
consumption per capita.



- 39 -
Table 1: Actual and Projected Growth of Real GDP, 1981/82-1986/87
Actual       Estimated    Projected Average
FY81/82       FY82/83      1981/82 - 1986/87
Agriculture                         1.4            -2.0              5.0
Mining                              0.9           -17.3              5.1
Manufacturing                       1.7              3.5             4.6
Construction                        5.3             19.4            10.1
Utilities                           1.3            -1.7              1.1
Government Services                 0.8             0.6            -0.3
Other Services                      2.3             4.3             4.4
GDP                                 1.2             2.0             4.0
100.      On the expenditure side, the projections imply a shift from
consumption into investment, and replacement of foreign savings by national
savings. A one-time major increase in investment expenditures took place
in 1981, and investment is expected to remain at a level of about 20% of
GDP over the period. There is projected to be a shift of consumption
expenditures into savings. In particular, Government is committed to
containing current expenditure under the current IMF program, and the
indicative targets for FY84/85, and FY85/86, and this is expected to result
in declining share of public consumption in GDP over the period. Private
consumption per capita, which jumped by about 7% in 1981, is expected to
increase by only about 1% per annum. Recent changes in import prices
through the parallel market mechanism, and expected future changes in
import duties should be sufficient to achieve this. With this scenario,
national savings are projected to rise from 8.7% of GDP in 1982 to 14.2% in
1986.
101.      As a consequence of the export-oriented strategy adopted by the
Government, and with the recovery in the US, exports of goods and nonfactor
services are expected to grow by about 11% a year in real terms during
1983-86. While this may seem to be a rapid growth rate given past
performance, it must be seen in the light of very depressed present levels
of output, particularly in bauxite/alumina, and manufacturing. The
bauxite/alumina sector is expected to gradually increase its output after
1983, until 1981 levels are reached again by the end of 1986, i.e., 12.5
million tons bauxite equivalent, compared with only 8 million tons
in 1982. The rehabilitation programs for sugar and bananas are expected to
gradually increase the exportable surpluses, to the point where the
protected EEC and US markets can be satisfied from domestic production. By
1986 sugar and banana exports are expected to reach 190,000 tons, and
125,000 tons respectively, compared to the 1982 levels of 122,000 tons and
25,000 tons. Nontraditional exports are expected to react favorably to the
export incentive program, and are projected to rise by about 20% a year in
nominal terms. After the rapid increase in visitor arrivals in 1981/82,
tourism is expected to grow by about 7% a year in the coming period, which
even by 1986, can still be achieved without any increase in capacity.
Overall, exports of goods and nonfactor services are expected to increase
from the 1982 level of US$1.3 billion, to US$2.4 billion in 1986.



- 40 -
Table 2: Actual and Projected Components of GDP, 1981/82-1986/
1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87
Shares of GDP (M)
At Current Prices
Consumption                  91.8      91.6      85.9      84.3      81.4      81.1
(Public)                    (22.2)   (22.0)   (20.6)   (19.8)   (19.0)   (18.3)
(Private)                   (69.6)   (69.6)   (65.3)   (64.5)   (62.4)   (62.8)
Investment                   19.6      18.7      19.4      20.2      20.2      20.0
Exports GNFS                 47.7      40.7      49.4      47.6      51.5      52.2
Imports GNFS                -59.1    -51.0    -54.7    -52.1    -53.1    -53.3
GDP                         100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Real Growth Rates (%)
Consumption                   7.3       1.5       0.0       2.3       0.4       3.8
(Public)                     (5.7)    (0.6)    (0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)
(Private)                    (7.8)    (1.,8)    (0.0)    (3.1)    (0.5)    (4.9)
Investment                   37.0      -2.2       0.0       7.9       5,0       5.0
Exports GNFS                 -0.5      -8.5       3.4      12.5      13,9       8.1
Imports GNFS                 19.6      -8.8       7.8       0.9       8,2       6.9
GDP                            1.2      2.2       3.3       4.4       5.0       5.0
Period Growth Rates
1980/81-1986/87       1981/82-1986/87
Consumption                        2.0                   1.4
(Public)                         (0.7)                  (0.1)
(Private)                        (2.4)                  (1.8)
Investment                         6.2                   3.5
Exports GNFS                       4.9                   6.8
Imports GNFS                       4.3                   3.5
GDP                                3.6                   4.0



- 41 -
Table 3: Actual and Projected Exports, 1981/82-1986/87
(US$ million)
Value           1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
Bauxite            152        130        171        151        217        248
Alumina           517         364        452        458        593        700
Sugar              49          45         57         64         72         79
Bananas              5         11         17         26         43         56
Nontraditional   156          170        200        236        278        327
Tourism           328         369        429        495        563        640
Other Services   195          203        222        247        274        304
Re-exports          10         16         18         18         20         20
Exports GNFS    1412         1308       1566       1695       2060       2373
102.      Import growth is projected to be much more modest, reflecting on
the one hand the rapid growth of non-bauxite sector imports in 1981 (36%)
which satisfied much pent-up consumer demand, and on the other hand the low
projected levels of consumption in the next few years. Non-bauxite,
non-fuel imports are projected to rise by an average 10% in nominal terms,
or about 5% in real terms, and most of this increase is expected to be for
raw materials for the manufacturing sector. Energy savings are expected to
continue to be made, and consumption of energy (outside the bauxite/alumina
sector) is expected to increase at a rate of about half the GDP growth
rate. Even so oil imports will still account for 24% of all imports of
goods and services in 1986. Total imports of goods and services are thus
projected to increase from the 1982 level of US$1.6 billion to US$2.4
billion in 1986.
103.      The gap between exports and imports of goods and nonfactor
services is thus expected to close considerably over the period, but with
outflows of investment income increasing from US$237 million in 1982 to
over US$400 million in 1986, the current account of the balance of payments
is projected to improve from a deficit equivalent to 13.4% of GDP in 1982,
to 8.5% in 1984, and 5.8% in 1986. Net external capital flows will
therefore gradually decrease from a peak of US$440 million in 1983, to
about US$360 million in 1986. The share of private capital in this total
is expected to gradually increase, averaging about 30% over the period.
Gross amortization payments would average about US$310 million over the
period, but about US$150 million of this is expected to be rolled over,
leaving net amortization payments of about US$160 million per annum. Gross
inflows to the public sector would therefore have to remain at the
relatively high level of, on average, US$425 million over the period, net
of rolled over amounts. Most new public capital is expected to come from
official sources.



- 42 -
Table 4:  Actual and Projected Balance of Payments, 1981/82 - 1986/87
(US$ million)
1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87
Exports (f.o.b.)                 889      737      915      952    1223    1430
Imports (c.i.f.)                1488    1370    1407    1520    1755    2006
Services (net)                    37       67       38      84       103      130
of which: travel               (300)   (338)   (394)   (457)   (521)   (594)
investment
income             (-225)  (-235)  (-310)  (-323)  (-365)  (-403)
Transfers (net)                  107      135      139      140      145      147
Current Account                 -455    -431    -315    -344    -284    -299
Official Capital (net)           427      392      386      235      214      194
Gross a/                      (552)   (489)   (511)   (382)   (398)   (386)
Amortization b/               (125)    (97)   (125)   (147)   (184)   (192)
Private Capital                   71    -107        54      149      150      165
Change in Reserves
(- = increase)                 --43      146    -125      -40      -80      -60
Memorandum Items:
Current Account/GDP              -15.6   -13.4    -8.8    -8.5    -6.3    -5.8
Debt Service/
Exports GNFS b/                  16.'9    24.0    24.1    26.0    24.1    22.9
Outstanding Debt/
GDP                              53.5    62.2    67..1    70.3    68.5    65.0
a/  Net of short-term official capital movements.
b/ Excludes rescheduled payments.
104.      As noted earlier, the economic recovery program was partly based
upon an initial rapid increase in imports, financed through inicreased
borrowing. This has increased the debt burden and debt service payments
(excluding IMF repurchases) are projected to increase from the 1981 level
of 16.9% of exports of goods and services to a peak of 26% in 1984, falling
to 22.9% in 1986.12/  The ratio of public debt to GDP is thus projected to
rise from 54% in 1981, to a peak of 70% in 1984/85, before falling to 65%
in 1986. Of total Government and Government-guaranteed debt, 16% is held
12/  Inclusion of amortization payments that are projected to be rolled
over would raise these ratios to 35% in 1984 and 29% in 1986.  If, in
addition, repayments of reserve liabilities (mostly IMF repurchases),
which are also assumed to be rolled over, are included, the ratios
would rise to 39% in 1984 and 35% in 1986.



- 43 -
by the World Bank.  Although these debt service levels are high, they are
considered manageable. Nevertheless, the balance of payments and
management of foreign exchange flows can be expected to remnain under
pressure throughout the period. Provided that Jamaica continues to pursue
successfully its present stabilization and economic recovery program, it
should be considered creditworthy for continued external borrowing on
conventional terms.
(ii) Prospects without the Economic Recovery Program
105.      The importance of the economic reforms undertaken by Jamaica can
be better assessed if the above projections are compared with what would
have happened in the absence of the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program. In the paragraphs that follow, we present a possible scenario for
the economy under different uolicies than those that are presently being
pursued. In this scenario, emphasis is placed on readily quantifiable
aspects of the recovery program, such as the incentives for nontraditional
exports. There are several aspects of the program which are not quantified
easily, and in the medium- to long-term, these may be of more
significance. In particular, important steps have been taken with regard
to deregulation of the economy, the encouragement of private savings and
investment, and improved resource allocation through the strengthening of
the market system, the freeing-up of interest rates, and the
rationalization of public sector investment. These steps, and those to
follow, should have a major impact on growth prospects in the medium term.
Without the measures that have been taken, the economy would have continued
the decline in production and income that had occurred over the previous
period, and any extrapolation of previous trends would lead to the
conclusion that the economic crisis of 1980 would have deepened seriously,
probably leading to an inability to meet external obligations.
106.      In drawing up a scenario for the economy without the recovery
program, four main aspects of that program are addressed, and the following
assumptions are made:
(a)  exports of sugar, bananas and nontraditionals would be much lower
without the specific programs that have been adopted;
(b)  tourist arrivals would have followed general Caribbean trends
rather than increasing dramatically;
(c)  flows of official and private capital would have been much lower;
and
(d)  the US/GSA bauxite stockpile purchases would not have been made.
Under these assumptions, the economic performance of Jamaica would have
been very poor, with continued stagnation of GDP, compressed import levels,
declining consumption and investment levels, and a need to reschedule
debt. A current account balance of payments deficit of under 5% would be
necessary, and Jamaica would have felt the full impact of the international
recession. Table 5 below shows projected export levels without the
program. As can be seen, 1986/87 exports would be about 18% below the
level projected with the program, although non-bauxite/alumina exports
would be 29% lower.



- 44 -
Table 5: Projected Exports without the Economic Recovery Program,
1981/82-1986/87
(US$ million)
Value                          1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87
Bauxite                          152       81      117      134      181     236
Alumina                          517      364      346      458     593      700
Sugar                             49       45       45       49      52       56
Bananas                            5       11       13       16       19      22
Nontraditional                   156      165      173      182      191     201
Tourism                          328      318      305      336     371      409
Other Services                   195      203      222      247     274      304
Re-exports                        10       16       18       18      20       20
Exports GNFS                    1412    1203    1239    1440    1701    1948
(w/o program)
Exports GNFS                   11412    1308    1566    1695    2060    2373
(with program)
107.      To project the balance of payments without the program, and thus
to derive the import level, it is assumed that the 1980 levels of net
capital inflow and transfers would be maintained, and that no further
deterioration in net international reserves would be feasible., By
residual, these assumptions provide an import level without the program 13%
below the level projected under the program, but without any reserves
accumulation, which would not have been feasible.
Table 6:  Balance of Payments Projections without the Economic Recovery
Program, 1981/82-1986/87
1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87
Exports GNFS                    1412    1203    1239    1440    1701    1948
Transfers (net)                   38       92       95      100      105     110
Net Capital Inflow/
Current Deficit                  71       75       77      82       86       90
Imports GNFS                    1571    1370    1411    1622    1892    2148
(w/o program)
Imports GNFS                    1750    1639    1736    1855    2124    2416
(with program)
108.      These import levels would have constrained GDP growth because of
resulting shortages of raw materials and capital goods. Overall, it is
assumed that GDP would have declined by 2-4% per annum in 1981--83, with
modest growth in the rest of the period. Consumption levels would not
increase at all, and by 1986/87 would be about 14% below the level
projected under the program, and investment would be some 30% below the
expected level. Overall, therefore, there would have been continued
economic decline during this period without the recovery prograLm, and
considerable doubt about the creditworthiness of the economy.



- 45 -
Table 7: GDP Projections without the Program, 1981/82-1986/87
(constant 1980 J$ million)
1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87
Exports GNFS                   2567    2161    2194    2416    2701    2914
Imports GNFS                   2785    2349    2479    2693    2967    3168
Investment (w/o program)        764      733      711     725      740      755
Investment (with program)    1028    1005    1005    1084    1138    1195
Consumption (w/o program)    4227    4037    4018    4085    4150    4215
Consumption (with program)   4436    4502.   4501    4606    4622    4796
GDP (w/o program)              4773    4582    4444    4533    4624    4716
GDP (with program)             4928    5027    5193    5421    5692    5977



- 46 -
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
109.       The Bank has made 3C loansl4/ in Jamaica totalling US$463.0
million after cancellations. Of this amount, US$147.9 million (32%) has been
for infrastructure investments in transportation, electric power, water
supply and sewerage; US$180.8 million (39%) for program-type lending, related
technical assistance, and for a revolving fund for financing of inputs for
export industries; and the remainder has been for agriculture and
agroindustry (9%), education (9%), sites and services (3%), forestry (3%),
population and nutrition (2%), small-scale enterprises (2%), and petroleum
exploration (2%). As of March 31, 1982, Jamaica's debt to the Bank stood at
US$302 million, or 16.5% of external debt outstanding and disbursed; debt
service to the Bank during the previous fiscal year amounted to US$36.2
million, or 13.5% of total debt service. These shares are not expected to
change substantially in the next five years. The undisbursed amount of Bank
loans as of March 31, 1983 amounted to US$87.5 milllion. There have been
four IFC investments in Jamaica, with the most recent being a loan in 1981 to
a flour mill company.
110.      Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initial:Ly, the Bank lending program emphasized infra-
structure investment.  Although financing for this purpose continued, the
emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to the
social sectors, with projects i.n edlucation, population and nutrition, housing
and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In response to the
changing economic situation, a further shift in Bank lending took place in
the late '70s which gave priority to financing to help relieve the country's
pressing balance of payments problems and improve Jamaica's export
performance. Thus, in FY78 thes Bank lending program contained a $30 million
program loan and an $18 million loan for the rehabilitation of factories for
Jamaica's export oriented sugar industry.  The Bank's second $31.5 million
program loan in FY79 was also directed at providiag needed ba:Lance of
payments support, with most of the proceeds allocated to the financing of the
import needs of export industries through the establishment of a revolving
Export Development Fund. A second $37 million loan to augment the resources
of the Export Development Fund was made in FY81. Bank lending to Jamaica has
recognized that resolution of the country's balance of payments difficulties
will require making adjustments to the economy over a period of time. As a
result, a $76.2 million Structural Adjustment loan was made in FY82.  The
technical assistance requirements of the structural adjustment program were
met through a $6.1 million technical assistance loan made in the same year.
Additional support for the Government's export program was contained in a
$13.5 million loan in FY82 for the expansion of a free zone project in
Kingston.
14/ Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaica
Telephone company and cancelled in the same year.



- 47 -
111.      Although basic physical infrastructure in Jamaica is to a large
extent in place, much of that infrastructure is badly in need of maintenance
and rehabilitation. In response, the Bank provided a $16 million loan for
highway maintenance and rehabilitation in FY79 and a $30.5 million loan for a
similar purpose for the electric power system in FY82.
112.      Future Bank lending is likely to be directed at the following
areas: a) support for the structural adjustment program; b) projects in
support of export development; and c) projects aimed at conserving existing
investment. In later years of the program, when the country is better able
to deal with its short and medium term balance of payments situation, the
Bank lending strategy contemplates greater emphasis on more socially oriented
projects.
113.      Loans concurrently in preparation include an industrial credit
project that would strengthen the newly established National Development Bank
and provide medium- and long-term capital for private sector investment
particularly in areas which will result in increased exports, one to
supplement the resources of the Export Development Fund, and one to finance
highway maintenance and rehabilitation. Other projects under consideration
for Bank financing include a loan to strengthen the Agricultural Credit Bank
and to provide longer-term credit and technical assistance in the export
agricultural sector and a project to upgrade transportation in the Kingston
areas. If the Government's structural adjustment program continues to be
executed as projected with the expected results, further structural
adjustment loans may also be considered.
114.      Disbursements of Bank loans in Jamaica have been timely, on the
average, in recent years. This largely reflects the high proportion of
quickly disbursing program and structural adjustment lending. Many project
loans, however, encountered delays in execution in the middle and late
1970's, reflecting primarily the country's difficult economic circumstances,
resulting in fiscal and foreign exchange constraints, and institutional
weaknesses, exacerbated by an exodus of skilled and managerial personnel.
Performance of ongoing projects in the last two years has improved, as the
economic environment became more favorable. The single most serious obstacle
to timely project execution remains the lack of skilled personnel in the
public sector. Current Bank lending attempts to address this problem in part
through the provision of substantial levels of technical assistance and an
even greater focus on institution-building than in the past.



- 48 -
PART VI - THE PROPOSED LOAN
Previous Related Lending
115.       The Bank has made four previous loans to Jamaica to provide balance
of payments support and expand exports. The first such loan was approved in
December 1977 and was in the amount of US$30 million. Disbursement of the
loan was conditioned on the country meeting specific macroeconomic targets
and the adoption of a three-year public sector investment program
satisfactory to the Bank. The :Loan financed a wide range of imnports and was
completely disbursed within seven months of Board approval. The loan played
an important role in helping to alleviate urgent fiLscal and balance of
payments problems. It also helped to intensify the dialogue between the Bank
and the Government on key economic problems and institutionalize the
preparation on an annual basis of a rolling three-year public :investment
program. A second program loan of UJS$31.5 million was made in May 1979 to
support the Government's program to expand the value of exports of
non-traditional manufactured gocds. Loan funds were used to establish a
revolving Export Development Fund, which provided foreign exchange for the
importation by exporters of raw materials. The Fund has been successful in
allocating scarce foreign exchange to those sectors in the economy that are
most important in alleviating the country's balance of payments problem. A
second US$37.0 million loan for EDF was made in May 1981 and as noted in
paragraph 44 a third loan is contemplated in the current year lending
program. The first structural adjustment loan in the amount of $76.2 million
was approved in March 1982 and is discussed in Section B of Part II. A $6.1
million technical assistance loan to help the Government implement and
monitor its structural adjustment was approved in March 1982 and is discussed
in Section C of Part II. The proposed loan is an outgrowth of the first
SAL. It was appraised in January 1983. Negotiations for the proposed loan
took place in Washington in April 1983. The Jamaican delegation was led by
Mr. Horace Barber, Governor of the Bank of Jamaica. Annex III contains a
timetable of key events in processing the operation and a description of the
special conditions of the proposed loan.
Loan Description
116.       The proposed loan amount would be US$60.2 million, of which US$35
million would be available immediately to finance a wide range of raw
materials, intermediate goods, capital goods and spare parts. US$25 million
of loan funds would be available to be released for the same purpose subject
to a review of the structural adjustment program scheduled to be held within
six months from loan effectiveness, dLuring which review it will be determined
whether the Government has satisfactorily completed or undertaken the actions
referred to in Part III. US$0.2 million would be provided to finance the
front-end fee.
117.       The proposed loan represents about 4% of Jamaica's estimated total
import requirements over the next twelve months. It is part of a package of
external balance of payments support from the IMF, bilateral donors and the
commercial banks. It would help support the Government's program of
structural adjustment described in Parts II and III.



- 49 -
Policy Actions
118.     The matrix on pages 34-37 summarizes the policy actions that were
taken prior to Board presentation and those that will have to be taken prior
to the release of the second tranche of the loan. A discussion of these
actions is contained in Part III. A Bank mission to review progress made
with respect to the actions required for the release of the second tranche is
scheduled to visit Jamaica within six months of loan effectiveness.
Disbursement and Procurement
119.      The first tranche of the loan is expected to be disbursed soon
after loan effectiveness and the second tranche after it has been determined
that the policy actions that have been taken are satisfactory (Draft Loan
Agreement, para. 2 of Schedule 1). Disbursements for the entire loan are
expected to be completed within nine months of loan effectiveness.
120.      The loan would finance the CIF cost of eligible imports, subject to
documentary evidence that they had been paid for on or after loan signing
(Draft Loan Agreement para. Ic of Schedule 1). Luxury products and armaments
are excluded and purchases of petroleum products with loan funds may not
exceed $20 million (Draft Loan Agreement, paras 1(g) and 1(h) of
Schedule 1). The Bank of Jamaica, the country's central bank, would be
responsible for the coordination and collection of relevant documentation and
preparing withdrawal applications under the loan (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 2.10).
121.      Procurement would be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Both private and public sector imports would be. eligible for
financing. Private firms would follow normal commercial practice. Public
sector imports would be in accordance with standard government practices,
which ensure reasonable prices. All purchases exceeding US$5 million would
be through international competitive bidding. Procurement of goods financed
under the loan is to be governed by the provision of Schedule 3 to the Loan
Agreement.
Use of Counterpart Funds
122.      The Jamaican dollar equivalent of imports financed under the loan
would be credited to a Special Loan Fund Account in the Bank of Jamaica held
by the Ministry of Finance and used to finance projects in the Cabinet
approved public sector investment program for FY83/84-FY84/85 (Draft Loan
Agreement, Section 2.02(b)).
Risks
123.      The success of the Government's program faces four significant
risks: (i) the vigor of the economic recovery in Jamaica's external markets,
which will determine the level of foreign exchange earnings for traditional
exports and the ability of Jamaican industries to expand non-traditional



- 50 -
exports; (ii) the capacity of the private sector which has produced
manufactured goods for protected markets to make the adjustments required to
produce competitively for international markets; (iii) the level of national
support to carry out the program--particularly if it proceeds less rapidly
than anticipated; and (iv) the administrative capacity of the Government to
carry out the program. Some of the risks are beyond the Government's and the
country's control.   The Government has, however, demonstrated a willingness
to take politically difficult economic actions. In so doing, it has
continued to enjoy national support. As a result, the risks associated with
the project are acceptable.
PART VII - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
124.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Government of Jamaica and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
125.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VIII - RECOMMENDATION
126.      1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 5, 1983



ANNEX I
- 51 -                                    Page 1 of 6
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE ACES
AREA (THOUSAND Sq. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL               11.0                                   MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL         4.8               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN                 EUROPE
GNI' ?EL CAPITA (CS$)                   480.0         840.0    1040.0                  1902.0                      2323.9
ENERGY CONSJIPCTION ?ER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        424.2        1224.9    1326.1                  1259.9                      2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAI. STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1629.0           1877.0    2172.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 33.8             37.2       41.3                   65.7                        47.9
POPCLLTION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             3.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                               5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         148.2        170.8      195.5                    35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    332.4           387.0      452.4                    92.5                       155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            41.7         47.0        40.8                   39.7                        31.1
15-64 YRS.                            54.0         47.5       53.2                    56.1                        61.2
65 YRS. ANL' ABOVE                     4.3           5.6        5.9                    4.2                         7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.5/c         1.4/c      1.5/c                  2.4                         1.6
URBAN                                 2.5          2.4         2.5                    3.8                         3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        39.4          35.3       28.7                   31.4                        23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         9.5           7.6        6.4                    8.4                         9.2
GRoSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.6           2.6        1.9                    2.1                         1.6
FAMILY PLANNlNG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..         19.3       27.0/d
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)             98.0         99.0        93.0                  110.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      94.0        111.3      118.1/e                108.4                       125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             58.1         67.4        69.0/.                 66.0                        92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          28.2         32.8       34.4/i                 . 34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          3.1          1.2        0.3                    5.6                         9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    64.2             68.6       70.9                   64.2                        67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              51.5          32.2       16.2                   64.2                        65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                20.9/f       62.0        86.0/d                 65.6
URBAN                                64.6/f      100.0      IGO.O,/d                 78.9
RURAL                                 5.77/f      48.0       79.0O/d                 43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         94.0        94.0/d                 59.3
URBAN                                  ..        100.0       100.0/                  75.3
RURAL                                  *          92.0        91.0/d                 30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             2589.8       2643.7    3523.0/h                 1617.3                      1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         419.1/g    1725.2       547.0',                1063.5                       634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               241.2        244.7       263.0/h                477.4                      286.8
URBAN                                   ..       220.8          ..                  679.8                       192.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..                 1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         17.0       19.0/h                 27.3                        20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 3.9          4.3          .
URBAN                                 2.7            ..
RURAL                                 4.8            ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PFR ROOM
ToTAL                                 ;.9           1.6
URBAN                                 1.6            ..
RURAL                                 2.0            ..
ACCOSS TU ELECTRECCTY (PERCENT
OF DWLLLINGb)
TOTAL                                  ..            ..
URBAN                                  ..            ..
RURAL                                  .             ..



ANNEX I
- 52 -                                                    Page 2 of 6
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA7ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTLMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 92.0        119.0      99.0                 104.3                      102.4
MALE                  92.0       119.0       99.0                 106.4                     107.1
FEMALE                93.0       119.0      100.0                 103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 45.0         46.0      58.0                   41.3                      60.2
15ALE                 44.0        46.2       55.0                  40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                46.0        45.0       61.0                  41.8                      54.0
VOLATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   9.0           5.5        2.3/i                33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            55.7         46.7      49.5/e                29.9                       25.8
SECONDARY                          21.2         26.4      22.2/i                 16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        82.0         95.4       90.0                  79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         20.3         39.(        ..                  42.8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         90.2        266.4     334.1                 270.5                      157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         37.3      77.7                  107.7                      123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  62.0        114.0      59.6                  63.7                      112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       0.2/h                   2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       606.9        634.2     778.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   37.2         38.8      39.8                  24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              39.0         29.5      21.4                   31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 24.9         25.6      25.2                  23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                37.3         33.8       35.8                  33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 48.7         42.4       44.0                  50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               26.7         25.6      27.9                   16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.6        1.3                   1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.2/k
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.2./.k
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.27           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.27           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     501.0/e
RURAL                                 ..          ..     439.0/e               184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     585.0/e                518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     509.0/7               371.1                      406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 .,          ..      80.0/a
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1975;  /e 1977;
/f Percentage of housing units with piped water; /g 1963; /h 1974; /i 1976; /k 1958.-
May, 1982



- 53 -                                                                  ANNIEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                 Page    3   of   6
Notes:  Although the dare are dress free sources generally judged the  -est authorittatie and reliable. it should also be noted rhot they may .or be inrer-
natonll  crpable becueof th   ak  fsadardised dfioitoi  an...d concept usd by1-. difeen   counries in  l.1 ecing the data.  Tl  dato ar,noe
th      ufo  to describe orders of magnitude, indicate trnd, and charantorieonerta5 n  myaor diff_co cou            weer collcrtion.
The referenoe groapn acr  (1) rho sane country group of the -ubject country and (2) acotntry group with -o--.hat highec anerage ince  h   the country groop
of the sobject country (.xcept for   'RTg Ihtuoe    Il Etporters" gronp nece "`Middlo Incloe  North Africa  -od Middle E-sc" -' choen because cf stronger
socio-cultara1 affinities).  In tho rofereooe group dtat the unoragos aro populotion neighted arirhketic ulonu far each indicator a-d scow  orly chin
najority of the countries it a group tar data for rhat indicator. Since the conroage of countries aenog the iodicators dependt on the uvailability of data
and in not nifor=, ta-ti-n east benexertisd it rotating anerogon of ore iodicotor to another.  Tb .. anetagen are only useful in compariog the  lu.e of
ne indirator at a rise anoeg the tounrny atd reference groupt.
AREA (rhousand tq.b. .)                                                                      Populati   per Roospisal lad - total. arhat, and carol - Populotion (total.
l- Total surfaco are  comprising land area ond inland eaters; 1979 data.               urban.  and rural) dieidod by their resyoctlnonutbet of hospital beds
Agricultural - tstin.te of  sgricaltural area used temporarily or permanently                available to public and private ge-nral and special_ed hospital and re-
for crops. pasttres, rarker and kitchen gardos oe to lie fallw; 1979 data.                 ha-litationcernrte.  bosPitals are esIabliuhients permanently staffod
by or least one physician.  fsnohlisbntt providing pri'cipally cust-
CbP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per  capita estiiates at current =raker prices, cal-                dial tare ore  not inctuded.  Raral houpitals. hneere, include healtb
culated by sane conversion eibud as World hank briar (1978-BI basis); 1960.                  and medical centers not perqnanotly stoffed by a physician (bnt by a
1970. ond 19SO date.                                                                         rodital ussintant, torso. nid=ife. etc.) nhich offer in-pationt acco-non-
dation and pronidr a lieired riage of edical lanihitios. For stori-
ENERGY CONSUePTION PER CAPITA - Annual consu=ption of commerciul energy (coat                  tical purposos urban hotpituls include  Olsn prliniyal/general hospitals,
and lignite. petraionr, owtural gas and hydrc-, nuclear and gnother=al elec-                 and rural hospitals,  local or rural bospitals and medicul and saternity
trinity) in kilegra=s of coat equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                    centers.  Ipoolalined hospital  sre ipcluded only under total.
dana.                                                                                      Adnissions pen HOspital Rod - Total turbee of ad=issionn  to or discharges
troa hospirals divided by the nnmber of beds.
POPULATIOI AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total Ppopultior, Mid-Yfar (thousands) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, ond 1980              HOUSING
dsta.                                                                                    Aneaga Sine of hounehold (person per haun-heid) - total., urban, aed   eal-
Ueban Population (cen  of total) - Ratiofi                                                                                u   of indirfdnals whO share lining quariors
different doftninions of urban areas ray afoet  nomparability of data                      and their malt seal.  A  oacrd-r or lodger may or ry not be included in
as=g countri1s; 1y60, 1971, and 1980 data.                                                 the household for statistical purposes.
Popalatict Prjojctioor                                                                     Anerago netber of persona par rto=r-ntotal, urban,  and  rural - average snu-
Population in year 2100  - Current population projections are based on l19BO               bo  of persons per too  i  all urbn., and raral nccnpid connent.i.oal
total pnpuletiao  by age and se-  and theIr moetaliry sad fertilimy ratem.               d=ellings, respectively.   teellings exclude non-permadensstruturesand
projoctian paraseters for  erenality rater conprine of three levels annum-               usocnupied parts.
ing lift expectancy an birth increosing with -ountry's per nopita intone               Access to glectricliy (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and total -
level, and female life expectanty ntabilizing at 77.5 years.  The pora-                  Cnrentieonl deelliegs with electricity in liing qarters s p            tg
toters for fertility rate  also haosthree levels asnumiog derline in                     of tntal, urben, and rural dwellings r-spcrtirel-.
fertiitfy acording to intone lerel and prst family planning portermanco.
Rlch cofntry is the- assigned one of thexe nine cobinations of nprtality            EDUCAT1ON
and fertility trends for proj_ctinn purposes.                                          Ad-jsted Enroll.e1 t latios
_t..ionary pulation- In o satie .nary popnlation chere is no gro-th ine                    Pritary school - total, male erd female - Gr-ss totcl, role and female
the birth rate is  equal to the  -oth rcte, snd a1le  the age stroctare  e-                nnrollment of all ages at the primarp lenel us portartagos of respective
kainn constant.  This is achieved doly after lertiliYy eates decline to                    primary nnhool-age populations; tornally i-cludns children aged 6-11
the replacosent lenel at Pnit net reproduction rare, user each generation                  years but adjunted for difforeet lrngths of primaryeducationi for
Of ensen repiaces ituelt exactly.  The utatio-ary population aim  was                      co.n.t. es with nuiversof educatione-rolILuent=ay enrood lIp perceon
estikatnd on the basin of tho projcreod charktetriti- of the populatuon                    since s.an  pupils aro below 1 e ahovs the offic-al school ago.
in rhe year 2000, and tho rast  of decline of Eerrility rate to replace-                eScondarpcqui -         t ston     role  d ff eale - CePl,ry d as above; secondary
set  ael                                                                                  duction rrquire- as leant foon Yers of appr-nd pIrl rrir
Year stationary  population is -rehoed - Th. year when starionary population                 providos genrerl.  vocati.o.l, or teather trotInng  instructions fo  pupils
size  ill bh  roachbd.                                                                     usually of 17 ti 17 years of ago; -o-respondence courseu are genrtally
Population DenetiY                                                                             e-cluded.
fer sq. kh. - Mid-your population per square kion -ter (100 hbetares ) of                ioctoional onrolluoit (P.rnot oa  sorncd-ryl - Vnoctional istitutiotns
total urea; 1961. 1970 and 1979 dora.                                                    tnclude terboscal. industrial, oc other progr-r which operate independ-
Per an. ko. agricultueal land - Corputed es about for agricultural laud                    ently or as departtentu of scondary institutinsl.
onLy; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                        Pupil toscht ratin  -              drienry,a d oni ndadd y - Tntal sttdhnts eo d t o
PopulatrionAobrcn    pret   -Children (I-li yearnf , workinf-age (15-                        primayad  eodry          Lenl    ivded byLeer   ftannui  th
64 years), and retired (65 years end user) as percentages of rid-yeer popu-                cocrrep-nding leels.
Iation; 1960. 1970, and 1980 data.                                                       Adult literacy  rate (percent) - literate aduIss (ble to rced znd write)
Poeulation Irueth fate (portent) - total - Annual growth rates of total mid-                 tsapercentagn of total adult pnpulation aged 15 years and Per.
year population foe 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-SO.
Populatien Grooth lam  (portent) - urban - Annual growth rares of urban popu-            CONSUhPTION
lations for 1950-60, 1960-Ph, aed 1970-80.                                               Passengen Cars (per theusnd populatinJ( - Pessenger cart comrise enter
Crude Eirth gRto (per t.ousand) - Annual line birth. per thousand nf =id-year                care saating leshan_  ight p--scon; e-clodos ambulantes, hearses and
popuiltios; 19610, 1970, end 1980 data.                                                    =ilirary vehicles.
Crude leash hate (pee rhosad) - Annual deathu pry tho..a..dof rid-pear                     lds0 leci--r (per rn u  poulton)- Al l rpes nf r-ei-n  for  .adi.
popuiation; 190, 11971, and 19B1 dora.                                                     bRdiod -atntng..o_a  pucive  yI  r thO-sand of  oplatiln; -ec_idesrun-
Gress Reproduction Ra.e- Aerage nu.ber of d-aghters aromas will b-arnn                       licensed rn)ivnoo  in contrri-s and it yetart abe  reghs-ratin  of radio
hier norsol repeoductine poriod if she experiences presenr ago-epcific for-                setn ens in effect; data for necer pectrar msy nun he noyparoble since
nility rates; unnally five-year sverages ending in 1960, 1970, and 1981.                   notcontries aholished licensing.
P'aily Plasning-Acceptors, Annual (thousands) - Annual nuber of acceptors                 TV Eeceivers (pen thousad populatioc) - fTV rereiv-s fr broadcoat to
of birth-control devices nder aus pines of national faitly planning progran.               guere. l public pee thousard populatiin; etcladen unlicensed TV reci.vers
Parily Planing - Users (percent of married senef - Percentage of mareind                     i             oolntriss nd in yearu when rogistrattnI  of TV nets was in effect.
wene  ofohd-argae1-Ilyearn)                    ...nu  bicth-coatro1 d-oices to           N,esnyae Cr       rns(er thunand pupulurice) - Sh... rho anreage  tI-
all maried woman it sane age group.                                                        ClLatior of "doily otneral inter spt vans          defined Shw porthdiral
pnblicarion deenotd primarily to r-ording general noon. It in considered
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                             to be "daily" if in uppsars et least four riseranoee.
Index of onod Pruducrat per Capita (19r9-71d in) - Indn of Per copita  an--u               Cinema A       nual rdac  pee t-yatr   prr  ter ased n the nu=ber of
prdI   iocfalfn    sndte.   rdote  etlde  ne   e   edrando                                 ticketa sold doting the Year, lnclodingadnss--n   drun-tuinaa
is  on c _lendar year hbsis.  Condiries toner primary golds (e.g. sugartane                and  obile nnits.
i_tead of sugar) whirh are ediblo and contain nutrients (e.g. coffeo and
..a are eonluded).  Aggregate produn-ion  of each country is bated or                  LABOt FORCE
n         _t_onal anerage producor price weight; 1961-65, 1970, and 1980 data.          Total Labor Forte (thonaands) - Economucolly act-ie persons, including
Per capita suppln ot calories (percent of roquireenots) - Computed fren                      armed forces  and nuenpmiyod but excluding kousauinen, students, etc.,
esergy equiles ot n       fond supplies anaiiablo incountry per capita                     covering population of all ages.  Defoiiti.os in variuou  countries are
pot day.  Anailabl.o spplies conpriar d-nsic prod-clon,. inprts loss                       not -nau-ble; 1960. 1971 end 1900 dora.
exports, and changes 1P noc.  SeN  suppliest erodu animalfed   lsns                        remale (per ert)   Psas labor farc  as p-rrcnrago  of rotal labor force.
haustitssed is fond processing. ad losses in distrihution.  kequire-                      Agriculture (percent) - Labor forte in f-rlieg. forestry, hatting and
meets were estikEtd by FAO based no physiological needs for normal actu-                     fiahing as P-ecennage of st-ul laor forcei 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
vity asd health  -nsaidering en-iron=ental te=peraturn, body weughts, ago                 Industry (percent) - Labor  note in emitn, onstrurtion, ma. ufac.ur.. g
and son di-sribu-io- of population, and alleiug 10 percent for waste at                      and electricity  vater and gates percentage of total labor force
household leel; 1961-65, 1970 end 1977 dtaa.                                                 1960, 1971 a-d 1980 data.
Per -apits supply of protein (grams per day) - Prorein content of per capita               Participation Rote (perenot) - total, enle, and female -Paticipation nr
net supply of fEood per day. Net supply of food is defined as above.  Re-                 activity reran are computed as total, mfale, and (emalslebor forte as
quireents fur all countri-s established by 19DA pronide for ririmoi                        percentages uP totI, male and Ceole population of all ages respectively;
osances of 60 grass nf i-tel prntein per day and 20 grass of eoinal and                 1960, 1970, utd 198O dare.   These are based no ILO's partitipatlio  rates
pulse protein, of which 10 goros  should be anis) protein.  These stand-                   reflecting age-sex structure of _ho populotion, ad lng tine trend.  A
ards ere lower than those of 75 grass of total prnotinaed 23 grams of                      f-= eatiraten  are froe na-tinal scrce.
anImil Proneis as on aver-ag  for the -erld, proponed by PAO in tho Third                Economic l            pendrucy Rstio - Ratin of population order 15 and 65 and onr
World Food Survey  1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data                                             to the total lobor force.
Per capita proteis supply free animal and pulse -Prrotin supply of food do-
ricd fom   nisls  nd  nlar i  grss  ee  ay;1961-69., 19P71 and 1977 dat.  INCOMEf DISTRIBUTION
Child (aers 1-4) s Death hate s feor sbnead) - AnnulI doaths per thousand in             Porceutage of Private Ilncom  (both in cash and kid) - ORcoi.ed by richest
aga group 1-4 years, to children is thie age gr5up, fnr ness felopingcoun-                 S percenr, richest p9 percect, poorest 2h perceot, and poorent 40 percent
tries data drined from life tables; 1960, 1970 and 1989 data.                              of housenhlds.
b'EALTH                                                                                    POVPRTy TARGET 0 ROUPS
Lift Epnentanry at Eirth (pear) ..  Averege number of years of life remaining             dTh  fhlloin  be inaterpret  very approninore  eaeonos of ponerty leneln,
atbirth1 191,1971 and 1980 data                                                           anohad h e.   b  interpreted with cunsiderable caution
Infant Mentality hate (per tho..usd) - Assevl deaths of iefan5ts under oue year            Isriseted Absolute Poverty Isrose Lenel (US$ pee tapita) - arbIa  and rural -
of age Per thousand live birrhb; 1960, 1970 and 1800  data.                                Absolute po-erty Lncome level is than incose level brln  =hich a minimal
Alless to hafe gater (porne-t of ppu         tal .s) titt al, urba  andrua  - Nf-            rorritiona-ly adeqente diet plus essential eon-food requirene_tn is nut
her of  Psep   (total, urban, and oral.) nith ronsonable screen. to safe                   affordshle
wares supply (i-luudos treatsd  Is:f-eo  eaters or untesated . stdbu    ontaeinated      Intimated halateei Poverty Ine Level (1S$ pee nopita) - urban ard rural -
eaten aseh en that free pretected hbreholes, *prings. aed sanitary sells) as               gural relative poterty foum  loyal is one-third of average per cepite
per-netages of their respe-titz populations.  Inae  rban reaan psblic                      peresol income at the reasory.  Orbon leve  is dertved from tho esral
fo-ntais or  tfandpast lorated set ears than 200 meters free a hoene may he                level with udjatent for higher comt of living is orbae  areas.
considered as being eithit rmasnmahte aEnems nf that house.  Inrural areus               ltisated Perolation Rew Abmolate Peenrtp Ine Level (percnst) - urbha
trasemable seemas would iply that the ho.-esife or members of the hoesehold                and rural - Perrest of papsalasio  (urban and real) who are eahbalute
do set hper so spend a dinproperginmate pset of the dpy  in fetohing she                   Poor
fily'm eater needa.
A      Loem to  rteresa Difm.ea1 (perenot ef popslation) - tetal, urban., md rural -
Nutber oE people (total.  neban, an d  srrl) messed by  -nereta disposal am
peret gn-s of thei t     pemsptiee pap tlatirns.  mnreesa disp.eml may lolade
the sallstis md diepeal mush or -i Xete  tre t=ot, ef bfa    eTmeno
and emto-wete- by   meer-here mystee  or the ass of pit privies and Wsti-
larine staliattesn,
ciensl a  Aitie d rs pe   bnean   Peipeltisa dFhOividedb Ap ineri nt pnr ttileg phpni-                                        toeoseel  and SerIal Data Disiaion
Penualeeas pee Imesless Psromn - Papstlatie  divided by  st-er of paoisinlag                                                   Empi 19d2
mee ned fme. gradmtes  sneeme assistant mrnas. penetict1 noos-   end
earmiag mei&lingmae.



ANNEX I
- 54 -Page 4 of 6
JAMAICA:  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Population:       2.2 million (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,040 (1981)
Amount                                          Actual                                      Preliminary
(million US$ at       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       i98[       1981          1982
current prices)       ------
1981
PRICES
GDP Deflator (1974=100)                                121.2      134.0      150.4      189.4      219.6      256.0      274.7       295.7
Exchange Rate (J$ per US$)                               0.91       0.91       1.25        1.48       1.77       1.78       1.78       1.78
Share of GDP at market prices (%)               Average Annual Increase (X)
(at constant 1974 prices)                     (at constant 1974 prices)
1976       1981       1986                           1976/81   1981/36
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a/
Gross Domestic Product               2925.3                       100.0      100.0      100.0                             -1.7         4.0
Agriculture                        235.7                         8.2        8.7        8.8                             -1.0         5.0
Industry                          1068.1                        34.3       29.1       32.0                             -4.2        5.8
Services                          1621.5                        57.5       62.2       59.2                             -0.2         3.0
Consumptior                          2647.8                        96.0       90.0       75.6                             -3.5         1X,4
Gruss Domestic Investment             557.8                        18.8       20.9       20.0                             -6.7         3,5
Exports GNFS b/                      1447.2                        25.4       52.1       63.9                              8.9         6.8
Imports GNFS r/                     -1727.5                        40.5      -63.0      -59.5                               1.8        3.5
Gross National Savings                229.2                         5.9        5.3       13.6                            -16.8        34,6
As % of GDP          __                     Preliminary
1977/78               1979/80               1981/82               1982/83
PUBLIC FINANCE c/
Current Revenue                                                    20.5                  25.7                  29.4                   29.0
Current Expenditure                                                26.2                  29.7                  31.4                   32.9
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                                         -5.7                  -4.0                  -2.0                   -3.9
Capital Expenditure                                                10.5                   8.1                   12.2                  11.6
Foreign Finance (net)                                                .6                   3.2                   9.6                   10.0
a/ At market prices.
b/ Based on balance of payments data.
c/ Fiscal year - April/March 31. Figures refer to Central Government operations.
d/ Estimated.
April 1983



- 55 -                         ANNEX I
Page 5of 6
1976-81         1981-86
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (%)                  -2.4              3.2
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (X)   -3.5                  1.8
ICOR                                 -6.7              5.3
Marginal Savings Rate                38.4             60.4
Import Elasticity                     1.4              0.9
Annual Growth Rate (X)
(at constant 1978 prices)
Amount            -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Indicator                   (million US$ at                        Actual                      Estimated              Projected
current prices)       --------------------------------------  ---------  ----------------------------
1981            1977     1978    1979    1980    1981            1982      1983   1984   1985   1986
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)    985.2                  b.2      1,0      0.5      0.0      3.0       -16.8      24.1   -1.5   21.0    9.4
Bauxite/Alumina                  758.6             14.1      2.9      0.0      6.7    -1.5         -23.2      26.1   -7.7   23.4    8.9
Sugar/Bananas                     50.5             -5.8    -6.9    -4.8   -34.5   -16.3             -1.7      34.0   16.7   25.3    7.9
Other                             176.1           -16.7    -2.6        4.1    -2.8      8.0         10.1      14.3   12.0   12.6   11.6
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)    1485.0              -24.8       2.6    -3.6    -7.7    22.8          -10.0       5.6    1.8    8.9    7.2
Food                              105.0           -44.1     20.8   -22.9       0.0    50.0           2.0      -2.0     3.0    2.5    2.5
Petroleum                        499.2              1.9   -14.9       18.6   -16.9    -1.8          -4.7      10.7   -7.0    3.4    5.8
Machinery and Equipment          216.1            -47.6      12.2    11.7   -10.3    48.2          -21.4       6.2    4.8    4.5    4.6
Other                            664.7            -23.2      6.6   -13.6    -2.8    22.7           -11.2       3.4    6.6    8.5   10.0
PRICES
Export Price Index (1978=100)         -            92.0   100.0    102.5   121.4   119.4           116.1     118.1  127.4  137.8  147.8
Import Price Index (1978=100)         -            88.6   100.0   120.3   152.4   157.2            158.0     154.2  163.2  172.8  183.7
Terms of Trade Index (1978=100)   -               103.8    100.0    85.2    79.7    76.3            73.5      76.6   78.1   79.8   80.5
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)                Average Annual Increases (%)
(at current prices)                         (at constant 1978 prices)
1960     1970    1975    1981   1986          1971-76           1976-81        1981-86
Exports                                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0            -3.0              -0.8             7.8
Bauxite/Alumina                                    49.3    63.9    62.4    77.0    61.7            -2.5                2.3             5.7
Sugar/Bananas                                      31.8     14.5    22.4       5.1      8.7 -4.3/-12.7        -12.2/-29.4       10.1/47.5
Other                                              18.9    21.6       15.2    17.9    29.6          -3.6              -1.8            11.3
Imports                                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0            -6.1              -2.4             3.2
Food                                               16.6     13.5    11.6       7.1      7.7         -7.2              -4.8             1.4
Petroleum                                           8.3      6.3      19.1    33.6    27.6        -11.9               -3.5             2.7
Machinery and Equipment                             18.7    29.5    22.0       14.6    15.9         -7.9              -0.7             1.9
Other                                              56.4    50.7    47.3    44.7    48.8             -1.7              -2.0             4.4
April 1983



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
JAMAICA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions of US$ at current prices)
Actual                                                  Projecteda/
1976    1977      1978     1979    1980    1981             1982     1983     1984    1985    1986
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of GNFS                       903.6   982.5   L119.5  1207.7  1408.1  1413.3                1308     1566     1695    2060    2373
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.        630.0   724.0   792.1   814.7   962.7   974.0                  737      915      952    1223      1430
Imports of GNFS                      1131.2   920.0  >055.8  1227.7  1413.6  1673.7                 1639     1736    1855    2124       2416
Of which: Merchandise c.i.f.        912.8   746.9   856.6   994.0  1159.5  1457.4                 1370     1407     1520    1755    2006
Net Factor Services                  -112.3  -128.6  -178.6  -202.6  -251.7  -201.5                 -235    -310    -323    -365    -403
Net Transfers                           5.9    20.0    25.7    80.0    90.8   124,3                  135      139      140      145      147
Current Account Balance                -334.0   -46.1   -89.2  -142.6  -166.2  -337.6                 -431    -315    -344    -284    -299
Private Direct Investment                -0.5    -7.0   -26.7   -26.4   -11.0    -2.8                    -        -        -        -        -
MLT Loans (net)                         102.2    63.9    57.4        12.1   207.4   103.8              392      386      235      214      194
Other Capital b/                         18.4   -70.7   -80.0       14.9   -91.1   155.83             -107       54      149      150      165
Change in Reserves                      213.9    59.9   138.5    142.0    60.9    80.8                 146    -125       -40      -80      -60
(increase = -)
International Reserves (net)           -116.3  -176.2  -314.7  -456.8  -517.5  -598.3                 -619    -494    -454    -374    -314
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                   179.5    83.0    112.9   171.7   295.8   473.3                 501      759      614      580      589
Project Loans                        31.2    26.6    42.6    32.0    47.8    38.1                   34       41       49      60        70
Special Financing                     -       10.4    198.8   125.5   139.5   139.4                298      406      334      280     240
Other Official                       73.0    71.0   -71.0    20.3   135.1    87.3                  128      249      169      172      205
Government Guaranteed                47.0    38.5      23.3     11.5    50.6    38.4                41       63       64       68       74
Private Direct (net)                 -0.5    -7.0   -26.7   -26.4   -11.0    -2.8                    -        -        -        -        -
Lines of Credit (net)                 -       11.3    33.6      11.5    -9.2       5.0               -        -        -        -        -
Other d/                             28.8   -67.8   --87.7    -2.7   -57.0   167.9               -107        26      149      150      165
Official Debt Outstanding             831.8   905.0  1022.7  1080.8  1298.8  1497.8                 1797    2201      2700    2986    3230
Debt Service: Total Service
Paymentsc/          102.8   159.1    144.6    165.5   177.6   239.4                314      378      440      497      543
interestc/            54.2    66.0    62.2    97.9   126.4   138.1                  217      253      293      313      351
Payments as % of
Exports              11.2     16.0     12.8     13.6     12.5    16.4               24       24.1    20.0    24.1    22.9
Average Interest Rate on New
Loans ()                              -        -        -        -        -        -                 8.0      7.4      7.5      7.4      7.9
Average Maturity of New Loans
(year)                                -        -        -        -        -        -                11.5     11.3     11.6    11.5      11.6
a/  Projections on a fiscal year basis April 1 - March 31.                                            April 1983
bi Includes errors and omissions.
c/ Includes payments of interest to IMF but not principal.
d/  Includes private debt and unidentified capital flows.



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of March 31, 1983
-----US$ million-----
Amount
Loan   Fiscal                                              (less cancellation)
No.    Year    Borrower           Purpose                   Bank  Undisbursed
15 loans fully disbursed 1/                                220.3
1146   1975      The Water         Sewerage/Water             15.0     0.0
Commission
1284   1976      Jamaica           Population                  6.8     1.3
1464   1977      Jamaica           Rural Development          15.0     3.5
1516   1978      Jamaica Public   Power                      20.0      1.1
Service Co. Ltd.
1517   1978      Sugar Industry   Agriculture                18.0      3.9
Authority
1609   1979      Jamaica           Small Scale Industry       7.0       .3
1715   1979      Jamaica           Second Program Loan       31.5       .2
1716   1979      Jamaica           Forestry                  12.0      3.7
1740   1979      Jamaica           Highways                  16.0      3.8
1978   1981      Jamaica           Export Development        37.0      9.8
Fund
2017   1981      Petroleum Co.    Offshore Petroleum          7.5      5.1
Exploration
2070   1982      Jamaica           Third Education             6.8     6.5
2106   1982      Jamaica           Technical Assistance        6.1     5.3
2107   1982      Jamaica           Kingston Export Free        13.5   13.0
Zone
2188   1982      Jamaica           Power                       30.5   30.0
Total (net cancellations)                         463.0
Of which has been repaid                           50.1
Total now outstanding                            412.9
Amount sold                          1.6
Of which has been repaid             1.6            0.0
Total now held by Bank                            412.9
Total undisbursed                                          87.5
1/   Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.



- 58 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1983
US$ million
Date      Borrower             Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1961  Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.   Pre-mix concrete          0.2       -        0.2
1969 Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.           Tourism                  2.2      0.7       2.9
1980 West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.           Glass containers         2.3      -        2.3
1982  Jamaica Flour Mills    Food and food pro-
cessing                5.0       -        5.0
9.7     0.7      10.4
Less cancellations, terminations
participations, sales and repayments            2.3       -       2.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                7.4      0.7      8.1
Total Undisbursed                                1.6       -        1.6
C.  Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1464-JM: Rural Development Project:  US$15 million Loan of June 29,
1977; Effective date: October 14, 1977; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
Project implementat:ion had initially been slow due to shortage of
funds, manpower problems and a difficult general economic situation.
Recent progress has however been encouraging; most project components are
now under implementation and are advancing satisfactorily. About half of
the target group of settlers have been placed and two-thirds of the farm
homes have been completed or are under construction. Road construction and
supply of water and electricity to the nine settlement areas is advancing
rapidly.  Only two of the six: completed markets are operating; the Ministry
of Agriculture is attempting to resolve the institutional and construction
problems which have delayed the opening of the others.



59 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3
Ln. No. 1516-JM: Second Power Project:  US$20 million Loan of March 6,
1978; Effective date:  June 1, 1978; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily after consi-
derable delays during the initial phase of project implementation, and most
of the loan proceeds have been committed. Project completion is now
estimated for September 1983, about 18 months later than the appraisal
forecast. JPSC's operations have been seriously affected by the limited
availability of its most fuel efficient generating units due to poor
maintenance and operating procedures and a lack of spare parts, and the
loss of skilled and managerial staff. Its financial position has also
deteriorated. The company has completed rehabilitation of two of its
generating units, and will continue its rehabilitation program under the
Third Power Project (Ln. No. 2188-JM). Recent tariff actions should result
in an improved financial position in the future.
Ln. No. 1517-JM: Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million Loan of
March 6, 1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978; Closing
date: March 31, 1984.
Although some progress in the rehabilitation of factories has
been made, implementation slowed seriously during the past two-and-a-half
years due to the critical financial situation of the Borrower.  As part of
its structural adjustment program, the Government dissolved the sugarcane
cooperatives in 1981 and is attempting to divest the sugar mills owned by
NSC. It is also undertaking a program aimed at strengthening NSC's
management, cutting costs, and speeding implementation of the field and
factory rehabilitation programs. These actions should result in an
improved financial position in 1983.
Ln. No. 1609-JM: Small Scale Enterprise Development Project: US$7 million
Loan of August 2, 1978; Effective date: December 27,
1978; Closing date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the program for modern small scale enterprises
executed by the Premier Investment Corporation (PIC) is ahead of schedule.
Remaining uncommitted funds from the very small scale enterprises
subprogram were reallocated to PIC early in the year and have been fully
committed. Portions of the portfolio under the latter subprogram are in
arrears; strenuous efforts to reduce the arrears level are under way.



- 60 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. No. 1716-JM: Forestry Project: US$12 million Loan of June 8, 1979;
Effective date: December 11, 1979; Closing date:
June 30, 1985.
Project implementation is behind schedule, due to delays in the
allocation of land for the project and labor problems, but is now
proceeding satisfactorily. A new nursery with a capacity of one million
plants per year is being established; the pine inventory haLs been completed
and the hardwood inventory is underway. The new saw mill was installed and
began running-in operations in 1982. The financial position of the
Borrower has been deteriorating; Bank-financed consultants are reviewing
the project in-depth.
Ln. No. 1740-JM: Fourth Highway Project: US$16 million Loan of July 10,
1979; Effective date: September 20, 1979; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
The project has encountered serious delays caused primarily by
extraordinary rains and floods in 1979, a hurricane in 1980, and shortages
of key staff and of budget resources. In view of the Governmei,t's diffi-
cult budgetary position and the need for urgent rehabilitation, the project
was restructured to allow utilization of loan funds for essential main-
tenance work by reducing targets for more expensive types oiE periodic
maintenance. Since restructuring, execution of the project has proceeded
reasonably well.
Ln. No. 1978-JM: Second Export Development Project: US$37 million Loan of
May 15, 1981; Effective date: August 6, 1981; Closing
date: December 31, 1983.
The loan provides financing via the Export Development Fund (EDF)
for imports of raw materials and spare parts for nontraditional exporters,
medium-term financing for exporters and their suppliers for capital equip-
ment and working capital, imported inputs for the banana industry, and
technical assistance. New procedural rules were introduced in early 1983,
and these--combined with a change in export incentives--have sharply
increased the demand for EDF resources.



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. No. 2017-JM: Offshore Petroleum Exploration Project: US$7.5 million
Loan of June 16, 1981; Effective date:  February 4, 1982;
Closing date: June 30, 1985.
The project is directed at promoting exploration of Jamaica's
hydrocarbon potential by strengthening the Petroleum Company of Jamaica
both as a partner of private international companies and as an independent
investor. The first well yielded no shows of hydrocarbons; further
drilling in the Pedro Bank area under the project will depend on contract
holders whose contract extension will expire in November 1983.
Reinterpretation of marine seismic data is expected to be completed in June
1983; seismic surveys of other offshore areas are under execution. Plans
to construct a pilot plant for waste oil recovery are underway; as a
consequence, the feasibility study on waste oil recovery has been dropped
from the project.
Ln. No. 2070-JM: Third Education Project: US$6.8 million Loan of January
14, 1982;. Effective date: March 24, 1982; Closing date:
June 30, 1985.
The project is directed at strengthening the technical and voca-
tional education system by expansion of the training capacity in the
College of Arts, Science and Technology, the Vocational Training Develop-
ment Institute, and the Industrial Production Centers. It also provides
for the development of new teaching programs and the provision of learning
materials. The project is approximately one month behind the appraisal
schedule. All components have been initiated and are making reasonable
progress.
Ln. No. 2106-JM: Technical Assistance Project: US$6.1 million Loan of
March 23, 1982; Effective date: April 30, 1982; Closing
date: September 30, 1985.
Initial delays in recruitment resulted from the Government's
decision to change the coordinating agency of the loan from the Project
Analysis and Monitoring Company to the National Planning Agency (NPA). Of
the 35 positions and/or studies currently identified to be financed under
the loan, over two-thirds have been filled and are operational or
completed. Candidates have been identified for the majority of the
remaining posts. UNDP's Office of Project Execution is assisting NPA in
identifying candidates, recruiting consultants, and servicing contracts.
There has been some reallocation of loan funds and identification of new
activity to support the Government's structural adjustment program.



- 62 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. No. 2107-JM: Kingston Free Zone Project:  US$13.5 million Loan of
March 23, 1932; Effective date: August 16, 1982; Closing
date: December 31, 1987.
The project is directed at increasing foreign private investment
and developing manufactured exports through the construction of shell
factory buildings and supporting iinfrastructure in the Kingston Free Zone
area. Physical execution of t:he project will be about one year behind
schedule, in part due to a fall-off in demand for factory space from
foreign investors affected by the world recession. Good progress is being
made in obtaining technical assistance funds for training and promotion.
Ln. No. 2188-JM: Third Power Project: US$30.5 million Loan of July 27,
1982; Effective date:  February 28, 1983; Closing date:
December 31, 1985.
The loan provides for rehabilitation of steam power plants,
expansion of transmission and distribution, technical assistance to
strengthen management and maintenance, and equipment. Execut:ion of the
project has been delayed as a result of delays in meeting the conditions of
effectiveness, but the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.



- 63 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
JAMAICA
Second Structural Adjustment Loan
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Loan Request made to Bank - The need for the loan was discussed
in the context of negotiations for the first SAL which took place
in February 1982.
(b) Preappraisal missions - November/December 1982.
(c) Appraisal mission - January 1983.
(d) Completion of negotiations - April 1983.
(e) Planned date of effectiveness - June 1983.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  Any substantial changes in the PSIP would be subject to prior
consultation with the Bank (para. 57).
(b) By July 31, 1983, the Borrower will take actions necessary to
ensure that the National Water Commission obtains a rate of
return of 4% on its assets located in the Kingston Corporate area
(para. 52(d)).
(c) By July 31, 1983, the Borrower will prepare plans and a timetable
for the reorganization of its agencies and parastatal entities
with responsibilities in the industrial sector (para. 69).
(d) By July 31, 1983, the Borrower will prepare plans and a timetable
for the rationalization of the marketing and non-marketing
activities of its external marketing organizations responsible
for coffee, cocoa, citrus and pimento (para. 76).



-- 64 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The second tranche of the loan would be disbursed after it has
been determined that policy actions the Borrower has taken are
satisfactory (para. 112).
(f)  The loan would finance the CIF cost of eligible imports, subject
to evidence that they had been paid for on or after loan signing
(para. 113).
(g)  Luxury products and armaments are excluded and petroleum products
may not constitute more than 25% of the amount of the loan
(para. 113).
(h) The Bank of Jamaica would be responsible for the coordination and
collection of relevant documentation and preparing withdrawal
applications under the loan (para. 113).
(i) The Jamaican dollar equivalent of imports financed under the loan
would be credited to a Special Loan Fund Account in the Bank of
Jamaica held by the Ministry of Finance and used to finance
projects in the PSIP (para. 115).



ANNEX IV
- 65 -                          Page 1 of 8
DEVELOPMENT POLICY STATEMENT
1.        The Government of Jamaica (GOJ) requests the World Bank (IBRD) to
provide an amount of US$60.0 million as a second structural adjustment
loan, in support of structural changes in the Jamaican economy which are
critical components of the GOJ Economic Recovery Programme 1981/82 to
1983/84. The Government also requests that the IBRD capitalize the
front-end fee of 0.25% and add such amount to the requested loan so that
the total loan amount rounded upwards would be US$60.2 million.
Economic Recovery Programme
2.        On this second approach for a structural adjustment loan, there
may be less occasion for an extended Policy Statement of the type that was
prepared at the time of approval of the first Structural Adjustment Loan
and submitted to the Bank by document dated February 19, 1982 signed by the
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. At that time a statement in detail
of a course to be pursued was fitting and necessary, and the Government is
fully committed to continuing active pursuit of the relevant policies and
programmes. However, it is appropriate to restate some of the basic
elements if only to provide a framework within which the initiation and
development of policy and adjustment programmes may be assessed and
evaluated.
3.        The Economic Recovery Programme (supported by the International
Monetary Fund, donor countries and their agencies, and external commercial
banks) aims to restore economic activity to an economy depressed by
negative growth over 7 consecutive years to 1980, to reduce the high level
of unemployment, and to attain a path of economic growth that will be
sustainable without recourse to special balance of payments assistance.
4.        The Government is committed to an export-led development strategy
initially emphasizing the rehabilitation and expansion of export-oriented
activities in the tourism, bauxite/alumina, and agriculture sectors, and
the introduction of policies for structural adjustment to facilitate the
development of productive capacity, on an efficient and competitive basis,
for nontraditional exports from the manufacturing and agricultural sector
largely to markets outside of the CARICOM market. A complementary strategy
is to rely on the private sector as the main engine of economic growth and
to ensure the efficient working of the market system. State participation
in production would be limited mainly to utility operations.
5.        The Government set out to create a climate conducive to private
initiative and enterprise by introducing programmes for reducing regulatory
measures on trade and industry, and by strengthening the market system
through the modification of controls on prices, import licensing and state
marketing. Furthermore, a programme for the elimination of quantitative
restrictions on imports was implemented in February 1982 and some 40% of
such items have been removed from the protection list. Other items are to



- 66 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 8
be progressively removed over three years and eventually, import
restrictions will be confined to products which are strategic to national
and social interests, such as arms and drugs.
6.        On January 10, 1983, the Government took additional steps to
bolster the market system and further encourage the export sector. The
"informal" foreign exchange market was fully legalized and
institutionalized within the commercial banking system and a two-tier
exchange rate regime introduced. A fixed exchange rate regime is operated
by the Central Bank for specified transactions--largely official debt
service, oil payments and defined essential imports and services.
Specified receipts--including bauxite/alumina, traditional agricultural
exports, payments for hotel bills and certain other related tourism
services, official loan flows and 50% of receipts from nontraditional
manufacturing and agricultural exports--are directed to the official
market. All other payments and receipts take place in the market operated
by the commercial banks at a floating rate of exchange. This regime, as
well as other factors affecting the competitiveness of Jamaican production,
will be reviewed by the Government, the Bank and the Fund in September
1983.
7.        As a complementary measure and export incentive, exporters to
non-CARICOM countries can retain in the form of an export certificate up to
50% of their export receipts. These export certificates are negotiable
instruments and may be sold to any domestic or export producer and to be
used by the holder for imports of raw materials, spare parts and capital
goods. Exporters are granted automatic import licenses for: (a) all
inputs, including those still subject to QRs, required by them to produce
for foreign markets, and (b) all inputs, except those still subject to QRs,
that they need to produce for the domestic market. Finally and within a
general quota system (which is not applicable to exporters), import
licences are issued automatically. The quota system will be reviewed in
September 1983 with a view to its simplification or elimination by January
1984, if necessary.
Economic Performance and Outlook
8.        The Fund/Jamaica Prcgramime for FY82/83 was framed on the
expectation of a modest improvement in world economic activity and some
recovery of international trade from stagnation levels. The programme
reflected a buoyancy in the Jamaica export sector with traditional and
nontraditional exports rising sharply. However, during the programme year,
the Jamaican economy and its prospects for growth were severely affected by
the worldwide economic depression and the shock waves which went through
the international financial system consequent on the financing problems of
a number of middle developing countries.
9.        During FY82/83, the economy registered real growth of 2% in GDP
compared to the programme objective of 5% per annum and the achievement of
1-2% per annum in FY81/82. Capital formation reached a level of 23.2% of
GDP compared to 19.1% in FY81/82 and 15.4% in FY80/81. Inflation was
contained within single digits at a level of 7% as against 4.7% in FY81/82
and 24% in FY80/81.



ANNEX IV
-67 -                           Page 3 of 8
10.       However, the creditable performance in the real sector, was
marred by a deterioration in both the fiscal and balance of payments
accounts in relation to programme targets. In the fiscal area, the current
account deficit of 1.9% of GDP compared to a programme level of 1.6% and a
deficit of 1.96% for FY81/82. The overall deficit is estimated at 13.7% of
GDP for the programme year compared to the target of 12.9% and the outturn
of 14.2% for the GDP FY81/82. The deterioration is attributed to the sharp
reduction in the levy on bauxite exports consequent on a sharp drop in
world demand around June/July 1982.  Levy receipts for the year attained
only 53% of the programme estimate.  Both tax revenues and overall
expenditure improved relative to the programme target for FY82/83 with
overall expenditure 6.3% below programme levels.
11.       The balance of payments reflects mixed fortunes.  The current
account deficit improved to 13.3% of GDP compared to the programme target
of 15% and the outturn of 15.4% for FY81/82. The improvement attained
despite the substantial fall off in export earnings, was a result of a
US$350 million contraction of imports on programme levels equivalent to 26%
of projected imports. The overall balance deteriorated by US$146.5 million
compared to the projected improvement in the programme of US$13.0 million
and the balance of payments surplus of US$42.0 million attained in
FY81/82. The main reasons were the reduction in bauxite earnings as
already explained, and the fall out of programmed capital inflows of some
US$170.0 million from the external financial support programme structured
into the 1982/83 programme year. Additionally, capital flight increased as
the society reacted to the speculation arising from discussions for
formalizing the parallel market.
12.       The Government enters the programme year 1983/84 with a deep
resolve to continue policies and actions in support of a sustained
improvement in the Jamaican economy and securing the gains already
achieved. Real growth is projected at 3.4% of GDP compared to the 2% level
registered in FY82/83. It is recognized that with the changed world
economic environment, measures will have to be taken to strengthen the
Jamaican Economic Recovery Programme and also to ensure, within a medium
term scenario, the sustainablity of foreign exchange flows with reduced
reliance on concessional balance of payments support. More use will be
made of the parallel market by transferring thereto some US$334 million of
transactions on external account. This means that 28% of non-bauxite
imports and 34% of service and transfer payments would be carried out in
that market. In relation to the balance of payments, the Government will
target for an improvement of US$125.0 million in FY83/84 with end of year
gross reserves of US$308.0 million representing three months' purchase of
non-bauxite imports. The current account deficit is programmed at 9.1% of
GDP compared to 13.4% of GDP for FY82/83.
13.       The overall deficit of the Central Government will be held to
12.3% of GDP in FY83/84 with a commitment to an indicative programme level
of 10.5% and 9% of GDP in FY84/85 and 1985/86 respectively. This programme
will be supported by an improvement in tax revenues to a level of 25.6% of
GDP compared to 24.2% in FY82/83 and 18% of GDP in FY80/81. Additionally,
the Government will base its Capital Budget on a core programme to be



- 68 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 8
increased only through identiified incremental financing flows which are
consistent with a rational external debt service policy and the
availability of an adequate f:Low of domestic bank and non-bank resources to
the productive sector.
Agriculture - Policies and Programmes
14.       The support programnme for domestic agriculture is well underway.
A reorganized and more efficient extension service is now available to
farmers. The Agricultural Credit Bank is operational with enhanced
resources largely through finance provided by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) and the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD). The Agricultural Marketing Corporation is modified in
scope and function to provide better marketing services and bilaterally-
financed programmes for upgrading rural markets are in an advanced
implementation state. Further, Government has embarked on a programme of
selling or leasing Government-owned lands to farmers, and already some
3,500 acres out of a targeted 6,000 acres have been sold to farmers on
long-term mortgages.
15.       However, in export agriculture progress has been slower than
programmed. This is particularly so for sugar and bananas. After
extensive study a programme for relhabilitating the sugar sector was
launched recently.  It included action to provide and finance (a)
fertilizers and chemicals, (b) land preparation, reaping and transportation
equipment, (c) improved roads, and irrigation systems, and (d) spare parts
and capital goods for factories. Additionally, action has started on the
streamlining of Government-owned factory operations by: (a) lay-off
programmes of some 650 persons initially; (b) the upgrading of key
personnel; and (c) improvement of nanagement systems. Finally, the
domestic price of sugar was increased by some 30%. It is expected that
these measures will revive the induLstry. However, output and export sales
will be slightly below the target figures programmed initially for 1983 to
1986, although sufficient to meet the quotas of the protected EEC and USA
markets.  A critical question is thle size of industry at which Jamaica
should aim, given the conditions in external markets and the competing
claims of other products for available land. Accordingly, it is proposed
to mount a study to assess and evaluate the probable optimum size of the
sugar industry in Jamaica.
16.       The banana export sector is in the final stage of
reorganization. It is now agreed that export operations should be confined
to areas which can produce and market for exports on a competitive basis.
Some 7,000 acres have been identified with a potential of producing 10 to
14 tons per acre of export qual:ity bananas. This includes the United
Brands/ Jamaica joint venture project recently implemented, with target
production of 2,000 acres.  Commercial operations would be undertaken
without a subsidy and the prices paid to the domestic producer would be
determined by prices paid for ex.ports in external markets. Producers
outside of the designated farms would supply the domestic market through
the "higgler" distribution system and/or the Agricultural Marketing
Corporation, again without subsidy and subject to domestic market prices.



- 69 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 8
17.       The Government is committed to streamlining the operations of
external marketing organizations for export crops to ensure a higher level
of efficiency and increased rewards to farmers. Management audits and
resulting recommendations are being implemented. Subsidies to farmers for
seedlings/planting materials, etc. are being eliminated; and increased
payments will be made to farmers for products within viable operational
financial parameters including benefits which accrue to such agencies under
the Export Incentive Scheme. The Government has drawn up a detailed
programme for the transfer to farmers of these benefits; after taking into
account the removal of subsidies for seedlings/planting material, the price
increases are in the range of 8-28% for coffee, cocoa and pimento; no
increase has been made to the price of citrus, since the operations of the
Citrus Growers' Association are heavily subsidized by Government, both
through direct subventions and by the underwriting of bank credit.
Additionally, as agreed and implemented under SAL I for crops other than
sugar and bananas, growers who meet criteria relating to output, quality
and packaging standards, may market on their own.
Industry
18.       As indicated in paragraphs 5 to 7, the Government has taken steps
to encourage private initiative and enterprise through liberalising the
internal market, progressive elimination of the import bias to expose
domestic producers to greater competition, and directing the manufacturing
sector--through incentive measures--towards export markets outside of
CARICOM. The phased elimination of QRs, the incentives for nontraditional
exporters associated with the recently introduced two tier exchange rate
regime and the automatic issue of import licences, are among the more
significant measures.
19.       To further deepen the process of revitalizing the manufacturing
sector, the Government is continuing its study of seven priority subsectors
and is developing action programmes for reorganizing the operation of
each. The focus is on products which can be competitive with imported
substitutes and, where comparative advantage permits, which can gain access
to export markets. Moreover, as referred to already in paragraph 6, a
comprehensive review of the competitiveness of Jamaica's export production,
with particular emphasis in the industrial sector, will be undertaken next
September by the Government, the Bank and the Fund. It is the firm resolve
of the Government to adopt the necessary measures to remove the constraints
that might be identified at that time, to the required improvements in
industrial efficiency in general, and, in particular, increases in
industrial exports.
20.       The Government has committed itself to a comprehensive review of
the existing tax system and its administration to achieve buoyancy in
revenue flows, remove disincentives to investment and production, and be
supportive of the productive efforts of the agricultural and
industrial/manufacturing sectors. The initial focus has been on tax
administration/collection and compliance measures and the benefits are seen
in the improvement of revenue flows from 18% of GDP in 1980/81 to 24% of
GDP in 1982/83. In addition, incentive measures have been introduced for
the agricultural sector. The Government proposes as the next step to
review the impact of taxes on industrial and commercial policy with
specific reference to the effect of the tax burden on productive effort and
the merits of a shift of taxes between imports and internal taxes.



- 70 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 8
21.       The Government is concerned about the plethora of public
institutions engaged in the promotion of private investment--both domestic
and foreign--for expansion of- thes manufacturing sector and for supporting
the export thrust.  A study of this problem has been completed and the
recommendations will be evaluated and where considered appropriate,
implemented. The Government is of the firm resolve that the institutional
structure should encourage, rather than discourage, private ina_stment and
the needed external flows to support the expansion of the manufacturing
sector.
Savings and Investment
22.       The Government is committed to monetary policies directed at
mobilizing savings and ensuring an adequate flow of credit to priority
productive sectors. Interest rates are determirned, and will continue to be
determined, by market forces. All Central Bank rediscount rates are now
set at levels no lower than the Treasury Bill rate which is itself
determined by market forces.
23.       To further encourage a reflow of capital from abroad, the
Government is currently examining two complementary issues: firstly, the
provision of foreign currency denominated deposit accounts in commercial
banks which must be held for specific time periods at competitive interest
rates. These would have conversion rights at the applicable floating rate
of exchange from time to time at the option of the holders. In addition,
foreign currency denominated Government bonds bearing maturities of two,
three and five years with related competitive interest rates would be
issued by the Bank of Jamaica. Finally, an ongoing review of the
operations of the Jamaica capital market and the tax treatment of unearned
income from savings deposits, will be completed shortly and appropriate
decisions taken as necessary.
24.       On taking office in October 1980, the Government announced the
establishment of the National Development Bank and the Agricultural Credit
Bank, to mobilize and channel internal and external financial resources to
the manufacturing and agricultural sectors respectively. Both institutions
are now operational. The related systems and procedures for retailing
funds through the commercial banking system, have been evaluated and
accepted.  Resources have been approved and allocated by the IADB and IFAD
to the Agricultural Credit Bank, while the European Investment Bank has
approved funds to support the equity of the National Development Bank;
additionally, loans for these two institutions are being considered by
the World Bank.
25.       The Government is determined to increase the level of public
savings and the policies and programmes related to both Central Government
operations and that of the public enterprises, are directed to this
objective. In respect to Central Government great strides have been made
in improving revenue flows to a level of 24.6% cf GDP, compared to 18% in
1980/81. Levels of 26% of GDP ares projected for future years. However,
less success has been achieved on the current expenditure programme which
has been growing at rates in excess of nominal GDP. Therefore, a study has
been commissioned to evaluate existing current services, determine the



-71 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 8
adequacy and need for resources to meet objectives, and identify areas of
waste. The objective is to keep the growth of current expenditure below
nominal GDP levels. Public enterprises have been directed to pursue
financial and pricing policies and programmes for generating surpluses as a
contribution to the needs of their respective investment programme.
Overall, the level of public sector savings is projected to be 2.7% of GDP
in 1983/84 compared to a deficit of 1.6% in 1982/83.
26.       A system and related procedures for the ongoing preparation and
monitoring of a rolling three-year Public Sector Investment Programme
(PSIP) is now in place. Recently, the programme for FY83/84 to 1985/86 was
completed and the capital budget for Central Government is based on this
programme, but reflects the overall deficit target of the Fund programmme
for 1983/84. The programme for the rest of the public sector is consistent
with the Fund programme criteria relating to net external flows and the
allocations of domestic resouces. To make the size of the PSIP consistent
with financial availabilities, only high priority projects have been
included in it. The "core" program for 1983/84 has been largely the result
of applying two key criteria in deciding project priorities; projects which
maintain essential economic and social infrastructure, and projects which
support the export-oriented development strategy. The PSIP will be rolled
forward this year, and within the overall program, a core program will be
developed, which will represent Government's highest priority projects, and
will be the minimum PSIP. The coverage of the PSIP will also be extended
to cover all major public enterprises, and no major change would be made to
the PSIP without prior consultation with the Bank, and such changes would
include major acquisitions by public entities.
Public Enterprises
27.       The Government is committed to the limitation of the role of the
state in commercial activities. The private sector would be responsible
for productive and commercial activities while the state would provide the
infrastructure and policy environment to allow the market mechanism to
function effectively. A programme to sell or lease Government assets
commenced in January 1981. Ten hotel properties have been leased to the
private sector and two commercial companies sold. Four hotels and two
companies are in various stages of lease/sale negotiations with interested
parties. Twelve other companies have been liquidated. In addition, the
Jamaica Omnibus Service will cease operations by June 30, 1983, and
thereafter all bus operations will be carried out by the private sector
within a regulated franchising system.
28.       Enterprises which remain in public ownership must attain
financial viability and generate surpluses for contribution to their
respective investment plans. Action programmes to reduce costs, increase
tariffs, and improve managerial efficiency have been implemented for
several enterprises, notably Air Jamaica, Jamaica Broadcasting Corp.,
National Sugar Company and the electric utility. For others, studies are
on stream to identify the issues to be addressed and the necessary action
for attaining financial viability. While this programme has lagged
somewhat in terms of the 1983/84 objective for eliminating all current



ANNEX IV
-72-                          Page 8 of 8
subsidies, such subsidies have been substant.ially reduced, and the public
enterprises sector is expected to generate, as a whole, substantial current:
savings in FY83-84, for the first time since 1979. It is still the firm
and irrevocable commitment that in the shortest possible time all public
enterprises should be removed from the budget of the Central Government.
Public Administration
29.       The Government is involved in a programme of major reforms in
policies and procedures. For such programmes to be put into place
effectively, it is vital that public administration should operate on an
efficient basis. In the course of the fi.rst two years of the programme,
three constraints have emerged in this area, and these will be addressed
over the coming period, although each will require several years of
effort. First, present budgeting practices are not conducive to ensuring
that funds are allocated on a basils that reflects Government's priority
programmes. To remedy this, Government embarked on a reform: of the budget
process, to replace the existing object allocation sytem with a performance
oriented budget system. To complete this reform will take 2-3 years, but
it is expected that a revised system will have been prepared, and training
conducted during this fiscal year.
30.       A second constraint has emerged in terms of filling critical
managerial, professional and technical positions within Central
Government. In the past, this problem was addressed in part through the
creation of parastatal and statutory bodies, but this practice has led to
anomalies, and to increasing difficulties in certain central agencies.
This problem will be addressed over the coming year, and Government will be
defining a strategy to enable it to fill the key positions in Central
Government to ensure the success of the economic recovery programme.
31.       Finally, there- may be a need over the coming years to undertake
more general reforms of the public sector, so that it is geared to the
needs of the current development strategy. If such reforms are to take
place, the core Government agencies--the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry
of Public Service, and the Public Service Commission--will need to operate
on a highly effective basis.  To ensure this, Government is commissioning
management audits of these three agencies, and these will be completed
by July 1983.
E.P.G. Seaga    2
Prime Minister mnd
Minister of Finance
May 2, 1983



- 73 -
JAMAICA                                   ANINEX V
Page 1 of 4
SAL I: ACTION PROGRAMS AND ACTION TAKEN
STRUCTURAL ISSUES AND POLICY                       ACTION PROGRAM                                 ACTiON TAKEN
OBJECTIVES
A.  Saving and Investment
1.  To increase the current savings         Adoption of measures in JPSC to             This program was included in the
of the major public enterprises        achieve financial results                   conditionality of the Power Loan.  Base
through reductions in costs            acceptable to the Bank.                     tariffs have been raised by 1X per month
and/or increases in rates and                                                      during 1982, and all fuel cost increases
prices charged.  To eliminate                                                      have been passed on.  A fuirther RT
all current account deficits.                                                      increase (on top of the 1% per month) in
base tariffs is expected in Januxary
1983, to achieve a 57 rate oF retujrn on
net assets in 1983.
Further increase in the domestic            No further increase in the domestic
price of sugar.                             price of sugar was implemented because
,overnment and the Bank agreed that it
would be counter-produlctive in present
circumstances. Nevertheless, the
buLdget subsidy will he eliminated in
FYB3/84.
Formulation and adoption of                 Final adoption of an action progran for
specific programs for:                      the Banana Company awaits the completion
of a management audit currently under
- Banana Company (JBC)                      preparation.
- Jamaica Omnibus Service (JOS)             An initial a,-tion program for JOE was
adopted and included making  'iDO workers
- Jamaica Railway Corporation (JRC)         redundant.  No budget subsidy will he
required in lq83/84. A program for the
privatization of a large part of JOG is
being prepared.
An inirtial action program for TRC was
adopted but was considered unrealistic
by the Bank. Further work is underway,
supported by the Technical Assistance
I.oan.
2.  To establish functional                 Preparation and approval of an              An operating manual, and a stitement of
medium-term lending                    operational program for the                 polcies and procedures were alopted in
institutions in order to mfake         National Development Bank.                  August 1982.  Assistance for this
medium-tern financing available                                                    component was provided under the
to the domestic private sector.                                                    Technical Assistance Loan.  The NOB
officially became operational in
November 1982.
3.  To prepare a Public Sector             Government to prepare a Public               The PSIP was prepared and submittPd to
Investment Program and                 Sector Investment Program (PSIP)            the Bank in September 1982.  it was
financing plan in order to             and financing plan for                      found to be generally satisfactory.  The
rationalize the investment             FY82/83-FY85/86, and to make                monitoring system is in place, anld the
activities of the public sector        operational a monitoring system.            first two quarterly monitoring reports
in line with the development                                                       have been received.
strategy of the GOJ.



- 74 -
JAMAICA                                    ANNEX V
Pane 2 wf
SAL I:  ACTION PROGRAMS AND ACTION TAKEN
STRUCTURAL ISSUES AND POLICY                        ACTION PROGRAM                                  ACTION TAKEN
OBJECTIVES
4.  To promote domestic savings             GOJ is reviewing the progressivity           No action oni the progressivity of the
through increases in the                of the personal income tax.                  tax system has h. -n possible because of
after-tax returns on financial                                                       the tight buldgetary situation, although
assets and through a more               Study on ways and means to                   Government has carried out prepariatory
efficient functioning of                stimulate the availability of risk           studies.  The study of the availability
capital markets.                        capital in Jarmaica.                         of risk capital will be completed in
January 1982, and is being financad
under the Technical Assistance Loan.
B. Balance of Payments Management
5.  To achieve greater efficiency           Study on ways to increase the                The study was completed in August 1982.
in the allocation of foreign            efficiency of the import licensing          The Trade Administrator's Department has
exchange, moving from a                 system.                                     been abolished and replaced by a Trade
specific licensing system to a                                                       Board with private sector
general-open license.  Target                                                        representation.  With effect from early
to be attained over five years,                                                      1983, much import licensing will be
subject to availability of                                                           fully automatic.  In addition, a
foreign exchange.                                                                   decision was taken to fully
institutionalize the parallel foreign
exchange market, and have it operated
within commercial banks with effect from
early 1983.
6.  To attract private external             Study on alternative schemes to              The study was completed in August 1983.
capital through the creation of         attract mLgrants' savings and               No scheme has yet been implemented, but
appropriate incentives for              program for implementation.                  is awaiting finalization of actions
direct foreign investment,                                                           under (5) above.
repatriation of Jamaican
capital, and attracting
migrants' savings.
C. Agricultural Sector Policies
7. Land Use:
(a) To develop a program for           Development of a policy for the              A policy has been developed and adopted,
the sale or lease of               sale or lease to agricultural                and sales/leases are under way.
Government-owned lands, in         producers of Government-owned lands
order to reduce the                not required for other purposes.
uncertainty faced by
farmers.
(b) To reduce the idleness or          Land classification program;                 The land-use inventory has been
underutilization of                including detailed land resource             completed satisfactorily.   Further work
privately owned                    inventory and capability                     is now under way to determine optimum
agricultural lands, through        classifiction.                               land use.
the implementation of a
program of land
classification to induce
the adoption of appropriate
crops.



- 75 -
JAMAICA                                   ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
SAL I: ACTION PROGRAMS AND ACTION TAKEN
STRUCTURAL ISSUES AND POLICY                       ACTION PROGRAM                                  ACTION TAKEN
OBJECTIVES
(c) To rationalize soil                Development of a soil conservation          A soil conservation program has been
conservation activities,           program and maintenance scheme,             developed and is being implemented
emphasizing maintenance, in        specifying priorities by region,            successfully.
order to control erosion on        type of work, and crop.
hillside farms.
(d) To increase agricultural           Preparation of an irrigation                Work has been done on the preparation of
production under                   program.                                    an irrigation program, but during the
irrigation, through                                                            preparation the problem was found to be
increased efficiency in                                                        wider than originally envisaged, and
water management and the                                                       more work is required.
development of new
irrigation systems.
8.  To improve the efficiency of           Management audits of the sugar,              The management audits for the sugar and
external marketing                     banana, and pimento EMOS.                   pimento EMOs were completed, and the
organizations in order to                                                          audit for the banana FMO is under
increase price incentives for          Studies of the non-marketing                preparation.  Studies of the marketing
farmers.  Allow participation          activities of all EMOs.                     and non-marketing functions of the EMOs
of private organizations in                                                        are under way and will be completed by
external marketing of export           Studies of the external marketing           mid-1983.
crops.  Reassess the non-              operations of the EMOs for coffee,
marketing functions of EMOs.           citrus, pimento, cocoa.
9.  To eliminate praedial larceny           Introduction of a system of                The system of agricultural wardens is in
in order to assure farmers are         agricultural wardens for policing           place.
rewarded for their work.               selected areas by December 1982.
10. To restore the economic                Further increase in the domestic            No further increase was considered
viability of sugar cane                price of sugar.                             appropriate as noted under (1) above.
producing units and sugar
factories, in order to reverse         Review of the action program by             A review of the action program was
the long-term decline in sugar         November 1982.                              carried out in November 1982, and a
production and exports.  To                                                        revised program was adopted in December.
increase output until EEC quota
is filled.
11. To increase yields and area            All action took place prior to
under cultivation in order to          Board presentation of SAL I.
reverse the long-term decline
in banana production and
exports. To increase output
-       until UK quota is filled.
12. To strengthen the Ministry of          All action took place prior to
Agriculture and other                  Board presentation of SAL I.
institutions related to the
agricultural sector.



- 76 -
JAMAICA                                    ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4
SAL I:  ACTION PROGRAMS AND ACTION TAKEN
STRUCTURAL ISSUES AND POLICY                        ACTION PROGRAM                                  ACTION TAKEN
OBJECTIVES
D. Industrial Sector Policies
13. To instill greater dynamism to          Establishment of an action program           An export promotion program has been
manufactured exports,                   for the promotion of exports.                adopted under which exporters wil' be
eliminating the anti-export                                                         able to retain 50% of their earnirngs
bias of the manufacturing               Study on introduction of additional          from exports outside CARICOM, and sell
sector through the gradual              tariff protection in lieu of QRs.           these retained earnings on the parallel
elimination of quantitative                                                         market if they so choose.  The scheme
restrictions to imports.                                                            will be in place in January 1983.  The
study on the substitution of tariffs for
QRs is due to be completed in Febuary
1983. 64 QRs were removed in February
1982, and a further 61 are due to be
removed on February 1, 1983.
14. Rationalization of specific             Preparation of action programs.              An action program for garments has been
industrial subsectors                                                               adopted and is being implemented.  For
(garments, footwear,                                                                construction materials, a program has
construction materials) in                                                          now been developed and adopted.
order to make them cost                                                             Footwear is Less well advanced, largely
efficient and reduce prices to                                                      because of a rapid change in the
consumers.  Develop exports.                                                        structure of the Jamaican footwear
industry 1982.



ANNEX VI
77 -                                Page 1 of 8
SUMMARY EVALUATIONS AND ACCOUNTS OF SELECTED PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISES
198 1/82- 1983/84
National Hotels and Properties (NHP)
1.        Current Status.  The action program for NHP, defined by the GOJ in
April 1981, was the lease or sale of eight hotels owned by the Corporation.
Lease agreements for six hotels were concluded during 1981 and 1982. Although
the Rose Hall, a 500-room hotel in Montego Bay, had been leased, the NHP resumed
operating the hotel in July 198 2, after the contract was terminated. NHP has
negotiated a new lease for Rose Hall, which was approved by the Cabinet in early
February. Lease of the Rose Hall will improve the financial position of NHP
because the operation had been losing approximately J$500,000 a month. The
lease arrangements for the other hotels are functioning well and refurbishing
programs are proceeding on schedule. Lease revenue is likely to remain low in
1983/84 as the agreements allow up to 80% of refurbishment expenditures done by
the lease holders to be deducted from rental payments. According to NHP, most
refurbishment expenditures should be completed by 1984.
2.        During 1982 NHP picked up the lease on a small hotel owned by a for-
eign company and resumed operating the GOJ-owned Runaway Bay. In both cases the
companies managing the hotels went out of business. NHP continues to own and
operate the Oceana Hotel (formerly the Inter-Continental) and the New Kingston.
A wholly owned subsidiary, National Hotel Suppliers, Ltd., is before the divest-
ment committee. A leasing arrangement for the New Kingston is being pursued,
but would be difficult without extensive refurbishing by NHP before takeover of
the lease. Losses on the operation (J$3 million in 1982/83) should be stemmed
in 1983/84 as occupancy rates have improved. The NHP will continue to run the
Oceana Hotel (of which 110 rooms are used); occupancy rates there (25% in
1982/83) should rise as a result of meetings of the Seabed Authority. Although
the NHP is projecting an operating deficit of J$5.3 million in 1983/84, the loss
may be understated because the forecast assumes the lease of the New Kingston
Hotel for the entire period. Transfers from the Government have been budgeted
to cover debt service, estimated at J$41.4 million in 1983/84 (interest and
amortization). Debt service owed by NHP is projected to continue at approx-
imately that level until 1986/87.
3.        Actions to be Taken.  NHP should aim to conclude leasing agreements
for Jamaica Hill, Runaway Bay and, if possible, for New Kingston in 1983/84.
Summary Accounts - National Hotel and Properties
8 1/82    8 2/83    8 3/84
Revenues                                64.6      44.0      12.8
Expenditures                           100.1      67.1      18.1
Operating Profit/Loss
(before depreciation)               -35.5    -23.1       -5.3
Capital Expenditures                    20.9       5.0
Selected Financing Items
Domestic Bank Loans                                4.0       0.5
Government Transfers                    86.0      56.1      41.4
Amortization                            n.a.      23.1      32.0
Domestic                                        11.1       9.3
External                                        12.0      22.7



- 78 -                                 ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 8
Jamaica Railway Corporation (JRC)
4.         Current Status.  In 1983 the JRC is forecast to show a cash operating
loss of J$7.6 million, about the same level as in 1982.  The Government granted
the JRC a fare increase for passengers and nonbauxite freight in September 1982,
but the company will continue to be affected adversely by the decline in bauxite
and alumina freight shipments.  The proposed 1983/84 GOJ budget includes J$3
million as a current subsidy for JRC, the same amount provided the previous fis-
cal year. In addition, the budget allocates J$13.9 million for capital expendi-
tures, some of which is GOJ on-lending of funds from the French protocol and the
Export Development Corporation.  The major components of the JRC's 1983 capital
program are the purchase of six locomotives from France and track rehabilita-
tion. The GOJ provided about J.$8 million to the JRC for capital expenditures in
1982.
5.         In 1981 the JRC prepared a draft Action Program -with projections show-
ing a cash operating surplus by 1985. However, the Ministry of Public Utilities
and Transport and World BanL project staff consider the proposal unrealistic be-
cause of its overly optimist:ic f'orecasts of traffic and revenue from passenger
and nonbauxite freight transport and because it does not provide for closure of
uneconomic lines and services.
6.         Actions to be Taken.  A railway financial expert has been recruited
under the Technical Assistance Loan (2106-JM). He began work in Jamaica in
March and, working with local consultants, is responsible for developing a
program to restructure the finances of the JRC, for determining railway costs
and necessary tariff adjustments, for estimating the savings achievable if
uneconomic lines are closed, and for applying the recommendlations of the
Delcanda Study regarding JRC. The estimated t:Lme required to complete the work
is 3-4 months. In addition, work already has begun on a marketing strategy and
an assessment of the Corporation.'s capability in the areas of accounting and
financial analysis. Railway and Ministry officials expect to finish an action
program for the Corporation by fall 1983, after which specific measures would be
implemented to improve the financial performance of the JRC. The action
program, including any tariff changes and line closures, will be put into place
before release of the second tranche of the SAL.
Summary Accounts - Jamaica Railway Corporation
198 1     198 2     198 3
Revenues                                 14.6       12.3      13.2
Expenditures                             18.8       20.1      20.8
Operating Profit/Loss
(before depreciation)                  -4.2      -7.8      -7.6
Capital Expenditures                      3.1       8.1        9.3
Selected Financing Items
Government Transfers                      5.1       11.1      16.9



- 79 -                             ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 8
Jamaica Omnibus Service (JOS)
7.        Current Status.  In 1982 JOS's cash operating loss was J$13 million
before taking into account the fare subsidy of J$6 million provided by the GOJ.
The Government has decided to turn over the operations of the JOS to private
individuals by franchising bus routes by June 1983. Several actions were taken
during 1982 to phase out JOS's role in providing public transport.  The takeover
of routes by private mini-bus operators was extended and JOS laid off 600
people.
8.        According to the current plans of the GOJ, the JOS will be converted
into a company whose sole function would be to lease the buses they own (about
200 buses in good operating condition) to private operators. Lease earnings
would be used to service the company's outstanding debts and to cover at least
some of the subsidy on school children fares. The company's outstanding over-
draft amounts to J$17.7 million and accounts payable are close to J$40 million.
In addition, payments of J$3 million on external supplier credits will fall due
this year. It is also possible that some bus fares would be raised in order to
cross subsidize the lower rates. The GOJ has provided for J$9.7 million in the
current budget this fiscal year to cover redundancy payments for the JOS workers
who will be laid off as a result of the reorganization.
9.        Actions to be Taken.  JOS operations are to be taken over by the
private sector by mid-year. The system will operate on a route franchise basis
and will be overseen by a franchising authority. The plan for the revised
system has been prepared in the context of the preparation of the proposed Urban
Transport Project.
Summary Accounts - Jamaica Omnibus Service
1981     1982
Revenues                                         22.8      16.0
Expenditures                                     37.1      29.0
Operating Profit/Loss
(before depreciation)                        -14.3    -13.0
Capital Expenditures                              -         -
Selected Financing Items
Government Transfers                              9.0       6.0
Amortization                                      2.6       3.2
Domestic
External                                        2.6       3.2



- 80 -                                ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 8
Air Jamaica (AJ)
10.        Current Status.  In 1983 Air Jamaica is forecasting a J$20 million
cash operating loss compared to J$15.8 million in 1982, despite implementation
of a program to cut costs by reducing staff, eliminating unprofitable routes and
improving fuel efficiency. The latest actions taken include the decision to
close the Kingston-Chicago route, effective in April; the layoff of 30 more
flight attendants; and putting up for sale three additional DC-8 planes.  Ihe
financial arrangements for the lease of two used airbuses were completed in
January 1983 and the planes began service in March on the f'Lights to Miami, New
York and Toronto. Operation of these aircraft will further improve fuel
efficiency. In cooperation vwith Air Lingus, Air Jamaica recently has begun a
once-a-week flight to London via Frankfurt, which appears to be profitable.
However, this action program has not been sufficient to compensate for the
effects of increased competition. For example, Air Jamaica's break-even load
factor has increased during the past year because the company has had to offer
promotional fares in order to compete with major carriers. In 1983 GOJ caslh
injections into Air Jamaica are projected to total J$21.2 million, including J$7
million in equity and a J$14.2 million contribution to the financing of the two
airbuses and related capital expenditures.
11.       Actions to be Taken.  Air Jamaica should continue its cost control
program and its review of routes in order to eliminate unprofitable flights.
Although cooperation between Air Jamaica and GOJ tourist promotion agencies has
improved, additional efforts could be made in this area, thereby enabling Air
Jamaica to benefit more from the increase in tourist visitors.
SumMary Accounts - Air Jamaica
1981      1982      1983
Revenues                                172.9    169.2    183.0
Expenditures                            183.4    185.0    203.0
Operating Profit/Loss
(before depreciation)                -10.5    -15.8    -20.0
Capital Expenditures                      1.6       2.0      13.3
Selected Financing Items
External Bank Loans                                           10.3
Government Transfers                     13.5       7.0      21.2
Amortization                              2.8       11.0      11.0
Domestic
External                                2.8      11.0       11.0



ANNEX VI
- 81 -                              Page 5 of 8
Jamaica Broadcasting Company (JBC)
12.        Current Status.  JBC expects to breakeven in 1983, an improvement
compared to 1982. In order to better their financial performance, the
corporation has scaled down an ambitious capital program including introduction
of color facilities, a new television channel, a hotel entertainment project and
radio improvements. In addition, overtime payments will be reduced and new
hirings will be lower than planned. The JBC has also prepared an aggressive
marketing plan to increase advertising revenue. The only transfer to JBC from
the Central Government budgeted for 1983 is on-lending, primarily under the
French protocol.
Summary Accounts - Jamaica Broadcasting Company
1981      1982      1983
Revenues                                  5.1       7.5       11.5
Expenditures                              6.7      10.4       11.3
Operating Profit/Loss
(incl. depreciation)                   -1.6      -2.9        .2
Capital Expenditures                       1.9      2.8        9.0
Selected Financing Items
External Bank Loans                                           4.4
Government Transfers                       1.3        .6       4.6



- 82 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 8
National Water Commission (NWC)
13.       Current Status.  The financial performance of the NWC (corporate and
rural areas) in 1983/84 is projected to improve as a result of the following
planned actions: a doubling of sewerage rates in the corporate area, a
reduction in overtime payments and layoffs of redundant workers.  The takeover
of the Parish Council water supply systems, involving considerable expenditures,
but little additional revenue for the NWC in the short run, has been postponed
until after 1983/84.  In addition, the expected easing of the drought conditions
prevailing in 1982/83 will raise revenues.  Recent actions taken to improve
financial performance include a tightening of collection procedures which raised
the collection to billings ratio in the first five months of 1982/83 to 85'%,
compared to 75% in 1981/82, and the installation and repair of water metern;.
Nevertheless, several serious problems remain. Accounts receivable as of August
31, 1982 amounted to 5.5 months, net of the bad debt provision, although the NWC
does expect to realize some benefits from the improved collection procedures
soon. In spite of an understanding with the Ministry of Finance to begin to
deduct the payments which various government agencies owe the NWC from their
budget allocations, no action has been taken.
14.       Actions to be Taken..  In July 1981 the consulting firm of Camp Dresser
and McKee completed a management audit of NWC in which specific recommendations
were made to protect public health and to improve the reliability of water
supply and the profitability of commercial operations. The GOJ recently agreed
signed a contract with the firm for US$1 million for an initial period of one
year to provide assistance in implementing the recommendations. The consultant
team is now in Jamaica. World Bank projects staff have already identified the
need for an average tariff increase of 28% for the corporate area in order to
achieve an acceptable level of profits. The GOJ believes that a decision on the
size and structure of a tariff increase should be delayed pending the results of
the consultants' analysis. A dated covenant is included in the Loan Agreement
under which a tariff increase to achieve the targeted rate of return would be
implemented by July 31, 1983. In addition, the NWC should be allowed to take
the measures necessary to reduce labor costs, including the proposals already
made to the Ministry, and, during the takeover process, should only be obliged
to take on the labor force from the Parish Councils that it considers
necessary. Satisfactory progress in the preparation of a financial plan for the
rural areas and the administrative integration of the rural and corporate areas
would be a condition for the release of the second tranche.



- 83 -                     ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 8
Summary Accounts - National Water Commission
81/82    82/83    83/84
Revenues                                60.0      73.0     90.9
Expenditures                            60.7      70.7     78.0
Operating Profit/Loss
(incl. depreciation)                   -.7      2.3      12.9
Capital Expenditures                    34.4      34.2     34.0
Selected Financing Items
Institutional Loans                      9.2       5.7      2.2
Government Transfers                    22.2      26.3     32.0
Amortization                             2.7       7.5       9.1
Domestic                                         4.0      4.4
External                               2.7       3.5      4.7



- 84 -
ANNEX VI
Page 9 of 8
Jamaica Public Service Company (JPS)
15.       Current Status.  Completion of part of the company's rehabilitatiLon
program is projected to improve the heat rate and lower fuel costs, and, in
addition, to increase the reliability of service. JPS also intends to reduce
unaccounted electricity losses to 16.5% (18.5% in 1982) and to hold the
company's use of electricity to .5 (.6% in 1982) of net generation. According
to the company, these measures will lower net generation by about 3%, in spite
of a projected increase in sales of a similar amount.  A revenue collection
program will also be initiated in order to reduce consumer receivables
islandwide to 60 days of revenue, compared-to the current level of 65 days. On
the expenditure side, two recent actions will enable the company to lower
1983/84 expenditures relative to the previous year. The price of fuel oil sold
to the JPS by the government-owned refinery has been reduced by slightly over
15%. In addition, the benefit of the drop in fuel costs will be captured by JPS
because, effective March 1, the heat rate used for billing purposes in the fuel
clause was raised from 13,500 BTUS/Kilowatt-hour to 16,500 BTUS/Kilowatt-hour.
The projected improvement in the financial performance of JPS is forecast to
result in a return of 5% on revalued assets, satisfying a condition of
effectiveness of the Third-Power Loan (effective February 28, 1983).
Summary Accounts - Jamaica Public Service Company
1981     1982      1983
Revenues                               260.0    297.9    319.8
Expenditures                           258.5    273.0    261.1
Operating Profit/Loss
(incl. depreciation)                   1.5     24.9      58.7
Capital Expenditures                    58.7      36.6     61.5
Selected Financing Items
Domestic Bank Loans                      5.5      15a/
External Bank Loans                      2.4      12.8     27.8
Institutional Loans                     16.9               19.2
Government Transfers                    19.9       5.0      5.0
Amortization                            28.4      17.5     36.5
Domestic                               5.7      2.7       4.0
External                              22.7      14.8     32.5
a/ Debentures
16.       Summary financial accounts for these companies and Airports Authority
(AA), Jamaica Telephone Co. (JTC), National Housing Corporation (NHC), National
Sugar Corporation (NSC), Sugar Industries Authority (SIA), and the Petroleum
Corporation of Jamaica (PCJ), for 1981/82-1983/84 are presented in the tables
that follow.



- 85 -                                ANNEX VI
Attachment I
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISES, 1981/82
(J$ Million)
AJ     AA    JBC    JAMINTEL  JNM      JTC      JPSCO       NHC         NSC         SIA
(CY)   (CY)   (CY)   (GOJ FY)  (CY)    (CY)       (CY)   (GOJ FY)   (CY 80/81)  (CY 80/81)
Revenues                      172.9   11.6    5.1      39.2    13.6   98.5      260.0      18.6          ...
Expenditures                  183.4   14.0    6.7      27.9    12.8    67.8a/   258.5      21.0          ...
Operating Profit/Loss
(incl. Depreciation))      -10.5           -1.6     11.3       .8   30.7        1.5     -2.4         -41.4         ob
Capital Expenditures            1.6    3.8    1.9       6.4    20.4    29.6      58.7
Selected Financing Items                                                                  n.a.          n.a.
Domestic Bank Loans                                              .1    18.0       5.5
External Bank Loans                                            18.0    10.7       2.4
Institutional Loans                    5.3                                       16.9
Government Transfers           13.5     .4    1.3                                19.9
Amortization                    2.8     .4                             23.4      28.4
Domestic                                                              2.9       5.7
External                     2.8      .4                             20.5      22.7
a/ Includes taxes paid of J$11.5 million.
I The Sugar Industry Authority roughly broke even this year.



-86 -                                     ANNEX VI
Attachment 2
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS OF PIJBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISES, 1981/82 (Continued)
(J$ Million)
PA           NHP          NWC         JRlC     JCTC        UDC         JOS        PCJ
(GOJ FY)    (GCJ FY)1   (GOJ FY)    (CY)          (FY)    (GOJ FY)        (CY)      (CY)
Revenues                          13.4           64.6        60.0        14,6    407.7          6.3       22.8    944.7
Expenditures                       8.0          100.1        60.7        18.8    404.5          3.0       37.1    935.9
Operating Profit/Loss
(incl. Depreciation)             5.4         -35.5          -.7       -4.2       3.2          3.3      -14.3       8.8
Capital Expenditures              14.6           20.9        34.4         3.1       -          32.3        -
Selected Financing Items
Domestic Bank Loans                4.5                                                         10.6
External Bank Loans               13.2                                                         31.3
Institutional Loans                                           9.2                                                    8.3
Government Transfers               2.5           86.0        22.2         5.1      16.2        41.4        9.0
Amortization                       6.2            n.a.        2.7                  14.0        10.9        2.6         .4
Domestic                         3.0                                            14.0          4.0
External                         3.2                        2.7                               6.9        2.6        .4



ANNEX VI
- 87 -                                    Attachment 3
SUaWARY ACCOUNTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISES, 1982/83
(J$ Million)
AJ     AA      JBC   JAMINTEL    .JMM       JTC      JPSCO          NHC          NSC            SIA
(CY)   (CY)   (CY)   (GOJ FY)   (CY)    (CY)           (CY)       (GOJ FY)   (CY 81/82)   (CY 81/82)
Revenues                        169.2   14.7    7.5        45.0      15.6   108.0       297.9        40.0          177.6
Expenditures                    185.0   16.2   10.4        31.9      13.3    63.6       273.0        41.8          215.4
Operating Profit/Loss
(incl. Dep.)                 -15.8   -1.5   -2.9         13.1       2.3    44.4a/    24.9          -1.8         -37.8          -62.2c/
Capital Expenditures              2.0    0.4    2.8         4.8       1.3    30.1        36.6         0.7            6.0
Selected Financing Items
Domestic Bank Loans                                                   0.5                15.0b/      12.0           44.0          11.2
External Bank Loans                                                            3.9       12.8
Institutional Loans
Government Flows                  7.0    0.1    0.6                                       5.0                                     27.0
Amortization                     11.0                                 3.0    21.5        22.5         8.0           19.0
Domestic                                                                     6.6        2.7         8.0           19.0
External                       11.0                                 3.0    14.9        19.8
a/ Does not include estimated tax due of J$12 million.
Debentures.
/  J$16-17 million represents payments on losses from previous year's crop.



-88 -                                      ANNEX VI
Attachment 4
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS 01' PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISES, 1982/83 (ContinuLed)
(J$ Million)
PA           NHI'          NWC        JRC      JCTC         UDC          Jos         CJOSP
(GOJ FY)    (GOJ fY)    (GOJ FY)    (CY)           (FY)    (GOJ FY)        (CY)      (CY)
Revenues                           14.8           44,0        73.0        12.3    400.0           8.7       16.0
Expenditures                        9.2           67.1        70.7        20.1    394.2           7.9       29.0
Operating Profit/Loss
(incl. Depreciation)              5.6         -23.1          2.3       -7.8        5.8         0.8      -13.0      -6.8c/
Capital Expenditures                6.4            5.0         34.2        8.1       -           97.1      -13.0        7.,
Selected Financing Items
Domestic Bank Loans                 0.5            4.0                                           26.8
External Bank Loans                 6.4
Institutional Loans                                             5.7                                                   22.9
Government Transfers                6.4a/         56.1        26.3        11.1       3.0         60.4        6.0
Amortization                       11.5           23.1          7.5                              13.1        3.2
Domestic                          5.1           11.1         4.0                               8.6
External                          6.4           12.0)        3.5                               4.5         3.2
a/  On-lending and equity contribution to the KIngston Free Zone.
'/ Preliminary; does not include Petrojam operations.
c/  Costs of Drilling Exploratory Well (J$26.7 nmillion) are expensed.



- 89 -                                    ANNEX VI
Attachment 5
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISES, 1983/84
(J$ Million)
AJ     AA        JBC   JAMINTEL    JMM        JTC      JPSCO       NHC          NSC            SIA
(CY)   (CY)      (CY)   (GOJ FY)   (CY)    (CY)          (CY)   (GOJ FY)   (CY 82/83)   (CY 82/83)
Revenues                        183.0   19.4       11.5      49.5      18.0   114.4      319.8      86.0          205.0         241.8
Expenditures                    203.0   14.7       11.3      35.5      16.2    67.0      261.1      80.8          233.5         236.1
Operating Profit/Loss
(incl. Dep.)                 -20.0    4.7        0.2      14.0       1.8    47.4        58.7       5.2         -28.5            5.7
Capital Expenditures             13.3    -          9.0      10.3       7.0    36.9        61.5       2.0          21.7           4.0
Selected Financing Items
Domestic Bank Loans                                                             2.0                                30.3b/
External Bank Loans              10.3               4.4       9.3       7.0    19.9       27.8      35.0           11.3
Institutional Loans                                                             3.6        19.2                     3.7
Government Flows                 21.2               4.6a/                                   5.0                    17.4
Amortization                     11.0                                   3.0    20.2       36.5      24.0            7.0
Domestic                                                                      6.0        4.0      24.0            2.5
External                       11.0                                  3.0    14.2        32.5                      4.5
a/ Represents on-lending.
1/  J$25.1 million from Life of Jamaica syndication.



ANNEX VI
- 90 -                                     Attachment 6
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISES, 1983/84 (Continued)
(J$ Million)
PA          NHP           NWC        JRC      JCTC         UDC         JOS        PCJb/7
(GOJ FY)   (GOJ FY)    (GOJ FY)    (CY)           (FY)    (GOJ FY)        (CY)      (CY)
Revenues                           14.7        13.2          90.9        13.2    516.7        21.3          n.a.      391.4
Expenditures                        9.8         11.1         78.0        17.9    497.4        15.4                    373.9
Operating Profit/Loss
(incl. Depreciation)              4.9         2.1          12.9       --4.7     19.3         5.9                     17.5
Capital Expenditures                8.8           .6         34.0         9.5       -        108.0                     24.1
Selected Financing Items
Domestic Bank Loans                 0.5          0.5                                          50.0
External Bank Loans                 0.5                                                       11.5
Institutional Loans                                           2.2                                                      63.3
Government Transfers                7.2a/      30.0          32.0        12.5                 40.0
Amortization                        5.2        32.0           9.1                             12.3                      2.7
Domestic                         0.2          9.3           4.4                              9.5
External                          5.0        22.7           4.7                              2.8                      2.7
a/ GOJ on-lending and equity contribution to the Kingston Free Zone.
Does not include Petrojam operations.



- 91 -                    ANNEX VII
The 1983/84 Public Sector Investment Program
The 1983/4-1985/6 public sector investment program (PSIP) was completed in
August 1982 and was designed to support the Governments structural adjustment
program. It emphasized increased exports, expanded private investment and
decreased Government involvement in directly productive activities. Approximately
one-fourth of the program was allocated to the directly productive sectors, with
agriculture accounting for about half that amount. With the exception of an
IDB-financed project for the expansion of the cement plant, investment in these
sectors primarily focused on the provision of supporting services rather than
direct investment in productive capacity. Economic infrastructure accounted for
about half of the program, with primary emphasis on the rehabilitation of public
utilities and the road system. Investment in social infrastructure, amounting to
about 22% of the program, emphasized vocational and technical training,
rehabilitation and construction of the badly deteriorated primary school system,
and upgrading and expansion of health facilities. Compared to previous years,
amounts allocated to housing were reduced considerably; the Government's policy in
this sector focuses primarily on the upgrading and expansion of low-income
housing.
The Bank agreed with the composition and strategy of the Goverment's PSIP.
However, it assumed rates of project preparation and execution which were
optimistic; consequently, the financing requirements were overestimated. At the
same time, the financing plan was also optimistic with regard to projected levels
of public enterprise savings and external inflows.
In recognition of these problems, the Government reviewed the 1983/84
investment program in detail in the context of the preparation of SAL II and the
third year EFF program. It reduced the magnitude of the program by about J$215
million (not including additions resulting from the expansion in the coverage of
the PSIP) (See Table VII-1). The reductions in the PSIP reflected a realistic
appraisal of the status of preparation and execution of projects in the investment
program and the following emphasis in the allocation of resources:
(a) Completion of ongoing projects with associated external financing;
(b) Rehabilitation, maintenance and extension of useful life of existing
social and economic infrastructure; and
(c) Support for the development of exports and expanded private investment.
The financing plan for the revised 1983/84 program is consistent with
the targets and framework set forth in the Government's extended arrangement with
the IMF (See Table VII-2). Almost two-thirds of the program would be financed by
net external inflows; public sector savings would cover 12% and net domestic
financing 20%. It is anticipated that the contribution of public sector savings
would increase and reliance on net external inflows would diminish in 1984/85 and
beyond.



PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM (1982/83,1983/84)
J$ millions
Estimated Outturn
Original 1983/4                     Revised 1983/4                             1982/3
.Total                              Total
Agriculture                                                   185.7                               118.2                                  136.5
Mining                                                          2.1                                 1.5                                    2.9
Manufacturing                                                  54.4                                53.6                                   17.0
Tourism                                                        39.6                                47.6                                   45.8
Total Prodoctive Sectors                                    281.8                               220.9                                  202.2
Power and Energy                                               88.5                                72.1                                   73.7
Other Utilities                                                62.8                                37.0                                   43.8
Transport and Communications                                  270.7                               195.1                                  202.9
Other Economic Infraestructure                                 75.2                                64.9                                   89.6
Total Economic Infraestructive                              4972.                               369.1                                  410.0o
Health.                                                        24.0                                22.3                                   16.8
Education                                                      60.6                                46.8                                   23.6
lhousinlg                                                      66.3                                76.1                                   88.0
Other Social Infrastructure                                    69.3                                54.8                                   28.2
Total Social Infrastructure                                 220.2                               200.0                                  156.6
Administration                                                 36.2                                30.4                                   31.0
TOTAL                                                      1035.4                               820.4                                  799.8
-Expansion in PSIP Coveragea/                                                                      79.1
TOTAL                                                                                          899.5
GDP                                                          7220.0                             6405.0                                  59;5.0
As % of GDP                                                  14.3%                               14.0%                                  13.5%
al includes Banana Co., Petroleum Corp. of Jamaica and UDC commercially financed projects.



- 93 -
Table VII-2
PSIP FINANCING PLAN, 1983/84
J$ Millions
1983/84
Total Capital Expenditures                              900
Financed by:
Public Sector Savings
Central Government                                   -186
National Insurance Scheme                              96
National Investment Corporation                        13
National Housing Trust                                106
Petroleum Corporation                                  17
Commodity Trading Company                              20
Other Nonfinancial Public Enterprises a/              110
Total Public Sector Savings                176
Less: Financing of Private
Investment by the
National Housing Trust             -69
Contribution of Public Sector
Savings to the Financing of PSIP          107
External Financing
Project-related                                       246
Other                                                 794
Loss:  Amortization                                 425
Net External Financing                      615
Domestic Financing
Banking System                                         30
Other                                                 148
178
As % of Total Capital Expenditures
Public Sector Savings                                  11.9
Net External Financing                                 68.3
Net Domestic Financing                                 19.8
a/ These constitute the group of enterprises which the
original performance targets were agreed under SAL T
and are the same as those referred to in paras. 29
and 50 above.



- 94 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA - ITEMS REMOVED FROM THE RESTRICTED LIST, 1982-83
February 1982
C.B. radios                               T.V. antenna poles
Cutlery--silver plated                    Ice cream
Kitchen sinks, stainless steel            Carpet cleaner
Door stops                                Cocktail stirrers
Textiles, excluding griege                Canister sets (plastic)
Cement                                    Crown corks
Computers                                 Pilfer-proof closures
Cranes                                    Squeegees or window wipers for offices
Artificial fruits                         Infant food--prepared in airtight-
Decorative articles of plastic              containers
Grapenut                                  Paper cores
Tea                                       Games, adult and children
Hair curlers                              Calculators
Cereals, prepared in consumer packages  Lighting fixtures, excluding flourescent
Feathers                                  Locks, padlocks, docr latches and pulls
Equipment for the reception or            Pipe cock washers
transmission of radio waves            Gutter brackets
Popcorn                                   Hinges
Brass hose bibs                           Water treatment chemicals
Stop cocks                                Structural parts of buildings
"E" clips                                 Doors, flush panel
Juke boxes                                Contact points of all types for motor
Cheese boards (wood)                        vehicles
Elastics                                  Windows and doors
Artificial flowers                        Putty
Mattress tapes                            Lumber, pressure treated, etc.
Meat board                                Crayons
Pot holders (of all types)                Clutch and brake fluid
Record racks                              Hydraulic and automatic transmission fluid
Spice racks--wooden                       First-aid kits (metal)
Table tennis boards                       Paper towel holders
Fertilizers



- 95 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
JAMAICA - ITEMS REMOVED FROM THE RESTRICTED LIST, 1982-83
February 1983
Ladies' shoes except sandals              Business card holders
Paper clips                               Chamber pots
Umbrellas, beach and patio                Clipboards
Childrens' shoes                          Clothes hangers, excluding skirt hangers
Sanitary napkins--excluding tampon        Clothes pegs
type                                    Egg cups
Tumblers of plastic                       Fish--live aquarium
Bread pans, baskets and bins for          Garment racks
household use only                      Glass holders
Mugs and jugs excluding glass             Handkerchiefs
Butter dishes and keepers                 Key rings
Bowls of all sizes and descriptions       Lemonade sets
excluding glass and ceramic             Letter holders
Funnels of plastic                        Luggage tags
Coasters--all types                       Lunch boxes
Ice buckets                               Metal tool boxes
Condensers                                Mop pails
Colouring books, drawing books,           Mop wringers
scrap books except types not made       Napkin rings
locally                                 Passport cases
Exercise books                            Plungers
Mattress springs                          Punch sets
Mattresses                                Show cases and store display units
Redwood louvre blades                     Telephone directory holders
Nails, wire                               Tie wire twisters
Paint rollers and trays                   Travellers cheque holders
Afro picks                                Venetian blinds
Air conditioning screens                  Dish racks
Ash trays                                 Asbestos pipes
Barbecue grills                           Bread racks
Mesh wire                                 Bun racks
Battery accessories                       Night latches
(terminal ends)                         Tray stands



- 96 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 3
SCHEME FOR PASSING ON THE BENEFITS OF EXPORT
INCENTIVES TO FARMERS
The export incentive scheme will generate incremental revenues in
Jamaica dollars for all export crops, with the exception of sugar and bananas. I/
These revenues will accrue both to individual agricultural exporters and to
commodity organizations which provide processing, packaging and marketing
services. For the crops marketed by the latter entities, the Government has taken
steps to ensure that, to the extent possible, the benefits of the export incentive
scheme are passed to the growers. At the same time, the Government is introducing
measures aimed at rationalizing agriculture.and reducing Government intervention
in the sector. Specifically, the production of coffee and cocoa seedlings would
be transferred on an interim basis to the relevant commodity boards and over a
five year period, to the private sector. The cost of certain crop care programs
would also be transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture to the farmer on a
gradual basis. The establishment of a crop insurance scheme is also being
explored. The relative role of the commodity organizations, the Ministry of
Agriculture and the private sector in the provision of these services would be
finally determined after the completion of the study on the nonmarketing
activities of the external marketing organizations by July 1983.
In general, the Government's plan provides for the following uses of the
incremental earnings:
(i)   farmgate price increases;
(ii)   elimination of subsidies;
(iii)   crop insurance;
(iv)   contribution to a price stabilization fund; and
(v)   purchase of equipment for upgrading existing processing facilities.
The specific application of the above framework has been agreed for four
commodity organizations.
Cocoa Board. Incremental earnings from the Government export incentive
scheme, estimated at J$2.3 million, would be primarily used to increase the farm-
gate price for cocoa by 25-30%. In addition, the cocoa board would take over
responsibility for production of planting material from the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, at a cost of approximately J$500,000, and the price of planting material to
1/        Total incremental revenues for non-traditional agricultural exports is
estimated at J$10 million in 1983/84 (based on 1982/83 export prices and
a parallel market rate of US$1.0=J$2.75).



- 97 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
the farmers would be substantially increased, although some subsidy element would
remain in 1983/84. The Board is also likely to assume the expense of cocoa-
specific crop care activities presently administered by the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, and would contribute J$150,000 to the crop insurance scheme. The costs of
these latter activities would be absorbed by the accumulated surpluses of the
Board and by the farmer.
Coffee Board.  Incremental earnings from Government's export incentive
scheme, estimated at J$2.3 million, would be used for the following purposes:
(i)    farmgate price increases of 5-8% (over and above increases anticipated
in the export price), with an estimated cost of J$500,000;
(ii)    expenses of the coffee nursery (J$1.0 million), with price of seedlings
to the farmer to be more than doubled;
(iii)    contribution to crop insurance scheme (J$170,000).
(iv)    contribution to the cost of the coffee berry borer control program; and
(v)    incremental expenses arising from the purchase of equipment for the
pulperies on the parallel market.
Pimento Exports Division. Incremental earnings, estimated at J$2.0
million, would be used for the following:
(i)   14% increase in farmgate price (estimated total cost: J$1.0 million);
(ii)   preliminary work towards establishment of a crop insurance scheme,
including registration of pimento growers and a pimento tree census,
with an estimated total cost of J$300,000;
(iii)  increased working capital of J$500,000 to finance purchases of pimento
at the increased price without reliance on additional bank loans at high
interest cost and to serve as price stabilization fund;
(iv)  expenditures on research, crop care and production of planting materials
(J$200,000).
Citrus Growers Association (CGA). Incremental earnings for the export
of citrus fruit and concentrate is estimated at J$500,000. Exports to third
country account for only a small proportion of citrus produced; the rest is
consumed locally or exported to CARICOM countries. At present, the Citrus
Growers' Association is losing more than J$2.0 million annually as a consequence
of 1) low international prices for citrus products; 2) inefficiency and high
processing costs of the CGA-owned factory; 3) farmgate prices for growers which
exceed equivalent export prices; 4) over capacity in the processing industry (two



- 98 -                    ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 3
factories, one CGA-owned and one private, are both operating well below
capacity). A recent study of thie industry financed by the EEC recommended
various measures for rationalization of the industry, including divestment
of the CGA-owned factory; the Government is presently reviewing these
recommendations. In the interim, the incremental revenues arising from
export sales on the parallel market would be directed toward reduction in
the subsidy to the grower.



0 2 ~~~-   ______________                                           ______.____,_E______._*_- |
HAN XOVER             ST. JAMES   g      . . . . .. .........                                           X       f            .      L           ,=,jU
0,~~~~~-----                                         TR E L   ; A;SWo N Y      
P 0 R TL AA N                     E
WESYMORLAND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CLRSTA1
,~~~~~F                                                                                             CAT.--.H,-,ERIu       't,2,a.   
_ LO0_._8185\ __ ,. ; '  W ;;S ,_Cfi' C  $ T E R                                                                   Ki
A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



