LtJ-          q k
RESTRICTED
Report No. P-507
FILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
September 7, 1966



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE FRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONCERNING A
LOAN TO THE REFUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION FROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $17.5 million to
the Republic of Zambia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In 1964 the Bank financed a survey of transportation in Zambia
by the Netherlands Engineering Consultants (NEDECO) which recommended a
transport development plan for the period 1966-1970. After stucdring this
plan, the Government of Zambia approached the Bank in early 1965 with a
proposal to reconstruct a number of main roads scattered throughout the
country. In reply, the Bank indicated that, for its first road loan in
Zambia, it would prefer a more consolidated project. The Governrrent was
also informed that the Bank required detailed engineering to be carried out
before the Bank would appraise a road construction project.
3.        The Government submitted in July 1965 a revised application for
help in financing the reconstruction of 728 miles of road. A Bank appraisal
mission visited Zambia in November/December 1965 and found that the re-
construction of 373 miles of road, on which the detailed engineering had
been carried out in response to the Bank's stated requirement, and the
detailed engineering of an additional 147 miles would be suitable for
financing at this time.
4.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington in May 1966. The
borrowfer was represented by His Excellency Arthur N.L. Wina, Minister of
Finance, and His Excellency Hosea Josias Soko, the former Arnbassador of
Zambia to the United States. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Transport and Works, and the Attorney-General's office were also
present. Presentation of the proposed loan to the Executive Directors has
been delayed until the Zambian Parliament had passed the necessary enabling
legislation.
5.        The proposed loan would be the first lending operation by -the
Bank or IDA in independent Zambia. Previously the Bank made two loans for
railways in Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia) and Southern Rhodesia and two
loans for power to the Central African Power Corporation, jointly owned by
Zambia and Rhodesia. Zambia has since assumed responsibility for its share
of these lendings. Each of these loans is guaranteed by the United Kingdom.
There have been no IDA operations in Zambia. The following is a summary
statement of Bank loans in Zambia as of July 31, 1966:



-2-
Amount (US $ Millions)
Year   Borrower                   Purpose               Bank       Undisbursed
1953   Zambia                     Railways              14.0_
1956   Central African Power
Corporation 1/           Electric Power        40.0 2/         _
1958   Zambia 1/                  Railways               9.5             -
1964   Central African Power
Corporation              Electric Power         3.85 2/       0.5
Total (less cancellations)                       67.3
of which has been repaid                      ih.8
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                       37.2
of which has been repaid      13.6            23.6
Total now held by Bank                           2T.9
Total undisbursed                                 0.5           0.5
6.        The Central African Power Corporation has been unable to obtain
the foreign exchange from the governments of Rhodesia and Zambia for recent
payments due under the 1956 and 1964 loans. Zambia and the United Kingdom
have each made one-half of these payments as guarantor.
7.        No further loans to Zambia are expected to be submitted to the
Executive Directors in the near future.   Work is progressing on the prepara-
tion of a secondary general and technical education project following a
recent UNESCO project identification study. A Bank/FAO project identifica-
tion mission visited Zambia last year and, as a result of its recommendations,
an application is expected for assistance in a forestry project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.        The main characteristics of the proposed loan are as follows:
Borrower:                   Republic of Zambia.
Amount:                      Various currencies equivalent to
$17.5 million.
1/ As a result of Loan Assumption Agreements entered into in connection
with the dissolution of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland at the
end of 1963.
2/ Amount guaranteed by Zambia, i.e., one-half of loan.



-3-
Purpose:                    To finance part of the cost of the
reconstruction of sections of the
Great Morth and Great East Roads,
totalling 373 miles, and the detailed
engineering of an additional 147-mile
section of the Great Niorth Road.
Amortization:               In 33 semi-annual installments begin-
ning July 15, 1970, and ending
July 15, 1986.
Interest Rate:              6% per annum.
Commitment Charge:          3/8 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE FROJECT
9.        A report on the proposed project entitled "Appraisal of a Highway
Reconstruction Project - Zambia" (TO-525b, dated Septenber 7, 1966) is
attached.
10.       Zambia's transport system consists of 665 miles of railway line,
20,800 miles of public road, water transport in some limited areas and a
network of light aircraft services. The railway, the portion of the Rhodesia
Railways situated in Zambia, is used primarily to transport minerals to
the sea and to bring in imported goods including coal from Rhodesia. It
contributes little to the internal exchange among the various regions of the
country, and its extension to meet these requirements is not practical. Water
and air transport, while important in certain areas or for limited purposes,
are not suited to the major task of integrating the economy. The road net-
work, however, is basically appropriate for meeting these needs.
11.       The project consists of the reconstruction and bituninous paving
of sections of the Great East and Great North Roads and the detailed
engineering of an additional section of the Great North Road. Both of these
roads are main arteries and provide international connections to the sea.
The Great North Road is part of the main highway frcm Cape Town, South
Africa to Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania and to Nairobi, Kenya, and the Great East
Road links the center of Zambia with the highway and railway systems of
Nlalawi and Mozambique. In the present unsettled conditions in Central Africa
arising from the Unilateral Declaration of Independence by Rhodesia, these
roads are carrying exceptional import and export traffic diverted from the
Rhodesia Railways. However, reconstruction of the project sections to the
proposed standards would be economically justified on the basis of normal
traffic patterns. The project sections will have ample capacity to accommodate
expected normal traffic volumes and would also be able to handle extra-
ordinary traffic for considerable periods if the need should arise.
12.       The cost of the project is estimated at about $29.0 million equi-
valent, including engineering and contingencies. The proposed loan would



cover the estimated foreign exchange cost component of $17.5 million equi-
valent, approximately 60% of the total cost. The Government will cover
the local currency requirements. The project is expected to be completed
by the end of 1969.
13.       Design of the road sections to be reconstructed has been carried
out by engineering consultants in close consultation with the Bank, and
provision is made in the draft Loan Agreement to reimburse the Government
for its foreign exchange expenditures on this work since June 1, 1965,
amounting to about $720,000.
14.       Contracts for the reconstruction of the project roads have already
been awarded on the basis of bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Similarly, the engineering consultants for the 1h7-mile section of the Great
North Road have been retained. Execution of the project will be the res-
ponsibility of the Roads Department of the Ministry of Works. Supervision
of construction will be performed by consultants.
15.       The project, which is based on recommendations of the Bank-
financed survey of transport in Zambia, has high priority in the Government's
development plans. Reconstruction of the road sections will reduce transport
costs substantially and prevent a rapid rise in transport costs in the near
future. Based on projections of normal traffic, that is, making no allowance
for traffic at present diverted from the Rhodesia Railway, the rate of
economic return on the investment from savings in transport and road mainte-
nance costs is about 12-13 percent, which is satisfactory. Other, less
quantifiable benefits, such as the project's contribution to the economic
integration of outlying areas with the fast-growing center of the country,
can also be expected.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRU1ENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Zambia and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
17.       The draft Loan Agreement is similar to other agreements entered
into by the Bank for highway projects. Attention is directed to Section
5.09 which provides that the Borrower is to reconstruct to satisfactory
standards the section of the Great East Road connecting the two sections
being reconstructed under the project. Work has begun on this section and
is progressing satisfactorily.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
18.       An Economic Report, entitled "The Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Zambia" (No. AF-43a), dated MIay 18, 1966, was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 25, 1966.



19.       This report concluded that abstracting from the possible future
effects of Rhodesia's Unilateral Declaration of Independence (UDI) on
November 11, 1965, Zambia has a good growth potential. Clearly copper will
continue to be the mainspring of this growth in the foreseeable future.
Copper is in many ways an enclave industry, highly dependent on foreign
skills, but the revenue which it provides to the Government, if productively
employed, should have increasing effect upon growth in the other sectors
of the economy. There is a fairly good agricultural potential to be tapped,
although the shortage of trained manpower, particularly for the extension
service, will for many years limit the pace of general agricultural develop-
ment. Nevertheless, African farmers in Zambia are beginning to turn to the
production of cash crops - mainly tobacco and cotton. Industrial develop-
ment is limited by the low internal purchasing power and lack of skilled
manpower. However, there are further possibilities for import substitution
and for the processing of agricultural, fish and forest products.
20.       Zambia has sizeable current account budget and balance of pay-
ments surpluses. These are likely to continue for a few years, but, short-
term fluctuations apart, copper prices are likely to fall in due course
to a much lower level. From about 1970 onvards current account balance-
of-payments deficits are likely to emerge as development of indigenous
economy accelerates. The current account budget surplus will probably con-
tinue to be considerable up to about 1970, but will not be sufficient to
finance all public investment requirements. In any case, it is desirable
for 7ambia to start a small phased program of external borrowing now, both
in order to maintain an adequate level of reserves and to acquire much
needed experience in the preparation and implementation of projects.
Zambia's gold and foreign exchange reserves, including those held by the
copper companies, were over £90 million ($252 million) at the end of 1965.
This was equivalent to 9-1/2 months1 imports at the 1965 rate.
21.       The effects to date of UDI in Rhodesia have not seriously affected
the growth potential of the economy. UDI has accelerated the taking and
implementation of decisions to change Zambia's past dependence upon trade
with and transit of imports and exports through Rhodesia. There have been
some disruptive short-term effects, such as increasing costs and shortages
of goods. However, the budgetary and balance-of-payments impact has been
largely offset by the continued rise in copper prices (particularly now
that Zambian producers are quoting London Metal Exchange prices) and by
assistance from the Canadian, United Kingdom and United States Governments
to offset transport difficulties. Additionally, UDI may have accelerated
somewhat the rate of expatriate departures with a consequent loss of skills;
a higher rate could have more lasting harmful consequences, but so far the
rate has not become dangerously high. Thus, the effects of UDI have not
so far been such as to undermine Zambia's basic economic strength and
creditworthiness.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



PART VII - RECOiNENDATION
23.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTIOI NO.
Approval of Loan to Republic of Zambia in an amount
equivalent to U.S. $17,500,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic
of Zambia in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seventeen million five hundred thousand United States
dollars (U.S. $17,500,000), to mature on and prior to
July 15, 1986, to bear interest at the rate of six percent
(6%) per annuw, and to be upon such other terms and
conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Highway Project) between the Republic of Zambia
and the Bank, which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
By J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
September 7, 1966



