U~RN   ToI~V                  RESTRICTED
8~~~~N TS O\E 11m  U
WITHIN         f                  Report No. TO-525b
| ONE WEEK            I
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its am;liated orgonizations.
They do not accepl responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL 13ANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHI-WAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJEC-T
ZAMBIA
September 7, 1966
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:        Zambian Pound (AZ)
U.S. $1         =     1-Z .357
EZ 1            =     U.S. $2.80
EZ 1, 000, 000  =     U. S. $2, 800, 000
J Z 1           =     240 nence
1 pence         =     U. S. X 1. 16
FISCAL, YEAR
July 1          -     June 30
WEGTSTq AND) iA.4,    ESIgi
English



ZABIA
APPRAISAL OF A HIGIUAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SUM_ RY                                               - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION
II.   BACKGROUND                                          _
III.   TRANSPORT SYSTEM                                    2
B. Access tc, the Sea                               3
CG  T:nternal Transnporti-4
D. Hlighway Transport                               5
I-T.ch-rm Trnaffic nnr ri Uhilc% Ma Fe   5
Highway Transport Industi7                5
T,  r?fa-1..?!i]  m+r,peti4wo                      .7
F. The Highway System                               8
Net,work                                  8
Administration                            8
High.-,a Budgets and D-1.d               -10
t.4  4-,.r,¶r  -"-,Ana+r   rn   CrAI-.   -ILV
Receipts from Road Users and
tYg Opu-y rOts                       10-
Mai.ntenance                              10
Construction Planning and Design          11
Standards
RaConstruction Inudistury              1
Development Plans                         12
IV.   THE PROJECT                                         13
A. Description                                      13
B.  ])esiril Standards                             114
Description                               14
Special Problem with regard to            I4
the Design Standards
C. Execution                                        16
D. CJost Est-mate and Financing                     16
This report :is based on the findings of a mission in November-December 1965
to Zambia composed of Messrs. Soges and Jaycox of the Bank.



A  A
V *    1:iVV1M'JIt LLJV  uJUlJt Wl-.I4AJ1                 ±0 
B. Savings in Transport Costs                      l9
C.  Other- Benefits                                21
VI.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOUPUIENDATIOUS                  22
ANNEX
TABLES
1. Licensed Miotor Vehicles
2. Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Consumption
3.  The Highwav System
4. Highway Budgets
5. Design Standards
6. Est;imated Cost of Project
7. Agricultural Production
8e  Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs in Zambia
9. Est;imated V'ehicle Operating Costs on Project Read Sections
lOo  Estimated Average Daily Traffic cn Project Road Sections
CHART: Organization of the Roads Department
MAPS
1. East and Central African Rail Links
2. Zambia Highway System



-leuvll It
APPRAISAL OF A FHIGAflWA'Y RECi-u--R-UuiIO  -R-JiE
The Govermnent of the Republic of Zambia has asked the Bank to
help finance the improvement of the Great East Road linking Lusaka the
capital, with the agriculturally-rich Eastern Province and i'alawi, and of
the Great North Road, linking the center of Zambia with the Northern
Province and East Africa.
ii.       The project consists of:  (1) the reconstruction and bituminous
paving of two sections of the Great East Road, totalling 251 miles; (2)
the reconstruction and bituminous paving of a 122-mile section of the Great
Nlorth Road and (3) the engineering and supervision of construction of the
above road sect-ons and the detailed engineering of a further 147-mile
section of the Great North Road by consultELnts. The project is expected to
be completed by the end of 1969.
iii.      The cost of' the project is estimated at about $29 million equiv-
alent, including engineering and contingencies. The construction cost
estimate is based on actual contract prices for the proJect works, which
have already been put to tender. The foreign exchange cost component is
estim.ated at about 60 per cent, or about W27.5 million equivalent and would
be financed by the proposed loan.  The Government would finance the local
currency requirements.
iv.       Design of the road sections tc be reconstructed has been carried
out by engineering consultants. All construction contracts have been
awarded on a unit nrice basis and in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Execution of the project is the responsibility of the
Roadls Department of t'he Mlinistrv of Works. Supervision of construction is
being performed by consultants.
v.        The project has high priority in the Government's highway pro-
gram, which is based on recommendatIons of the Bank-financed survey of
transport in Zambia. Reconstruction of the road sections will reduce trans-
port costs suibstantiallv and nrevent a rapid rise in transnort costs in
the near future. The estimated rate of economic return on the investment
from savings in transnort and road maintenance costs is about 12-13 per .ent;-
which is satisfactory.. Other benefits can also be expected from the pro-
1e. t 9 althoughl they nre not readi y quantif-Labl e
vi.      TDes:iin standrds hnve 'h70n 9Pterrnindr3 on .he- bis of ne-rml1
traffic requirements. The present extraordinary transport problem facing
___bi may cause heavier than no}tafeloading" on the pro3ec          --ds
However, the road built to normal standards would be capable of sustaining
heavicer than norm-al t-raffic loadlingcs for a susitcanialn period of ti-m, and
the proposed standards are considered appropriate by both the Government
an-d the Bank.



- ii -
vii.      During loan negotiations the Government confirned its intentior
to make adequate buelgetary allocations to properly maintain the country's
road svstem and to imDrove maintenance of the roads under the resnonsibilitv
of the Rura:L Local Authorities. The Government will also ensure that the
nrofesiona:l standard and strength sf the Rosl Depnartnment is maintained and
increased if necessatry to carry out the road development program now in
prepratlon.-
h    rTrvernmfni has agreed tonconduct an investigation to deternine
the appropriate extent of comDetition between goods carriers in the areas
affected by the road improvements in the ProJect, and to initiate the ad--
ministrative steps required to remove restrictions to this competition.
ix.       The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan in the!
amoun o,V U-4  f-lf17                  Ar. appropriate loan ter-, would be
20 years including a four year period of grace.



ZP!4Bl5 A
.APPRAISAL; OF A HIGH-WAY RECORSTIRUCTI\ON PUj1sECT
1. IFTRODUCTION
1.1.      The Governm.ent of the Republic of Zambia submitted in July 1965
an application to the Bank to help finance (1) the reconstruction of two
sections of the 386-mile Great East Road from Lusaka to the Malawi border,
(2) reconstruiction of a section of the Great North Road from Kapiri Mposhi
to Mpika, andi (3) reconstruction of the Mpika-Lake Tanganyika road. The
Government's application covered a tota:l of 728 miles of road for recon-
struction, and was based primarily on the findings of the Netherlands
Engineering Consultanits (NEDECO), who in 1964 conducted a transport sur-
vey of Zambia which lJa8s financed by the Bank. A Bank appraisal mission
visited Zambia in November/December 1965 and found the reconstruction of
the two sections of the Great East Road (251 miles) and a 122-mile section
of the Great North Road ready for appraisal and suitable for financing.
The detailed engineering of the remainder of the Great North Road section
(147 miles) was also found suitable for financing at this time. The Mpike.-
Lake Tangany:ika road section was not ready for aopraisal.
1.2.      This appraisal report is based on the recommendations of the
NEDECO survey, on engineering and economic studies carried out by the
Roads Department, on final engineering and design carried out by the engi-*
neering consultants (Brian Colquhoun and Partners, and Edwards and Bur-
rows), and on the firndings of the Bank appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Soges and Jaycox.
1.3.      This would be the first lendinig operation by the Bank or IDA in
in-ependent `,Zaqmnbia.  Previously, the Rank maie two loans fnr railwnys
(NR-74 and R11-197) in Northern and Southern Rhodesia and two loans for
pnower (RN-14;' sndNP-2') to thipe Cn.entral Africn Pnyer Corporation inint.1v
owned by Zambia and Rhodesia.   Zambia has assumed responsibility for its
share of these lendings.
2. BACKGROUNI)
2.1.      Zambia is a landlocked country in central Africa with an area
of about     )n '1 ,0 qaref  1  tmils tl ale ti thiA  as .   4 c a t_P e and Wc.t
Germany combined. Zambia's population is estimated at 3.7 million, and
is growin.g at. an estimated rate of 2.  pe   etpran<.>nt-ih
per cent of the population is of African origin.    The Gross Domestic Prod-
uct lat factcirJ. -cost)4j a 19  is).C 4 - es4m4-d4iE at LL 306 million ($85 mU)-_ .illion114
equivalent) and the annual per capita incomre is about $232.
2.2.      Most of Zambia is a high plateXau with a general elevation
o e 0  ar,dj--  4,50 fee t.  Tbe plateau is c-ut -  he     of
' ueI..weenJ)u   n a ,)UU  ee'..  ±Ie         is     by    ~vaU.lle!ys:
the Zambezi River and its tributaries, the Kafue and the Luangwa.     The
geology of the northeastern and eastern parts of the country is affected
by the Great African Rift Valley.   Vegetation is predominantly of wooded



savanna type; the climate is tropical aind average annual rainfall ranges
from 50 inches in the north.east decreasing soutrhwfestward to about 30
inches around Lusaka, the capital. The southwestern parts of the country
verge on the Kalahari Desert.   Rainfall is seasonal and concentrated in
the months I)ecember through Mlarch.
2.3.      Zambia's economy has two mairl SeCtOrS. The primary sector is
the copper mining and refining industry which dominates the economy and
constitutes the third largest in the world, ranking in value of output
after those of the U.S. and U.S.S.R. Copper production is valued at about
lZ 137 million per annum and accounts for nearly 50 per cent of GDP and
90 per cent of export proceeds. The second main productive sector consists
of European farming primarily situated astride the rail line serving the
copper industry.
2.4.      Economic activity in Zambia is concentrated in the "Copperbelt"
and along the "Line of Rail." The Copperbelt is a relatively small area
located in the north central part of the country against the border with
Katanga Province of the Congo.   The Line of Rail area is a narrow, north-
south strip where the larger towns of the country are located and the bulk
of the economic and administrative activity takes place. Neither the copper
industry nor the European farmiDg has had much effect upon the development
of the rest of Zambia.   Zambia's population is essentially rural and er-
gaged in subsistence farming. Less than one third of the people live
within the zone of .influence of the Line of Rail/Copperbelt complex.
2.5.      Durinig the countrvts federation with Rhodesia and Nvasaland
(1953-1963), the economy grew in real terms at the relatively slow an-
nual rate of about :3.6 ner cent.  In the period 1960-1963. GDP virtually
stagnated mainly due to a fall in copper prices and the political uncer-
tanint.ies ar-isingr ou1- of thei mnvpement towward dissolution of the Fede9rstinn
(December 31, 1963) and achievement of national independence (October 24.,
1964)- Hotwever, in 1964 the economy registered an 8.9 per cent .ncrea_
in real GDP, and in 1965 an increase of about 9 per cent is again ex-
npeete.
3. TRANSPORT SYSTEM!
A. General
3.1.      Zambia's transport system consists of 665 miles of railway
line, 20,iQ00 miles of public roads, water transport in some .1-,ited area3,
and a network of ligTht aircraft services. The share of transport in GDP
.sisoly about 44 per, cetLhl      ..[ appears low because coppe   ac..A  s
for such a large proportion of GDP. In 1964, the Bank financed a survey
of  ransport-tion in Zba `by NEDE~CO whc     ecunedatanpr
US. L  L±~ IU. L UULUII  iLl  L~.iLUL a.V   'L A.Y'  WULJA . 1. L   XU LLtLeILUUv.  0.  UL C10.PVD.J± U
developm.ent plan for the period 1966-1970.  As a landlocked country
depending heavily on exports and i-ports * Zambia mUst cuuceIrn i-telf wit]i
ensuring a reliable access to the sea as well as building a practical
internal netwUork to facilitate economic development.



- 3-
B. Access to the Sea (see M';an 1)
3..       Z7ambia's nrimary link to the sea is via the Rhodesia Railways
from the Cor,perbelt through Southern Rhodesia to the r1ozambique ports of
Bei rn qnd T,niirpnco Marrues, both abunit 1 ,5O r i I miles from the (Copr-
perbelt.  The Rhodesia Railways is owmed in equal shares by the Govern-
ments of Zambi  a   S         R        an   i  paed by a well-managed
statutory corporation as a common service to the tvwo countries.  Ex-
"~Jl   ^ii+n   jn^'iiAa- (I )  +I-,c  P  TC',   r%Va+nnrniy   (RMO.-
isting~~~~~        ~-    -----aiv  rai  ro+e  inlde  1  the --- Con,o-Ktna(K)
Bengueela railways through Katanga Province and Angola to the Angolan port
o  T Loi+o. (ol -lnce Kaangav`,Ta+a0A; -o4 1 /.-Ter n ou_e -r4 o D O+ P Ot --n,-  ' na
*S1  1,LJ L/ A. V Xi S  C.s iC 4J. jC 9C V1~   J.L  C^llJ5J I 4VC4¼.  J. L&.A.L v' 0 Vl V ¼- 4X_ ±¼3&¼  V .,I. JL ± L f¼  9>.J
(3) the Katanga-Lake Tanganyika-East African Railways line to Dar es
Salaarm, Tanzania. In addition to the alternative rail links, Zambia is
connected through its trunk road netwcrk to the neighboring national
highwray/rail systems in Tanzania and Tialawi, which provide outlets to
the sea.  However, road transport of bulk imports or exports appears im-
practical. except as an emergency solution in a situation Tr'here rail
access is temporarily denied.
3.3.      'he movement of Zambia's corner production (currently about
750,000 tons per year) has been historically governed by several inter-
national agreements 1/ whlich have had. the effect of ensuring that at
least 80 per cent of Zanbia's conper cutnut would move via the Rhodesia
Railways and the port of Beira. A 1960 arrangement between the Federal
Government and the Copperbelt ,iines has limited export via Lobito to 36,000
tons per annum. As a result of these arrangements, the alternative rail
routes have not develoned sufficient capacity to handle more than a small
amount of Zambian copper. Relatively small canital investments would be
required tc increase the capacity of the Lobito route.  When the Federation
of Rhodesia and Nvsaland rwas being dissolved (Decemhber 1963)  Zmbia and
Southern Rhodesia signed an agreement which stipulates that either Govern-
ment WiTould compensate the RhodeRia RailTWr-s fnr finnneial l     arising
from any unilateral decision that it rmight take to build or to use alter-
nate rail svstems which would divert existinp traffie or dpnv new traffic
to the Railways.  Under normal circumrstances, most of Zambia's imports,
a hirnl- erreent_gce nf vwlih nriginatp in Rhod.esia (innudrin-, the noRi 2nd
coke from Wankie required for copper refining), have also utilized the
Rhodesian Railways.z
3.L.      I'he orent-'~,ation of 7.&bia 'c trad, ecnom,T and tr~anspovrt facil1-
ities toward Southern Rhodesia is an outcome of African history and
Zambia's federal past.  It is the established long-range policr of the
Government of Zambia to reduce the country's dependence upon Southern
Rhodesia for access to the sea and for the supply of a wide variety of
1I /f, MI  ,-cr4+  Argro--o+ hT%noTon T1,^Ana4 a TP04 lv,e(',n  rA- P0  A-, fln-
:1/  The m -ipat-t  gemn      betweer. Rhodesi  Ral^r-7-j-   indeFr     u  a
Congo au Katanga, and Caminho de Ferro de Benguela (1956); the Beira Con-
vention brtul15n t0;e U.th.  n   behalf between4 Sou Mthe   Rhodesia and Horthe rn.K.)
and Portugayl (1950), the Agreement bet;ween Southern Rhodesia and Miorthern
Rhodesia relating 4to Rxhodesi a Ralaf,(1963-).



- 4 -
manufactured and ra  mnaterial reauisites.  Zambia wishes to develop new
and closer trade re:Lations with neighboring na.tions to the north and east,
and to change the inherited and somewhat arbitrary pattern of international
traffic.  Pursuant -to this policy, Zarmbia, together with Tanzania, have
annournced their intimntion to hiiill a rail link between the Rhodesia Rail--
ways system and the East African Railways.  This policy has continued to
evnlvp depnite the findinas of a Bank rniqon (1963) and of the TWTWeO m:-is-
sion (1964) that construction of the Zambia-Tanzania rail link could not be
iustiifierl nn economic or finanrcial grorndi for r at. lIeat. 1C) to 15 years
3P5.      The rail link proposal is now being studied by a inint UK/
Canadian team of economic and engineering consultants under the leader-
shit of 11axwrell Stamp Associates, at +he request of the Governments of
Tanzania, Uganda, Kenya and Zambia. The terms of reference of the study
do no" includ'e sys-te..atic studies of alternative routes and mod.es and
stipulate that consideration be given to strategic and political factors
-1 -lc-h wer  not cons_idered7 in 4the Bannk or P-'EDECOr studiJes. TS,ATD has- fi4nan-
WVILtULI   V~.~ ~i LJ U   U I-±LJ  U.k  iLL  1I  I 1 fl-   kJI  V1k I  0 U UI±_5  UL1iJJ"   IIL0.   J.±LQ
ced a study by another consulting firm, the Stanford Research Institute,
ofr thle Great M1ortih froad in L,bIIU±.a and1 Ta0n[48ani±a as an a01.lternatiL0Uve trur UI1-
connection with East Africa. The field vwork for both the USAID and UK/
Clnadiian studiles las completed ear:Ly in L966"  draft re-ports h5a-ve been s-ub-
mitted for Government comment and are expected to be finalized in the near
future.
3.t6.     The unilateral declaratioIn C)f independence (UDI) by Southern
Rhodcesia heLs aggravated the already sensitive political atmosphere of
Central Africa and faced Zambia with an emergency transport situation.
Since UDI, the Zambian Government has given added priority to the long-
range policy of altering the country's international transport pattern.
At this time copper movement throu.ghl Rhodesia on the railway has been re-
duced to a minimum monthly allocation, due to a dispute betwTeen Zambia and,
Rhodesia with regard to Rhodesia's demand of prepayment in foreign currency
for the transport of copper by Rhodesia Railways. The shlpment of copper
by various alternate routes is proceeding on an emergency basis.   Due tc
the international embargo on oil for Rhodesia, Zambian petroleum imports,
formerly shiiped erntirely by rail via Rhodesia, are now being transported
over the Great 1Tort;h Road from Dar es Salaam and on a smaller scale via
the iIalawi railway system and the Great East Road.
C. Internal Transp)ort
3.7.      Within Zambia, the Rhodesia Railways contributes little to thes
internal exchange Emong the various regions.  Extension of the rail sys--
tern to meet inter-regional transport requirements is not practical. How-
ever, the road netwiork, which branches from the main trunk road along the
rail line, is basically appropriate for mneeting these needs. River and
canal transport and air transport, while important in certain areas or
for limited purposes, are not suited *to the major task of integrating the
economy.  As far as transport is concerned, the process of economic devel--
oprnent and diversification will be helped most by investment in improving
the existing trunk road network and in improving and constructing agri-
cultural feeder roads.



-5-
D. Hir.hway Transuort
Hi.hwav Traffic and Vehicle Fleet
3.8.      Highwav transport in Zambia is relatively undeveloped.   It is
mainly concentrated in the line of rail, utilizing the country's only long
c1istsnnr hitrimpn-snrfansed highwav.  Lizht vehicle traffic is especlallv
concentrated in this area.  Traffic on the gravel trunk roads to the out-
lyring area    is  enera11v heaviPet near the rail linep sanc fnlls nff ranidlv
according to distance fron the rail, except for the Great East Road where
traffic thins out from Lusaka but then. grows in proximity to Fort Jameso.
3.9.      7e miotor vehicle fleet of Zambia exand     rapidly in. the 1950's
until the general economic downturn of the early 1960's.   Since 1960, the
osvrerage gr.h rate of the lght           -PI--re+icl9 flee  (c., I-e   lr.e  ec.'4 has
been 7 per cent per annum. while for trucks and tractor-trailers, the ex-
pansion has been on th.e order of )c per cert           I Tabl  1).  S stical
information, on vehicle age is limited, but on the basis of registration
datOa t'Uie fJleetu apJpears t'o 'oe relativel.y young., with over '  per cent of
all vehicles less than 5 years old. T'he road fleet should expand more
rapiudly in  tUA t nt  few yea. yt:-U rs, as a res-ul.  Ulof f WUUcrrnt1U ec!UiUwic uUu aniU
the extraordinary transport situation.
3.10.     Over the decade 1954-1964, road. consumption of gasoline rose
about 6 per cent per annum. During c960-1)604, gasoline consumption in-
creased at only 3.5 per cent, ref,ecting the shift of virtually all truck
consumption to diesel fuel, a gradual shit from heavier to lighter pas-
senger vehicles, and the general economic slowrdown.  Diesel fuel consump-
tion by road users rose 13 per cent in 1963J and over 28 per cent in 1964
(see Table 2).
3.11.     On the basis of a 50-point traffic count system instituted under
the su,ervision of the U.K. Road Research Laboratory in 1961, the current
traffic growth is estimated at about 8 per cent per annum.   NEDECO, in its
transport survey, concludes that an over-all traffic grovth rate of 7 per
cent can be expected in Zambia.
Highway Transport Industry
3.12.     Most of the commercial vehicles engaged in public road trans-
port are rim by small owner-operator :,irms.  However, the industry is
dominated by tuo reslatively large companies: Central African Road Serv--
ices (CAPS), a subsidiary of the United Transport Group (U.K.); and
Smith and Youngson., Ltd. CARS is the largest single transport organiza--
tion, it has a neer monopoly of passenger road transport by virtue of a
21-year concession (until 1976) to provide required passenger service
throughout the couritry. CARS is also the largest public carrier of
goods, and by contract is currently the exclusive carrier of government
traffic over the roads. This situation is undergoing rapid change. In
order to reduce the country's dependei.ce on Rhodesia Railways for access;



- 6 -
to the sea. the Government is establishin, a aoverrhment-controlled trucking
company jointly with Tanzania and a foreign vehicle supplier, which will
onerate over the Great Morth Road. carryvina bonded exnort/import gcods.
3=1    TUnder existing regqleto       11 a nhlif transnnrt must 'e licensed
by the Road Traffic Commissioner except concession holders (presently only
(.A1S f,vv' nor pessenger sv'!e%o special license is required of traders or
employers who transport their own goods or employees.    Each applicant for a
a     c.narrx nfl li4ncensor. nn  pa rticularrc-+e must prove the need for his
service in a public hearing.   Under the passenger concession, bus service
I-v., n+ ho, + 1,or +V,a n.t-ce nor n  hl -i a,. i-i in+ I-m ;,, ,.nA,naA ...; +I-mn,+ + 'no rnnncor+
VJ U--1 -zSW_ +.EW-1,- -1V-q       -nt bL v-tro--VV wito          th  V-- V se V
of CARS. ]:n all reasonable cases, the Road Traffic Commissioner may require
C.u'S to plrcovide tbhe srie
-1       MU_1  ~ V  __z  ttJ  V JA-
3 ..1'4.   I m XhUe U TL raf. Ic Cor OMUDissior.er EL±SO has thAIle Uower to fix rates
and fares. In practice, this power has been exercised only in instances
0>   _ _ .:   c      XI~ :  :<          M-L-   a-   1 __ _4   z - 
UI X  l-Lt:   Weu  CIltuUZ5  LIi :)   11  tu4  .  1 L1it  UWU  t1 V   UD t%lljJO  ;U1
have a rate agreement between them and restrict their competition to ser-
vice feat-ui-es. MIoESt high1rway freig,ht traific o-utside the line of rail
moves toward the outlying areas, because agricultural development has not
yet proceeded far enough to balance the joaa factor.    Truck transport
rates are 20 per cent lower in the inbound direction to attract back loads.
Average outbound transport rates are aigh, at about 7.5 pence (8.8 U.S.
cents) per ton mile for van load quantities of dense materials. On the
Great East Road, where truck operating costs are estimated to be signifi-
cantly higher, but where the possibility of back loads is better than
for most gravel trlnk roads, the compara;ble charge is about 9 pence
(10.5 U.S. cents) per ton mile.   Rates appear high in relation to esti-
mated vehicle operating costs including taxes and overheads.
3.15.     The highway transport industry is not very competitive due to
rate agreements and licensing restrictions but, in general, there is a
reliable and adequate supply of transport for goods and passengers in
most parts of the country served by adequate roads. Rowever, consider-
ing that extensive main road and feeder road improvements are planned,
more competition among highway transporters appears desirable. In order
to ensure that road improvements yield maximum economic benefits, a
policy of introducing transport competition as a corollary to highway
and feeder road imp:rovements should be followed.   In rural areas, the
freight licenses now held by small owner-operators and cooperative trans-
port organizations could be extended to include the main roads to market.
This would tend to bring prices of main road transport closer to costs,
and lower feeder road transport charges by permitting more efficient use
of the truck fleet.  During loan negotiations the Government agreed that
an investigation would be conducted to determine the appropriate extent of
competition between goods carriers in the areas to be affected by improve-
ment of the project roads.   The Government also agreed to initiate the ad-
ministrative steps required to remove obstacles to the desired level of
competition.



-7-
E. Road-Rail Competition
3.16.     The Zambian Government and its predecessors have pursued a
policy, in conjunction with Southern Rhodesia, of protecting the Rhodesia
P n.iIP7ir. from hi gPhway transport comnpet.ition -R the 1Q3 agreement he-
tween Zambia and Southern Rhodesia concerning the Rhodesia Railways (see
paY-qra¢r.qph 7.3) nmhin hasz beeon boundm ton cntnAi  .iz-inue  W thl  Poiy  fili tis
policy does; not directly affect traffic on the prolect roads, it does affect
the developren+ of the road transport industry generally, and hnas led to
uneconomic distortions 4in the transport system as a whole.
3.17.     Protection of the Railways has in the past been implemented
~ ~JtA~$L1  ~fl J. v a  ~  CC±U~~S U~ ,  ~   ~   ~  LUU 4U 4C CL, U-L6  -L g'JL6, 
t'hrourh pri.vate agreemen-ts, thAe Gover.-ents acting throCugh the Rail-r.y
management. By a 1.960 agreement (reneved in 1963 for a 4-year period) be-
uwccJ.. ±x±tJu-i o x *4 a  J.I .L   "  WI.  I', U . L  LAJL6  .,.L I I,I C L" A '   0 40 V ..JJ U   a-
tor's Assoc:iation, the Association ag,reed to restrict its licensed capaci-
ties along Ile rai'. line -4thin Zadb-c -QX on 4the T-ak-Salisbury--   rout,,-
and not to solicit traffic consigned to or destined outside Zambia or
1Rhodesia.  he Association also agreed t.iha-t highw   transpIoUte 0 WLould rot,
charge less than the railroad for com=odities in the high-rated rail tariff
c:tF'Lasses  wd-ill :l- arJy  }'  tQ vC L -e 5  -t h U-ll C.'&Fs 10 aU   (._IUtl.1' l,l Il, vI t  t HUli -L 61 1   VtS t Utf I _lUW
bulk items.  For bulk gooes, for wThich trucking is less competitive, road
transporters are free to set their o-ii rates.    As a consequence, the
railway is guaranteed a large share of the high-rated general goods
trarffic, awil is enEabled through cross*-subsidization to quote rates for
bulk goods that are so low that highwayr transport cannot compete.  This
arrangemeni; creates economic distortions., but the Governrment nas considered
that they,r are Justified because low. bulk rates for certain lowJ value com-
modities are important for the development of Zambia.
3.18.     The railway mileage from Sa:lisbury to Lusaka is 885 miles,
whereas the direct road connection is only 305 miles.  The railways charge
their rates for 535; miles and by the agreement road transporters do the
same.  Undoubtedly the cost of transport on this route could be reduced
considerab:Ly.  Also, road haulage betwveen Beira and Zambla, if allowed,
might be considerably cheaper than rail for higher rated imported com-
nodities.
3.19.     It is clear that the present restrictions on road transport
protect thes railways from competition. Fiodification of rail rates would
be required if the restrictions were relaxed.   It is not recommended that
the Bank require a change of policyv in the field of road/rail transport
coordination as a condition of this proposed lending since Zambia has not
been free to change its policy unilaterally, and the situation with respect
to transpo:rt is presently very unsettled. Recently, both Rhodesia and
Zambia have expressed their desire to sn.lit the unified railway system mnd.
consultants are being engaged to examine how this should be done. The B3ank
is involved in discussions of this proposal, since Bank apTproval is re-
quired imder certain of its loan agreements.  The reorganization of the
railway system should provide an appropriate occasion to reexamine the
arrangements between the trucking enterprises and the railways in order to
achieve a *better coordination of transnort.



-.8-
F. The Hi,hwav Svstem
HetwTork (see fliap 2)
3.20.     The Zambian road network has been gradually built un in the
last half century. The first roads were concentrated in the rail zone
through whi-ch runs the country's main trunk road. lWith the progress of
administrative control over outlying areELs, and of economic activ4ties
further away; the nublli road network grew and snread.   It reached its
peak mileage early in this decade and at the end of 1965 stood at 20,818
miles- ans s-hown- in Table 3=
3.21.      The only bitu1m.inous paved road is the trun.k road along, the
rail line; other roads are gravel surfaced or earth roads. The geo-
grpial *listribut;ion of. the mai  grve  rodi    enrly aeuat
graphi4rcal  .H c!l-v'4 i,t4;j t-,,rf' +kc.  mnv ?i 4 , v' vt~ -r,ads  4c  fron-~  1 -~~iat e
to meet the current transport requirements of administration and economi.c
activity.  Hoever., the struct-ural and geometric standards of many of
these main roads are not satisfactory.   The main gravel roads are main-
tained. ir. relatively good conditior. by continuous and, in mIany cases ,
laborious maintenance; however, many sections are inadequate for present;
traff4c vo'Lur-es .an show sgsof 1etemr4oration in t"he fCorm of17 excessive
U±d±II.t  V0LU   ILW.   11tw  VI  5Lt.'J U A I  %U.L J I ±1 l0±  
corrugation in thle long dry season and structural failure during the
rainy season.  Other sections can be expected to deteriorate rapidly in
the near future as traffic grows. Feeder roads are generally poor and
those for -hich the Ru-ral Local Authorities are responsible (see paragraph
3.22) are poorly maintained if at all.
Administration   (see Chart)
3.22.     The responsibility for the general administration of the road
system is vested in the Director of the roads Department under the Mlinis-
tryr of Trarnsnort and Works. The Roads Department is also in charge of
the construction and maintenance of airfields and other civil engineering
worlks. The Director's immediate resnonsibility is limited to the main
roads and t,hose district roads considered of national importance.  The
Rural Local Authorities are responsible for the other district roads and
for the Rural Loca:l Authority roads, wnile city streets come under munici-
pal administration.  The Road Traffic Commissioner, under the M1inistry of
Transport and Works, is responsible fcr vehicle licensing and highway
transport regulations.  The Mechanical Services Department takes care of
road construction and maintenance equipment.
3.23.     The Roads Department has central services in Lusaka and four
regional divisions headed by Provincial Road Engineers. The central serv-
ices include divisions for planning and economic studies, for engineering
and design, for supervision of construction and maintenance, for central
administration, and a laboratory for materials analysis. The provincial
engineers are responsible for the execution of road maintenance and of
minor design and construction work in their respective regions.



- 9 -
3.24.     The IHecharnical Services Department is a financially self-
supporting organization which provides vehicles and plant for all govern-
ment services on a hire basis.  The Department has large central workshops
in Lusaka, tnd is efficiently managed. The original cost value of the
DeDartment't; road construction and mainternance equipment amounts to about
iZ 2.0 million (US,`;.6 million eqaivalent). Renewals are made from a de-
preciation fund which is appropriated from the Department's revenues;
annual allocations to the fund in recent years have been at the rate of
11 per cent of the original cost, which is satisfactory.
3.25.     Functions and lines of authoritv in the Road Denartment, road
regulations, and procurement procedures are appropriate. The "Roads and
Road Traffic Ordinanne" eovers LegaL r2ntters ucrh as read eLassifieation;
authority for construction and maintenance, vehicle and driving licenses,
nnTnTlu1Rnrv inqirsnntt- Py.nminn.ti;n ref' -,rshr-MrP Tmpyinirm rl simns;nqinc nn(l Brpi,71t.
of vehicles, traffic regulations, etc. Rules for tendering and procurement
proeduesaresetdo.t.. i te "inacil Oder";these rules are consist--
ent with the general procedures required by the Bank.
3.26.     All professional posts and most of the middle and lower level
technic;al posit ions -- held byir --ri nate cilvil ser-ats -der - p-rora-m
of the British 'iinistry for Overseas Development. However, there are
va-n-i-e which, in spite of serlous efforts    rave not been satisfactorily
filled.  While the shortage is within acceptable limits at the profes-
'IJc4  L~  ..  4 eVV 4-   .4 .  'A.LA V1   UII..C Ui1ICO.  VC VV. .I  r.11 -~ C ------ 4.
age of positions fil:Led by Zambian nationals has been slowly increasing,
buut I sU111 s 1   Tee.        staff P LU  aisLo uUJ.IpOtLeut Uto pt:rforrL adLJl aduminis-
trative functions, and to carry out the maintenance of the road system.
VW1 Withe a:i-sUalte 01 consjuLZlutants, tli;J t.;af  h  b  eiUU±U L.±bU Uabl U sot' UU
carry out an appropriate road development program. In previous years,
tlhe Departmeent's staff was heavily engaged in road design and construc-
tion. However, in view of the increases envisaged in road construction,
the Government has adopted the policy of- using tne services oI engineering
consultants and contractors for major road construction pro jects to supple-
rmenit as necessary the iepartment's own design and construction capacity.
During loan negotiations, the Government; agreed to: (1) make every effort
to ensure that the professional standarci and strength of the Roads Depart-
ment will be maintained and increasedi if necessary; (2) continue the present
policy of using engineering consultants and contractors for the design and
construction of major road projects; and. (3) assign a senior engineer within
the Roads Department to have, as his primary responsibility, the administra-
tion of the proposed Bank project.
3.27.     Technical education of Zambian nationals is in an early stage.
A few students in engineering are enrolled in foreign universities through
government scholarships. A technical college is in operation in Ndola,
and a university is being established in Lusaka. Training courses are
run by the Ministry of Works to provide foremen and road plant operators;
these courses are being enlarged to rmeet rising needs.



- 10
Highwav Budgets and Funds (see Table 4)
3..28.   111:i11-ay expenditures rss fromn EZ. 25 m-illion in C1960/1961 to an
estinated rZ 5.0 million in 1965/66.  The increase was nct gradual:   a
sudden increase in the maintenance budet. occurred betreen 1961/62 and
1962/63,- the budget for new construction has been substantially increased
between iQ64/65 and 1Q65I66. The recent increase in the construction
expendi.tures indicates the start of a new period of intensive road develop-
ment.  Tn l.96667, newr constructin 1   xcted to account for two thirds
of highway expenditures; in the future, this share will probably increase.
3.29.     Highway budget funds are allocated from general government reve-
nues.     -     ecent years, the ligI,ray  L.L,(get was equivalent o a'bout 6 pe
cent of the national budget, and investment in new construction represented
about 10n- per cenit, off the public capitei' formiatI-ion. ml hese f1gures miust'. Ue
considered as low; the NEDECO study recommends that 15 per cent of public
capital investment be in the road system.
Receipts froU, Roadu U'sers and nlgHiw;.'j Costs
3.30.     Government's receitts from road. users accrue from the various
import duti.es, fees, and taxes placed on private motor vehicle ownership
and operation.  it has been estimated that, as an order of magnitude,
these receipts cover about half of the highway costs, as measured by ad-
ministration, maintenance costs, and depreciation and interest on the
total highway investments.  While this is low, it is not umreasonable,
considering the relatively small -fleet compared to the length of the
highway,, net,work, and the fact that in thlis early stage of the countryts
development the road system has also a relatively important social and
administrat;ive function to play which the transport industry and the pri-
vate road users should not be expected to pay for.  However, with general
development; and growth of traffic, consideration should be given to en-
suring that a higher percentage of highway costs is covered from road
user charge!s. The level of road user taxation should be considered in
relation to the over-all problem of transport coordination (see para-
graph 3.19:1.
TIaintenance
3.31.     T'he Roads Department is directly responsible for the maintenance
of the main road network (3,753 miles) and for about half of the district
roads (6,75JO miles), while the Rural Local Authorities are responsible for
the rest of' the district roads (6,725 miles) and for the Rural Local
Authority roads (3,550 rmiles).  The execution of the maintenance of the
departmental roads is carried out by maintenance units operating from camps
located throughout the country.  !iaintenance equipment is supplied on a
hire basis by the t.echanical Services Department.
3.32.     1.aintenance of departmental roads is almaost entirely mechanized;
on other public roads, maintenance is generally done by hand.  Contractcrs
also are ennioyed for rmajor resurfacing and reconditioning of bituminous



- 1.1 -
roads.  The Roads Department is adequately organized for road maintenance
and its mainitenance practices are sound.
3.33.     Buadgetary allocations for maintenance are insufficient.   In
recent years, an average anount of 1Z :L14 ($320 equivalent) per mile was
spent on the main and the district roads imaintained by the Department.
The average was higher on the main roads; for example, it amounted to
TZ 173 (`3485 eauivalent) per mile per vear on the Great Past Road.   Expend-
itures for routine maintenance are considered sufficient, but periodic
maintenance needs are not fully coveredl and the roads appear to be deteri-
orating.
3. 34.    WThil ½ the condition of the roads maintained by the Roads Department
is at the moment generally satisfactory, the condition of the roads main-
tnined by th.e Rural  orcal Autlhorifies i9 poorr  The Local Authorities rely
for road maintenance on grants from the central Governnent, which amount at
present to I:Z 23 ($65 equivalent) per mile per year fnr the rei sterdcl nub-
lic roads, but there is also an unkn own. mileage of non-registered roads for
Vhich nn entnral flrnrnmoen+ finnc are allc    -ed. Thic is ehe AcQS  fonr 1-.hi
feeder roads built in recent years by the Agriculture Department in connec-
t+or w-. t+  4 +  A-o&I  r  oa-s.+    .Tavin nol n     for r,-a mair+
the Agriculture Department has tried tc turn over these roads to the Roads
Depart'sentn or th-½e  u.ra-1 T Local A--horites. It -s now palnned to into-duce
a system whereby the Rural Tocal Authorities wrill be able to raise funds
+4 r _ u, gh   Lc '1.  ,a e   a d   1 -4  -  A+  - 4A , A, t.+<T t > -, -k  Ih A   ' -   - - -_ A   + -  -;t 4 - i  C ,
LbA~O  a4J L ~ V  c  j)~_  Ut WL YU.  W LA !tiC ~L  CLS_   LU  ta a,  ~± 
roads under their authority.
3.35.     During negotiations the Government confirmed its intention to
allocate suf: iet fi tunds uu m--aintain - h - ue - iL--lv-ay sys ter.. prupery -   ar.d tG
increase allocations from time to tiLie consistent with the extension of the
high-way system and the increase in traffic.   or the purpose of budgetary
requests, the amo-unt of necessary funds will be estimated by the Roads
Department in accordance with sound enginering -practices for all the roaC`s
maintained by the Department. The Department will also assist -the Rural
Local Authorities in es1iaating   'udget reqi:renenus for proper iaaiutenanc
of roads under local jurisdiction. The Government also confirmed its in-
tention to improve the maintenance of the roads under the responsibility of
the Rural Local Authorities and to ensure that funds will be sufficient to
achieve this purpose.   It has been agreed that the Government and the Bank.
will exchange views from time to time regarding the amount of maintenance
allocations f'or the highway system.
Construction Planning and Design Standards
3.36.     The systematic planning of road development on a basis of-
economic justification and financial programming has recently been made
a function of the Roads Department's division of planning.    The pro-
grams are reviewed by the Office of National Development and Planning
which has a unit in charge of transportation planning.



- 12
3.37.     Design standards are codified, and a new edition issued in 1965
embodies latest technical developnents. The standards follow American
and British patterns, with appropriate adaptations to local conditions.
The geometric stanlards and the pavement design methods make it practical
to build and improve the roads in stages according to traffic densities.
The design standards are considered appropriate.
3.38.     P?hysical conditions are favorable for road construction and
maintenance in most; parts of Zambia. The terrain is generally flat or
rolling.  Natural materials suitable for road construction and mainte-
nance exist in abundance except in the Kalahari sand region in the south-
western part of the country. Road construction and maintenance are
relatively inexpensivp_
RonAr C        cnstriion Tnrlhidtrvr
3.39.     Mlost of t;he road contractors are locally established subsid~-
iaries of foreign firms.  The present capacity of the industry to under-
take road works was recently assessed by the contractors   professional
organization at the value of EZ 5 mnil'lion per annum; this may be an over-
estirnate.    The value of- road w,,,orls ca:rried out I- contract+- ors  n 1965
has been estimated at r.Z 2.5 million.  Additional contractor capacity
t~0U~U~  U   UUJ.± U  1i ~ - CL.L j  U'iJ   U  LIi~J.L  I JU y LA.L I C~UlI I~ 1O  k4. 
cou'l dlbe built up t>Ls necessary to- meet-ncesn   eqie2t      of road
development programs, since in normal circumstances there should be no
Ud. I fculty in atracting out ie     r1; R1 a   1aUCU. LoUIDIJ Lkcn  UtLuLi cIo-
tractors are prequalified and registe:red with the Roads Department.
Developmient Plans
3.4o.     UJpon achieving independence, the Zambian Government drew up a
Transitional Development Plan to run is months from January 1965 to Junte
1966. The road program of this periodi was based entirely on the NEDECO
mission's recommendations.   The first five-year development plan was being
formulated while the appraisal missi.on was in the fields indications at that
time were that the TEDECO recommendations were being followed. nowever.,
there was considerable pressure upon -the Roads Department to include trunk
road projects not considered by the consultants to be oI high priority.
The program recommended by NEDECO involved an estimated expenditure of
EZ 17.3 million over the 5-year period 1965/66 - 1969i/70, but it is now
apparent that the costs to accomplish the works recommended have been con--
siderably underestimated.
3.41.     During negotiations the Government confirmed its plan to have a
road program as part of its Four-Year Development Plan ready by the end
of 1966, and agreed to discuss the road program with the Bank as soon as
it has been established.  The Government further agreed to discuss with
the Bank annually, during the construction period of the project, any
proposed changes in the road program.   During these discussions the Banh:
should see that the pressures to increase the scope of the road program do
not endanger the ability of the Roads Department to carry out the project.



- 13 -
4   rPTH  PPO.TCT
A.  Descritionn (sece Map 9)
4.1.      Ihe project cosst      ¢    (l) the improv^e.ment, reontrcto
and bituminous paving of two sections of the Great East Road, from Chelston
to .ufJ. `a (92 m,4le  and f-rom MI-b L1to4 -3L m4  east -PofUFort T4. 0
(159 miles); (2) the improvement and bituminous paving of a section of the
G.reat - 4L 'T or'4JL   -oA   fro.,. .1. ar- -4  - U   .4 .  tci- l 4 -- I -I1J4 l22   1   -.  - .C   - - A1tU. )  th /  U- -
engineering and supervision of construction on the above road sections and
thie LeUa.Lted  bniYerCUg bycnsu1ltan.LLs of the Great ll1iorth PUoa'U from Sernje
to Ipika (147 miles).   The Great East Road is a main artery linking Lusaka,
'the caplbai OI of tia bUpop-ula1n abutL 120,u0VVJ WI'hL fQUV U±JwtsULI, a pro-
vincial capital, and ?1alawi at ilchinje (total length 386 miles). The Great
North Road is a main artery branching from the rail line at Kapiri ti0poshi
and providing a Link with Tanzania to the northeast and to Lake Tanganyika
to the north. The Great 11orth Road is also part of the main highway frcm
Cape Towm, South Africa, to Nairobi, Kenya, and beyond.    This road is paved
all the waly from CeLpe Towm to Kapiri 'iposhi.
4.2.      The development of the Great East Road as a main artery com-
menced in the early 1930's.   The only major structure on the road, the
Luangwa River bridge, was opened to traffic in 1932.    Orig"inally, the road
was an earth track., but it has undergone several stages of betterment.
The alignment of the project sections has been progressively improved and
they have been gravrel surfaced, but to low standards.   The road is better
at the eastern end where it runs in long straight stretches.    On the west-
ern end, the terrain is more hilly, and the gravel surface is weak.
4.3.      The central section of the Great East Road between Rufunsa and
Nyimba (1183 miles) runs through mountainous terrain, with numerous curves
and grades. The Roads Department began in 1957 to reconstruct this roacl
section with its owm forces to improved gravel standards.    Work on 84
miles has been completed and the road is satisfactory for present and
foreseeable traffic until about 1970-75. The remaining bad section is
under reconstruction by Department forces; the Government intends to nego-
tiate a contract to speed up the removal of this bottleneck and does no1
wish Bank financiaL assistance for this section. The condition of the
central section of the road has bearing on the successful development of
the traffic on the project sections of the road. During negotiations, the
Government committed itself to complete reconstruction of the central sec-
tion to satisfactory standards before December 31, 1968.
4.4.      The Great North Road from Kapiri M-Iposhi to 1¶pika runs in long
straight stretches through unchanging and almost horizontal terrain. Thlis
road has been substantially improved during the last decade from an old
earth track and has been gravel surfaced.    It will require only minor im-
provement in geometry before bitumincus paving. However, riding condi-
tions on the present gravel surface are deteriorating with the increase
of traffic, in spite of intensive maintenance.



- 14 -
4.5.     N1o compet:inp modes of transnortation exist along the proJect
road sections, and ncne can be anticipated along the Great East Road.
However, possible cormpetition would. be created if the Zambia-Tanzania rail
link were built as proposed along the general alignment following the
Great iHorth Road.  The imnrovement of the road to the nrorosed standard is
economically justif:ied on the basis of traffic which is primarily generated
by local eronomic aetivity; no sigrificn-t Tart nf this traffi. is lik&llr
to be diverted to a railway.  The YEDECO report agrees with this judgment.
B. Design Standards
Descrintion
4.6.      The project generally follows the design standards recently
adopted by the Roads Departent (see Mable 5).    nesign speeds range from
40 mph to 60 mph with maximum grades of 5 per cent and exceptionally 8
per cent   Th1e pavement structure would consist o I a su-base course of
graded granular soiL, a base course of higher quality stabilized granu-
lar soil' or crush ed sstone, adnU a sur facinLg1 Lof o1n or two 0VI ofbiu-
minous chippings.  This type of pavement lends itself to stage strengthen-
±ing thro-ugr,h V1LUnI[LLb CUTrjJeL o-verla.ys.  Thek pVaeenU as Udsigned souulu
provide appropriate service throughout the planned 20 years' economic
life of the road. If traMfic develops much faster than now projected,
the pavement can be rmiaintained to its original standard or strengthened
as required.  The roads wii have    mnple capacity to accommodate expected
normal traffic volwues, including posslble traffic increases which would
result from expansion of Zamr,ia's trade relations with neighboring coun-
tries to the north and east and couId also cope with extraordinary emer-
gency traffic of heavy import and export goods for considerable periods
if the need should arise.
S ecial Proble.m wit:h Regard to the Design Standards
4.7.      In vieu of the uncertainties as to possible developm.ents in East
and Central Africa, which could change traffic comnosition and increase
traffic volumes on the project roads, the physical characteristics and
economic justification of alternative road design standards have been ana-
lyzed.  The analysis focused on the Great North Road which was considered
to be the more likely to handle heavy import/export traffic.   The technical
and economic implications of building the Great North Road have been con-
sidered on twro alte:rnative bases for the purpose of this appraisal: (1) to
build the road now to the normal standard as requested in the Government's
application and upgrade it as and if necessary later, or (2) to build it
to heavy, duty standard from the outset.
4.8.      The only design feature of the road which -would reouire vari-
ation to meet various traffic requirements is the pavement strength.   Thie
thicknesses of the various layers of the pavement structure determine
its strength, that is, its capacity tc carry a particular wheel loading
and traffic volume. Higher than norrna.l pavement strength to deal with



additional TPerm1nenrt hepai. traffie e   'ounld he aehieved in two wavys  either
by building the pavemenat stronger from the outset by increasing the sub-
hbqae and.!r base 1-1-ieknesses,- and using a. low cost bituminous surfacing;
or by up-rading the strength of a pavement already built to normal stand-
'ad writh hiiher cost asphalt carpet o+erlays.  In the case of the Creat
lTorth Road section, the cost of building the road to heavy duty standard
at the out6set is aU.o,Ut 20 per cent less than that of        the road to
normal standard first and upgrading it later; however, on a discounted
f ture cost basils, the ecor,omics of. upgrading depend on te 4iming of
execution and the i.nterest rate assumed.
4.9.      The economic aspects of building the road to higher strength
IIrom thiie oLutLset , orL upgrading it la-ter, were examined on VIthLie basis of road
user savings compared to investments under various assumptions as to the
UVVjJILI'CLu.L UI I I I ± U   Li U LUC  i b d.±yz: A LbC' UCA}J PuIkb LV UU1 U±llr, kilC
road to normal standards at the outset; and upgrading it when and if nec-
essary.  If additional hea-vy traffLc sho-uld materialize immediately,
there would be only a marginal loss of' return, as compared wPith building
the road to heavy duty standards from the outset.   On the other hand, if
the road section were built to higher strength at the outset and the
expected additional traffic did not materialize, the additional cost 1/
to build the road to higher strength would yield practically no benefit
at all.  This loss would reach considerable proportions if the whole
1,100 miles of the Great Nlorth Road between Zambia and Dar es Salaam were
improved. beyond normal traffic requirements unnecessarily.
4.1o.     Both the previous Bank railway study and the MIEDECO study
recormend that the Great Morth Road be built to standards appropriate for
normal tralffic, considering that in an emergency such a road would ensure
that vital exports and imports could. be transported for considerable
periods of time. Under various possible additional traffic loads, the
serviceability of thae 122 mile road section built for normal traffic re-
auirements would decline faster than iLt would under normal traffic, to
the point that the road would require resurfacing to restore its origi-
nal condition. As indicated in the Annex, the pavement designed to
normal strength carn sustain, for example, 600,000 tons per annum addit-
ional heavy traffic for 3 years, or 1.2 million tons per annum for one to
two years, without requiring other than appropriate maintenance. Gener-
ally speaking, it is only when the heavy traffic materializes close to
the outset and continues substantially over the life of the road that
initial construction to heavy duty standards is justified.
l/ Estimatled cost per mile (orders of magnitude):
a) iNormal design - $60,500 per mile;
b)  Ndormal + 6co,000 tons design - $69,000 per mile or 14 per cent more;
c)  Normal + 1.2 million tons des-ign - $73,000 per mile or 21 per cent
more.



4.11.     T'he USAID study recently comnnleted by Stanford Research Institute
was carried out on the basis of four traffic assumptions for the period
1967-.1080:  (1) "normal" traffic: (2) normal traffic nlius traffic generated
by possible complementary investments; (3) traffic under (2) plus traffic
associated with corpper nroduction in excess of' enurrpnt lvel; and (4)
traffic under (2) plus traffic associated with all copper production.
These traffic ass--lptions are similar tothoseusedinthe Bank's analysis
of alternative design possibilities.   The USAID study concluded with regard
to the proJect section of the Great      +h,tat the standards speci-
fied in this project are economically justified and technically sound fcr
Q X CL f I  c   as -=,  t i E tL11 I Vl o1ui V S \ /*  t  14 VLIC  Pu --   - a  v e n f aVI  ----- D  o   tv  o  v a 
coppe!r production, higher road standards would be required, but alternate
modes of transp ,ort would presumabDL e ,ly- bedye  c  sUJib fUoJ±C L tJ.L uLo VoLLUJL  o.f
long distance heavy duty traffic.
C. Execution
4.12.     flxecution of the project is the responsibility of the Ministry
of Transport and 'Works wi-th the Roads Department in charge of its admini-
stration. Consultants satisfactory to the Bank have carried out the final.
design and engineering of the roads to be reconstructed in the project and.
are employed for the supervision of the construction. Consultants satis-
factory to the Banki are carrying out the final design of tne SerenJe-iMpika
section of the Great liorth Eoad which is expected to be completed by the
end of 1966;. A uni.t price contract for the construction of the 27-mile
section of the Great East Road between Chelston and 5 miles east of the
Chongwe rliver was awarded in June 1965i on the basis of bidding procedures
satisfactory to the! Bank. Construction of the remaining protect sections
will also be carried out under unit price contracts which have recently
been awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.   Both the completed final
design and the contracts are considered eligible for retroactive Bank
participation from June 1, 1965.
4.13.     ]:t is expected that work on all road sections in the construction
proJect will have begun by the end of 1966, and that all work will be com-
pleted by the end of 1969.
D. Cost Estimate and Financing (see T'able 6)
4.14.     The cost estir,ate of the project is summarized as follows:



- 17 -
Zam.bian    US.i, Thousand
_U Thousand   Equivalent
(1)  Construction                           7,600        21,220
(2)  Engineering and supervision
of corntruettion                         700          1,960
(3)  Pptniled PnAineering of th)e
Serenie-J,pika road section              150            420
(4) Frice contingencies (about 25
r,er cent on constructio.n and.
10 per cent on engineeriing costs)     1,950           5,400
TOTAL                                 10,400          29,000
4.15.     The construction cost estimates are based on contract prices for
the project works increased by an allowance of 10 per cent for quantity
contingencies.  A relatively large ads.itional contingency allowance of 25
per cent on. construction costs has been included to cover both the cost in-
creases which might normally occur due to price escalation during the con-
struction period and also the risk of further increases in costs which
might result from the present political situation.  The customary source of
bitumen is Rhodesia. Fuel, equipment, and services are largely imported.
In the event of continuing difficulties, the cost of goods and services
would unrdoubtedly increase.  Intensive use of the project roads for emer-
gencyr transport could cause plhysical '.eterioration from their present state
and increase the cost of imorovina them to the desired standard.  The large
contingency allowance is believed to be adequate to meet these situations.
4.16.     The foreign exchange component in the project cost is estimated
at an aver2ge of about 60 ner cent.  I't incluides denreciation of ecuip-
ment, imnorted materials, fuels and spare parts, and the foreign cost of
exoatriate personnel. overhead. and ccntractor's orofit.  The local cost
component includes mainly labor, services and locally produced construct-
ion materials (lime; cement. etc.). and about 3 ner cent of the total
cost for irmport duties on fuel, equipmient, and materials.
4.17.     The annual financial requirements are tentatively estimated as
f'ol 1oW5s:
I Zambian l,1illion      US$- Mtillion Equivalent
Foreign Exchange           Foreign Exchange
Total      Reauirement     Total      Requirement
1966                  1.5           0.9          4.2           2.5
196,7                 14L'          9 7         12.3           7 1
19)68                 3.5           2.1          9.7            5.9
1 o(6()               1             0).6         2.8           1.7
TOTAL                10.4           6.3         290.0          17.5



- 18 -
4 18.     The total foreign exchangre renquirement is estimated at US$17.5
million equlvalent and would be covered by the proposed Bank loan.   The
Gover,r.ent will cII ver-r t-+hp local cuinrpren  cost, Pesimatied at t Zt.  4 2 milliin
(US$11.5 million equivalent), through budgetary appropriations.
C;  VrOlT.TX 4T(O  TTIC1 T'T-ArTCTr
A,. T- - -- - nee ofr theA*^ea
5.1.      11 ,8-m-l CTea     ast1 Rload. an.l the 50-.I e 'real '!orth RoaA
* ~   ie  UO1i~~'~±        L  1m  e  Orea     M.L. -L J.   O 
with its 235-mile branch to LaLe Tanganyika are the two most important
trunk roadus in ZaUb-ia outside t,ie line of raill.  Iespect-ively, tlAey -lnk
the outlying Eastern and Northern Provinces of Zambia with the Central
ProvinUc  andI(1 the1 c0[uLLirc±aauIinlstraLve ceU s on the l.ine Ui. a1il.
The zones of influence of these trunk roads are very large due to the lack
of alternative access to tne areas tney serive.  Tne Great East Road lorm:3
the backbone of a secondary system that serves an area of about 30,000
square miles with a population estimated at 600,000.  The Great llorth Road
provides access to an area of nearly 60,000 square miles with a population
of about o00,000.  Together, these roads serve about 40 per cent of the
inhabited area of the country and about one-third of the population.  Th,ey
are both international routes; the Great East Road connects with the main
trunk road of MIalawi, and the Great North Road connects Zambia with East
Africa.
5.2.      Both roads traverse importan.t agricultural areas.  The Eastern
Province, despite its distance from the rail line, is the most highly
developed and rapidly developing regicn of the country outside the Line
of Rail.  African farmers here produce i33 per cent of the Turkish tobacco 3
90 per cent of the burley tobacco, and. about 90 per cent of the ground-
nuts offered cormercially in Zambia.  These crops are amnong the most im-
portant in Zambia. Maize, cotton, and. cattle are also produced in the
Eastern Province. Production, depending on place of origin within the
province, is transported over the Great East Road either east through
iialawi or west through Lusaka for fina.l sale or enroute to Beira and
overseas markets.  Growth in output over the past five years has been
remarkable.  (See Table 7 for past production and 1970 estimates).   While
tonnages are still small, the rate of growTth of production, despite peri-
odic bad weather, unfavorable transport, and a long period of political
uncertainty, is impressive. The production targets for 1970 could be
considered extremely conservative if there were not major problerms con-
cerning the continued adequacy of the extension staff, and the continued
development of badly needed feeder roads. Both these problems deserve
close attention.
5..3.     The Great North Road serves the ?lkushi and Ikushi River areas (60
miles from the rail line), where a small group of European farmers pro-
duce maize and tobacco.  Output in this area is important for supply of
maize to the labor force of the Copperbelt; maize production has increased



- 19 --
five-fold since 1962.   (See Table 7).  Belyond llknushi. commercial produc-
tion falls off rapidly; north of Mpika there is currently nothing but sub-
sistence- level farm.ng and a small ammunt. of lonal marketinar.
5.14      Governmenrt agricuiltural development plans are in a fnrmativp
stage, but the need for provision of i-eeder roads and extension services
in n       raordne cnndmnr is obvious and rlecgnizedi b  +the Gnvrnment.  At.
this stage., the benefits to future agricultural development as a result
of the proposed improvement of the l2"=mile sectionof the Great North
Road are considered only minor. However, in the case of the Great East
Road., these benefltU ;s would 0be substant.ial, insofar as Utransport savngs
are passed to the producer in the form of lower cost inputs and reduced
farm-to-markUet transLJort prices.  For the- purposes of this econorc
analysis, normal growth in agricultural production not attributable to
road lmrvLeSIt h      Uasbeen taX'en into consi'eration -in Lfrc.L atn  nornmaUl
traffic growth ov-er the roads. Additional net production as a result of
lower transport costs has been translated into generated traffic, for
which the corresponding road user saving<s are accounted as benefits for
one-half their value.
B. Savings in Trarsport Costs
5.5.      The im) mediate quantifiable benefits from -tne improvement of the
project road sections would be the reduced costs of vehicle operation and,
on a much Smaller scale, savings in road maintenance costs.   Detailed
studies of vehicle operating costs in Zambia have been conducted by the
U.K. Road lResearch Laboratory; the results of their studies have been acL-
justed by NIEDECO, the Road Research Laborator- itself, and by the apprais-
al mission in the 'Light of data received from major transporters. Table
8 sets out vehicle operating costs over (1) a typical bitumen surfaced
road, (2) a good sravel road, and (3) a lower class gravel or earth road.
5.6.      Costs of vehicle operation on the road sections of the project;
have been adjusted in relation to the 'ty,pical" roads for which data have
been compi:led, tak:ing into account alignment, surface conditions, and
gradients. (See Table 9).
5.7.      Studies indicate that for gravel roads, vehicle operating costs
increase in a roughly linear fashion with increases in traffic.   Costs in-
crease mainly due to the inability of routine maintenance to keep the road
in a satisfactory condition. Operating costs on a good gravel road with
a traffic volume of about 100 vehicles per day are estimated to rise to
those of a poor gravel or mediocre earth road when traffic reaches about;
300 vehicles per day. Thus, the present high costs of transport will
rise as traffic on the project road sections increases, unless the road
is upgraded and provided writh a durable surface.
5.8.      Routine maintenance costs (grading, etc.) and the frequency of
periodic reballasting on a gravel road also increase in direct relation
to traffic volunies. The protection afforded by a bitumen seal obviates
a large part of the grading requirements; periodic resealing requirements



- 20 -
(more costly than regravelling) are much less sensitive to traffic volume,
and resealing is required less often t'han regravelling.
5.9.      Recent traffic counts conducted by the Government indicate that;
average daily traffic volumes on the nro.lect road sections range from 80
to 180 on the Great East Road and from 80 to 150 on the Great North Road..
(See Table t1O).  On both roads, traffic falls off rapidly in nronortion
to distance from the rail line, but on the Great East Road. it begins to
Dick up eas-t of Nvyimba and grows in proportion to nroximitv to Fort
Jameson. On both of these roads, truc:k traffic accounts for a large per--
centape of total traffic- ranrine betwpepn AS and 60 ner cent.  The trucks;
in use tend to be large; it is estimated that in the rural areas heavy
tricirks accoint f-or almost 75 npr eent of the truck m i1l -. The typi ca
long-distance hauler is a 12-ton payload capacity truck with a trailer
of 10-ton canacity
5.10.     Tnhe nnuaLl rates ofb trafftic .^rrowtr+h on the mr ct road scti+onsc
appear to be somewhat highier than the national average of 5½-, per cent for
trucks and 9 per cent for passenger cars.  Traffic growth on the Great
East Road has been retarded by the roadi barriers which control traffic
in ...e diff:icult centXral1 section 'betwe'en h:1toMbbolil and;  miiua  5  llles).
These barriers restrict heavy traffic (over 5 tons capacity trucks) to
one w.ay, wit-h a shift in direction every 12 hrs.    i      s    i 
improved outside the present proJect.  The traffic generation from re-
moval  f th:s 'ottleneck- willl1 be substiiint---ial  The1 bad codiio   4 I-e
mova ± 01 U I. IiU O ,l JAL1.f L.-L±± Ut ~uu U. - LIU.L * 11It udL tULLJ. LIUj 01LIL
central section is the primary reason tha1; operating costs on the Great
last lRoa'u are estlcU!ieU LU Uto b Lett UUbtc t 1h 3 t on a t;v,,Lcal UiLUnL-1Usi roaU.
Considering all factors, truck traffic on the Great East Road sections
is conservatively  r-ojected to grow at the rate of 7.5 per cent for the
next 10-12 years, with growth slowing 'in the later years of the road's
economic iife. Passenger car traffic in these.rural areas may increase
somewhat faster than truck traffic, bu-t the composition of traffic should
not change suIbstantially.
5.11.     Traffic on t'ne Great North Road from Kapiri Mposhi to rikushi
has been growing at the rate of about 9-l() per cent per annum over the
last four years, and from `'Ikushi to IMpika the rate nas been about 7 per
cent per annum.. The economic analysis assumes that traffic growth will
continue for at least the next 10 years at about 7.5 per cent over the en-
tire section from Kapiri Mposhi to Hpika, with both truck and car traffic!
growing at about this rate. The long :range policy of the Zambian Govern--
ment to achieve a closer economic and political relationship with East
Africa may nean that there will be a higher traffic growth rate on the
Great Morth Road. T'he traffic growth proJection used in the economic
anal-sis is considered conservative.
5.12.     In addition to these estimated normal trends of growth, it
should be expected that improvement of the roads will induce transport
of commodit:ies now below the threshold of profitable production or effec-
tive demand due to the present high transnort costs.  This induced traffic
has been taken at an average annual 15 per cent increase of the normal



- 2i -
traffic on the project sections over a period of five years after comple-
tion.  Past experience with rural road improvement indicates that this may
be a conservative assumption.
5.13.     In addition to savings from reduced vehicle operating costs,
there would be savings in road mraintenance costs.  However, the latter
represent only about; 7 per cent of total cuantifiable benefits from the
road improvements.
5.14.     Comparing the streams of total benefits and costs over the
twenty-year economic life of the project, road improvements result in
an annual economic rate of return on the investment of about 12-13 per
cent. The project would earn an annual economic return of more than
10 per cent even if the cost of the project were to increase by the full
amount of the 25 per cent price contingency allowance.  Rates of economic
return were calculated for the various road sections, to determine the
scope of project that is justifiable arnd the extent of bituminous paving
that is economic.  Rates of return on investment not including price con-
tingency range from over 14 per cent on. the Chelston-Chongwe River, and
Kapiri 1lposhi-Mkushi sections to about 11 per cent on the Chongwe River-
Rufunsa, ilyimba-Katete and the lIkushi-Serenje sections.  These rates of
return are judged satisfactory.
5.15.     The economic justificatiorn of the Serenje-Mpika section of the
Great North Road is 'less obvious but investment in detailed enaineerina is
deemed to be Justified at this time.  If it is assumed th.at the costs
per mile for upnrading this section would be similar to those for the
Kapiri iMposhi-Serenje section, and that construction would begin two
years frorn now; a nreliminarv enonomie analvsis indie4ates that fhe ercon-
omic rate of return from improving this section would be about 9-10 per
cePnt;- wlhilp -this return is some.w'hat, Iow,T investmePnt. in deeie  nffinpperina
is justified in order to obtain reliable cost estimates, especially in
riT o-f uncertainty aS to the future rate of traffic groeT+h on the Grea+
North Road. Construction should be deferred until warranted by traffic
nrons)ects.
C.  OFhe  Ren {f i t.
5 .16     Tn neMifAnri, there wil be oth     anenefit+sc rwhoich cannot bh
readily expressed in monetary terms. These include time savings and
transport relialbillty for both passengers and freight. In the longer
run, with general economic development, these benefits would becom.e
considerable and coul.d be qui-aantified in. +eC f      i         re-
quirements, reduced damage to perishable gcoods, and fewer man hours
required fortra    .  As traffic   Le    increase, safe speeds .ill
be substantially reduced if the road is not improved. Probably the
eost a.mporetah. unquantifible benefty an  this stac e n n e afpublia's deven-
oprient are tb.e ir.creased efficiency and eflf'ectiveness of public adminis-
talon U  which_L. tIhAIe se r oad -im!pr Ov~esllent.s WOUJ Id' r,,a'ke po u ,ssbl V_ e, and IILLtne t



- 22 -
definite contribution these imnrovements will make toward better econ-
omic integration of the outlying Forthern and Eastern Provinces with
the rrrztbh points Innn.te9 in the line of rail area.,
6. COITCLUSIOI1S Al-D RFCO1.TENDATIONS
6.1.      The project will greatly improve the conditions of road trans-
port on two. of' the ,r,ostc' irtnn+ -,,-rI,r -,oa 4 i   a  T+ i s -r1 I
planned, technicallyr feasible and will yield a satisfactory economic
return on the investment from lower transp-ort costs a I one.   T Rad
± ~~  ~   J~.' ~ p  J.U  -. 'J 4U0 ~ L  lII   ll   I C~
Department under the MIinistry of Transport and lWorks is capable of ad-
ministering the project; construction is 'being executed    contractors
and supervised by engineering consultants satisfactory to the BanK.
6.2.      The Government is prepared to cover from its ot. funds the local
c-rrency costs of the project and has asked the Bank to finance the for-
eign exchange component.
6.3.      The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan in the
aniount of US$i7.5 million equivalent.  An appropriate loan term would be
20 years including a four year period of grace.
September 7, 1966.



ANNEX
ZAIDflIA
HIGHiAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Economic Implications of Alternative Design
Standards and Traffic ALssumptions
(Kapiri Mposhi-Serenje)
1.        The economic aspects of builcling the road section to higher
strength from the outset or building it to normal standards and upgrading
it later as and if necessary, were examined on the basis of road user
savings comrared to investments under vrarious assumptions as to the develop-
ment of traffic.  The results of this analysis can be summarized as follows:
(i) with only normal traffic materializing:
a)  Built to normal standards, the road will yield an internal
r-ate of return. o:f ab-out 129 pe r  if i normral traffic
projections are realized.
b) If the road is built from the outset to handle an addition-
loaded returming vehicles), the internal rate of return
WU UU U: 1 reUUceU I,o dUt U rU  7 * pe ,U  cen X  LU W   e aUUDLU LV 1OIiL
traffic did not materialize which indicates that the return
on the incremental i.nvestment would be -very low.
c) if the road is builit to handle an additional 1.2 million
tons per year (total copper exports plus loaded returning
vehicles), the internal rate of return would be reduced
to below 9 per cent if the additional traffic did not
materialize.
(ii.) with additional heavy dutty traffic materializing from tne
outset:
d) If the road built to normal standards is required to handle
a. permanent additional 600,000 tons of traffic per annum
from the outset, it would necessitate appropriate upgrading
3 years after original construction. In this case the
internal rate of return on the original and subsequent
investment would be about 12.5 per cent.
e) If the road is built to handle permanent additional traffic
of 600,000 tons per year, and this traffic materializes, the
internal rate of return would be 13-l4 per cent.
f) If the road built to normal standards is required to handle
a permanent additional 1.2 million tons of traffic per year
f'rom the outset, it would necessitate the appropriate up-
gradine one to two y%ears after original construction.  In



Page 2
this case, the internal rate of return on original ancl
,ubsequent investment iquIQ oe aoout 1) per cent.
g) i:f the road is buiiG to nandle permanent additional traf-
fic of 1.2 million tons per year, and this traffic malte-
rializes, the intermal rate of return would be about 16
per cent.
2.        The fact that the internal rate of return appears to be higher if
copper traffic uses the road does not mean that this traffic should be en-
couraged.  The alternatives used in the analysis were limited to the existing
gravel road versus am improved bituminous or asphalt surfaced road. Rail al-
ternatives for copper traffic were not considered, and since the cost of
transporting copper by the improved road is likely to be higher than by exist-
ing rail facilities, copper traffic on the road may involve economic losses
rather than savings.



ZANOIA
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LIC:FASM)i l'lfraR TORM VE:CLE
Year     Cars and    Pickups      Motor-   Trucks     Private      Omni-     Tractors   Trailers     TOTAL
Station      and         cycles               Con-        buses
V!nEons      Vanettes    Auto-                struC
cycles              ti.on
Vehic:Les
1955      19,478       4,954      1,794    It, 157      304         245      1,032         -        31)964
1956      24,511        6,063     2,218     4,9ao      461          261      1,340          -       39,834
1957      27,166       6,130      1,5101   It,778      426          274      1,384         -        42,059'
1958      27,932        6,241     1, 841    4,538       275         309      1,194          -       42,330
1959      29,g06       6,447      1,776     4,306     2750          250      1,o85         -        4h,020
1960      32,724       6,544      1,879     3,969      211          262      1,l0D9      1.4        ),082o8
1961      34,300       6,474      1, 942    3,687      :L44         279      1,1097      2,130      50,053
1962      36,930       6j943      2,064     3,766       35          292      1,'115      2,267      53,512
1963      39,491       6,807      2,145     3,566       33          306        362       2,531      55,741.
At June
1965      40,253       7,661      2,081     3,41'9      53          245      1,o06       2,380      57,098
Source: Road Traffic Commissioner
1!



T-DLE 2
ZAMBIA
HIGIHIAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
GASOLIINE AND DIESEI FUEL CONSUMPTION
(IMPERIAL GALLONS)
asol'A.ine fL r          DiJesel Fuels
Road Use               for Road Use
1954                     12,460                   INA
1955                     1h,975                    NA
1956                     17,207                    NA
1957                     18,555                    NA
1958                     18,980                    NA
1959                     19,884                    NA
1960                     20,510                    NA
1"61                     21,045                    NA
19R62                    21,595                    5,012
19)63                    22,015                    5,646
15964                    23,068                     7,250
Source: Roads Department



ZAI/BIA.
HITGHlfJAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
THE HIGH1.WAY SYSTEM
Technical Classification
Administrative       Responsible       Class I         Class II and      Improve(d      lJnimproved    'Total
Cl.assification       Authority        Bituminous      Subclass II       Earth           Earth
Paved Roads       Gravel Roads       Roads          Roaids
Ma:in Roads          Roads                703              2,145           9t5                         3,753
Department
Municipal-           40                --                                            40
ities
District Roads       Roads                77              1,061          5,612                         6,750
Department
Rural                                   -                            6,725        6,725
Councils
Rural Council        Rural,                 -                19              _            3,531        3,550
Roads                Councils
TOTALS                                    820              3,225         6,517           10,256       20,818
Source":  Roads Depnrtment



TABLE L
ZAMBIA
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTIOm PROJECT
HIGHWAY BUDGETS
.L earL      ftWUii.LILJa) U.Ld. k..Lon±  rIIa~z. I i  J. IWl1~,C  o nAJ.± s r. u4 c~AJ.  3. n
Y-I Awsni:tan 1I4  c ra. .. osrcin ifs Z
1963 "4            34571                     1,7                     2,5512
i962/'63           393              i,391             i,688          3,h72
1963/6h                             1,333             1,122          2,912
1964/65            337              1,463             1,293           3,093
1965/66            509              1,46j1            3,000           4,970
1966/67 (Est)      534              1,530             3,250          5,314
Source: Roads Department



frA >T  r' e
ZAMBIA
HIGH'vJAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
DESIGN STMIDARDS
- - T  e  r   r  a  i  n--
Flat       Rolling       Mountainous
rJidth of right-of-way, feet                      200          200           200
Design speed, mph                                  60        50-60          0-50
Roadway width*, feet (minimum)                     32           32             32
Pavement width*, feet                              20           20             20
Shoulder width, feet (minimum)                      6            6             6
Limiting grades, per cent                           5            6              8
Maximum length of limiting grade, feet             --          700           500
Minimum stopping sight distance, feet             475          475           350
Minimum design passing sight distance, feet     2,000        2,000         1,700
Type of pavement subbase                        Free draining graded granular soil
Type of pavement base                           Stabilized free draining gradetd gran-
U.Lar soiUL or  raldueu crushlUeU s L,Uoe
Type of pavemen+    -P.a4n
Chelston-Chongwe River; Lutembwe River        (
to 3 miles east of Fort Jameson; and          (Double bituminous surface treatment
Kapiri Mposhi-Serenje road sections           (
Chongwe RLver-Rufunsa; and                    (Single bituminous surface treatment
%N - -1. b- ' Lut,l  RivUr wad 1n_ec'^ions - -(Sigebtmnu             ufc     ramn
Pae-rmentn+ des..i:
In accordance with ,"A guide to the
structura_ 1design of b tuminous-
surfaced roads in tropical and sub-
Uropic.-' countU1Ues.! LRoWad no'ue 31,
of the U.K. Road Research Laboratory.
Design wheel load, pounds                                    9,000
Bridge structure width:
Span less than 30 feet                        Equal to roadway width
Span more than 30 feet                        24 feet
Bridge loading                                  According to British Standards 153,
type HA loading
* Roadway width 34 feet (minimum) and pavement width 22 feet on Kapiri
Mposhi-Mkushi roacd section and 32 feet (minimum) and 22 feet, respect-
ively, on Chelston-Chongwe River road section.



TLBI,E 6
ZAIiBIA.
IUGTIRWJAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ESTDIIATED COST OF PROJECT
Item                                         Estimated Cost
L 1,000        $ 1,000 equivalent
A.  Construction of 373 miles of roads
(including 10 per cent quantity con-
tingencies)
1)  Great East Road, Chelston-Rufunsa
(92 miles) and Nyimba-Fort Jameson
(159 miles) sections                     5,100
2) Great Ncorth Road., Kapiri Mposhi-
Serenje (122 miles) section              2,500
Subtotal, Construction                   7,600          21,200
B.  Envineerinq
1?  Mn.L.inee4ing and sunervision of
construc:tion projects under A             700
2)  Final design, Serenje-ilpika
(147 mi],e) sect.in nf the
Great Ncorth Road                          150
.;i)htnta,.1- ngineerng                   850          2.100
C.  Continge.ncies (about 2n per npnt
on construction and 10 per cent
on enreenng     Icss                     1, 90           % 1n0
TOTAL                  10,h00         29,000



ZAMIBIA
HIGHWA'Y RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
nr.r  nfll *TS1 r  1,flfrsTTlmTVntT
AGHEMUMUNRAInin PROEuTCus T u
A,. Eastern Province
Afric an         European
B3urley      (African Tenant)      Turkish                       Seed         Head
Year         Tobacco      Burley Tobacco        Tobacco      Groundnuts     Cotton      of Cattle
(000 lbs.       000 lbs.           000 lbs.      sh. tons      000 lbs.
1'?60           64.6              570.0           110.6         1,600          5,8         nil
19)61          247.6              751.0            58.2        12',80C)       4,,9        1,013
1i962          29i4.2           1,326.0            57'.3      l4,00C)        48.2         2,851
1963        '1,059.3            2,169.0            69.9       15,,90C)        nil         1,046
I      1 j     7296            ;?500o.0           162.9 ,',80C)              26.1         27i8
1965        '2,100.0            2,100.0           380.0        7',20C)      110.3         3,013
10966 east.   n.a.'               n.a.             n.a.        i2,000        700,.0        n.a.
1970 est.   .5,000D.0           4,200.0           45C.o        30,00C)    2,,000,0        8,000
B. Mkushi Area
(European 'Farming)
Vi rginia
Fltue-cured
Year                      'Maize                      T.;bacco
sh. tons                     OC Tlb-7
196^                       8,290                       2 ,43:3
1963                       9,130                        3,440
1964                      15,3140                       , 501L
1965 est.                 L1,800                        3 )
Source:  Agricultural Department



ZAMBIL
HIGHU'IAY ]RECONSTMICTICN PROJECT
ESTIMATED VEHICL]E OPERATfNG COSTS IN ZAMBIA
On  (I) Bitiumen (II) Good Gravel (III) Mediocre Gravel and Earth
(Pence per Vehicle Mile)
12-toni cap.freight  12-ton capacity    7-ton capacity    5-ton capacity      Passenger              Typical
vehicle drawing 10-  freight vrehicle  freigh-t vehicle   freight vehicle        Bus                Passenger
ton capacity trailer                                                          53 Seats -              Car
Diesel             Diesel           Diesel             Petrol           Di-esel_             Petrol
I        II    II  I r      I     I   I II          I]:  I      II    I        I   II     I    II            ]
Fuel         5.2    6.6    8.1    3.9   4.8  6.1   2.0   2.5    3.:L  '2.5  2.9   3.5   2.0   265    3.1    1.9   2.1    2.8
Lubricants    .9    1.1    1.1     .5     6    .7   .2    .3     6     .2    .3    .h   .2     .3      .     .2    .2     4
Maintenance 7.0      9.,7  18.7   L.8   8.1a 13.2  2.1   3.2    4.'9  ]L.5   2.5  3.3   2.2   3.3     5.0   1.0   1.14   2.4
Tires/Tubes 3.3     4.9    6.L    2.4  3I3   11 2  1.0   1.3    1.7    .7    .8     1.0  1.   I '.3  1.8     .7    .8    1.3
Crew Wages  14.2    5 .0   7.2    2.9   36    4.2  4.1   5.1    6.2  :3.1   4.1   5.2  14.3   .3     6.14    -     -      -
I. 5ra.ace     8     1.0   1.2     .4   .S    .6    .4    .5     .     .3    .14   .5    .7    .8     .9     .4    .5     .6
Depreciation 6.1    7.3    8.7    4.2  14.9  6.o   2.2   2.8    3.14  :L.9  2.5   3.1   2.3   2.9     3.5   2.9   3.5    4.6
Total       2765    35.6  51.4   19.1 26.0 35.0   12.0  15.7   20.14 10.2  13.5 17.0   12.7  16.14  2]1.2   7.1   8.5   12.1
1/ At traffic volune l-evels of 75-100 vehicles per day. Costs are presented net of taxes, duties, license fees, etc. and there-
fore represent economic! costs of operat:ion. Costs do not include waybills, handling costs, depot operating costs, adcminis-
tration, etc. wrhich are not affected appreciably by road improvement. Therefore the per cent decrease in operation costs is
overstated so far as the operator is concerrmed, though the absolute amount of' reduction due to impqrovement is deemed realistic.
Source - IJ.K. Roadl Research Laboratory (Lab. Note No. LN/761/RSPB.NFS unpublished).
NEDECO - Survey cf Transportation in Zambia
Interviews wiLth Central African Road Services Ltd. and Smith and Youngson Ltd., Zambia.



ZAMBIA
HIGHW4AY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ESTIIAIATED VEHICLE OPERATTING COSTS ON PROJECT ROAD 'SECTIONS
(Pence per Vehicle NifeF
12-ton truck
and         12-tcn   7-ton     '5-ton       Passenger         Passenger
10-ton trailer  truck    truck     tr-uck          B Bus             Car
Chelston Chongwe River               40.3        28.6     17.,1      14.6         17.8               9.6
Chongiwe River - Rufunsa             45.1        31.3     18.5       15.6         19.3              10,7
Niimba - Petauke                      5.1.       31.3     18.,5      15.6         19.3              10.7
Petauke - Katete                     43.5        30.L     18.,1      1.3          188               10.3
Katete - -Ft. Jameson                38.8        27.8     16.,6      1h.2         17.4               9.2
Kapiri piposhi - Mkushi             38.8        27.E     16.,6     1i.2          17.4               9.2
Mkushi - Serenje                     hO.3        28,6     17;.1      14.6         17.8               9.6
Serenje - pika                       40.3        28c6     17.,1      14.6         17.8               9.6
1,/ Costs compara'ble to totals set out in Table 8
Source  - Mission estimate on basis of interviews wit;h transporters.



TABLE 10
ZMv]BIA
HIGITWAY REOMNSTRUCT ON PROJECT
Estimated Average Daily Traffic on Project Road Sections
196L/65
Heavy          Light
Great East Road                         Vehicles       Vehicles    Total
Chelston-Chongwe River (27 miles)       61            121       182
Chongwe River-Rufunsa (65 miles)        h8             32        80
Nyimba-Petauke (47 miles)               35             46        81
Petauke-Katete (58 miles)               38             60        98
Katete-Fort Jameson (50 miles)          45             70       115
Great North Road
Kapiri-Mp4oshi-Nkushi (56 rniles)       71             73       1h4
Nlkushi-Serenij (66 miles)             148             42        90
Serenie-9lnika (147 miles)              39            10         79
S  *1-e  Ro~ads Dea-mn
Mission Adjustments



ZAMBIIA
ORGANIZATIrOiN       CIF 'THE :- ROA[)S     D)EPARTrME. NT
MIINIST'RY OF
TRANNSFIORT AN) WORKS
_  ~              ]             F                                  K=  _                          OTHER DEP ARTMENTSi
MECHANICAL SERVICIES            L     DIRECTOR OF                  L      TRAFFIC      J
DEPA RTMENT                    ROADS DE PARl-ME NTr                COMMiSiSIONIER
-I ._ _- -- -- ----- - 1 
AIRFIEILD
CODNSTRUCTION ANDM N
MAINTENANCE ,
I  CIVIL ENGINEERING G
I       WORKS i
4 ---~~~~._. _.__                 _      -._  _._
ADVANCED                          PROVINCIAIL                   ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
PLANNING                          ENGINEERS                             OF                          ADMINIETRATIEN
[______________J                    ROADS DEPARTMENT
PLANNINCi                         PLANNING
__      DSAND                              A AND
DESIGN                            DESIGN           r__
-                       _      _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~M-  AINTENANCE~
MAIN'ENANCE                       MAINTENANCE                       J
AND                               AND
WORKS                            WWORKS            r     W      -
L1  _DMINISTRATION -  L  LAB ATORY        L                        8RD5WORKS
-    ADMINISTRATION               {   LABiORATOR?Y 



MAP I
7 n  .       - 
.1'                                     0~~~~~~~4
(I)          ::     iA)9                     0:                >>
W:  a ...  ..  sil  ze X  = > g   \   s  c  {  VM  = -}<   v   <, i  j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........
e-     II
z     co
LU   T°                              ,,., ..             ,  ...\...................... ........................ . . . E, 
LU ~  U       
V                         I                                    W1R 
<I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
60  4@ s                      i                    ,, v . v  .  O   I
_ o- j  w_   _ _  _ _  _    -   E e     _ _ =     _    _   o         |
| 3 +/::0 05 j~~~'/" " tpf il| 



_ X                               I0  m il2l > * g 
_/ ~ ~~~~~~~~                 'l*EX A';I
#  oi,  9      t* *.** ,** 1.l ! ;  - --  -<
jT_ >__   s  6   X   t S   . n s  ( g X   &  t  , |  |> 
* ~      l                  0**A. 5 ,   + 
TN     0           ; =   ;/<     *5i  > 
g~~~0~                 C         C 
_    - z             X        __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



