Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9492
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
FIRST POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1896-IVC)
A2RIL 12, 1491
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
EDC         Export Development Corporation
EECI        Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire
ESAL        Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau



TH WORLD iANxg                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
wWsW,fon. 0 C. 20433
VS A
o01tuQ af DirLetowg-OGMT.
Opetwatls balsagla
April 12, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire
First Power Prolect (Loan 1826-IV9)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Projecc
Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire - First Power Project  (Loan 1896-IVC)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office.  No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thdsccuftot X= 2 numUddmbunuO nnd MAy be Umd by ugwggs   in    *eps tee
Of ten dbiMduutcfSamm oau maynot heitrru be dwsXne wTol WOWe bakm* sJroma.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COTE D'IVOIRE
FIRST POWER PROJECT
(Loan 1896-IVC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ................................................i
Evaluation Summary .......................................ii
PART I: PROJECT REVlEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity .     . .............................  1
2.   Background .      . ...................................  1
3.   Project Objectives and Description       . ..   2
4.   Project Lesign and Organization        ...    3
5.   Project Implementation             .    .     .      4
6.   Project Results ................................     7
7.   Project Sustainability             .    .     .      8
8.   Bank Performance .     . .............................  9
9. Borrower Performance                ...   10
10.  Project Relationship               . . .   11
11. Coneulting Services                . . .   12
12.   Project Documentation and Data         ...   13
PART III   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . .15
2.   Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
3.   Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
4.   Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
5.   Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . 19
6.   Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
7.   Status of Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
8.   Missions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
ANNEXES
Annex 1 Project Description as Appraised. . . . . . 25
Annex 2 Changes in Size of Project Components . . . 27
Annex 3 The Man Spider Network . . . . . . . . . .  29
Annex 4 Economic Aspects for the area of the Man
Spider Network . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
Annex 5 EECI Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . 36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
COTE D'IVOIRE
FIRST POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1896-IVC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Power
Project in Cote d'Ivoire, for which Loan 1896-IVC in the amount of US$33
million was approved on July 22, 1980. The loan was closed on December 31,
1988, three years behind schedvle. It was fully disbursed, the last
disbursement being made on March 24, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operation
Division of the Occidental and Central Africa Department, Africa Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). A letter requecting
the Borrower to prepare Part II and a copy of Part I were sent to the
Borrower for comments on March 22, and March 23, 1991, respectively. The
Borrower sent neither Part II nor comments on Part I.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in January 1990, and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, and Guarantee Agreements;
supervision reports; consultants' reports; correspondence between Bank and
Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



X Li -
COTE D'IVOIRE
FIRST POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1896-IVC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.        Objectives.  The objectives of the project were twofold; to
extend electricity supply to the Man region of western Cote d'Ivoire, and
to strengthen the Borrower as an institution. The first objective
translated into a program of village electrification, originally intended
to benefit 172 villages. The second included a training program to prepare
senior staff of the utility to replace expatriate technicians, a
maintenance shop to service heavy equipment in the country, and a set of
financial and engineering studies.
2.        !mplementation experience.  The implementation schedule slipped
by two years as compared with the plans, due to unforeseeable
circumstances. These included the delay by another agency in choosing the
consultant who would also manage the Bank's project, a change in design,
and the financial vicissitudes of the Borrower due to the 1982-1984
drought. Once starte4, the project proceeded smoothly. The relative size
of the project components changed considerably when it turned out that
fewer villages than expected were ready for electrification. Other
components were then increased to make full use "f the loan resources.
3.        Results.  The quantitative results w' e affected by the
recession that afflicted the country during the 19808. 104 villages
received electricity service for the first time, and in 16 more the main
grid replaced local diesel generators as a source. The number of new users
did not grow at the pace hoped for, among other reasons because of the high
price of electricity compared with the dispcsable income in the villages,
see section 6. Project Results. The shutdown of the local diesel stations
brought cost savings to the utility, and better quality of service to the
users. The training program enabled the utility to expand its Ivorian
technical staff. The new maintenance facilities fulfilled all
expectations. The studies, especially the new ones for the institutional
and financial reorganization, filled a need that had become urgent as a
consequence of the problems of the 19809. When the recommendations are
fully implemented they should produce a lasting improvement.
4.        Sustainability.  The demand for electricity had grown at only a
moderate rate in the Man area in the five years prior to implementation of
the project. The load in the newly connected villages has, as expected,
increased rapidly during the first three years of service, but should
re-ert to the normal rate for the region when most of the users that can
afford it have been served. The contribution to distribution costs by the
new cust.omers should suffice to cover the running costs of the new



- iii -
extensions. It is however unlikely that any substantial portion of the
investment costs can be amortized over the useful life of the facilities
unless there is an unexpected improvement in the disposable income of the
users.
5.        Findings and lessons learned.  The electrification project
confirmed that consumers' ability to pay and cost of installation are
fundamental factors for the success of the project, and should rank ahead
of preoccupation with modern design or durability based on experience in
temperate climates. Further, that the staff training should emphasize
design and operation of distribution facilities in the country, rather than
overseas. The institutional strengthening of the utility should look
beyond the overall corporate level, and include improvements at the
divisoxn and department level. Middle managers should be helped to become
proficient in project accounting, and cost control of the subprojects for
which they are, or should be, directly responsible. This would result in
more autonomy and efficiency, provided the personnel remains in post long
enough to acquire the necessary experience. Corporate reorganizations and
shifts of personnel should not be encouraged unless continuity of functions
can be ensured. Finally, when a substantial reallocation of funds occurs
within a loan, the task of supervision would be simplified if all changes
were recorded and explaired in a single document, particularly when the
supervising staff has to be rotated during the life of the loan.



COTE D'IVOIRE
FIRST POWER PROJECT
LOAN 1896-IVC
PRf ECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Project Name                 :    First Power Project
Loan No                           1896IVC
RVP Unit                          Africa Region
Country                           Cote d'Ivoire
Sector                            Energy
Subsector                    X    Power
2. Background
2.01      Policy Context:  The project was conceived at the end of the
1970s, a time when the Cote d'Ivoire was at the peak of its prosperity,
following a number of years of favorable earnings from agricultural
exports. The government embarked on an ambitious program to improve the
standards of living in the countryside. The road network was extended and
improved, a well drilling program provided drinking water, and a rural
electrification program was undertaken. Health and education facilities
received corresponding attention. This policy continues to be implemented
to this day, albeit with a reduced scope. Ten years of depressed markets
for the country's major exports, coffee and cocoa, have substantially
reduced the government's capacity to finance programs with more social than
financial benefits. Nevertheless it remains an important goal to make life
in the villages more Lttractive and to slow down the influx of people to
Abidjan. The capital and the southeastern part of the country were the
first to be served by an extensive electricity system.  When major
hydroelectric projects were built in the central (Kossou) and western
region (Buyo), the stage was set for extending the electrification to more
remote areas. Between 1975 and 1980 discussions, planning, and studies
took place which crystallized into several financing operations.
2.02      Participating Agencies:  The electrification project financed by
the Bank is part of a largcr program for the electrification of the western
and northern districts, in which official aid and export agencies from
Canada (CIDA, Canadian International Development Agency, and EDC, Export
Development Corporation) and from Germany (KfW, Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau) played important roles. These agencies concentrated on
extending the high voltage grid (bulk transmission at 225 kV and 90 kV) to
these areas, and each included some village electrification. In contrast,
the Bank project concentrated on village electrificat'on, and on
strengthening the power company EECI through a program of training,
studies, and maintenance facilities.



- 2 -
2.03      Macroeconomic Climates  The softening of the export markets for
the principal Ivorian products, which had begun in 1979, proved to be a
long range trend, rather than the isolated occurrence the government had
hoped it to be. The resultant weakening of the econcmy affected EECI in
that electricity demand grew more slowly, cash infusions from the
Government could no longer be counted on, and it became harder to collect
the electricity bills. To cap these problems, in 1982-1984 a drought of
unexpected severity and duration shrank drastically the production at the
hydro plants; thermal plants had to be fired up to replace the energy
hortfall, and a new 90 MW gas turbine plant had to be purchased and
installed. The burden of importing fuel in large quantities strained the
utility's fir.ances, EECI became unable to finance its portion of the
investment, and had to impose a freeze on all construction projects.
2.04      Eventually the electrification program was restarted after the
Bank agreed to cover ninety percent of the local costs, in addition to all
the foreign costs, and to reallo'ate resources to cover other urgent needs.
The financial problems were closely linked with those of the Government,
which remain serious. Consequently the financial condition of EECI, which
was rocognized as an issue in 1980, has not materially improved to date.
The Energy Sector Adjustment Loan of 1989 will endeavour to help redress
this situation. The first tranche of ESAL was released in January 1990.
3.   Project Objectives and Description
3.01      Project Objectives:   The main objectives of the project were to
help: (a) finance a part of EECI's 1981-1984 rural electrification
program; (b) rationalize the power sector development; and (c) strengthen
EECI's operating capability (training) as well as its financial position
(including tariff re1.ated questions). The program was to bring electricity
to 172 villages with a total population of 315,000, and would be
accompanied by the shutdown of 19 isolated diesel power stations.
3.02      Project Components:  The project components as originally
appraised were:
(a) Man Spider Network (Rural Distribution System) consisting of:
(i)     the extension of the Man 90/33 kV subststion to feed
the new primary distribution lines;
(ii)     the supply and erection of overhead distribution lines
as follows:
-    approximately 770 km of primary (33 kV and 19 kV)
lines;
-    approximately 655 km of secondary (low voltage)
distribution lines in the villages; and



-3-
-    approximately 2J5 pole mounted distribution
transformers;
(iii)     the supply of hardware for the service drops to the
final users (meters, breakers, fuses, cables); and
(iv)     consulting services for engineering, preparation of
bid documents, analysis of bids, and supervision of
construction.
(b)  Training
The training component would include 105 man-years of overseas
training for EECI's senior technical staff.
(c)  Central Maintenance Workshop
Construction of a central workshop, and installation of machine
tools for the maintenance of heavy generation and transmission
equipment.
(d)   Studies
(i)     Execution of studies of 1. electricity rates; 2.
nationwide rural electrification planning; and 3.
development of urban electricity distribution systems;
and
(ii)     Updating and completion of the feasibility study of
the Soubre hydro project.
A more detailed description is reported in Annex 1. The Project was
to be completed by December 31, 1985.
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.01      Coordination With Other Agencies:  The project was the Bank's
contribution to the overall electrification program for the western and
northern regions. This was complemented by components for institutional
strengthening. Coordination with the other agencies, CIDA and EDC, was
good throughout. In fact, it proved very effective when, later on, the
Bank stepped in to relieve the other agencies by financing the remote
control equipment. To maintain good coordination, the Bank agreed that
EECI engage for its project the same Canadian consulting firm that CIDA-EDC
had retained. This brought with it some technical innovation in that North
American practices and equipment replaced the European ones to which EECI
was accustomed. The change was not felt by the residential users, but it
affected the industrial users, and EECI's operating staff.



-4-
4.02      Scale and Tim%jg:  The s.ale of the project was reasonable.
While the size of the project as built, i.e., the number of villages
connected, was less than what the studies had assumed, the geographic area
remained unchanged. The timing or the project was appropriate but as a
recession hit the country, financial problems prevented EECI . .
contributing its share, and this delayed the start of construction. As the
execution time lengthened, the engineering costs increased. In the end,
however, the overall investment in the electrification project was lower
than estimated. This was due to having cut by almost half the size of the
project, to having rece - lower bids from suppliers of goods and
services, as well as to the favorable exchange rate of the US Dollar which
peaked in 1985 against the European currencies.
4,03      In retrospect, one possible change could have been that the
studies might have been mor realistic in assessing the number of villages
which would be ready for connection. Attention could have been devoted to
containing the cost of distribution and connection, to the ability of end
users to pay for the electricity, to the economic advantages they may
derive from it, and how to ensure that this could be done with the new
electrical system. The switch to single phase primary distribution was a
well intentioned attempt to reduce costs, but much more effort is needed to
devise an affordable system of village electrification. A closer
cooperation between the desiFners in the consulting office and the
operations staff at EECI would have been useful. Whether the macroeconomic
problems and the drought of the next few years could have been anticipated
in 1980, is a question that defies a simple answer.
5.   Project Implementation
5.01      Variances in Implementation:  The main variances between the
project as planned and what was actually implemented were: the duration of
the project, which exceeded the plan by three years; the extent of the
Bank's participation in the financing, which rose to include 90 percent of
the local costs in addition to the foreign costs; the size of the
electrification project, reduced to half the original size, and the
addition of new components to the project. The table below shows how the
allocation of funds changed from appraisal to execution:



Categor)                       Percent of funds allocated
at appraisal        actual
Spider network of Man:
Supyly and erection                  72.3            41.2
Engineering and supervision           5.2             16.2
Maintenance workshop                    5.8             11.3
Training of technical staff             7.4             15.S
Studies                                 9.3             15.4
100.0           100.0
Note: Unallocated category is:        excluded         included
As the electrification project absorbed less funds, the proportion devoted
to other categories rose to approximately 3. percent from the original 22
percent. Annex 2 details the changes. It is possible that the delay in
execution could have been reduced if the Bank had decided to replace EECI
in the financing of local costs as soon as the first problems became
manifest. The delay in selecting the consultant, and the delay introduced
by changing the electrical system were outside the Bank's control. Still,
the largest individual factor of disruption was the drought of 1982-1984
which materially worsened EECI's financial condition. This could not have
been foreseen but the Bank r"acted in a timely fashion to the emergency.
5.02      Electrification:  The electrificption component, referred to as
the Man Spider Network, was changed substantially in size and in design in
1983. After a lengthy/ review of the consultant's feasibility study, EECI
decided to connect 100 villages rather than to the 243 which the consultant
deemed would fit within the available budget, or the 172 the appraisal
report had anticipated. At the time only these 100 villages were ready for
electrification in accordance with EECI's existing norms, see Annex 3. The
ensuing cost reduction freed part of the loan for redeployment; part went
to increase the proportion of Bank financing, thus alleviating the
financial difficulties which EECI faced in 1984 and the following years,
and part financed urgent diagnostic studies and technical assistance to
EECI in the areas of organization, accounting, financial management, and
project management. The construction of the electrification project began
in 1985 and was completed in September  °1O6, approximately two years behind
the SAR schedule. The number of villages increased to 104 during
implementation, and another 16 villages who already had eleetricity were
also connected.
5.03      TrAning:  The training component expanded to $4.81 million,
approximately double what had been planned. It financed 249 man years of
higher education at ESIE (the Electrical Engineering University at
Bingerville) for prospective EECI staff during 1980-1986. Forty-two of the



- 6 -
new graduates are now employed at EECI, most of them in the Operations
Department. It also financed overseas bursaries for technical staff in the
amount of US$0.15 million. The emphasis of the training shifted thus from
the original aim of providing advanced training abroad for senior technical
staff to imparting a basic engineering education to high school graduates.
Short term training and maintenance courses for the operators were included
with the procurement of new equipmenL or machine tools.
5.04      Maintenance:  The expansion of the central maintenance workshop
into a fine and modern facility was completed satisfactorily. The 4200 m2
extension, and the installation of heavy machine tools have enabled EECI to
service and repair even its largest units. Delays in procurement caused
some slippage in the execution schedule, approximately two years. The
equipment program selected was quite extensive. The Bank contribution rose
to US$2.61 from the US$1.29 million budgeted, but as the total cost of the
expansion exceeded US$8 million , EECI had to seek additional financing
from commercial sources.
5.05      Studies:  The original study component was completed close to
schedule and below budget. The tariff and the electrification studies were
ready in 1981, only the last updating of the feasibility for Soubre slipped
into 1989. The total cost of these studies, at US$1.27 million, came in
comfortably below budget (US$2.05 million).
5.06      New Components:  New hardware and more studies were financed
with the savings from the electrification project. The largest item was
the remote control equipment for the five high voltage substations financed
by CIDA-EDC (US$1.47 million) and the down payment (US$0.26 million) for
the replacement of dispatching equipment in seven substations of EECI's
high voltage system. With the Bank's approval, the equipment was purchased
directly from the manufacturer who had previously supplied all of EECI's
remote control and dispatching equipment. Other new items were line
maintenance trucks, and equipment for hot line maintenance work (US$1.12
million).
5.07      Three additional engineering studies were financed for US$0.82
million: the generation and transmission planning study, the Soubr6-Taabo
transmission line study, and the hydrological study of the Bandama river,
later extended to include the other major rivers where EECI has hydro
plants. US$2.07 million were allocated to two new studies of the
institutional/financial field: the reorganization of the accounting system,
and an overall assessment of EECI, which eventually produced a plan of
action for institutional and financial restructuring. This will be
implemented under the ESAL.
5.08      Unforeseen Factors:  The most siCnificant variance between
planning and implementation was the reduction in size of the
electrification project. The Bank could not easily have foreseen or
recognized the circumstances that led to it, namely the steady
deterioration of EECI's financial position and tl, too optimistic estimates
by both consultants of how many villages would be connected. The wide



variations of the exchange rate against the dollar, which fluctuated from
211 in 1980 to 490 in 1985, to settle around the 300 level at the end of
the 1980s made it difficult to forecast with accuracy how much could be
procured with the loan resources. The looming financial problems of EECI
were duly identified; the Bank expected that compliance with the financial
covenants of the loan agreement would prevent such problems. When
compliance was less than perfect, and serious problems emerged, prompt
action was taken to appoint consultants to deal with them. The Bank
reacted with flexibility to the changes in the project; and it reassigned
its funds to the best advantage of the Borrower. The delay of
approximately three years (two for the electrification project), while
substantial, is not extraordinary under the circumstances. It may be
argued that when in 1983 a substantial amount of money was freed for
reassignment, the Bank might have reappraised the priorities of the
Borrower before approving a series of changes, but this may not have been a
realistic possibility, nor is it certain that the outcome would have been
more beneficial to the Borrower. All in all it can be said that the Bank
put in a creditable performance in the execution of this project.
6.   Project Results
6.01      Effect of Electrification:  The results of the rural
electrification project are much more modest than forecasted by the studies
upon which the SAR relied. The number of villages connectsd to the system
is 120. Of these 16 which were previously provided with electricity by
isolated diesel plants, are now supplied by the more reliable main EECI
system, and 104 have received electricity for the first time. The number
of users has increased by 2700 between 1985 and 1988, and of these it is
es.imated that 1400 are in the newly connected areas, while the remainder
iq in areas which were already served. The increase in energy consumption
is very modest, approximately 2,700 thousand kWh after three years of
operation. Much of the increase is for public lighting, provided free to
the villages. The remainder is practically all residential consumption.
The industrial load increase is insignificant.
6.02      It is generally held in Cote d'Ivoire that the benefits of rural
electrification will emerge only slowly, and that a 10 year horizon should
be considered before substantial changes appear. This seems reasonable
both because the standard of living is at a very basic level in the
villages of the Man region, and because the high cost of electricity, and
of electrical goods makes it difficult for the user to reach levels of
consumption at which they can derive significant benefits, at a time when
their income suffers from the depressed prices of agricultural products.
6.03      The benefits that have begun to appear are more of a social
nature. Public lighting is highly appreciated and envied by those who do
not have it; the villages take pride in being able to develop a social life
comparable to that of the provincial capital of Man. The most prized
appliances are those that improve the quality of life such as radios,
television sets, and refrigerators. Education benefits in an indirect way.
Villages with electricity can attract teachers to their schools more easily



than those without. Villagers who have moved to the large cities are more
apt to return and build new and better houses for themselves and for their
relations. This is reinforced by EECI's rule to give service only to more
permanent homes ("batis en dur") made of cement blocks with metal roofs,
excluding the traditional huts with mud walls and straw roofs. The
technological environment will be slowly developed, as th3 availability of
electricity will lead to people learning how to handle installations and
appliances, not to mention the spread of irnormation that television will
promote. The physical environment has not been affected by the
distribution lines and installations. It may eventually be, when the
productive uses n- 'ectricity spread and contribute to more intensive
exploitation of te   nd, but this is still a fair distance away.  While
the social benef-  Arr apparent, the project is not remunerative for EECI.
6.04      Maintet.r.i e 'iability and Training:  The new maintenance shop
began operations in !.viS ith the repair of large hydro and steam turbines
for the utility. Betwe6n major EECI jobs the shop accepts work for
outsiders. This is a valuable service to local industry. The hot line
maintenance equipment and the maintenance trucks have enabled EECI to
reduce the length of scheduled and unscheduled power outages. The training
program attained its objective to replace expatriates with Ivorian
personnel. It also contributed to maintaining the high quality of EECI's
technical stsff.
6.05      Impact of Studies:  The findings of the 1981 tariff study were
duly incorporated in the rate schedule. Now, however, it is obsolete and
needs to be updated, as the expansion plan used for the marginal costs no
longer applies. The conclusions of the engineering studies are used for
operations programming (rule curves for the reservoirs) and for development
planning. The reorganization of the accounting system has borne fruit.
EECI's financial statements are now reliable and are produced more
punctually. The technical assistance in the institutional and financial
area began slowly and will be completed by the end of 1990. The
conclusions and recommendations of its main report issued in March 1988
call for a fundamental restructuring of EECI and of its relationship with
the government. This has not yet been fully implemented, but when it is,
the objectives of the project will have been met.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.01      Village Electrification:  The rate of return on the
electrification project will attain 4.7 2 at full development. This
percentage is calculated without taking into account the savings from the
closing down of the diesel generating plants since part of the rationale of
building a high voltage transformer station in Man must have been to shut
down the diesels in Man and nearby towns. While this rate is considerably
lower than the anticipated one in the range 11-19 Z, it is not out of line
with what can be expected from an electrification project in a rureul area.
In fact, the Man spider network (electrification project) can be viewed as
two parts. One consists of the feeder lines that join Man with the four
major and the twelve smaller villages that already had electricity. The



9-
other is the set of extensions and secondary distribution lines to the 104
new villages. This latter part, which accounts for the major part of the
investment, is unlikely to produce monetary benefits surficient to amortize
the investment during its useful life. The calculations are reported in
Annex 4. In essence, the investment of US$11.3 million can be expected to
bring electricity to approximately 8000 new users by the end of the 1990s
(1400 new users had been connected by 1988); the cost per new connection is
too high to be paid for by the electricity sales that can be anticipated.
To serve more users, the investment and the distribution facilities would
have to be extended. This would only help if a way is found to reduce
significantly the cost of distribution facilities. Increasing the price of
electricity would not help as it is already high compared with the users'
willingness and ability to pay. In fact both the initial and the monthly
cost of electricity service are higher than in most industrialized
countries. Yet the disposable income in the villages is much lower, as it
depends on the prices of their cash crops. The local prices of coffee and
cocoa have dropped substantially since 1980; the government support has
been withdrawn, and the international prices have fallen while the exchange
rate remains unchanged.
7.02      Diesel Substitution:  On t'ie other hand the retirement of the
four diesel generating stations in the four major villages was quite
advantageous. Replacing the diesel production led to a large monetary
saving (approximately US$0.6 million) per year. The economic saving is
less since a large part of the cost was represented by taxes on diesel
fuel. In any case, the investment in the lines to the four villages
represents the least cost solution for supplying the existing users. The
cost of serving too few new users in the 106 newly connected villages is
what makes the project difficult to sustain.
7.03      Maintenance and Training:  The investment in the maintenance
shop is justified by the benefit of being able to repair major equipment in
the country, rather than face six or more months' delay when it has to be
shipped overseas, or have to invest in spare equipment as an insurance
measure. Similar considerations apply to the other maintenance equipment.
The investment in training is inherently difficult to assess in terms of
return. It should however be noted that its cost was high. The ESIE is an
excellent engineering school but at present it operates below capacity.
Therefore its rates per student are higher than at comparable universities
in North America and Europe.
8.   Bank P3rformance
8.01      Strengths and Weaknesses:  The Bank's strength derived from its
position and image as an impartial development agency, devoted equally to
the long term development of the Borrower, and to the completion of the
physical project. This was quite evident in this project where the Bank
worked alongside a bilateral aid agency (CIDA), and a commercial export
agency (EDC). The Borrower was greatly helped by the Bank's flexibility
in reassigning resources; this stands in stark contrast with the attitude
of a group of commercial banks who withdrew from the project in 1984.



- 10 -
Protracted negotiations to replace their share contributed to delay
construction. The Bank's insistence on internatioiial public tenders helped
control procurement costs both for this and for other EECI projects, and
strengthened the Bank's hand during negotiations.
8.02      The project and the Borrower would probably have benefitted from
more intense supervision. While the average of a short mission every 9
months may be appropriate for a project that runs smoothly, it was too
little for a borrower in the throes of serious and persistent problems.
When in 1984 the EECI resorted to such an extreme action as a freeze on all
investments, there would have been good cause to reappraise the project and
to take stock of the situation. It is unlikely that a different course of
action in reassigning resources would have been chosen in the end; but the
decisions might have been taken faster, the delays could have been shorter,
and the overall costs could have been less.
8.03      Suggestions for the Future:  The appraisal by the Bank was
reasonable in the light of the knowledge available at the time. In
hindsight the Bank could have displayed more skepticism towards the rosy
forecasts of the feasibility studies and towards the ready acceptance by
the Borrower of covenants it was unable to comply with. The supervision
was the best possible within the limitations of the available manpower.
More time could have been spent when the crisis was at its peak. For the
project execution all matters seem to have been left to the consultant
doing the project management. A stronger presence by Bank technical staff
might have elicited more inputs by EECI staff and might have prepared them
better to operate the electrification project and to continue it in years
to come.
8.04      The experience of this project suggests that the following
points should be ke-pt in mind in rural electrification projects. There is
a great difference between the electrification of large isolated farms in
temperate climates, and that of African villages. The estimates of
consumption need a thorough understanding of the prospective users; the
design must suit local practices; the choice of materials and equipment
must fit local conditions; the benefit-cost ratio must be considered in all
aspects of the design. Planning and design are best done in the country
itself. A turnkey project is more cost effective in the short run, but it
is not the best way to start a long term program. A deep involvement by
the local utility is essential to enable them to carry on the work, and
this must begin at the design stage.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.01      The participation of the Borrower at the time of project
preparation is difficult to establish after the fact. Since EECI did not
have much experience in rural electrification, it had to rely on the advice
of the consulting firms selected by the donors, CIDA and KfW. Today,
eleven years later, the utility has staff with experience, and could
certainly contribute good technical and economic inputs to the preparation
of the next project. During the design phase of the project the Borrower's



- 11 -
staff participated in the survey and selection of villages. It does not
appear that their opinions were sought to a significant extent in other
aspects of the design. This, as well as the project management, was left
entirely in the hands of the overseas consulting firm.
9.02      At some point the Borrower was requested to supply a number of
field inspectors to the consultant and was unable to do so to their
satisfaction. Whether this small episode hints at lack of qualified staff
or at unreasonable expectations, or both, is hard to establish now, but it
is typical of the differences in mentality between industrial and
developing countries. As the project management was in the hands of the
consulting firm, the Borrower's staff was only invited to participate in
training courses and to follow the course of the work, but does not appear
to taken an active role in the construction. While this was certainly the
more efficient way to proceed with the work, the EECI staff did not have an
opportunity to gain significant hands-on experience.
9.03      The Borrower is now aware of the importance of his role for the
success of village electrification. EECI has developed a rather elabol:ate
economic computer model (named PROSPER) which establishes the rate of
return of the electrification of individual villages or extensions. As the
electrification program continues with its own resources, albeit on a more
modest scale, it has built up an estimating and design team that can
participate in a future project. The operating experience which EECI has
acquired on the new electrification projects should allow it to give
valuable inputs to the design and equipment selection of future projects.
9.04      The covenant that yearly inspections be conducted at each hydro
dam led to the formation of an EECI inspection team, which has undertaken a
comprehensive program of work, and has produced its first set of reports in
1987-88. The tariff study included establishing long range marginal costs.
These need to be updated but EECI does not have the experience to do it.
Assistance in setting up a team would be advisable, and it could build on
the cost control department which is already producing good data.
10. Project Relationship
10.01           The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was
close and a spirit of cooperation and of understanding prevailed. EECI
however, was not free to make its own decisions or to implement its
commitments independently. The utility is such a major part of the Cote
d'Ivoire's economy that the Government is reluctant to let it act in an
autonomous fashion. Thus, major investment and financial decisions tend to
be postponed while the authorities ponder and hope for a solution that is
politically less painful. This contributed to various delays and to the
fact that to this day, the institutional covenants mentioned at the time of
the loan agreement have yet to be complied with. It further led to the
need to invest US$2 million in institutional and financial studies to pave
the way for the restructuring of the utility. A first important step
towards reform was taken in 1985 when the Electricity Law was approved.



- 12 -
This outlines the necessary framework; the details have been worked out
only recently and they should be implemented under ESAL.
10.02          The participation of cofinancing agencies made for a
cumbersome project relationship. As the Bank's part of the electrification
project was smaller than that of CIDA-EDC, it was logical that they should
take the lead in project design and management. While most of the goals of
the two parties were parallel, they did not always coincide, and this
restricted the Bank's freedom of action.
10.03          The Borrower's problem was more pronounced.  As the CIDA
financing was on concessional terms, they had little reason or possibility
for that matter to hold and defend different opinions about the shaping of
the project. The result is that the electrificat n projects built by
foreign aid agencies are each different from what the country has already,
creating several different standards. The problem is not a major one,
since in the end all projects deliver electricity, but it complicates
maintenance needlessly, and the Bank could usefully help the Borrower to
promote standardization in his own system. In general the Borrower should
be encouraged to take an active role in all facets of a project such as
this, which should be a model for his future projects.
11. Consulting Services
11.01          Role of Consultants:         Consulting firms were used
extensively on this project and in fact accounted for US$9.57 million, or
29 percent of the total Bank financing. For the electrification project a
consulting firm was entrusted with feasibility, design, project management,
and construction supervision, at a cost of US$4.9 million, or 39 percent of
the construction cost. The cost was over three times the amount budgeted
for the original, larger project. A partial explanation of the cost
increase lies in the duration of their involvement which lasted over six
years rather than the expected one or two years. Also, the consultant was
charged with project management rather than only with project supervision,
and thus had to perform some of the owner's functions. Finally, the
percentage share of the Bark in the total engineering costs for the IBRD,
CIDA, EDC electrification project was established in 1982 and remained the
same even after the size of the Bank project had been changed; the Bank
funded not only 902 of its own share of the local costs of the consultant
but also some of the other two agencies, when EECI found itself in
difficulties. All this added to the cost of the project. In technical
matters the consultants performed satisfactorily. Two management
consulting firms had an important role in the technical assistance for the
accounting and financial restructuring. Their work was essential in
bringing EECI up to satisfactory standaras.
11.02          Suggestions for the Future:  In retrospect it would have
been better if the terms of reference of the electrification consultant had
explicitly included the tasks of maintaining project accounts in a form
satisfactory to the Bank; of ensuring that the operating staff of EECI were
provided with full documentation and instructionn for the installations as



- 13 -
built; and of providing assistance and on-the-job training during the
first year of operation. This would have been most helpful in a case like
this where the design and the equipment are new to the country and
unfamiliar to the operators. The suggestion about project accounts would
obviate the difficulty of reconciling the Baisk's records, kept in US
dollars, the Borrower's which are kept in Francs CFA, and the consultant's
which were probably kept in Canadian dollars. As a consequence of this it
is difficult to agree on unit costs and on actual cost of each item of
work. These costs are useful for refining the design, as a base for
marginal costs, and for establishing future costs, besides being needed to
properly audit the accounts. The consultants for institutional
strengthening made their recommendations to enhance the performance of the
corporation as a whole. Subsequently an internal reorganization took
place, departments were rearranged, middle management staff was rotated to
new posts, some twice within two years. This created a lack of continuity
which affected the operation of the utility, and which was certainly
apparent during the search for project information. In a similar situation
in future it would be advisable to combine the restructuring of the company
with a redefinition of the functions and responsibilities of middle
management, of the relationships between the various departments, and of
their staffing. Inevitably, this should also include how the training
program could contribute to the restructuring. In this project, the
training program was conceived before the need for the restructuring arose,
and thus the two activities were not coordinated.
11.03           The Bank insisted that International Public Tenders be
called for the installation of the distribution system. The international
contractor who submitted the low bid performed well and efficiently. This
had a useful sile effect in that it provided EECI with a standard against
which to compare the performance of local contractors who previously had
been quoting considerably higher prices. Equipment and rmaterials which
were common with the CIDA-EDC portion were procured from Canadian
suppliers, at internationally competitive prices.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01           The legal framework and documentation was the customary
one, and there is no indication that it was less than appropriate. Some of
the financial covenants proved difficult to enforce, in the face of the
Government's reluctance or slowness to comply with them. The problem is
not unusual and there is no easy remedy in sight.
12.02           Adequacy of Staff Appraisal Report:  The staff appraisal
reoort was useful and accurate in most respects; but it could not serve as
a guide for the implementation of the electrification project, after it
underwent substantial changes in 1983. For this an updating or a
reappraisal would have been needed. The monitoring of operational and
economic aspects which the staff appraisal report had recommended was not
included in the consultant's tasks. Thus the Bank only received detailed
reports on the physical progress from the consultant, and on the financial
conditions from EECI.



- 14 -
12.03          Availability of Data for PCR:  Collection of the data for
the PCR required some effort. For the electrification project the records
kept by the project manager had not been reconciled with those of the
Borrower. The documentation kept by the Bank is sufficient to justify the
disbursements. The project accounting kept by the Borrower did not include
full details of the local inputs as would be desirable to produce unit
costs, or to segregate subprojects for evaluation by management. The
Borrower's records were not geared to keep track of commitments easily, so
that after the loan had been fully disbursed several contracts remained for
which EECI still had to find financing.



- 15 -
PART IIIt STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title                Purpose                   Approval    Status
Energy             To achieve a more                 1989         In
Sector Adjustment        efficient allocation                         Progress
of resources to the
energy sector;
To encourage a greater
contribution of private
sector finance; and
To enhance the competitive
position of the COte
d'Ivoire productive
sector.
Loan 1896-IVC was the first and hitherto the only one in the power sector.
A related loan was approved in December 1989, the Energy Sector Adjustment
Loan, ESAL, Loan 3150-IVC, in the amount of US$100 million. The first
Tranche of US$30 million was disbursed at effectiveness in January 1990.
The disbursement of the next two tranches of US$35 million each, are linked
to compliance with conditions which include the restructuring of EECI. The
purpose of the ESAL is to achieve a more efficient allocation of resources
to the energy sector, to encourage a greater contribution of private
sector finance, and to enhance the competitive position of the COte
d'Ivoire productive sector.



- 16 -
2.   Project Timetable
Item                  Date                 Date
Date
Planned              Revised              Actual
Identification                                                    00/09/78
Preparation                   -                                   00/04/79
Appraisal Mission          00/10/79                               00/10/79
Loan/Credit                00/12/79            0     1/1C/80
01/10/80
Negotiations
Board Approval             07/22/80                               07/22/80
Loan/Credit                09/11/80                               09/11/80
Signature
Loan/Credit                03/27/81                -              03/27/81
Effectiveness
Loan/Credit                12/31/86            12/31/87           12/31/88
Closing
Loan/Credit                09/30/85            0     8/31/86
00/09/90 1/
Completion
1/   Date by which the Technical Assistance Contract for the Accounting of
EECI is expected to be completed. The major part of the physical
components had been completed by September 1986.



- 17 -
3.   Loan Disbursements
Disbursements (in US$ Million)
Loan 1896-IVC
Bank Fiscal Year              Estimated            Actual           Actual Z of
And Quarter                 Cumulative         Cumulative          Estimated
1980/81          3                1.7
4                2.7
1981/82          1                3.6                1.6
2                4.7                1.6
3                5.3               1.6
4                8.4               1.9
1982/83          1               10.6                2.2
2               13.3               2.2
3               15.3                2.4
4               17.4               2.7
1983/84          1               19.3                2.7
2               21.0                3.6
3               22.8                3.9
4               24.6                4.2
1984/85          1               26.4                4.2
2               27.8               4.6
3               29.4                5.3
4               30.8                6.6
1985/86          1               32.1                9.2
2               33.0              12.5
3                -                13.6
4                -                16.1
1986/87          1                 -                17.8
2                -                19.0
3                -                20.3
4                -                21.9
1987/88          1                                  28.7
2                                 30.6
3                                 33.0



- 18 -
4.   Prolect IM1ementi&tion
Appraisal                        Actual (or
Estimate                        PCR Estimate)
Indicators        Installations                      Installations
Indicator 1    172 villages to               104 villages received
receive electricity           electricity for the first
time, and 16 villages,
previously served by
diesel generating sets
were connected to the main
grid
Indicator 2    655 Km. of secondary          228 Km. of secondary
distribution lines            distribution lines
(220 Volts)
Indicator 3          105 Man years of              249 man years of
training for senior           University
level           technical staff
training for engineers
Indicator 4    Equipping maintenance         Equipping maintenance
shop                          shop and added line
maintenance equipment
Indicator 5    3 studies, whereof 1          10 studies completed,
tariff and 2 engineering      whereof 4
studies                       financial/institutional
and 6 Engineering studies
Comments:
- Indicators 1 and 2 reflect the reduction in size of the
Man Electrification Pro,ect decided upon in 1983.
- Indicators 3, 4 and 5 reflect the shift to the other
components of resources saved from the electrical
project.



- 19 -
5.   Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                   Actual
Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign  Total
Currency Exchange              Currency  Exchange
1. Man SpiCer
Network
a) Equipment and                  12.4    12.4              06       6.4    7.0
Material
b) Installation            7.3     3.6    10.8             3.6       2.1    5.7
C) Engineering and          06     1.1      1.7            1.8       2.6    5.7
Supervision
2. Maintenance              -      1.3      1.3            4.8       4.1    8.9
Equipment
3. Training                 07     1.6      2.3            4.8        01    4.9
4. Studies                  02     2.1      2.3            NIA       4.5    4.5
5. New Items
a) Remote control           -       -        -              01       1.9    2.0
b) Local consultants                                       1.4        -     1.4
CIDA and EDC
projects
6. Unallocated             4.6    11.0    15.6              -          -     -
TOTAL                 13.4    33.1    46.4             17.1      21.7  38.8
Comments:
Note that the actual costs in local currency include items of
foreign origin such as the US$4.8 million maintenance equipment.



- 20 -
B. Project Financing
Source                         Planned                        Final
Loan Agreement
IBRD
Categories
1. Man Spider Network                 17.1                           16.1
2. Maintenance Equipment               1.3                            4.1
3. Training                            1.6                            4.9
4. Studies                             2.1                            4.5
5. New Items                            -                             3.4
6. Unallocated                        11.0
SUBTOTAL IBRD                   33.1                            33.0
Domestic Source
1. Man Spider Network                  7.9                            1.1
2. Maintenance Equipment                                              4.7
3. Training                            0.7
4. Studies                             '3).2
5. Unallocated                         4.6
SUBTOTAL DOMESTIC               13.4                             5.8
TOTAL                      46.5                            38.8



- 21 -
6.   Prolject Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                      Appraisal       Estimate at       Estimated at
Full
Estimate        Closing date         Development
Villages to Receive          172                120                 120
Electricity
Diesel Generating             19                  4                   4
Plants Shut Down           (Part of)
Staff Trained at              45                 54                  54
University Level



- 22 -
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal              E' timated
Estimate                 Actual
Economic Rate of Return
Underlying Assumptions
1.   Electrification of 172           16Z (Range 11/19Z)
villages and towns
2.   Scope reduced to 120                                              47Z
Villages and towns



- 23 -
7.   Status of Covenants
Section              Covenant                 Dead Line           Status
Loan agreement
3.06(b)        Perform Tariff Study         09/80       Completed by 02/81.
4.05           Carry out yearly dam          1981       Completed within
inspection with expert                   1987, but used expert
assistance                            assistance only for
one of five dams.
4.06           Modernize concession        A.S.A.P.     Legal framework
agreement between                        promulgated in 1985
government and EECI                      implementation
details under
discussion (1990).
5.02           Submit audited              June 30      Audited report
financial statement        each year    submitted with delay.
September 1988 report
presented in January
1990.
5.04           (i)  Debt Coverage:         each year    Not complied with up
Net revenues to                    to 1988.
be at least 1.5
times debtd
(ii) Short Term Debt       each year    Not complied with up
not to recede 5Z                   to 1988.
of gross revenues
5.05           Internal generation of    each year    Not complied with up
funds to cover at least                  to 1988.
25 percent of annual
capital expenditure
Guarantee Agreement
3.02           Modernize concession         A.S.A.P.    Same comment as for
agreement between                        section 4.06 of loan
government and EECI                      agreement.



- 24 -
8.  Missions
Perfor. 1/
Stage of           Month/  Number of  Days in  Special. rating  Types of
Project Cycle        Year      persons    field     Rep.   Status  Problems
Through Abpraisal
Identification        07/77          1        4   Engineer      N/A     N/A
Preappraisal          03/78         12        2   Engineer/    N/A      N/A
Financial
Analyst
Preappraisal          05/79          1        4   Engineer      N/A     N/A
Appraisal             10/79          1        4   Engineer      N/A     N/A
Board Approval Through Effectiveness
Supervision 1         09/80          1        5   Engineer      1   Other
Supervision 2         05/81          2        6   Engineer/    1   Other
Financial
Analyst
Supervision 3         12/81          2       29   Engineer/    2   Financial
Financial
Analyst/
Supervision 4         4/82           3       17   Engineer/    2   Financial
Financial
Analyst/
Economist
Supervision 5         1/83           2        9   Engineer/    2   Financial
Financial
Analyst
Supervision 6         3/84           2       10   Engineer/    3   Financial
Financial
Analyst
Supervision 7         6/84           2        8   Engineer/    2   Financial
Financial
Analyst
Supervision 8         11/84          2       12   Financial    2   Financial
Analyst/
Consultant
Supervision 9         10/85          2       10   Financial    Not      Not
Analyst/    scaled  scaled
'onsultant
Supervision 10        3/86           2       10  FP.nancial    Not      Not
Analyst/    scaled  scaled
Consultant
Supervision 11        10/87          1      not   Financial    Not      Not
scaled   Analyst   scaled  scaled
Supervision 12/final  1/90           1
1/   1: Minor problems
2: Moderate problems
3s Major problems



- 25 _
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
COTE D'IVOIRE
FIRST POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1896-.VC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION AS APPRAISED
The project components as originally appraised were:
I.          Han Spider Network (Rural Distribution System) consisting of:
A.    the extension of the Man 90/33 kV substation to feed the new
primary distribution lines;
B.    the supply and erection of overhead lines as follows:
- approximately 280 km of 33 kV three-phase lines;
- approximately 384 km of 33 kV single-phase lines with two
conductors;
- approximately 106 km of 19 kV single-phase lines with one
conductor and with ground return;
- approximately 265 pole mounted distribution transformers; and
-  approximately 655 km of secondary (low voltage) distribution
lines in the villages;
C.    the supply of materials and equipment for the service drops to
connect the final users (meters, breakers, fuses, cables); and
D.    consulting services for engineering, preparation of bid documents,
analysis of bids, and supervision of construction.
II.         Training
The training component would include 105 man-years of bursaries
for EECI's seuior technical staff to prepare Ivorians to replace expatriate
personnel. It was to cover:
A.    Provision of scholarships at overseas engineering schools for 10
engineers each year during three years.
B.    Provision of one year scholarships for 15 senior technicians for
maintenance training overseas.



- 26 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
III.        Central Maintenance Workshop
Construction of a central workshop, and installation of machine tools
for the maintenance of heavy generation and transmission equipment.
IV.         Studies
A.    Execution of studies of (a) electricity rates; (b) nationwide
rural electrification planning; and (c) development of urban
electricity distribution systems.
B.    Updating and completion of the feasibility study of the Soubre
hydro project.
The Project was to be completed by December 31, 1985.



- 27 -
Annex 2
COTE D'IVOIRE                       Page 1 of 2
FIRST POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1896-IVC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHANGES IN SIZE OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
The size of the project components changed during the execution of
the project. The tables below compare the components as-built with the size
envisaged at the time of appraisal/loan approval.
I.          Man Spider Network (Village Electrification)
A.    Extension of Man Substation
No change.
B.    Distribution lines for village electrification
Date:                  July 80         July 82      March 83      March 88
Event:              Loan approval    SNC-Dessau    Approved    Completion
S.A.R         Proposal       Budget        of work
Villages to be          172               243           83           104
connected                                                        plus 16
33 kV Three-phase       280                                          260
lines (km)
33 kV single-phase      384              1049         612            308
lines (km)
19 kV single-phase      106                                           27
extensions (km)
Addition of neutral    not                                            59
to existing lines (km) contemplated                              plus 11
Distribution            265
Transformers
Low voltage lines       655               549         235            228
220-440 V (km)
C.    Supply of materials and equipment for connection of users to
distribution lines
Not defined as to quantity



- 28 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
II.         Training
A.    30 technicians for           90
3 years each (man-years)                         Substantial changes
B.    15 Technicians for          15
1 year each
III.        Maintenance Workshop
Provision of machine tools
for a total base cost of US$ 1.29                Bank contribution
rises to US$2.61 m
IV.         Studies
A.    Tariff study (base cost US$)  0.19   (15 mm)         Several
additions
B.    Rural electrification plan    0.66   (55 mm)
C.    Urban distribution              0.30   (25 mm)
D.    Soubre                          1.10  (100 mm)
Total                          5.87
Changes of Schedule
The scheduled completion dates evolved as follows:
Man Rural Distribution System                                      Overall
Schedule
As per appraisal report of June 1980                        December  84
As per loan contract of September 1980                      December  85
As revised in March 1983                                    December  85
Actual completion of construction                           September 86
Detailed schedule                     as per SAR                 Actual
Hire consultants                      mid 1980                End      81
Call for Tenders                       end 1980               Mid      84
Start Construction                     beg 1981               Mid      85
Completion                             beg 1985               End      85



- 29 -
Annex 3
COTE D'IVOIRE                       Page 1 of 5
FIRST POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1896-IVC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE MAN SPIDER NETWORK
1.          General:  The Man project was part of a larger electrification
program which was to bring electricity to the western and northern districts,
at distances of 500 to 800 km from Abidjan, the capital and center of gravity
of the power system. The name of the program, Centres AraignOe Ouest (western
spider networks) aptly describes the layout : high voltage transmission lines
would be built to link the existing system to six centers (Man, Ddnane,
Odienne, Seguela, Boundiali, and Ferke-Korhogo). Each center would have a
transformer station from which the primary distribution lines would emanate as
strands in a spider web. The voltage and the routing of the transmission
lines were determined from the beginning by the position of the centers, and
little could be done to reduce their cost. There was more freedom in designing
and laying out the distribution lines between the centers and the villages.
2.          The Man Spider Network:  The principal facilities of the project
financed by the Bank were:
(a)   A 7500 kVA power transformer at the Man substation to supply the
four feeder lines.
(b)   The four 33 kV feeder lines linking Man with the towns that had
their own isolated diesel stations, Duekoue, Bangolo, Facobly, and
Sipilou. The feeders are three phase lines built on steel
supports, with medium sized conductors (93 mm2), for a total
length of 148 km.
tc)   Three phase (33 kV) or single phase (19 kV) extensions to join the
104 new villages to the feeder lines. These lines carry lighter
conductors (34 mm2) but are also built on steel supports. The
total length is 111 km of three phase and 308 km of single phase
lines, plus 27 km of taps (shorter line sections).
(d)   Secondary distribution lines in the villages for a total length of
228 km. The secondary lines are fed by a pole mounted
distribution transformer in each village, and carry the 220 V
wires that will serve the individual users, as well as the wires
for the public lighting. The supports are part steel and part
wooden poles. Each pole or support carries a light standard.
The service drops to the final users were not installed as part of the
project. The hardware for the purpose was supplied to the outdoor storage
yard at Man. The house connections were made later by EECI personnel.



- 30
Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
3.          Quality of the Facilities:  The facilities are well and solidly
built, and should outlast most of the houses in the vilJ.ges. The use of
galvanized steel supports firmly embedded in a concrete foundation block to
support part of the low voltage distribution in villages gives an impressive
aura of permanence. The conductor sizes used are well in excess of the
present load, and probably of any anticipated load as well. The number of
street lights, approximately one every 50 meters, is comparable to what is
used in urban areas of industrialized countries. The pole mounted
distribution transformers have held up well to the high intensity of lightning
strokes which is typical of the region.
4.          Quality of Service:  The 1989 statistics show 70 unplanned
outages, which is relatively high for the 769 km of primary distribution lines
in service (total of new and existing lines). After a program of inspecting
and of clearing the right of way of encroaching vegetation, the outage
frequency has diminished. No complaints are being received about voltage
fluctuations, but this may indicate either that voltage is satisfactory, or
that the users do not know whether or where to complain. Nor does EECI have
enough experience with street lights to determine whether their rate of
failure is normal, or is affected by the conditions of service. More time
will be needed to reach conclusions. The question of prolonged outages is
mentioned below under the heading of selective protection.
5.          Single Phase Supply:  The village electrification was done
wherever possible using single phase distribution (North Am3rican practice),
rather than three phase distribution (current EECI and European practice).
This achieved a saving in the primary (19 kV) lines, which appear to have cost
approximately 65 % of a similar three phase line. The overall advantage,
however, was not that great, since the major portion of the cost was due to
the secondary (220 Volt) distribution in the villages. On the other side,
single phase distribution has a significant drawback in that three phase
motors cannot be used. This means that neither maize or rice mills, nor water
pumps can be installed in the villages; yet these should be the most logical
productive uses of electricity in this region. Of course, single phase motors
and pumps exist or can be produced to order in industrialized countries; in
Abidjan, however, they are not currently available from the distributors.
This problem had apparently not been foreseen, but it could be solved if the
EEC! District Office in Man were to stock and sell single phase motors and
pumps up to 10 HP, at prices competitive withthree phase machines. In the
case of a sawmill which seems to have been overlooked as a potential customer
for a nearby single phase 19 kV line, the problem cannot be solved so cheaply;
either the line is converted to three phase, or a phase converter must be
procured; either of which will take a long time. Residential users are not
touched by the problem, since home appliances are single phase anyway.



- 31 
Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
6.          New Connections:  In the villages new users have been slow to ask
to be coiniected. This is not unexpected since farmers everywhere tend to be
cautious and do not rush into novelties. By the end of the 1988 fiscal year
(September) the total users in the Man and Duekoud districts had increased by
2741; approximately half of these, 1400 users, are estimated to be in the
newly electrified areas, 400 in the areas previously served by diesel plants,
and the r2est in the city of Man which has not been affected by the project.
EECI did what they could to increase the number of users; they agreed to waive
the connection charge for new users during the three years 1986 to 1989, and
publicized this concession, Maybe they could have done more but they would
have needed help for that. In other countries a variety of approaches have
been tried; demonstrations of machines, dissemination of information on
productive uses of electricity, a program for housewiring including deferred
payment, locally stocking machines and spares, and credit for purchases.
Some, if not all, may be applicable here. There remains the fact that
electricity is very expensive for a farmer. The housewiring for two or three
lights or outlets may easily run to 20-30,000 CFA Francs (1 US$= 300 CFAF),
the inspection fee CFAF4,000-8,000, and the normal EECI connection charge
would add another 25-35,000 CFA Francs. The basic charge for consumption is
CFAF700 every two months plus CFAF60 per kWh.  At these rates, and with the
price of coffee and cocoa supported at only 200 CFA Francs per kg, electricity
is a luxury that not many can afford. Appliances, lightbuTbs, and motors cost
about twice as much as in North America, with the prevailing exchange rate.
At this level of costs it is difficult to expand the usage and consumption of
electricity. Electrification becomes more of an economic than a technical
problem. This is also evident from EECI's records of disconnections. The
number of users disconnected for non-payment is quite large compared with that
of new connections, which indicates that people would like to have
electricity, but cannot keep up with the payments. In sum, it will take a
fundamental change in the cost and earnings relationship before the
consumption of electricity can catch up with the hoped-for goals.
7.          Materials and Hardware:  The primary lines were built in the
normal EECI configuration, i.e. with suspension insulators of tempered glass
suspended from a steel superstructure. With this design EECI normally uses
vibrated concrete poles, but galvanized steel supports were used in the
project. This differs from the North American practice of using (rigid) pin
type insulators with crossarms only for the three phase lines; and was
somewhat more expensive. HIowever the major effect on line cost was the use of
imported steel supports, presumably because wooden or concrete poles were
deemed inferior. An unexpected hazard was the theft of 50 km of aluminum
conductor, after it had been strung as neutral on the lines. This could be an
argument for using cheaper steel wire on the circuits were conductors with low
resistance are not necessary. The low voltage distribution used modern
bundled conductors, which are much more costly to buy but cheaper to install
than individual wires. The hardware for service drops was not entirely suited
to Ivorian conditions. The 3m steel pipes customary in North America could
not be installed on the less substantial one story Ivorian houses.



- 32 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of S
The plastic housings specially built for the service entrances were discarded
as unsuitable. The 30 Amp breakers supplied for overcurrent protection of the
customer installation did not suit EECI's practice of using a breaker with
variable setting to be used both as protection and as current limiting device
to control the maximum demand. A large proportion of kWh meters were reported
as having rusteu. Some of this might have been avoided if the design had been
done in the country, and some weather damage might Lave been prevented if a
storage building had been added to the project.
8.          Selective Protection:  A technical innovation was the introduction
of fuses, reclosers, and sectionalizers, on the 33 and 19 kV circuits for a
selective and coordinated prot.ction. This innovation does not seem to work
as well as planned because of the lack of channels of communication between
users and utility. When a sectionalizer works as expected and isolates a
section of line where a fault has occurred, there is no easy way for the EECI
personnel to learn about the oLtage because there are no telephones in the
villages.  Thus they are left without supply until a messenger reaches a
police station that has a telephone and alerts the Man office. The same
applies when a fuse cuts out a transformer. This is not an unusual problem in
a developing country where telephones are not as ubiquitous as in the
industrialized ones. Another unanticipated problem was caused by the loads
being unexpectedly small. The sectionalizers and reclosers depend for their
power supply on the line current; but this is not always sufficient to
recharge the battery in the sectionalizer. Unless some solution is devised,
the advantages of the North American system of selective protection will not
be realized.
9.          Distribution Transformers:  The single phase distribution
transformers have performed well and their failure rate is acceptable. In
contrast with European three phase designs, they are normally provided with
lightning arresters, a necessity in Cote d'Ivoire. They are relatively easy
to exchange on their pole mount.
10.         Other Equipment:  The regulating transformer installed on the Man-
Duekoue 33 kV feeder line is another item of equipment new to the Cote
d'Ivoire. It is working well in its task of maintaining the voltage level at
Duekoue under varying load conditions. The measuring devices of the Man
substation are deslgned for much larger future loads and the current meters
are either inaccurate or virtually unreadable at the prevailing low loads.
The personnel have difficulty with the dial type kWh meters since they are
used to the cyclometer type which is the EECI standard. All this can be
remedied by changing hardware, but it indicates again that much care must be
exercised when importing standard designs from overseas.



- 33 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
11.         Training, Manuals, and Spares:  The staff at Man had not been left
any operating manuals or service instructions, nor had they received training
in the handling of new and unfamiliar equipment. When two of the ten
sectionalizers failed, they were simply taken out of service for lack of
repair knowhow. No spares were available. The failures, and the rusting of
some housings may indicate that African conditions are more demanding than
temperate climates, or that different equipment should be provided. The stock
of 33 kV fuses has run down, and the most frequently used sizes are no longer
available. This renders selectivity dubious, and protection hazardous. Since
replacements have to be obtained from North America there is a procurement
difficulty, given that the normal trade channels are through France. The same
applies to distribution transformers. This seems to be an argument for
installing only consumption items for which replacements will be easily
available in the future from a distributor in Abidjan. It may possibly also
indicate that procurement of maintenance items by EECI should be streamlined.
In any case, there is good reason to recommend that -,hoev   designs a new type
of installation, should provide training and foilow up for two or three years
as needed.
12.         Overall Costs of Electrification:  It seems fairly clear that
village electrification is more an economic than a technical or even a
logistic problem. The designer must weigh the desire to build a modern and
easy to operate installation (by industrialized world standards) against
building one that is adequate and arfordable for local conditions. All
component parts of the electrification, materials, equipment, and construction
methods, should be optimized in the context of the requirements of the end
users, and of the operators. The selection of supports and of conductors
seems to be the first target for cost control. Equipment such as reclosers,
fuses, and transformers does not have a great influence on the total
investment cost but its choice is important for the maintenance and operation
of the system. The utility must check whether standards established for the
cities are really justified for the villages. Using heavy preasselzbled wire,
installing individual meters and current limit!ng breakers for extremely small
loads may not be cost effective; nor should it be necessary that an outsida
agency charge for an inspection when the EECI staff should be perfectly
capable of doing it for free. Expecting relatively high connection fees from
users who can ill afford them is unlikely to promote the use of electricity,
even after the large initial investment in the distribution lines has been
made. The practice of providing free street lights on every pole may be
desirable but is costly enough to deserve review. Basically a village
electrification team should follow all these aspects within EECI. If
continuity of staff can be maintained for a few years, they should be able to
develop designs and practices which are cost effective for the initial
investment, as well as for the operating cost, and which are affordable to
most of the prospective users. These problems are not unique to the Man
project or to the Cote d'Ivoire and can be found in one form or another in
several developing countries. There is considerable scope for study and for
discussion to develop information, guidelines, and to gather performance data
on the many alternatives available for village electrification.



- 34 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
COTE D'IVOIRE
FIRST POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1896-IVC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC ASPECTS OF THE MAN SPIDER PROJECT
CONSUMPTION FORECAST FOR THE AREA OF THE MAN SPIDER NETWORK
1.          Baseline:  From the viewpoint of the electrification project there
are three separate of user groups which are supplied by the Man 225 kV
transformer station:
(a)   the 'New Villages', that is the 104 villages that have been given
electricity service for the first time with the Spider project;
(b)   the 'Ex-Diesel Towns', the 16 villages and towns including
Duekoue, Bangolo, Sipilou and Facobly, which were already served
and were the project made it possible to shut down the existing
diesel plants;
(c)   the city of Man, which has been connected to the main grid for
some time and was not directly affected by the project.
The project was completed in September 1986.  Therefore the 1981-1985 data
will be used as baseline, and the 1986-1988 statistics will give an indication
of the first results of the project. The rates of growth recorded during the
two periods for number of users and for electricity sales were:
Growth Rate in Percent per Year
User Group            Number of Users          Electricity (MWh)   Sales
1981-85     1986-88              19nl-85      1986-88
New Villages       n.a.     n.a.(1400)              n.a.    n.a.(2130)
Ex-Diesel Towns   6.6?         9.42                 6.6?           12.1?
City of Man        3.7Z        8.6Z                 4.0?            7.5?
The figures for the New Villages shown above between brackets are the best
estimates available, and have been extracted from the EECI statistics for Man
and Duekoue where they are included; this explains why the growth rate of
these two districts shows a step increase in 86-88.
2.          Future Growth:  EECI staff estimate a reasonable rate of growth to
be 4.5?, both for number of users and for electricity sales. As this is the
actual experience for the combined district Man-Duekoue, there is no reason to



- 35 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
.ispute it for the city of Man. For the Ex-Diesel Towns a 72 rate of increase
is assumed up to the year 2000 both for users and for consumption. For the
New Villages the increase in number of users is posited at 152 per year, and
in sales at 12 2 per year. With these rates there will be 7300 users in the
villages by the year 2000. This is close to what the secondary distribution
system is likely to serve when the existing market is saturated, i.e. when the
number of users is close to 40 per km of secondary line; and the average
consumption of 1100 kWh per user per year is also a reasonable expectation.
Neither of these two values is likely to be exceeded, given the economic base
of the region, and the price of electricity. The estimates may even turn out
to be optimistic; they assume that the user density per km of line, and the
consumption would approach that in Man today. The increase in sales would be
slower than the number of users because the initial load included public
lighting, which would not increase as long as no new lines were added. For
the period after the year 2000 the increase in users and kWh consumption is
assumed to be 32 per year.
3.          Costs:  The investment cost of the Man project has been calculated
at US$ 16 million, consisting of US$ 12.5 million for supply and erection, and
US$3.5 million for the engineering and project management. For the new users
connected after 1988 the cost of materials has been estimated at US$ 100 each.
The operating and maintenance costs have been estimated at US$ 1.24 million
per year; these include the personnel costs for half of the personnel at EECI
in Man (140 staff) at 80X of the average cost of EECI (US$16,000/year), a 30 2
addition for supplies and services, plus .52 of the capital cost for interim
replacement. These costs would remain constant until the year 2000, assuming
that the increased workload would be compensated by an increase in efficiency.
After 2000 the yearly costs would increase by 32 p.a., as does the load.
4.          Revenue:  The revenue attributable to the Man project has been
calculated as the kWh sales in the 120 towns and villages, i.e. both the newly
connected villages and the towns that had diesel power before, multiplied by
US$0.12 per kWh. This amount is the revenue attributable to the distribution
of electricity. The average selling price per kWh is US$ 0.19 per kWh, (FF61
for residential and FF39 to industrial users), from which the cost of power
delivered to Man, US$0.07, must be subtracted.
5.          Internal Rate of Return:  With these assumptions, the internal
rate of return of the project is 4.7a. If the rate of exchange of FF300 per
US$ can be considered to be identical with the shadow rate, then the economic
and the financial rate of return coincide. The willingness to pay of the
prospective users can be assumed to coincide with the electricity rates, and
would therefore not change the result.



ANNEX 5
COTE D'IVOIRE                                                                       Page 1
Energie Electrique de la C8te d'Ivoire 1/
Funds Flow Statement
1983 - 1993
CFAF Billion
ACTUAL                                                           FORECAST
-----------------------------------   Total   US S          -------------------------   TotaI   Total
1983    1984    1986    1986    1987    1988   83-88 Million    1989    1990    1931    1992    1993   89-93   90-93
Operating income                    4      -22      -3        1       -1        7      -14     -44       12        8       10       15       14       69      47
Depr eistioan/Proisbons            18    ___ 20     23       30       30       36      157     491       30       32       34       35       37      168      138
Cross lat.cash geooration          22       -2      20       31       29       43      143     447       42       40       44       60       61     227      18S
Working capital                     9     -38       31      -10      -17       10     -15      -47       24       -1        0        1        1      25        1
Interest                            9      11       12       19       20       19      90      281       16       13       10       10      10       59       43
Principal                           9        7      10       16       23       40      105     328       45       s0       20       20       22     1S7      112
Op.requlrements                    27     -20       63       26       26      69      18O      5a3       86       62       30       3S      33      241      166
RICO                               -6       18     -33        6        3      .26      -37    -118      -43      -22       14       19       18      -14       29
Invest mt.                         89      60       28       42       26      21      216      672       10       11       11       15      17       64       64
Differtnce                         44       42      01       36       22       47     252      788       63       33       -3       -4       -1      78       26
financed by:
Capital increase                    0       0        1        1        0        0       2        6        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Operating subsidy                   0       0       20        0        0,       0      20       68        0        0        0        0        0       0        0
Other equity                       -1       -4      -2       -9       -1       -4     -21      -a6       -1       -l       -1       -1        0      -4       -3
Totalequlty                                                                                                     ----    -----i; --  _:_ --
Totel quity                        -1      -4       19       -8       -1      -4        1        a       -1       -1       -1      -1        0       -4       -3
LT Debt                            a8       60      84       29       26       66     231      722       64       53       -2       -4        6     107       53
Third parties                       I        I       I        0        0        0        3       9        0        1        0        1        0        2       2
Total                              36       47      64       21       24       61     236      734       53       5a       -3       *4        6     105       62
Cash variation                     4         5      -7      -15        2        4     -17      -63        0       20        0        0        7      27       27
Cash begn yar                      -1      -7       -2       -9      -24     -22       -1       -3      -is      -18        2        2        2     -18      -18
Cash  ndV y  r                     -7      -2       -9      -24      -22     -15      -18      -c6      -18        2        2        2       9        9        9
Debt coverage                     1.2    -0.1      0.9      0.9      0.7     0.7                        0.7     0.6       1.S      1.7     1.6
Yearly NICO                       -13       30    -118       14       12    -124                       -430    -200       127      127     106
Average NICO                     -10       48      -76       19       10    -139      -17              -307    -206       114     133      113      -22       64
Z :s=   M=M                                         = M=2                                                         = 
Rate of enchange: USS1lCFAF    320
AFlIE
20-Nov-69
1/  EECI accounts are being audited.
Final audit report will be completed by June 30, 1991.



ANNEX 5
COTE D'IVOIRE                                                                         Page 2
Energie Electrique  de  la C8te  d'Ivoire
Balance Sheet
1983 -  1993
CFAF Billion
ACTUAL                                                       FORECAST
1968    1964    1986    1936    1S87    1966    1969    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1996    19          1997
Fixed Assets in op.             304     833     366     374      422     475     462     492      602     S1S     627      639     SS1     56t      600
DepreciatIon                     90     104     121     13*      151     172     196     219      244     270     297      326     864    8aS       417
Net Fixed Asset,, In op.        214     229     246     285      271   .-a       287     278      2U      245     230      214     197     203      183
Work Inprog                      49      so      76     109       79    .47       50      61       52      54      69       67      78      61       !*2
Total Fied Asses                260     309     820     84        50     850     887     824      310     299     289      261     270      M4 2a5
Cash                              I       I       I       8        2      8        2       2        2       2       9       17      26      88       67
Inventories                       6       7       7      10       11       9       S       7       a        a       6        7       6       8        8
Roeivables                       31      86      86      30        o      82.    26       19       20      20      21       22      23      22       24
Other Crrent asses               12       5       6       6       6        9       6       6       6        6       6       6        a       6        6
Accrd rw                          7       6      11               9        9       9       9       9       10      10       10      11      11       12
Total currt. sts                 56      57      s9      57      6J       62      60      48       48      44      52      612 74            6      107
Total assets                    819     36      379     401     406      412      67     867     S8       U84     841     843      844     840      *42
Capitol                          6        6       7       6       6        I       3       3        S       6       S        6       a       6        S
Reserve,                          0     -88     -10     -80      -49     -61    -6       -70      -70     456     41      -S7      -58      47      -J9              @
provisions                      174     176     162     167      175     15      192     199      207     215     225      285     246     267      266
Equity                         1t0      149     169     145      184     1       185     187      145     1U8     172      166     201     219      287
LT Dbt                           99     142     16o     179      161    1M6      206     20      13       162     146     18S      11     101       62
Cenmers deposits                  5       6               7       7        7       7       S       6        9       9       9       10      10       11
SuppIeis"                        10      24      19      16      2?       1s      10       5       6        a       6        7       8       4       5
OUe payables                     17      42      16      25       1S      42      10       9       6        *       *                7    *7          7
Bhn     overdraft                J        8      10      27      24       21      20       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0
Total liabilitIes              819      86      879     401     406     412      867     867     U5       848     841     848      844     840     842
J___- --G---_-J-                                                                               --   I_-
Debt/DebtAEqulty                 85      49      S1      55      67       6o      6o      60      S6       S1      4e      42       87      82       28
EquityMsbt*Equity               6S       51      49      45      43       40      40      40      44       49      64      5        68      66      74
Current  -tlo                   1.6     0.3     1.8     0.6     0.7     0.3      1.8     8.1     8.1      8.1     8.7     4.1     4.9      7.3     6.9
AFIIE
.M-oW-99



AJhNEX 5
COTE D'IVOIRE                                                                          agE 3
Page 3
Energie Electrique de la C8te d'Ivoire
Revenue Account
1983 - 1993
CFAF Billion
ACTUAL                                                        FORECAST
1983    1964    1986    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1996    1998    1997
Sale of poer                     67       72       O3      83      87       91       94      95      98      102      105     109      113     llt      122
Other reveue                      14      11        8       6       11      10        4       6        5       S        a       7        9      11       12
Total revenue                     61      8a      91       88       98     101       98     100      103     107      111     116      122     128      134
Fuel                              14      39       18       7       17      1i       14      17       16      12       13      14       t8       17      18
VA                                0        4        7       1        1       0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0
Personnel                         14     t1        17      17       19      19       16      16       16      16       17      18       i8       19      19
Material/Services                 21      10      20       24       20      16       16      17       18      19       20      21       22      24       24
Other                              I       I        I       1        4       3        a       a        3       3        3       3        4        4       4
Rade,ael Tabo/Buyo                 7       7        7       7        7       7        7       7        7       7        7       7        7        7       7
Deprctition/Provisions            20      22       24      30       31      36       30      32       34      36       37      39       41       44      46
--_    ____     --  _- ____  ____                 ----      ----   ----    ----     --- _ _   _ -  ____  _---  ----   -- -     w
Total op.espe_s                   77     10       94      07      99       94      s6       92      93       92       97     102      110     11       118i
Operatlng incem                    4     -22       -3       1       -1       7       12       e       10      15       14      14       12       13      16
Interest                           9      11       12      19      20       19      16       13      10       10       10      10        a        7       8
not ncombefore sub/ad].           -5     -83      -16     -18      -21     -12       -4      -5        0       6        4       4        4        a       8
Op.subeidy/adJustments/tx.                         20       9
Nlt income after sub/odJ.         -5     -33        6      -9      -21     -12      -4       -C        0       C        4       4        4        6       8
= -                      ==       =  =3=  - ===  _ =  == =  =
Operating ratio                   96     127      103      99     101       93      s8       92      90       a6       87      s8       90      90       88
RII                              1.9    -9.9    -1.3      0.4    -0.4      2.4     4.1      2.9     3.0      8.0      6.9     6.3      5.8     6.5      8.3
AFlIE
20-Nov-89



