Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11691
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1733-CHA)
FEBRUARY 25, 1993
Agricultural Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yuan
Appraisal       $1.00 = Y 2.8
1985            $1.00 = Y 2.9
1986            $1.00 = Y 3.5
1987            $1.00 = Y 3.7
1988            $1.00 = Y 3.7
1989            $1.00 = Y 3.7
1990            $1.00 = Y 4.8
1991            $1.00 = Y 5.3
1992            $1.00 = Y 5.4
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)       =   2.47 acres
= 15mu
1 kilogram (kg)      =   2.2 pounds (lb)
2 2 Chinese jin
I ton (t)            =   1,000 kg
= 2,205 lb
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC   -    Agricultural Bank of China
ADC   -    Agricultural Development Corporation
ERR   -    Economic Rate of Return
FRR   -    Financial Rate of Return
GOC   -    Government of China
HH    -    Households
IDA    -    International Development Association
MOF         Ministry of Finance
RSI   -    Red Soils I Project
RSII   -    Red Soils II Project
SAR   -    Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 25, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on China
Red Soils Area Development Project (Cr. 1733-CHA)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on China - Red
Soils Area Development Project (Credit 1733-CHA)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower. The report is comprehensive and of high quality.
The project achieved the objective of demonstrating efficient methods of tapping the
unutilized potential of south China's red soils. It has good prospects of sustainability and triggered
substantial institutional development in the course of its implementation. It is intended that the small
farm cash crop and livestock models successfully introduced over 27,000 ha of previously unutilized
land in the red soils area of south China, will be replicated on a larger scale in a follow-on project
now under preparation.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CIINA
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1733-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page no.
Preface            ...........................................
Evaluation Summary ..........................iii.
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity ..................................1
2. Background .1
3. Project Objectives and Description.                                          2
4. Project Design and Organization.                                             2
5. Project Implementation.                                                     4
6. Project Results                          .5
7.   Project Sustainability/Replicability.                                      8
8. Bank Performance .8
9. Borrower Performance.                                                        8
10. Project Relationships.                                                     9
11. Consulting Services.                                                       9
12. Project Documentation and Data.                                            9
13. Recommendations.                                                           9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Objectives .11
2. Implementation Performance .11
Project Expenditures .11
Physical Achievements .12
3. Major Development Components .12
Soil Improvement .12
Land Development .13
Fruit Farming .14
Tea Gardens and Ramie Production.                                       15
Agroforestry .16
Pig Fattening and Pig Breeding .16
Dairy Development .17
Irrigation and Roads .18
Agroprocessing .18
4. Project Organization and Management .19
5. Project Benefits .21
6. Aspects of Project Sustainability .21
7. World Bank Performance .22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and Credits  .......................                                            23
2.    Project Timetable   ................................                                                24
3.    Credit Disbursements  ..............................                                               24
4.    Project Implementation  .............................                                               25
5.    Project Costs and Financing  ..........................                                             26
6.    Project Results  ..................................                                                 27
7.    Status of Covenants  ...............................                                                30
8.    Use of Bank Resources  .............................                                                31
ANNEXES
1.    Project Costs in Local Currency
2.    Cash Flows for Key Project Components



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CI]NA
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1733-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Red Soils Area Development Project
in China, for which Credit 1733-CHA in the amount of SDR 34 million ($40 million) was approved on
September 9, 1986.  The credit was closed on June 30, 1992 and an undisbursed balance of
SDR 44,736.55 was canceled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division of the China and
Mongolia Department of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit and Project
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; internal IDA
memoranda; and a field completion mission conducted in July 1992.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CBINA
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1733-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives, Description and Design
1.         The objective of the Red Soils Area Development project was to demonstrate efficient
methods of developing the productive potential of presently unutilized land in the red soils areas of south
China which comprise 21 percent of China's surface area. Development of unutilized land is one key
to GOC's long-term objectives of (a) increasing and diversifying the production of food, feed and
industrial crops; and (b) creating employment opportunities and raising incomes in rural areas.
2.         The project was implemented in Jiangxi and Fujian provinces. The main features of the
project include:
(a)   development of about 27,000 ha of idle land including provision of necessary agricultural
infrastructure and construction of housing, schools and clinics for resettlement of farm
families;
(b)  establishment of fruit orchards, tea, ramie, feed grains, fodder crops, woodlots, dairy, and
pig raising; and
(c)  funding for project management, research and extension.
3.         The project design included a number of innovative measures such as integrated techniques
of terracing, irrigation, protective afforestation, and use of both chemical fertilizers and organic manures
for soil improvement in red soils areas.  Production was based on specialized household farm
management, and significant levels of cost recovery were achieved through lending at market rates. The
project was implemented through a specially created Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) with
broad responsibilities for project management including selection of beneficiaries, management of loans,
training and oversight over land development and production, and marketing of inputs and outputs.
4.         The overall success of the project design cannot be overstated. For 30 years, GOC had
unsuccessfully attempted to exploit its red soils resources. RSI effectively combined technical and
management innovation in a project that has exceeded most expectations. Key elements of project design
that are credited for the project's successes are careful selection of beneficiaries (and their subsequent
hard work), limiting the area allocated per household so as to encourage intensive cultivation (the World
Bank input during appraisal was central to the decision to reduce farm areas below those originally
proposed by GOC), and developing pig production as a means of generating organic manure which is key
to the rehabilitation of these soils.



- iv -
Implemnentation
5.         Implementation of the project was a notable success. The original timetable of a six-year
implementation period was shortened to four years as project works were essentially complete in late
1990. Major physical targets were almost all met or exceeded. Overall project costs were Y 408 million,
around 4 percent above the appraisal estimate of Y 391 million. This was achieved despite domestic
inflation rates which were far higher than appraisal estimates during the period 1986-90.
6.         During implementation, the Yuan was devalued several times from an exchange rate of
Y 3.2 to $1 at appraisal to Y 5.4 to $1 at the time of completion. During the same period, the value of
the US dollar to SDR also declined about 14 percent. Thus, the Yuan/SDR rate increased by about
88 percent. This change in exchange rates means that IDA effectively financed 41 percent of the project
rather than the planned 33 percent. Beneficiary financing increased slightly from the planned 32 percent
to 34 percent, while government and Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) financing dropped from the
planned 35 percent of project costs to 24 percent.
7.         Some significant changes were made during implementation. First, there was a rapid and
justified shift from ramie to tea due to a precipitous decline in ramie prices. Second, there was a shift
in Fujian from the originally envisaged individual household responsibility system to semicollective farm
management, and this model appears to be functioning well. Third, the average holding size of tea
households is much larger than planned at appraisal with a resultant reduction of tea beneficiary
households from 6,000 to 1,200.
8.         In retrospect, the rapid pace of implementation, driven by farmer and ADC enthusiasm to
begin cash-generating activities, may have been too fast, as there was some sacrifice in the quality
standards of planting materials, soil conservation and tree establishment. In particular, terracing quality
is spotty and the windbreaks and forests are often planted with inappropriate species and are poorly
looked after. The situation has improved over time, but there is still a significant opportunity for
improvement in conservation activities which provide longer-term benefits.
Results
9.         The RSI project has been a notable success in meeting its objective of demonstrating an
integrated, sustainable technology for red soils development. Many of the practices of RSI have been
replicated by nonproject farmers in Jiangxi and Fujian, and Red Soils II (RSII) is also planning on
retaining key elements of RSI design. The RSI demonstration provides a very important mechanism for
GOC to work toward its objectives of diversifying its agricultural production and raising incomes in rural
areas.
10.        Financial and economic performance of the project has been satisfactory but is lower than
projected: the revised project ERR is 21 percent. The main reason for lower-than-projected economic
performance is that a record frost was experienced in December 1991, and there was extensive damage
to citrus plantings-70 percent root-kill in Jiangxi and 10 percent root-kill in Fujian. Orchards are being
replanted with citrus and other fruits at additional investment costs and with a likely four-year delay in
fruit production. As a result, the citrus component, which accounts for 45 percent of total investment,
has a projected ERR of 12 percent in Jiangxi and 24 percent in Fujian.



11.        The tea rehabilitation and new planting component comprises 19 percent of investment, and
results have been very good, with yields generally doubling with moderate levels of investment. ERRs
are estimated at 34 and 38 percent in Jiangxi and Fujian, respectively.
12.        The dairy specialized household component has been very successful due to favorable milk
to feed concentrate prices and excellent training and support from the state farm dairy processing plant.
The ramie component, which was designed to be 15 percent of investment, has been almost completely
replaced by additional tea rehabilitation because of the drop in world ramie prices. Pig breeding, pig
fattening, and feed and fodder-raising activities are generally carried out by households who also
participate in citrus, tea, or dairy, and appear to be proceeding successfully. Forestry operations are also
being conducted as an addition to shorter-term cash-generating activities, but the quality of seedlings and
of care has been generally poor, and timber yields are likely to fall short of projections. Agroprocessing
investments were about 300 percent higher than projected and there have been specific problems with
equipment performance in the two Jiangxi dairies and with low capacity utilization in the ramnie processing
plant. Consequently, rates of return for the agroprocessing component are likely to be significantly lower
than projected.
13.        The primary focus in the implementation and management of the project has been on
maximizing financial returns. Poverty alleviation and equity objectives have received somewhat less
attention in the following instances: (a) some tea rehabilitation investments involve farmers who were
already quite successful, including households with up to 7 ha of tea; (b) dairy investments have also
focused on relatively well-off farmers and have concentrated the economic rents from this activity among
relatively few beneficiaries; and (c) there appear to be some instances in which scarce resources may have
been diverted from nonproject to project farmers (e.g., export allotments for lean pigs, improved
breeding stock, manufactured feed).
Sustainability and Replicability
14.        The First Red Soils Area Development Project was designed to demonstrate an
environmentally sustainable approach to red soils development, and it has succeeded in significantly
improving the state-of-the-art technology. Additional progress is still required in improving terracing and
windbreak quality and in extending rehabilitation technology to entire watersheds rather than to only the
most economic pieces of land. The Red Soils II Project (currently under preparation) is planning to
address these issues.
15.        The following examples illustrate the economically sustainable approach of the project:
(a) investment costs were Y 15,500/ha (in constant 1987 yuan) when averaged over all crops and
Y 20,500/ha for citrus (excluding livestock, agroprocessing, and research and training). This compares
favorably with other Bank-financed projects (e.g., Mid-Yangtze is Y 35,000/ha of new orchard
establishment); (b) without the citrus frost damage, farmers would have comfortably been able to repay
their loans based on the productivity of the investments, and even with the frost, they should be able to
repay the loans albeit over a longer period of time; and (c) ADC has operated on a profit-making basis
and with reasonably good cost recovery.
16.        Considerable efforts in training and extension are required for replicating this model. The
project gets good marks thus far at disseminating well-known techniques to farmers, but has been less
successful in developing improved techniques (e.g., new crops, soil management techniques, etc.).
Future replicability may be constrained by availability of trained extension and management skills.



- vi -
Lessons Learned
17.        A combination of high economic benefits, strong cost recovery, and environmental
sustainability make many of the features of RSI attractive for replication. The investment costs appear
reasonable in comparison to comparable projects and beneficiaries are able to comfortably repay project
loans.
18.        The existing organization does not achieve adequate performance on longer-term objectives
of research, technology transfer, and conservation. Changes in incentives for ADC personnel would be
one way of improving performance.
19.        Given both frost risk and market risk, caution should be applied in planting additional citrus
in future projects in south China. Consideration should be given to diversifying away from mandarin
orange to other citrus varieties and to deciduous fruits in RSI orchards which require replanting due to
frost damage.
20.        Specialized household raising of dairy cattle appears preferable to state farms. Consideration
should be given to establishing larger numbers of households with smaller herd sizes to spread the
economic benefits among more beneficiaries.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1733-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name                         Red Soils Area Development Project
Credit Number                1733-CHA
RVP Unit                     East Asia and Pacific
Country                    : China
Sector                     : Agriculture
2. Background
2.1        Major changes in farm policies since 1979, most importantly a shift from collective to family
farming and major increases in prices, have led to rapid growth and diversification in agricultural
production in China. The system of contracting out land to small-scale family farms has given farmers
more flexibility in determining what crops to grow, how much to produce, and where to market their
output. Results have been dramatic: agricultural output value increased by 8 percent a year and
5 percent a year over the periods 1980-85 and 1986-91, respectively, in comparison with an average of
3 percent a year over the previous 23 years. In 1985, responding to growing surplus grain stocks, the
Government of China (GOC) began a new phase of reform, replacing compulsory grain procurement
quotas with higher and increasingly free prices, and greatly enlarging the role of the market. These
measures contributed to a decline in grain and cotton area and output as farmers increasingly shifted
production into livestock and commercial crops. Chinese planners forecast continued rapid increase in
the demand for fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products with a corresponding decrease
in the share of direct grain consumption.
2.2        China's "red soils areas," so named because of their characteristic red or yellow subsoil
colors, lie south of the Yangtze River and cover 2 million kinr, or 21 percent of China's surface area,
in 11 provinces. These upland red soils areas have been deforested and subjected to continuous firewood
collection, communal grazing, or inappropriate cultivation which has resulted in considerable soil erosion.
GOC in recent years has given increased attention to formulation of a strategy for development of some
10 million ha of underutilized land in the uplands and adjoining hills and mountains where conditions are



- 2 -
favorable for establishment of orchards and other tree crops, feed crop cultivation, pastures, and
commercial forest plantations.
2.3         GOC's long-term objectives in the agricultural sector are: (a) to increase and diversify the
production of food, feed and industrial crops to meet requirements created by population and income
growth; and (b) to raise incomes and employment opportunities in rural areas. Given China's shortage
of arable land (0.1 ha per capita), development planners have focused on the need to increase the
productivity of existing cropped areas and develop efficiently the remaining unutilized land.
2.4         The Bank's strategy for lending in the agricultural sector has supported these efforts.
Lending to date has focused on land development, agricultural support services, specialized product
subsectors, and area development.  Recent related projects include the Jiangxi and Mid-Yangtze
Agricultural Development Projects, which establish diversified agriculture on hilly lands; the National
Afforestation Project, which is assisting in the establishment of forest plantations in 16 provinces; the
Agricultural Support Services Project (under preparation), and the Second Red Soils Project (under
preparation), which plans to extend the Red Soils I (RSI) land rehabilitation technology over a wider area.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1         Project Objectives. The primary objective of the Red Soils I project was to demonstrate
efficient methods of developing the productive potential of presently unutilized land in the red soils areas
of south China.
3.2         Components. The project design comprised the following main components:
(a)   development of a gross area of about 27,000 ha of idle land, through terracing, contour
planting, on-farm irrigation and drainage, and construction of farm access roads;
(b)   civil works to improve or extend existing infrastructure, including enlargement of small
reservoirs, canal construction, installation of pumping stations and sprinkler irrigation
systems, rural electrification, road and bridge construction;
(c)   construction of housing, schools and clinics, administrative buildings, warehouses,
laboratories and extension stations, and livestock sheds;
(d)   establishment of fruit orchards, tea, ramie, feed grains, fodder crops, and woodlots as well
as rehabilitation of 2,400 ha of low-yield tea plantations;
(e)   establishment of dairy and pig raising, including provision of purebred stock; and
(f)   funding for farm machinery, vehicles, processing facilities for agricultural output, research
and extension materials, equipment, and training, and a pilot program of research and
demonstration to be conducted on areas of more marginal red soils.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1         The project design included a number of innovative measures such as integrated techniques
of terracing, irrigation, protective afforestation, and use of both chemical fertilizers and organic manures
for soil improvement in the red soils areas. Production was based on specialized household farm



- 3 -
management, and significant levels of cost recovery were achieved through lending at market rates and
project charges. The project was implemented through a specially created Agricultural Development
Corporation (ADC) with broad responsibilities for project management including selection of
beneficiaries, management of loans, training and oversight over land development and production, and
marketing of inputs and outputs.
4.2         Sites selected for development under the project were those with the most economic potential
(minimal to moderate slopes, near roads, access to water, etc.), and this approach has some drawbacks:
(a) lessons learned and replicability are limited to economically favorable sites and exclude large red soils
areas; and (b) focus on exploitation of project sites could lead to inadequate concern for environmental
or economic optimization of the surrounding nonproject areas. However, RSI is the first project in a
process to develop large areas of China's red soils and subsequent initiatives will provide ample
opportunities for extending technology to a wider range of soil conditions and topographies-for example,
the second red soils development project now under preparation. A major consideration for RSI was
ensuring a successful demonstration project, and on balance, it appears justified to have first tackled the
easier portions of land.
4.3         Beneficiaries selected under the project were those with the largest chance for success (hard
working, proven farming skills, ability to contribute equity capital). The selection process was very
stringent-with one of three applicants selected in Jiangxi and one of ten in Fujian. Selection of
motivated and talented farmers is credited by project management as being the most important factor for
project success. However, poverty alleviation objectives may have been better served if there had been
more explicit guidelines for excluding those farmers who already were successful without the project.
In practice, the beneficiary selection process led to some cases of the "rich getting richer," especially in
Fujian tea rehabilitation where some farmers already possessed significant land assets and in Jiangxi dairy
investments where some state farm dairy workers were selected.
4.4        In retrospect, project design did underestimate some risks and technical requirements. Most
notably, citrus was extensively planted in regions which suffered extensive frost damage in December
1991. Although the severe frost of 1991/92 was a rare occurrence, the extent to which the citrus-frost
risk was well understood and consciously accepted in the project design is unclear. World Bank staff
recall that analysis of climatic data had been undertaken and that GOC had been advised to use frost-
resistant root stock, but there is scant discussion of citrus-frost risk in project documentation, and it
appears that the frost issue was inadequately studied.
4.5         Second, ramie prices have dropped lower and crop establishment costs have been higher than
had been envisaged at appraisal and, subsequently, large areas of land have been planted with alternative
crops. Credit must be given to the appraisal team for projecting the likelihood of price declines due to
supply/demand shifts, most notably a closing of trade loopholes in certain developed countries that had
previously given ramie preferential import status over other natural fibers.
4.6        Finally, the requirements for organic manure, and consequently for pig raising, were
substantially underestimated at appraisal. However, farmers have been able to increase pig production
over time, and farmers with 1 ha of fruit orchard have doubled from 5 to 10 the number of pigs raised
per household each year.
4.7        The overall success of the project design is undeniable.  For 30 years, GOC had
unsuccessfully attempted to exploit its red soils resources. RSI effectively combined technical and
management innovation in a project that has exceeded most expectations. Key elements of project design



-4-
that are credited for the project's successes are careful selection of beneficiaries (and their subsequent
efforts), limiting the area allocated per household so as to encourage intensive cultivation (the World Bank
input during appraisal was central to the decision to reduce farm areas below those originally proposed
by GOC), and developing pig production as a means of generating organic manure which is key to the
rehabilitation of these soils.
5. Project Implementation
5.1        Implementation of the project was a notable success. The original timetable of a six-year
implementation period was shortened to four years as project works were essentially completed in late
1990. Major physical targets were almost all met or exceeded (Table 4). Overall project costs were
Y 408 million, around 4 percent above the appraisal estimate of Y 391 million and this despite domestic
inflation rates that were far higher than appraisal estimates.
5.2        Significant cost overruns were experienced in two categories. Building costs in local
currency were 50 percent greater than projected because of large increases in office space, animal sheds,
and housing for resettled families. Agroprocessing investments were almost triple SAR estimates because
of cost overruns in purchase of imported equipment due to devaluation of the yuan and to unexpectedly
large dollar price increases for procured equipment. The agroprocessing cost overruns also appear to be
due to local procurement practices; the dairy processing equipment was purchased piecemeal from various
suppliers in an attempt to obtain the lowest price, but some of the equipment was not compatible.
5.3        Significant savings were obtained in infrastructure as costs were only 77 percent of SAR
estimates (in local currency, see Annex 1), due primarily to elimination of two-stage pump-lift irrigation
systems in Jiangxi as these were found to be too expensive to justify the irrigation of marginal highlands.
Additionally, both Fujian and Jiangxi were able to build roads and bridges at lower unit cash costs
through heavy use of beneficiary labor.
5.4        Savings were also obtained by reducing purchases of imported breeding animals and
vehicles, and by significant reductions in the allocated expenditures on research and training. The cost
cutting in research reflects project decision-making that overemphasized investments with short-run cash
returns and underemphasized long-term investments. The project farmer is understandably interested only
in the cash flows from his 1-2 ha of land. ADC, county, and provincial officials have incentives which
focus primarily on profitability and loan performance of the 27,000 ha of land developed under RSI.
Using experience from RSI in the future development of 10 million ha of China's red soils areas will
sometimes require experimentation that would marginally increase costs but would provide long-term
benefit to China. It does not appear that incentives are in place to promote such types of long-term trade-
offs. The pilot project component, which was supposed to have developed lessons for more difficult soil
conditions, has had limited scope and success, and experimentation in the main RSI project, e.g., testing
of new crops and crop strains, control comparisons of different soil treatments, foreign technology
transfer, models of red soils development with less than the most talented settlers, etc., has been lacking.
ADC officials appear to recognize this deficiency, but it will likely require specific changes in incentive
structures or organizational responsibility to improve performance.
5.5        Total cost of crop establishment of Y 15,500 per ha approximated SAR projections for both
Jiangxi and Fujian when costs for agroprocessing, dairy households, and research and training are
excluded. Jiangxi costs are higher than Fujian costs in the area of buildings because households were
relocated in Jiangxi and not in Fujian. Fujian costs are higher for infrastructure.



- 5 -
5.6        During implementation, the Yuan was devalued several times from an exchange rate of
Y 3.2 to $1 at appraisal to Y 5.4 to $1 at the time of completion. During the same period, the value of
the US dollar to SDR also declined about 14 percent. Thus, the Yuan/SDR rate increased by about
88 percent. This change in exchange rates means that IDA effectively financed 41 percent of the project
rather than the planned 33 percent. Beneficiary financing increased slightly from the planned 32 percent
to 34 percent, while government and Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) financing dropped from the
planned 35 percent of project to 24 percent.
5.7        Significant changes were made in the mix of project components, in consultation with the
Bank. First, there was a shift of 3,900 ha in Jiangxi from ramie to tea rehabilitation due to a precipitous
decline in ramie prices. The rapid response of ADC and project farmers to changing market conditions
is to be commended. Second, there was a change in the overall organizational structure in Fujian. The
SAR had anticipated a number of different types of households (fruit, tea, forest, etc.) under the
individual household responsibility system. In actuality, Fujian has followed a cooperative model in
which groups of households work together under one lead household, with each household having
responsibility for a group of activities, e.g., cash-generating fruit crops, pigs and forage, and some forest.
A complicated system of incentives provides for compensation based on individual effort and group
success. These modifications to the SAR design appear to be working well. Third, specialized secondary
pig-breeding households that were envisaged in Fujian were dropped in light of changing market
conditions. Finally, there has been a large increase in the average size of tea households. In Fujian, the
SAR had envisaged an average size of 0.4 ha with 6,000 beneficiary households. In actuality, the
average household operates 2 ha and there are only 1,200 beneficiary households. In Jiangxi where tea
rehabilitation was substituted for ramie, plots are also large, averaging 1.4 ha. The increase in farm size
was made based on the judgment of ADC that there was sufficient labor in a household to support larger
farms, but this important change was never discussed with the Bank supervision missions.
5.8        In retrospect, the rapid pace of implementation, driven by farmer and ADC enthusiasm to
begin cash-generating activities, may have been too fast, as there was some sacrifice in the quality
standards of planting materials, soil conservation and tree establishment. In particular, terraces have been
improperly aligned on the contour, inadequate flood check ditches were constructed, afforestation survival
rates have been low, and silvicultural management has been poor in many project areas. The situation
has improved over time, but there is still a significant opportunity for improvement in conservation
activities that contribute to long-term sustainable use of land resources.
6. Project Results
6.1        The RSI project has been a notable success in meeting its objective of demonstrating an
integrated, sustainable technology for red soils development. Many of the technical practices developed
under RSI have been replicated by nonproject farmers in Jiangxi and Fujian, and Red Soils II (RSII) is
planning on retaining key elements of RSI design.
6.2        The project has generated a wide array of economic benefits. Incremental production at full
development for fruit, tea, and milk is projected at 150,000 tpa, 9,000 tpa, and 18,100 tpa. As a result
of this strong output performance, farmer income has risen dramatically. Incomes of project farmers are
25-50 percent greater than nonproject farmers in the same localities. In Jiangxi, households have been
resettled and provided new homes, schools, and clinics. In Fujian, farmers continue to live in their old
villages, but these villages have benefited from the influx of prosperity from project farmers.



- 6 -
6.3        ADC financial health has generally been strong. Lending has been at market rates (there
was a brief inflationary period when ADC rates lagged ABC rates, but this was quickly rectified), and
loan repayment performance has been highly satisfactory. To the end of 1991, 111 percent of scheduled
payments had been collected in Fujian and 98.6 percent in Jiangxi. The Fujian experience reflects a
number of cases where borrowers have commenced repayment of principal ahead of schedule. The
extensive frost damage to citrus orchards in Jiangxi will likely create problem loans over the next few
years, and Jiangxi ADC has plans for a three-year moratorium on principal and interest repayments from
affected farmers. During this time, farmers would not pay ADC, and ADC in turn would not make
payments on its loans from the Ministry of Finance. Interest would not accumulate, and the financial loss
from the delayed payments would be borne by local and provincial governments, ABC and ADC.
6.4        The overall financial and economic performance of the project (FRR equals 14 percent, ERR
equals 21 percent) has been lower than projected, due primarily to citrus frost damage, but is satisfactory.
Financial and economic rates of return are summarized in Table 6.1 and brief descriptions of the main
project components are provided below.
Table 6.1: ORIGINAL AND REVISED RATE OF RETURN PROJECrIONS
(percent)
Or  inal SAR                      Revised
ERR             FRR             ERR             FRR
Total Project                          29            n/a               21             14
Jiangxi Citrus                         32              29              12              7
Fujian Citrus                          32              30              24             16
Jiangxi Ramie                          32              46              <0             <0
Jiangxi Tea                          n/a             n/a               34             24
Fujian Tea                             24              19              38             26
Jiangxi Dairy HH                       21              36              37             29
Without frost damage
Total Project                                                       27              20
Jiangxi Citrus                                                       22             16
Fujian Citrus                                                        31             22
6.5        Citrus. The citrus component comprises 45 percent of the total investment, approximately
in line with appraisal estimates. Citrus was expected to provide the highest economic benefit of any of
the components of RSI (except for a small pig breeding component). During the first four years of
implementation, citrus plantings were fulfilling those expectations as yields were obtained two years ahead
of schedule and investment and operating costs were at reasonable levels. However, a record frost was
experienced in both Jiangxi and Fujian provinces in December 1991, and there was extensive damage to
citrus plantings. In Jiangxi, 70 percent of fruit orchard area was planted with citrus (the remainder
planted with a variety of deciduous fruits), and 100 percent of these citrus plantings were damaged, three
fourths of these being completely killed. In Fujian, the damage was less severe: the 80 percent of fruit
orchard which was planted with citrus was damaged, with one eighth of this being completely killed. The
net effect of the frosts is that additional investment will be required and citrus output will be delayed until



- 7 -
at least 1996. With the frost damage, Jiangxi fruit component FRR and ERR is projected to drop to
7 percent and 12 percent, respectively, and Fujian to 16 percent and 24 percent, respectively. The rates
of return to frost-damage affected households may be somewhat higher to the extent the households
pursue other income generating activities such as expanded intercropping.
6.6        The citrus component also continues to face market risk as large areas of China have been
planted with citrus over the past five years, and there is the threat of oversupply. This is particularly true
for the mandarin orange which was the preferred variety in RSI. The frost damage is likely to reduce
or postpone such a risk, but there is a need for a comprehensive market study of citrus supply/demand
prospects before additional investments are made in citrus plantings.
6.7        Tea. The tea rehabilitation and new planting component has increased from 12 percent to
19 percent of total investment due to increases in tea rehabilitation in Fujian and conversion from ramie
to tea rehabilitation in Jiangxi. Results for tea rehabilitation have been very good, with yields generally
doubling with moderate levels of investment. New plantings have also met with success. Component
FRR and ERR are estimated to be 24-26 percent and 34-38 percent, respectively. In some of the
mission's visits to tea rehabilitation projects, it appeared that the project had invested in farmers who
were already quite successful, including households with up to 7 ha of tea holdings. Future tea
investments should consider development of more stringent guidelines on maximum levels of assets for
inclusion in the project, and also should consider reducing the maximum size of farm holding per
household.
6.8        Dairy. This component, which set up 550 dairy households in Jiangxi, comprises 4 percent
of investment (down from 10 percent at appraisal because of cost savings, primarily in imported
breedstock) and has been financially the most successful component of the project. Component FRR and
ERR are estimated at 29 and 37 percent, respectively, and project farmers are earning substantially higher
incomes than ADC management. Relatively favorable milk to feed concentrate prices and excellent
training and support provided by the state farm dairy processing plant have contributed to this success.
Cows receive more attention and better care under individual household management than in the
traditional state farm system, and this results in improved milk yields with the added advantage of a wider
distribution of benefits. Future dairy investments should consider reducing the size of operation to reduce
the very high initial investment costs, in order to spread the economic rents from this activity among
more households.
6.9        Other Components. The remainder of project components comprising 16 percent of total
investment have had mixed results. Pig breeding, pig fattening, and feed and fodder-raising activities
are generally carried out by households who also participate in citrus, tea, or dairy, and appear to be
proceeding successfully. Forestry operations are also being conducted as an addition to shorter-term
cash-generating activities rather than as a main activity of certain specialized households (as originally
envisaged), and this seems to be a sensible modification to allow for a mix of short- and longer-term
income. Though the desired amounts of windbreak and forest have been planted, the quality of planting
material and silvicultural management has generally been poor, and timber yields are likely to fall short
of projections. Agroprocessing investments were about 300 percent higher than projected and there have
been specific problems with equipment performance in the two Jiangxi dairies and with low capacity
utilization in the ramie processing plant. Consequently, rates of return for the agroprocessing component
are likely to be significantly lower than projected.



-8 -
7. Project Sustainability/Replicability
7.1         The project is expected to maintain a significant level of net benefits throughout its life.
Continued strong output performance will depend on (a) strong beneficiary commitment to effective
technical management; (b) adequate provision for recurrent government expenditures in research and
extension; (c) favorable market conditions for long-term tree crops; and (d) no further severe frost
damage. To this end, ADC will need to develop a medium-term marketing strategy for citrus, study
future frost risk and develop frost-protection measures and implement a restructuring program for the
frost affected citrus smallholders in Jiangxi.
7.2        A high level of cost recovery is also expected throughout the project period. Net farm
income is projected to cover household debt servicing obligations, even accounting for citrus frost
damage. Public sector budgetary allocations for infrastructure, research and extension are expected to
be fully recovered through project charges and taxes over the life of the project. Finally, ADC is
expected to continue to operate on a profit-making basis.
7.3        RSI has generally succeeded in demonstrating an environmentally sustainable approach to
red soils development. The RSII approach goes a step further in environmental sustainability by planning
integrated, sustainable development of entire watersheds, but it appears that RSI was an appropriate
interim step.
7.4         The combination of sustained benefits and strong cost recovery make many of the features
of RSI attractive for replication. The investment costs of Y 15,500/ha overall (in constant 1987 terms)
and Y 20,500/ha for citrus appear reasonable compared to other Bank-financed projects (e.g., Mid-
Yangtze is Y 35,000/ha of new orchard establishment. However, considerable efforts in training and
extension are required for replicating this model. The project gets good marks thus far at disseminating
well-known techniques to farmers, but has been less successful in developing improved techniques (e.g.,
new crops, soil management techniques, etc.). Futurc replicability may be constrained by availability
of trained extension and management skills.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        The Bank worked effectively with the Borrower during project preparation and appraisal,
and there were numerous successful innovations in project design resulting in a vastly improved
technology for red soils development. In particular, Bank staff played a key role in strengthening the
Borrower's institutional capacity for project design and implementation. The main shortfall in the design
was in assessment of citrus marketing and frost risks, and an important lesson has been learned from this
experience as evidenced by the emphasis placed on this during RSII preparation. During supervision,
the Bank provided valuable suggestions on diversifying citrus plantings, strengthening windbreak
construction, and introducing vetiver grass for soil conservation. These recommendations significantly
improved the operating performance of the project and contributed to a strong overall rate of return
despite the unanticipated frost damage. The Bank was flexible in allowing sensible modifications to the
original plan such as reducing ramie plantings.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        Project management had not previously worked with the World Bank, but quickly adapted
to Bank methodologies for project preparation and appraisal, and actively contributed to project design.
Performance during implementation has been excellent in terms of speed and cost-containment, and fairly



-9 -
good in terms of quality (apart from instances of poor quality of planting materials, soil conservation,
and tree establishment). ADC has developed a strong cadre of trained project management personnel and
much improved management systems. These assets should be valuable in future development of red soils
throughout China. As mentioned earlier, there are opportunities for improvement in activities with
longer-term payoffs-most importantly, there needs to be increased emphasis on experimentation aimed
at developing improved methodologies and increased emphasis on conservation measures.
10. Project Relationships
10.1       Relationships between the Bank and Borrower were both cordial and effective throughout
the project cycle. This was due in part to relationships built during project preparation and also to the
initial successes during project implementation, which were widely recognized and gave both sides the
motivation of being involved in a successful venture.
11. Consulting Services
11.1       The role of consultants was limited to a few specific technical issues such as citrus
processing and livestock development. These engagements provided high value as judged by both the
Borrower and the Bank, but the available budget for consulting resources was significantly underutilized
due to a reluctance by the Borrower to expend funds on expatriate expertise.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1       The project data base was maintained well and the borrower provided excellent data and
support during PCR preparation. In general, data on project costs are excellent. Data has been compiled
on financial performance and benefits based on sampling of project and nonproject farmers, but it is not
possible to verify the methodology or develop a strong conviction about accuracy. Projections of future
financial performance are generally optimistic-based on best-case scenarios.
13. Recommendations
13.1       The following actions are recommended for improvement of RSI performance and for
consideration in future red soils development projects:
(a)   develop a processing and marketing strategy for citrus and deciduous fruits in anticipation
of large supply increases in coming years;
(b)   develop a restructuring plan for frost damaged citrus areas including a more diversified crop
mix. The current plan of increasing noncitrus plantings from 30 percent to 40 percent of
total area may not take sufficient advantage of this opportunity to diversify plantings to
reduce marketing risks and to produce fruit products which can be harvested and marketed
over a larger portion of the year;
(c)   develop a restructuring plan for the Jiangxi ramie processing plant which is running at low
capacity utilization under a subsidy from the county government. Plant management
believes that the market will improve soon because of increased domestic and export
demand, but this projection should be rigorously tested and consideration should be given
to either converting the plant to process other textiles or to mothballing some industry
capacity until demand does pick up;



- 10-
(d)  reevaluate ADC financial solvency in light of project experiences, particularly their ability
to cover foreign exchange losses in World Bank loans in light of the continued depreciation
of the Yuan. Consider the introduction of a project management charge, especially for
those households who are highly profitable. Make provision for ADC to share some of the
citrus losses with those affected farmers through introduction of a bad-debt provision in
their financial accounts.
(e)   design organizational changes to increase the amount of experimentation in RSI (and RSII)
to apply to future development of other red soils areas. For example, targeted objectives
for testing new crops, conducting control comparisons of different soil treatments, utilizing
foreign technology, etc. could be provided to ADC management. Alternatively, an
organizational position could be created with responsibility for longer-term investments in
learning. Additionally, decide on an approach to increase focus on conservation activities;
(f)  reduce size of specialized dairy households and tea rehabilitation households to increase the
number of project beneficiaries given overall investment constraints; and
(g)   avoid long-distance water conveyance and multilevel pumping systems and where possible,
store water locally with use of one-stage pumping or short-distance water conveyance.



- 11 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM
THE BORROWER'S POINT OF VIEW
1. Project Objectives
1.1        The major objective of the project was to demonstrate efficient methods of developing the
production potential of unutilized lands in red soils areas of southern China.  There are about
2 million knV of such soils in 11 Chinese provinces south of the Yangtze River where favorable climatic
and rainfall conditions offer opportunities for the development of diversified productive land use systems.
1.2        Present agricultural development policy of the State Council emphasizes that increased
importance will be placed on transforming low yielding farmlands and on making full potential use of
wastelands and idle water resources in order to grow crops and trees and to raise livestock and fish.
1.3        Lessons Learned. The project's objectives as defined at the time of appraisal remain fully
valid. The project has successfully demonstrated that the technology of converting unused red soils into
productive lands for the cultivation of food, fodder or cashcrops from a variety of annual and perennial
plants can be applied on a broad scale, using labor-intensive development methods. The red soil
development technology put together at appraisal from findings at a few research stations, can now be
employed with confidence in the course of China's future red soils development programs.
2. Implementation Performance
Project Expenditure
2.1        In both project provinces, ADC has quickly developed its project implementation capacity.
Already by October 1989, i.e., only about 30 months after the Credit's effectiveness on March 23, 1987,
practically all project activities had been approved by ADC and action was well under way for the
efficient execution of the farm developments foreseen.
2.2        A conscious containment of unit costs in the three major expenditure items,1/ i.e., crop
establishment (Y 109.9 million), land development (Y 69.5 million) and infrastructure development
(Y 35.6 million) has allowed the attainment of the physical targets which were set at appraisal at reduced
overall costs without a lowering of development standards. The general weakening of the Yuan against
the SDR during the project period has also reduced the dependence on local finance, but energetic efforts
have been maintained by the ADC offices at all levels to keep the level of the beneficiary contributions
to about 25 percent of the total investment for on-farm development.
2.3        ADC had to make some significant changes to the project expenditure mix anticipated at
appraisal. Higher investments for ADC offices were required in Jiangxi in order to deal with the nearly
10,000 participating households there, and higher investments than anticipated were also made for
agroprocessing in order to assist with the processing and marketing of project produce. Considerable
savings were achieved in expenditures for machinery and equipment, and for technical assistance. The
1/   Cost data in this section are based on preliminary estimates (end-1990) expressed in current values and
therefore differ from updated costs in Pat III.



- 12 -
first was considered essential to reduce ADC's costs for its service operations, the second considered
possible in view of locally available expertise. ADC also considers that lower expenditures than
anticipated for research have not affected the standard of project implementation in a negative manner.
The ADC training programs for various project aspects and for different levels have always been
maintained at a high level of intensity. Major savings were, finally, also achieved by reducing the
foreign exchange expenditure for importing livestock for breeding.
2.4         Lessons Learned. The project has provided sufficient funds to implement a comprehensive
land development program on a scale which corresponded to physical targets set at appraisal. Conscious
cost containment in major expenditure items together with increases in the Yuan value of the IDA Credit
have allowed the achievement of the project's physical targets at anticipated standards but at a reduced
level of local finance.
Physical Achievements
2.5         Throughout all activities, ADC authorities have been able to reach and even surpass the
targets set at appraisal. This reflects well on project staff: to do essential planning timely; to train
farmers and supporting staff for the jobs to be undertaken; and to provide all essential inputs and
infrastructure required by the farming units. It is also indicative of excellent leadership at all levels in
ADC, of outstanding work and commitment of all project staff and of the tremendous skill and
industriousness of participating farmers.
2.6         Lessons Learned. ADC authorities responsible for project execution have demonstrated
their capacity to use a large-scale innovative land use technology for creating commercial-type farming
in a well coordinated and efficient manner and quicker than was anticipated at appraisal. The supervision
by ADC of participating farming units has been sufficiently intensive and of a quality to ensure the
general adherence of all participants to the development standards stipulated at appraisal.
3. Some Major Development Components
Soil Improvement
3.1        To improve the quality of red soils is one of the most important objectives of the project,
and ADC has been monitoring the changes which have occurred in soil characteristics as a result of soil
improvement activities. On a contract basis, in Jiangxi soil analysis was carried out by the Red Soils
Research Institute, in Fujian this was done by the Soil-Fertility Center of the Nanping Bureau of
Agriculture.
3.2        In Jiangxi, changes in soil characteristics have been monitored in six fruit orchards, in
Fujian 21 sites were chosen which were thought to be representative of about 540 ha of orchard land.
Fertilization levels are high during the initial year: farmyard manure or organic matter rubbish vary
between 20 and 20 t/ha and about 30 t/ha of fresh green manure, as well as 0.7 t/ha of different oil seed
cakes and 1 to 1.5 t/ha of lime, are applied to the large planting holes for fruit trees in the year of
establishment. Supply of organic matter is halved during years 2 and 3, and again halved thereafter.
With these very labor-intensive improvement works, the organic matter content in a 60 cm layer of top
soil increases from 1.0 to 1.3 percent before development to 1.6 to 2.4 percent after three years. Also
nitrogen, phosphorus and potash availability are reported to increase significantly together with
improvements in soil texture, which in turn increases the soils' water retention capacity by about
30 percent.



- 13 -
3.3        Lessons Leuned. The soil improvement technology applied under the project, which is
the basis for any long-term conversion of red soil wasteland to productive agricultural land has been
shown to work. This technology is extremely labor-intensive which Chinese farmers are capable and
willing to supply. Phosphorous and potash, in addition to nitrogen, are likely to remain the critical plant
nutrients which will require regular application during future years.
Land Development
3.4        The preparation of sloping red soils to start agricultural use requires close attention to soil
and water conservation. Considerable experience has been collected by now concerning the suitability
of different technologies and their cost, so that recommendations can be made for cost-effective measures
in future.
3.5        Fujian's land development experience is based on slopes of 15 and 20 degrees, that in
Jiangxi refers to slopes of 5 and 8 degrees. The following table summarizes present experience with
terrace construction.
Degree of Slope
Item                       Unit           5         8            15           20
Width between terraces             m              8          8          3.3           2.8
Length of terraces               m/ha           834       835      3,000.0       3,070.0
Soil to be moved                m3/ha        2,610      3,912      2,790.0       4,050.0
Labor efficiency                 m3/md            4          4          5.5           6.0
Labor cost                       Y/md             7          7          7.0           7.0
Total cost                   Y/ha         4.553     5.937       3.552.0       4,725.0
3.6        The differences in farm enterprise systems between Jiangxi and Fujian have had a significant
influence on land development. In Fujian with its larger operational units, terraces are normally well on
the contour. In Jiangxi with small family farms, contours and bunds, as well as windbreaks, are quite
often along boundary lines or along roads and canals. The standards of terrace construction are generally
all right, but improvements are required to achieve better aligmnents with contours. At the steeper
slopes, more attention is also necessary to construct safe terrace risers and to create water ways for the
safe disposal of runoff during high-intensity rain storms.
3.7        The introduction of Vetiver grass during project implementation has been greeted by ADC
with enthusiasm. It opens new avenues for a considerable reduction in land development costs by
lowering the costs for earth-moving, and by making terraces, waterways and other constructions more
durable. Vetiver grass hedges on the contour have also been used to enforce land cultivation and planting
of annual crops along contour lines. Farmers understand the importance of Vetiver grass in land
development, and ADC has responded quickly with the establishment of essential nursery capacities.
3.8        Lessons Learned. project farmers accept the need for reliable measures of soil and water
conservation and are capable of applying the proposed techniques. The quality of work is particularly



- 14 -
critical in locations with higher slopes, i.e., in Fujian, and more intensive planning and supervision of
works is required there. Proper application of hedge-plantings with Vetiver grass is moving forward
quickly and will become an essential tool for reducing the cost of soil and water conservation, and for
making it more durable.
Fruit Farming
3.9        The cultivation of oranges on red soils has a long tradition in Jiangxi and Fujian. These
cultivation and husbandry techniques have been the focal point around which the red soils development
technology has evolved, which is now promoted by the project. Land development for fruit farning has,
therefore, been the backbone of land use development in both provinces. About 60 percent of all
developed land has gone into fruit orchards in Jiangxi, and about 70 percent in Fujian. The development
of fruit farming has, therefore, received major attention by ADC project authorities at all levels, and this
experience warrants a more elaborate analysis in this document.
3.10       In Jiangxi, fruit farms have been developed by individual households on 1.5 to 2.0 ha. The
credit required for the development of these enterprises varied between Y 15,000 and Y 25,000, with the
average of about Y 18,000 that is Y 10,000 per ha approximately. This included about Y 6,000 to
Y 8,000 for the construction of a house and pig sties, the remaining part of the loan was for land
development and crop establishment. Settlers with larger family labor capacities were eligible for the
larger farm sizes, i.e., the larger loans. The basic objective has always been to align farming operations
with family labor capacities, but there are some instances where permanent labor is hired for routine
operations and additional seasonal labor for peak work periods.
3.11       In Fujian, fruit farming has been developed as a commercial initiative of existing township
or county level collectives, which have been involved until now predominantly in irrigated fruit or cash
crop production. There are 249 project fruit farms now on 5,757 ha of land. This represents an average
fruit farm size of 23 ha. On average, each farm enterprise has about 11 members which gives an average
of about 2 ha per member household, i.e., similar to Jiangxi Province. The average loan taken in Fujian
under the project has been Y 8,570 per ha of established fruit orchard.
3.12       During initial project years, there has been a heavy emphasis on the planting of oranges.
ADC then accepted the warnings of World Bank supervision missions that the concentration on oranges
might lead to marketing problems, and during the planting seasons of 1989 and 1990 about 30 percent
of all trees planted were deciduous fruit trees. As a result, the percentage of oranges is declining. It is
78 percent in Fujian, and 71 percent in Jiangxi at present. Among the deciduous fruits, peaches, plums,
nai and pears are the most promising. The first three have the considerable advantage of coming into
production earlier than oranges.
3.13       The standards of fruit tree establishment, maintenance, husbandry/pruning and pest control
have been generally good in both provinces, but significant differences have developed in the
comprehensive management and utilization of the farm units. In Fujian, where the collective fruit farm
and its members have access to additional income from other production of the "parent" collective, little
emphasis is placed on producing cash crops under young fruit trees during initial years. The following
situation emerges for Fujian. Soybeans make up about 50 percent of the intercrops, followed by
25 percent of groundnuts, 10 percent of watermelons and the rest of other crops. In Fujian, the capital
requirements for intercropping are not part of the farm development loans. This is also the case in
respect of pig production, i.e., fruit farm enterprises receive no loans for their piggeries. The fruit
farming system promoted by the project in Fujian, therefore, may cost less per hectare than in Jiangxi,



- 15 -
Land Use                                 1987        1988        1989       1990
Cumulative total fruits (ha)                   1,376      2,530       3,051       3,051
Cumulative intercropping (ha)                    572         819        955         647
Intercropped as percent of total
fruit land                                      41         32          31          21
but it does not promote an integrated farming approach. As a result, many of the terraces with young
fruit trees have no undercrop, and this is not a good practice to avoid erosion and improve soil quality;
Fujian fruit farms have a critical shortage of farm produced organic matter for manuring; soil fertility
buildup needs attention on some farms.
3.14       In Jiangxi on the other hand, the household fruit farm of 1.6 to 2.0 ha has developed into
a fully integrated comprehensive farming system. Until the fruit trees develop a complete shade cover,
all developed farm land is likely to be used intensively for food, fodder, cash or green manure crops with
a sophisticated system of relay-planting. Pig fattening, and often also piglet raising, are integral parts
of fruit farming. All these activities are supported by project loans so that in Jiangxi the project actually
promotes integrated farming with permanent ground cover.
3.15       Lessons Learned. Fruit farming is the backbone of red soil development. Production
technology is well understood by the cultivators. Individually operated fruit farms in Jiangxi have all the
essential support and incentives for intercropping with food, fodder, cash and green manure crops. This
is not the case at present in Fujian with its collective fruit farming system.
Tea Gardens and Ramie Production
3.16       At the time of appraisal, ramie prices were at record highs of about Y 8.00/kg at the
farmgate. During the initial project years, producer prices dropped to less than half their 1986 levels
and, consequently, less emphasis was placed on establishing ramie on project farms. Project data show
that the area which was planned to be put under ramie has been reduced by about 85 percent from 4,575
to 725 ha. Ramie prices were at about 60 percent of their 1986 level at the end of 1990 and opportunities
for commercially viable ramie production have begun to warrant increased attention again.
3.17       ADC project authorities have basically substituted the decreased expenditures for ramie by
increasing the areas for tea production development. Most of this activity has consisted of rehabilitating
low-productive tea gardens in family units (Jiangxi) or collectives (Fujian) by organic and inorganic
manuring combined with in-row cultivation, pruning and gap filling. Also wind breaks have been planted
to improve micro-climates.
3.18       Lessons Learned.  The choice of crops employed in red soil development has to be
determined by the financial attractiveness of their production in the different farm enterprise systems.
Adaptability of plants to the ecological conditions is a prerequisite, but their actual broad-scale use
depends on commercial considerations.



- 16 -
Agroforestry and Wind Breaks
3.19       The project has reached its physical targets for forest tree planting. About 4,500 ha have
been planted in both provinces combined and this represents 104 percent of the appraisal target. The
digging of planting holes, the supply of quality seedlings, and the maintenance of planted areas are
considered adequate, but based on the observations to date, ADC is concerned about the following
problems:
(a)   better adapted species and varieties are required which have higher growth rates of
commercially utilizable organic matter, including foliage and timber, under the ecological
conditions concerned. Such trees can also include species with commercial value, such as
mulberry, fodder trees or nuts;
(b)  improved systems of tree establishment are essential in order to compensate for the
understandable reluctance to divert precious organic matter needed for fruit trees and cash
crops to forest trees of uncertain commercial value. This includes a better understanding
of the exact nutrient requirements of various trees as well as methods to improve their
capability of utilizing limited amounts of plant nutrients through scientific methods of
inoculating seedlings at the time of planting;
(c)  the alignment of wind break planting needs attention. In Jiangxi, they are predominantly
along farm boundaries. In Fujian, they are often block-planted on hill tops. The latter is
good for soil and water conservation, but the positive impact of wind breaks on micro-
climate requires their proper orientation in respect of the normal direction of the most
damaging winds.
3.20       Lessons Learned. The planting of nonfruit trees has been accepted well, but further
achievements in species selection; establishment and husbandry methods; and in the alignment of wind
breaks are required to make these operations financially more attractive to participating farmers, and to
achieve a beneficial impact on the micro-climate of the locations concerned.
Pig Fattening and Pig Breeding
3.21       Pig production is an age-old Chinese tradition and the essential practical skills are well
understood by all project beneficiaries. The Jiangxi settlers have quickly taken up production of feeds
as in some areas with large pig production the ratio between the price of purchased concentrate feeds and
l iveweight of pigs sold has dropped to below 1:4 at times of heavy supply. Most farmers also keep a sow
to produce the required piglets, and they achieve the sale of about 20 fattened pigs per year on 1.5 to
2.0 ha of land. Standards of pig housing constructed with the help of project loans in Jiangxi are
acceptable although more attention still is essential to improve temperature control, hygienic standards
and labor efficiency.
3.22       Although pig production development was not part of the farm development package in
Fujian, both provinces have used project funds to improve the genetic potential of pigs for efficient
production. Fertility level, growth rate and lean meat production capacity have been the major objectives
for which purebred Large White and Landrace pigs are kept on provincial breeding stations which were
constructed, equipped and stocked with the financial assistance of the project. These stations are well
managed by ADC and operated as commercial entities; they are quite efficient. A linkage between the



- 17 -
breeding stations and practical farm fattening, as foreseen at appraisal through the establishment of pig
multiplication units in specialized households is presently under development.
3.23       Lessons Learned. Pig production works well and remains financially attractive. Individual
households in Jiangxi make full use of the pig production potential which they have, to produce farmyard
manure, whereas the large collective production enterprises in Fujian have no direct reliable access to
manure as they are not themselves undertaking pig production. Pig breeding has been initiated to produce
crossbred pigs of higher production efficiency and higher lean meat content which remain, however, still
suitable for the unrefined conditions as they exist on practical pig fattening farms in the project area.
Attention is now required to improve the multiplication of superior breeding stock from ADC stations
so that these animals can be fully used in practical pig production, and to assist farmers to sell their pigs
in urban areas so as to avoid seasonal oversupply and unattractive prices in project locations.
Dairy Development
3.24       Milk production development as a vehicle for red soil development has taken place around
the two county-level economic entities with dairy cattle in Jiangxi, i.e., the Provincial Livestock Breeding
Farm and the Red Star Farm. Both these farms use Holstein-Friesian cattle of good genetic quality which
have a production of between 5,000 to 6,000 kg of milk per lactation. On red soil wastelands in the
vicinity of these two farms, 550 settlements have been established. They are operated under 50-year
contracts by farm families, who in general were employed by the large State farms before and who have
undergone three to six months practical training there before they were settled with five or six mature
cows.
3.25       Average investments per settler family are high, varying between Y 35,000 and Y 45,000
for 1.3 to 1.7 ha of land. The farming system is quite suitable for red soil development as it provides
large quantities (on average about 20 t/ha/year) of good farmyard manure. Farmers produce a variety
of fodder for green feeding, from turnips to grasses, corn, sweet potatoes, cabbages and to turnips again
throughout a calendar year. The farm sizes are sufficient to produce forage for about 10 cows and
followers, if purchased concentrates (about Y 0.75/kg) are fed at the rate of 1:2 for the milk produced
(0.94/kg), and if about 0.7 t of rice straw is purchased per cow and year. Milking three times a day,
average milk yields of about 5,000 kg per cow per lactation are attained. Calving rate is between 85 and
90 percent.
3.26       Lessons Learned. Dairy development is an effective tool for red soil development. It is
financially attractive. As long as the large "mother" farms can provide all the required technical
assistance, livestock, feed, processing/marketing outlets and a cost recovery mechanism, dairy
development can be expanded. However, the relatively high cost per unit of land converted from
wasteland makes the replicability of this approach to red soil development problematic. Farms of smaller
size would not reduce the investment per land area, but the cost per settled family. Smaller farms along
potential milk collection routes with milk cooling centers might offer such an opportunity. Smaller units
would also be more in line with the settlers' family labor supply which is at present generally not
sufficient to deal with all the manual labor to be taken care of.
Irrigation and Roads
3.27       The project has surpassed all targets for infrastructure development which were set at the
time of appraisal, and it has achieved this objective at considerably reduced total expenditures. This has



- 18 -
largely been the result of a high proportion of beneficiary labor input to complete the civil works which
were unforeseen.
3.28       Many of the civil works proposed, such as roads or large water empoundments with long
irrigation canals required large quantities of manual labor and made pooling of the labor force essential.
This seems to be more easy in Fujian where the collective approach to farming is already a first step in
organizing community labor. It is, however, more difficult in Jiangxi where individual farm households
assign priority to the tasks of developing and maintaining their own little operational units.
3.29       This difference in approach of doing things together or separately has had a profound impact
on the civil works which have been undertaken in Jiangxi and in Fujian. In respect to roads, Jiangxi has
exceeded its target by 5 percent, but Fujian could do so by 100 percent. Similar differences have
occurred with irrigation canals, i.e., 4 percent versus 79 percent, and with pumping stations, i.e.,
achievements on target versus plus 328 percent.
3.30       This difference between Jiangxi and Fujian has also had significant impact on the type of
irrigation development undertaken. Whereas in Fujian relatively large-scale developments are undertaken
which can serve the requirements of the much larger units, in Jiangxi small-scale irrigation schemes
predominate which serve one or a few individual households. The per hectare costs of small irrigation
works are likely to be higher, but small water empoundments, individual wells and pumps to irrigate 2
to 6 ha with short water conveyance distances are the only way of developing irrigation in Jiangxi. It
is, therefore, not surprising that some farms in Jiangxi still work without irrigation whereas practically
all the large enterprises in Fujian have irrigation, and some schemes are quite sophisticated.
3.31       In this situation, the results of recent research on the opportunities for commercial fruit
production without irrigation in Jiangxi assume special significance. First results are encouraging and
need careful follow-up and due replication.
3.32       Lessons Learned. The pooling of labor is easy in Fujian so that large civil works can be
undertaken more easily than in Jiqngxi with its individual household system. Jiangxi needs small civil
works which can be built and managed by one or a few households. The development of red soil land
use systems which do not require irrigation would, therefore, be of particular significance for Jiangxi.
Agroprocessing
3.33       The project has achieved its targets set for establishing new, or expanding and modernizing
existing agroprocessing capacities. These developments have been achieved at a cost overrun of about
83 percent. Nearly 90 percent of all such expenditures have been incurred in Jiangxi.
3.34       Fujian has made only simple investments in this subsector (a) for waxing, grading and
storage of oranges, and(b) for one feed mill to produce a premix for compounding balanced pig rations
at the farm level. Both facilities are being used at near capacity.
3.35       In Jiangxi, rather complex agroprocessing facilities have been established. Two were
modernizing the milk processing facilities at the large collective dairy farms. At the Red Star Farm, a
40 t/d spray tower has been installed to replace the (existing) outdated 20 t/d drying equipment for the
manufacture of milk powder. Present fresh milk intake is at the 20 to 25 t/d level so that sufficient
reserve capacity exists to handle the increased intake which will occur when the 275 milk production
settlements reach full development. At the Provincial Livestock Farm, various equipment has been



- 19 -
installed to allow UHT treatment and aseptic filling of milk (or fruit juices), milk-fat standardization,
pasteurization and automatic filling of milk powder. Total installed capacity is 80 t/d and average daily
intake during 1990 was 35 t/d. Peak intake during winter months approaches 55 t/d. Spare capacity is
partly used for treating and packing fruit juices. Also this plant has sufficient capacity to handle the
additional milk which the 275 settlers are likely to produce at full development.
3.36       The Jiangxi fruit processing plant, owned and operated by the Provincial ADC, has been
constructed for grading, waxing and storing oranges. It works at capacity. The ramie processing plant
owned and operated by the County-level ADC has been developed with an overcapacity. Three shifts
per day work a reduced handling capacity so that only about 400 t of ramie yarn are produced per year
at present instead of the 1,000 t installed capacity.
3.37       Lessons Learned. It is difficult to predict accurately the costs involved in purchasing and
installing sophisticated imported equipment. Considerable difficulties are to be expected when individual
equipment items for complex, interrelated operations are purchased from different manufacturers who
make the lowest bids: it was extremely difficult and costly to make the dairy equipment at the Provincial
Livestock Development Farm operational-the automatic milk powder packing machine is still not
working.
3.38       ADC has succeeded to plan and install processing capacities in line with raw material
supplies and domestic marketing potential. The only exception is the ramie processing plant where the
volume of local production and of international demand have been greatly affected by unpredictable
product price changes. The investments made in ramie processing give employment to 483 people at a
total investment of Y 10,090 per person employed. This is only about one-third of the people which were
planned to be employed and for whom the basic facilities are now available. At present utilization rates,
ADC has difficulty servicing its loan and the IRR of this investment will remain much below its appraisal
estimate unless than plant's output can be significantly increased.
4. Project Organization and Management
Organization
4.1        The independence of the two provinces in the execution of the project has been maintained
throughout the project, but the same time, common approaches to the development and application of
technology and administrative procedures have been achieved by regular interprovincial consultations
which were obviously more frequent at the start of the project.
4.2        The project's joint office in Beijing has made a strong contribution towards coordinating
provincial activities. It has also been important to prepare, and follow-up on, project action with the state
authorities concerned. Its major task during initial years was, however, to assist with project purchases,
particularly with ICB.
4.3        Within the provinces, the project has established leading groups at the provincial
level-Prefecture Nanping in Fujian-technical committees at the county levels and advisory groups down
to the township level. The first two assisted ADC project offices at the levels concerned with policy
formation, overall planning/budgeting and the coordination of line-agency contributions. The latter
assisted with day-to-day project implementation.



- 20 -
4.4        ADC operations stopped at the county level. The responsibility for the lower level activities
in the townships and villages was assigned to self-accounting entities which were normally specifically
created for this purpose by ADC and which remained under ADC's supervision, but were self-accounting.
4.5        Lessons Learned. The project's organizational structure has worked well. It remained
sufficiently flexible to adapt to changes in the project's geographical spread and in the range of its
activities, but allowed a uniform approach. Of particular value has been the integration of local
administration with the different line agencies concerned to ensure the project's full support at the lowest
level.
Management
4.6        Both provinces maintain headquarters offices to manage the day-to-day project business.
Nearly all staff have joined ADC from former positions in the Bureau of Agriculture. By far the majority
of all staff works at the county level. In all cases (seen during the PCR mission), the offices and
buildings provide the basic amenities to carry out the work. Bookkeeping and registration procedures
allow quick information on questions as they arise.
4.7        All development proposals foreseen for project credit are raised by the village or township
committees which hold the land use right of the area to be developed. The proposals are technically
guided by the ADC county-level technical staff and the required credit agreements are also raised at that
level. The essential administrative procedures are well understood and credit can be approved quickly.
4.8        Average loan sizes in Fujian are more than ten times higher than in Jiangxi. This has had
a profound influence on ADC's management task, loan supervision and debt collection. However, also
in Jiangxi debt collection is highly satisfactory. Particularly noteworthy is the fact that borrowers in both
provinces have started with the repayment of principal ahead of schedule.
4.9        The major technical advisory services are the responsibility of ADC provincial and county-
level staff. Below that level, technicians are selected by ADC and then employed by different units at
the township or village levels. Their salaries and other emoluments are part of the incentive systems
under which these units operate.
4.10       ADC also provides commercial assistance for its project borrowers with input supply and
marketing of produce. At the provincial level this includes an ADC unit for export promotion (peanuts
and pigs have been exported from Jiangxi to Hong Kong). At the lowest level, this includes farmers'
associations in Jiangxi, and commercial units attached to the enterprises in Fujian. Basically all the
commercial services consist of bulk procurement for retailing, and produce collection for wholesale
marketing. Commissions are charged for the transactions of between 1 and 3 percent of product values.
4.11       ADC's expenditures for administrative, credit and technical services down to the county
level are partly financed by grants. Jiangxi ADC receives 70 percent of these costs from grants,
20 percent from management fees and interest spread, and 10 percent from commissions on trading.
Fujian ADC receives about 50 percent of these costs from grants, 20 percent from management fees,
25 percent from interest spread, and 5 percent from commissions on trading.
4.12       Lessons Leaned. The project has developed efficient and low-cost management procedures
for implementing its tasks of (a) advising borrowers technically, (b) providing credit for farm-based
agricultural development, and (c) providing commercial assistance to its clients. Of particular importance



- 21 -
has been the multitude of training activities for all levels and covering a tremendous width of topics from
orange or pig diseases to refinement opportunities in incentive systems. Of great value has also been the
harmonious integration into the package of project support services, of activities which are paid by
incentive systems.
5. Project Benefits
5.1        All development took place on wasteland. Only some sites in Fujian had a sparse population
of bushes or trees, but these had no commercial value.
5.2        Both provinces have conducted farm surveys to estimate the impact of project activities on
the income of farming collectives and of individual households.
5.3        In estimating net income, farmgate prices have been applied to total production and
deductions have been made for all purchased inputs and hired labor. The value of family labor has been
left as part of net income.
5.4         Lessons Learned. There has been a general increase in per capita income over the project
years in all farm enterprises. The Jiangxi data put this increase at about 45 percent. However, there has
been a much more rapid increase in net income on project farms. The Jiangxi data indicate an increase
over five years of about 155 percent. The net income in 1989 on project farms was about 35 percent
higher than on nonproject farms. In Fujian this increase varied between 30 and 90 percent, depending
on the duration during which project farms had been operational.
6. Aspects of Project Sustainability
6.1        The environmental impact of the project is quite positive. Some of the areas were subject
to considerable erosion before development started, and the attention to erosion control and water
harvesting reduces this problem. The project has demonstrated that with the massive labor input of
settlers, soil fertility can be improved to an extent that the land use systems developed by the project
become sustainable in the long term.
6.2        The cost per hectare of land development is an important aspect of the development
program's sustainability-even the development is on a credit basis. Development costs per hectare are
lowest in the Fujian approach with the large operational units there, but also the specialized households
in Jiangxi Province offer good potential for future program expansion. Only the dairy development
undertaken by the project needs attention in order to reduce the unit cost per settled family by reducing
farm size and the number of cows per herd.
6.3        A third aspect of sustainability is the influence of the project on the long-term financial
position of ADC. The larger operational units and loans make it much cheaper for ADC in Fujian to
fulfill its task, but also in Jiangxi, long-term financial position of ADC remains positive and attractive.
6.4         Lessons Learned. The positive influence of the project on stabilizing and improving the
ecological balance in the development area has been clearly demonstrated. The project technology may
be made more replicable by reducing the size and investment level for dairy farming, but little prospect
exists to reduce the cost of land development and crop establishment to levels which are lower than those
achieved until now without losing the essential lasting positive impact on soil fertility and erosion control.
The larger enterprises in Fujian can be developed at a cost per hectare and per beneficiary which is lower



- 22 -
than in Jiangxi with its individual households, but the risk of not having sufficient organic matter for the
long-term sustainable increase in soil fertility requires attention before the approach is replicated in other
provinces. The tasks and operations to be undertaken by ADC in such a land-improvement/settlement
scheme appear to be sustainable financially in both provinces.
7. World Bank Performance
7.1        The Chinese project authorities wish to express their appreciation for a remarkable
performance of the World Bank and its staff.
7.2        At the time of project preparation and appraisal, World Bank staff have shown their ability
to assess the technical feasibility of a largely research based land development technology, and their
understanding of the interrelation between the existing development procedures and the available
managerial skills which could be used for effective project execution. The project remained sufficiently
flexible to take care of many uncertainties, but it was at the same time sufficiently clear in technological
and organizational proposals to determine the direction of project action.
7.3        World Bank staff have also made substantial contributions during project implementation.
Supervision mission members recognized, for instance, quite early during the project the danger of an
overemphasis on orange planting; they introduced the Vetiver technology; or made technical proposals
for efficient livestock breeding and production. All these suggestions were quite practical and allowed
quick response by the project authorities.
7.4        Finally, the World Bank allowed sufficient flexibility throughout the course of the project
to make adjustments which were necessary to adapt project action to changes in local conditions, and to
evolve a development technology suitable for future application on a much larger scale.



- 23 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Loans  and Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title               Purpose                         approval      Status          Coaments
Second Rural Credit Proj-    Support ABC in its lend-              1986       Completed
ect                             ing program for the di-
Cr. 1642-CHA                    versification and modern-
ization of agricultural
production and processing
Jiangxi Agricultural            Establish livestock,               1990       Under           Implementa-
Development Project             fish, tea rehabilitation,                     inplemen-       tion pro-
Cr. 2097-CHA                    and forests on hilly                          tation          ceeding
landt                                                         satisfacto-
rily
National Afforestation          Assist in establishment            1990       Under
Project                         of 985,000 ha of forest                       impleme n-
Cr. 2145-CHA                    in 16 provinces                               tation
Hid-Yangtze Project             Establish citrus and               1990        Under          Implementa-
Cr. 2172-CHA                    other fruit orchards on                       implemen-       tion pro-
hilly lands                                   tation          ceeding
satisfacto-
rily after
delay in
credit
effective-
ness
Agricultural Support Ser-    Strengthen agricultural               n/a        Under
vices Project                   extension services; im-                        prepara-
prove seed supplies;                          tion
develop Animal Husbandry
Centers; upgrade quaran-
tine services; strengthen
management of gover ment
services
Red Soils II Land Reha-         Extend RSI rehabilitation          n/a        Under
bilitation Project              technologies to entire                        prepara-
vatersheds in five south-                      tion
ern provinces.



-24 -
2. Proiect Timetable
Item                          Date planned      Date revised      Date actual
Identification (EPS)               NA                                 NA
Preparation                        NA                                06/85
Appraisal mission                 10/85                              09/85
Loan/credit negotiations         04/86                               07/86
Board approval                   07/86                             09/09/86
Loan/credit signature             09/86                             12/18/86
Loan/credit effectiveness         11/86                            03/23/87
Loan/credit closing /a          06/30/92                           06/30/92
Loan/credit completion           06/91                             06/30/92
La Though the loan officially closed in June 1992, project implementation was
almost fully complete by September 1990, and 98 percent of the original
Bank credit had been disbursed by that time.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
($'000)
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992  Total
Appraisal estimate         0.00   4.00  14.00  25.60  36.00  39.20  40.00  40.00
Actual                     0.00   5.27  19.84  30.83  43.18  44.22  44.70  44.70
Actual as x of estimate   100    132    142    120    120    113    112    112
/a
Date of final disbursement 08/03/92
/a Actual disbursements larger than appraisal estimate due to depreciation of
the dollar against the SDR.



- 25 -
4. Proiect Implementation
Appraisal                 Actual/SAR
Indicators                          Unit      estimate       Actual          (X)
Beneficiary households /a            no        18,783        13,619           73
Land development                     ha        27,000        27,577          102
Crop establishment                   ha        22,332        23,095          103
Citrus/fruit                                  8,515         9,079          107
Ramie /b                                      4,575           724           16
Tea lb                                        2,407         6,255          260
Forage                                        2,485         2,521          101
Forest                                        4,350         4,515          104
Dairying (households)                no           550           550          100
Pig breeding (secondary) /c          no           240           115           48
Irrigation
Up-lift stations                   no           111           193          174
Canals                             km           415           537          129
Roads                                km           418           608          146
Agroprocessing                       no             4             4          100
ia Decrease in beneficiary households due primarily to increase in size of
landholding of average Fujian tea household.
/b  Bank approved shift of 3,850 ha of ramie to tea rehabilitation due to
decline in ramie prices.
/c Fujian did not implement the secondary pig breeding households due to
changing market conditions.



- 26 -
5. Proiect Costs and Financint
A. Project Costs
($ million) La
Actual/revised
Appraisal /b   Revised /c   Actual         percent
Land reclamation                29.3           32.6         24.4            75
Infrastructure                  15.0           12.4          9.6            77
Building                        14.3           27.5          17.8           65
Machinery and vehicles           5.8             4.4          3.2           73
Crop planting                   42.0           39.1         40.9           105
Animal breeding                  6.7            4.7           3.7           79
Agroprocessing                   4.4            3.2           8.8          275
Pilot experiment                 0.8            0.6          0.7           117
Research equipment               1.1            0.8          0.2            25
Training and TA                  2.9            2.3           1.0           43
Total Investment /d       122.2          127.5        110.3           87
/a Average exchange rates during project implementation were as follows:
1986     $1 - Y 3.2
1987             3.7
1988             3.7
1989             4.7
1990             5.2
1991             5.3
1992             5.4
/b  Physical and price contingencies allocated.
/c Investment costs were revised following Board presentation as a result of
devaluation of the Yuan from Y 3.2 to Y 3.8 per $1.00.
/d In local currency, project costs were 4 percent over budget as shown in
Annex 1. When converted to US dollars, project costs are 13 percent under
budget due to the devaluation of the yuan during project implementation.



- 27 -
5.  (cont'd)
B. Proiect Financing
($ million)
Planned            Percent                 Percent
Source                     (Credit Agreement)      of total    Actual    of total
IDA expenditure
categories                       40.0              32.7        44.7/a       40.5
Domestic sources
Provincial & local
governments                    11.1               9.0         8.7          7.9
Central government                3.8               3.1         3.4          3.1
Agricultural Bank
of China                       27.8              22.7        16.3         14.8
Self-financing by
beneficiaries                  39.5              32.3        37.2         33.7
Subtotal                      82.2              67.3        65.6         59.5
Total                        122.2             100.0       110.3        100.0
La  The final credit allocation excludes SDR 44,700, which was canceled.
6. Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal    Estimated at        Estimated at
Indicators                         estimate      closing date    full development
Beneficiary households
(no.)                             18,783          13,619             13,619
Incremental production
(tons/year)
Fruit                            175,000          18,000             150,000
Ramie                              7,100             500               1,100
Tea                                3,400           6,600               9,000
Milk                              17,300          13,800              18,100
Employment /a                       41,000          37,000              37,000
/a Actual employment estimate lower than appraisal estimate due to decrease
in number of households.



-28 -
6.  (cont'd)
B. Economic and Financial Impact
(percent)
Original SAR                    Revised
ERR            FRR            ERR            FRR
Total Project                       29            n/a             21             14
ComDonent
Jiangxi Citrus                    32             29             12              7
Fujian Citrus                     32             30             24             16
Jiangxi Ramie                     32             46             <0             <0
Jiangxi Tea                      n/a            n/a             34             24
Fujian Toa                        24             19             38             26
Jiangxi Dairy HH                  21             36             37             29
Without Frost Dam-ae
Total Project                                                   27             20
Jiangxi Citrus                                                  22             16
Fujian Citrus                                                   31             22
Notes:
1.   Rates of return were reastimated for citrus, tea, ramis and dairy compo-
nents, which comprise 80 percent of project investment. Overall project
rate of return is based on performance of these project components.
2.   Historical and projected revenues, costs, and investments are based on
Provincial ADC estimates adjusted as follows:
(a) Land development, infrastructure, machinery/vehicles, and a portion
of building investment cost were allocated to project components on
a per-hectare basis for crop *stablishment and on a total investment
basis for livestock and agroprocessing components.
Research/training and a portion of building costs (schools, housing,
etc.) were not included in the investment per SAR methodology.
(b) Loan vs. beneficiary self-financing varied by component per ADC
estimates. Interest calculated at actual rates for historical years
and at 8 percent a year for projected years. Principal repaid in
eight equal installments commencing 1993.
(c) Working capital requirements estimated from information provided by
ADCs.
(d) Steady-state citrus yields projected at 85 percent of ADC estimates
to account for possible declines in yields due to high-intensity
farming, long-term deficiency in organic fertilizer inputs, and
potential weather-related poor harvests in some future years.
(e) All cash flows converted to constant currency basis using actual
provincial inflation rates 1986-92.



- 29 -
6    (cont'd)
B. Economic and Financial Impact (cont'd)
(f) Cash flows exclude intercrop, pig raising, and off-farm income.
(g) Rate of return calculations are after financing.
3.   Frost damage estimates have been incorporated into the financial and eco-
nomic analysis as follows:
(a) Fujian Fruit
(i) 20 percent planted with noncitrus, no yield decline.
(ii)  70 percent planted with damaged citrus, 50 percent yield decline
in 1992, returning to normal yields by 1996.
(iii) 10 percent planted with root-killed citrus, to be replanted with
noncitrus. Crop establishment investment costs of Y 1,200/ha
total in 1992 and 1993, yields increase per yield curve starting
in 1994.
(iv)  Citrus price increase due to supply reduction of 30 percent in
1992, returning to normal in 1994
(b) Jiangxi Citrus
(i) 30 percent noncitrus, no yield decline.
(ii)  16 percent damaged citrus, yield curve delayed four years and
Y 4,000/ha total additional investment over 1992-96.
(iii) 54 percent severely damaged citrus, yield curve delayed four
years and Y 10,000/ha total additional investment over 1992-96.
(iv)  Citrus prices increase as above.
(c)  Fuiian and Jiantxi Tea
(i) 85 percent of plantings unaffected by frost.
(ii)  15 percent frost-damaged; 30 percent yield decline in 1992,
20 percent yield decline in 1993, and 10 percent yield decline
in 1994.
4.   Jiangxi tea rates of return are based on Fujian data adjusted for greater
frost damage.



-30 -
C. Studies
Purpose as
defined at                                      Impact of
Study                                 appraisal                  Status                  study
Technical and  financial              For IDA                    Completed            Improved but
feasibility  of project-              approval of                                     still question-
financed agroprocessing               investments                                     able agropro-
facilities                                                                            ceasing  invest-
ments
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant       Subject                               Status
PA. Article II, 2.04                  Maintain and staff JCC                In compliance.  However,
Secretariat, Project Coor-            little coordination between
dination Committee and                two provinces-managed sep-
Provincial PO*.                       arately like two projects.
PA. Article II, 2.05                  Annual chemical fertilizer            In compliance during imple-
provision plan.                       mentation period.  Com-
pleted.
PA. Article II, 2.06                  Agroprocessing technical              Submitted prior to IDA
and financial studies for             approval of agroprocessing
IDA review,                           investments.  Completed.
PA. Article II, 2.08                  ADCa to monitor farm bud-             Early monitoring did not
gets and family income,               include control group of
nonproject farmers. Subse-
quently in compliance.
PA. Article II, 2.09                  ADCs subloans at prevailing           In compliance except for a
ABC rates for similar                 period in 1988.  Problem
loans.                                was identified by Bank
supervision mission and
corrected subsequently.
PA. Article II, 2.10                  ADC accruals to finance               Disposal of ADC profits
agricultural development              unclear.  Will likely to be
and agroprocessing.                   used to fund loan payment
delays due to citrus frost.
PA. Article III, 3.01                 Each ADC to maintain sepa-            In compliance.
rate accounts. Audited
accounts and auditor's
report to be furnished to
IDA.



- 31 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(weeks)
Planned         Revised         Final          Comients
Through appraisal         n.a.              n.a.          112.6
Appraisal through
Board approval            n.a.              n.a.            3.7
Board approval
through effective-
ness                      n.a.              n.a.            -
Supervision               n.a.             n.a.            60.3
Total                                               176.6



-32 -
B. Mission.
Stage of         month/               Days in  Specialization    Performnce         Types of
project cycle         year     Persons    field   repreeented /a   rating status    problem.
Reconnaissance       7/84      n.a.       - .
Preparation          6/85      4          14       E,A,C,L,S
Preappraisal
Appraieal            9/85      7          18       1,AF,C,L,AP,C1    -
Supervision 1        2/87      4          6        9,L,AP            1
Supervision 2       12/87      2          15       A,C               1
Supervision 3        9/88      2          6        C,AY              1
Supervision 4        9/89      2          12       C,L               1
Supervision 5        4/91      1          10       C                 1
ia  Key to specialization:   E  - Economics
A   - Agricultur-
C   = Credit
L  - Livestock
S  - Soils
AP - Agroprocessing
OM - Organization and Management
AF - Agric. Fruit Crop Specialization



33-                                  ANEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1733-CHA)
PRojEcr CosTs iN LoCAL CURRENCY
(Y'OOO)
ADoraisal estimate                  Actual               Percent
Jiangxi   Fujian   Total   Jiangxi   Fujian   Total    Total
Land reclamation           61,911   28,800   90,711   63,560   26,830   90,390    100
Infrastructure             30,300   16,000   46,300   20,735   14,890   35,625           77
Building                   38,279    5 5,460   43,739   54,038   11,800   65,838        151
Machinery and vehilels   15,861    3,520   19,381    7,297    4,400   11,697              60
Crop planting              96,832   42,560  139,392  100,344   50,830  151,174    108
Citrus                   70,354   15,961   86,315   71,493   36,440  107,933          125
Ramie                    13,354         0   13,354    5,065           0    5,065       38
Tea                           0   22,261   22,261   13,148   11,430   24,578    110
Afforestation             8,238    3,578   11,816    6,050    2,660    8,710           74
Fodder                    4,886       760    5,646    4,588         300    4,888       87
Animal breading            21,106       320   21,426   13,224         300   13,524        63
Agroprocessing             13,687       960   14,647   30,867    1,760   32,627    223
Pilot experiment            2,558         0    2,558    2,669            0    2,669    104
Research equipment          2,948       640    3,588        405       340        745     21
Training and TA             7,035    2,580    9,615    3,705          120    3,825       40
Total Investment  290.517  100.820  391.337  296.844  111.270  408.114    104



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CIONA
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROIECr
(CREDIT 1733-CIIA)
CASH FLOW FOR KEY PROJECT CWONENTS
RED SOILS 1 PCI
1987   1968   1989   I9O   199    1992           3   1994   1995   1996   1997   199    1999   2000   2001   Z002   2003   2004   2005
ErWICnIC RATE OF RETtIRU
JIANGXI FtUIT - VIhN fROST DAMACE
CASN IhFLOWS (000 T)
area (ha)                     913   4692   5527   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028
yield (tons/ha)  0.85       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.58   1.04   2.09   3.70   4.80   7.20  10.20  11.96  16.53  16.47  17.76  17.76  17.76  16.15  16.15
output (tons/yr)                0      0       0       0   3496   6257  12586  22298  28914  43175  61495  84154  99640  9269 107087 107087 107087  97352  91352
price (yaton)                 700    800    900   1000   1000   1300   1150   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000
ecoromlc value   0.60       1.33   1.20   1.05   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13
levenue                         0       0      0       0   3965   9224  16414  25285  32812  49187  69735  95431 129  112570 121437 121437 121437 110397 110397
Loan             107465    22320  15177  32140  19641              4547   4547   4547   4547                                                                                   1
Met cash Ilntows           22320  15177  32140  19641   3965  13771  20961  29832  37358  49187  69735  95431 11292 112570 121437 121437 121437 110397 110397    >
CASN WTFLOUS
Investmnta    122300    30575  20791  44028  26906                 9093   9093   9093   9093
econmic value               0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94
Adjusted Invwestnt         28741  19544  41386  25292          0   8548   8548   8548   8548         0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0      0
Productlon cost                 0       0      0       0  29537   86    8861   9523   9523  31743  31741  31743  31743  31743  33756  33756  33756  31756  33756
economlc value              0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.91   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93
Adjusted productlon cost        0       0      0       0  27469   8241   8241   8856   8856  29521  29521  29521  2ff21  29521  31393  31393  31393  31393  31393
Sales fee                       0      0       0       0      40     92    164    253    328    492    697    954   1130   1126   1214   1214   1214   1104   1104
taxes                           0      0       0       0    317    738   1313   2023   2625   3935   5579   7634   9039   9006   9715   9715   9715    83Z   U32
Working capitol                     2500   2500   3750   3750                                                                                                       -12500
Loan Interest                1719   3375   7869   9017   8597   8597   8597   8597   8597   7523   6448   5173   7523   6448   5373   7523   6448                             0
Principat repayments                                                                             13433  13433  13433  13433  13431  13433  13433  13433                      H
lotal debt service          1719   3375   7869   9017   8597   8597   8597   8597   8597  20956  198I  I1806  20956  19881  18806  20956  19881                   0      0  0
0
met cash outflows          30459  25418  51755  38059  40173  26216  26863  28277  28954  54904  55678  56916  60646  59533  61129  61278  62204  41329  28829   4
INCREMENTAL CASI fLOE           -8139 -10241 -19615 -18417 -36209 -12445  -5902   1555   8404  -5716  14057  38514  52346  53037  60308  58159  59234  69069  81569
Ilk                             0.140
CONSTANT CIMRENCY               -8139  -9580 -15065 -11927 -23147  -7769  -3659    964   5210  -3544   8715  23879  32454  32883  37391  36059  36725  42823  5073
IRR                             0.123



RED SOILS 1 PCR
198    198   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   195   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
ECONONIC IRATE OF RETURN
JIANIGXI FRUIT - WIUThT FROST DAMAE
CASH INFLOWS (000 T)
area (ha)                  913   4692   5527   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028   6028
yield (tons/ha)  0.85     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.58   3.46   6.96  12.33  16.00  15.91  17.76  17.76  17.76  17.76  17.76  17.76  17.76  16.15  16.15
output (tons/yr)              0      0      0      0   3496  20857  41955  74325  96448  95918 107087 107087 107087 107087 107087 107087 107087  97352  97352
price (y/ton)               700    800    900   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000
economic value   0.60      1.33   1.20   1.05   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13
Rev a                         0      0      0      0   3965  23652  47577  84285 109372 108770 121437 121437 121437 121437 121437 121437 121437 110397 110397
Loan            89279    22320  15177 32140  19641
met cash Inflows          22320  15177 32140  19641   3965  23652  47577  84285 109372 108770 121437 121437 121437 121437 121437 12143? 121437 110397 110397
CASH WUFLOWS
Investments    122300    30575  20791  44028  26906
econoic value              0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94 
Adjusted Investent        28741 19544 4136  25292          0      0     0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0     .
Production cost               0      0      0      0  29537  29537  29537  31743  31743  31743  31743  31743  31743  31743  33756  33756  33756  33756  33756         1
economic value             0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93
Adjusted production cost    0        0      0      0  27469  27469  27469  29521  29521  29521  29521  29521  29521  29521  31393  31393  31393  31393  31393
Sales fee                     0      0      0      0     40    237    476    843   1094   1088   1214   1214   1214   1214   1214   1214   1214   1104   1104
Taxes                         0      0      0      0    317   1892   3806   6743   8750   8702   9715   9715   9715   9715   9715   9715   9715   U32   8832
Working capital                   2500   2500   3750   3750                                                                                               -12500
Loan Interest              1719   3375   7869   9017   7142   7142   6250   5357   4464   3571   2678   1786    893    446
Principal repay  nts                                                 11160  11160  11160  11160  11160  11160  11160  11160
lotal debt service         1719   3375   7869   9017   7142   7142  17409  16517  15624  14731  1383  12945  12053  11606          0      0      0      0      0
met cash outflows         30459  25418  51755  38059  38719  36740  49161  53623  54988  54041  54289  53396  52503  52057  42322  42322  42322  41329  28298
INCElElTAL CASN FLOW         -8139 -10241 -19615 -18417 -34754 -13089  -1584  30662  54384  54729  67149  68041  68934  69381  79115  79115  79115  69069  81569         0 
IRK                           0.247
CONSlTAT CURRENCY             -8139  -9580 -15065 -11927 -22217  -8171   -982  19010  33718  33932  41632  42186  42739  43016  49051  49051  49051  42823  50573          a
InI                           0.218



RED SOILS I PCI
1967   1968   1969   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
ErOm OIC RATE Of RETURN
FUJIAY FRUIT - WITH FROST DAN"CE
CASh INFLOWS (000 T)
area (hb)                1387   2530   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051
yield (tons/h  0.85      0.00   0.00   0.46   1.82   5.94   3.66   5.82   8.88  10.05  12.54  14.25  14.53  14.87  15.28  15.10  15.10  15.10  12.81  12.81
output (tons/yr)            0      0   1409   5553  18123  11176  17762  27108  30671  38254  43484  44317  45360  46617  46058  46058  46058  39083  39063
price (y/ton)            1000   1000   1100   1001    999   1300   1150   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000
ecnomic valu  0.60       1.33   1.20   1.05   1.13   1.13   0.85   0.99   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13
Renoven                     0      0   1627   6270  20531  12378  20222  30740  34781  43380  49311  50255  51439  52864  52230  52230  52230  44320  44320
Loan          42096    10074   6850  14507   8865            1000    800
Net cash Inflows        10074   6850  16134  15135  20531  13378  21022  30740  34781  43380  49311  50255  51439  52864  52230 52230  52230  44320  44320
CASH OUTFLOWS
Investments   55200    13J00   9384  19672  12144            2000   1600
econmic value          0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94
Adjusted Investment    12972   U21 1680  11415           0 18 0 1504          0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Production cost             0      0      0       0  10596  10596  10596  14462  14462  14462  20046  20046  20046  20046  20046  20046  20046  14462  14462
economic value           0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93
Adjusted production co      0      0      0       0   9654   96s4   9654  13450  13450  13450  18643  18643  18643  18643  16643  18643  18643  13450  13450
Sales fe                    0      0     16      63    205    124    202    307    348    434    493    503    S14    529    S22    522    S22    443    443
Taxe                        0      0    130    502   U42    990   1618  2459   2753   3470   3945   4020   4115   4229  41784178   4178   3546  3546
Working capital                 150   1300   3000   1500                                                                                                 -7300
Lemn Interest             776   1523   3552   4070   3368   3368   3366   336J   2947   2526   2105   1684   1263    142    421    210
Prlincipal r ysasnt5                                                              5262   5262   5262   5262   S262   5262   5262  5262
Total debt service        776   1S23   3552   4070   3368   3368   3366   33ea   8209   7788   7367   6946   6525   6104   56U   5472          0      0 
net cash outflos        13748  11844  23678  19050  16570  16216  16546  19584  24789  25142  30448  30112  29797  2954  29026  23516  23343  17439  10139
IIC_ UTAL CASI fLOW         -3674  -4994  -7544  -3915   3961  -2838   4476  11156   9993  18238  11863  20144  21U2  23360  23203  23414  2336   26132  34132
IZ                          0.2a6                                                                                              
CUISTAIT  uEUC              -3674  -445  -5356  -2310   2377  -1617   2552   6359   5696  10396  10752  11462  12336  13315  13226  1334   14    1S323  193
3.237



RED SOILS 1 PCR
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
ECONOMIC RAIE OF RETURN
FUJIAN FRUIT - WITHCUT FROST DAMAGE
CASH INFLOWS (000 1)
area (ha)                1387   2530   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051   3051
yield (tonS/h  0.85      0.00   0.00   0.46   1.82   5.94   6.66   9.39  12.81  12.99  14.39  15.10  15.10  15.10  15.10  15.10  15.10  15.10  12.81  12.81
output (tons/yr)            0      0   1409   5553  18123  20320  28649  39083  39626  43905  46058  46058  46058  46058  46058  46058  46058  39083  39083
price (y/ton)            1000   1000   1100   1001    999   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000
economic valu  0.60      1.33   1.20   1.05   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13   1.13
Revenue                     0       0   1627   6270  20531  23042  32488  44320  44936  49789  52230  52230  52230  52230  52230  52230  52230  44320  44320
Loan          40296    10074   6850  14507   8865
Net cash Inflows        10074   6850  16134  15135  20531  23042  32488  44320  44936  49789  52230  52230  52230  52230  52230  52230  52230  44320  44320
CASH OUTFLOWS
Investments   55200    13800   9384  19872  12144
econoeIc value           0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94              1
Adjusted investment    12972   8821 18680  11415          0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0
Production cost             0       0      0      0  10596  10596  10596  14462  14462  14462  20046  20046  20046  20046  20046  20046  20046  14462  14462
economic value           0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93
Adjusted production co      0       0      0      0   9854   9854   9854  13450  13450  13450  18643  18643  18643  18643  18643  18643  18643  13450  13450
Sales fee                   0      0      16     63    205    230    325    443    449    498    522    522    522    522    522    522    522    443    443
Taxes                       0      0    130    502   1642   1843   2599   3546   3595   3983   4178   4178   4178   4178   4178   4178   4178   3546   3546
Working capital                  1500   1300   3000   1500                                                                                                   7300
Loan Interest             776   1523   3552   4070   3224   3224   2821   2418   2015   1612   1209    806    403    201
Principal rep yments                                                 5037   5037   5037   5037   5037   5037   5037   5037
Total debt service        T76   1523   3552   4070   3224   3224   7858   7455   7052   6649   6246   5843   5440   5238           0      0      0      0       0
Net cash outflows       13748  11844  23678  19050  16426  15152  20636  24893  24546  24579  29589  29186  28783  28582  23343  23343  23343  17439  10139
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW       -3674  *4994  -7544  -3915   4105   7891  11852  19427  20391  25209  22640  23043  23446  23648  28886  288J6  28866  26882  34182              0 
let                         0.380
CONSTAMT CURRENCY           -3674  -4445  -5356  -2310   2463   4498   6756  11074  11623  14369  12905  13135  13364  13479  16465  16465  16465  15323  19484                  N
0.311



RI 1OILS 1 PC
1967   1968   1969   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1996   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
ECOUGIC RATE Of RETUlRN
FWJIA  TEA - WITH FROST DACE
CASH INFLOWS  (000 T)
area (ha)                 554   1509   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396   2396  2396
yield (torn/ha)          0.45   0.37   0.39   0.49   0.62   1.25   1.63   1.99   2.02   2.22   2.22   2.22   2.22   2.22   2.22   2.22   1.54   1.54   1.54
output (tons/yr)          249    558    934   1174   1486   2998   3905   4767   4840   5319   5319   5319   5319   5319   5319   5319   3690   3690   3690
price (y/ton)            5680   4792   5266   5651   5583   6400   6400   6400   6400   6400   6400   MOO   6400   MOO   6400   6400   640    6400   6400
economic valu  1.00      1.07   1.23   1.26   1.18   1.08   1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05
Revmnje                  1515   3291   6200   7829   8957  20143  26238  32036  32524  35744  35744  35744  35744  35744  35744  35744  24796  24796  24796
Loan          23652      5913   4021   8515   5203
Het cash Inftows         7428   7312  14715  13032   8957  20143  26238  32036  32524  35744  35744  35744  35744  35744  35744  35744  24796  24796  24796
CASH OU FLOWS
Irnestmnts   32400      8100   5508  11664   7128
econmic value            0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94
Adjusted Ivestment       7614  5178  10964   6700        0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0         I
Production cost             0      0   2103   3547   3547   8629  11073  13291  13291  14620  14620  14620  14620  14620  14620  14620  10134  10134  10134           0
economlc value           0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93
Adjusted production co      0      0   1956   3299   3299   8025  10298  12361  12361  13597  13597  13597  13597  13597  13597  13597  9425   9425   9425
Sales fee                  15    33      62     78      90    201    262    320    325    357    357    357    357    357    357    357    248    248    248
Taxes                     121    263    496    626    717   1611   2099   2563   2602   2860   2860   2860   2860   2860   2860   2860   1984   1964   1964
Working capital          1000   1000   1000   1000   1000
Loan Interest             455    894   2085   2389   1892   1892   1656   1419   1183    946    710    473    237    118
Principal repyents                                                  2957   2957   2957   2957   2957   2957   2957   2957
Total debt service        455    894   2085   2389   1892   1892   4612   4376   4139   3903   3666   3430   3193   3075         0      0      0      0      0
Net cash outflows        9206   7368  16563  14092   6997  11730  17271  19620  19427  20716  20480  20243  20007  19888  16814  16814  11656  11656  11656
Inceme Without Project        299    813   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291   1291            P 
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW       -2076   -869  -3139  -2351    669   7122   7676  11126  11806  13737  13974  14210  14447  14565  17640  17640  11848  11848  11848            1 
iAN                         0.457                                                                                                                                         L
CONSTAMT CURRENCY           -2076   -775  -2218  -1388    399   4081   4375   6342   6730   7830   7965   8100   8235   8302  10055  10055   6754   6754   6754            0
0.378                                                                                                                                          -4



RED SOILS I PCR
1967   1968   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   200S
ECONOIIC RATE OF RETURN
Jinagxi Dairy SHN
CASN INFLOIS (OW Y)
cows (nuwber)               0    154    636   1528   2141   3080   3667   4033   4033   4033   4033   4033   4033   4033   4033   4033   4033   4033   4033
yield (tons/cow)         4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.S0   4.S0
output (tons/yr)            0    694   2860   6874   9635  13860  16500  18150  18150  18150  18150  18150  18150  18150  18150  18150  18150  18150  18150
price (y/ton)             800    800    800    900   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000
economic vaLue           1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02   1.02
Renvem                      0    566   2334   6310   9828  14137  16830  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513
Loan           15480     3870   2632   5573   3406
Net cash Inflows         3870   3196   7907   9716   9828  14137  16830  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513  18513
CASN 5TFLOhS
Investments   17200      4300   2924   6192   3784
ncoomlic value           0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94
Adjusted Investment      4042   2749   5820   3557       0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0        1
Production cost             0    345   1649   3864   5416   7791   9275  10202  10202  10202  10202  10202  10202  10202  10202  10202  10202  10202  10202
economic value           0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93
Adjusted production co      0    320   1534   3593   5037   7245   8625   9488   9488   9488   9488   9488   9488   9488   9488   9488   9488   9488   9488
Sae  fee                    0      6      23     63     98    141    168    185    185    185    18S    165    185    185    18S    185    185    185    165
Taxes                       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      a
working capital          1000   1000   1000   1000   1000
Loan Interest             296    585   1364   1563   1238   1238   1084    929    774    619    464    310    155         77
Principal repay ents                                                 1935   1935   1935   1935   1935   1935   193S   1935
Total debt service        296    585   1364   1563   1238   1238   3019   2864   2709   2554   2399   2245   2090   2012          0       0      0      0       0
met cs h outftows        5340   4660   9742   9m      7373   8625  11812  12537  12382  12227  12072  11918  11763  11685   9673   9673   9673   9673   9673
INUCEIEUTAL CASN FLOW       -1470  -1462  -1836    -61   2454   5512   5018   5976   6131   6286   6441   6595   6750   6628   8840   8840   8840   8840  o840
iRR                         0.457
Cunstnt currency            -1470  -1303  -1297    -36   1464   3158   2875   4224   3620   3749   3690   3779   3867   4826   5220   5272   5065   5065   5065              0
0.369                                                                                                                                           -



S oeIts I PCR
1967   1966   1969   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1996   19m    2000   2001   2002   2003  2004  200w
Eco IC 1tATE OF ItETU
JIANGXI tMIIE
CASH INFLOWS (000 T)
area (ha)                  92     92    556    725    725    725    725    725    725    725    725    725    725    725    725    725    725    725    725
yield (tons/ha)          0.15   1.00   1.00   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50
output (tons/yr)           14     92    556   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088   1088
price (y/ton)           8000   8000   3000   3000   2600   2600   2600   2600   2600   2600   2600   2600   2600   2600   2600   2600   2600   2600   2600
economic value           1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Revenue                   110    736   1668   3263   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828
Loan           8176      2044   2044   2044   2044
Met cash lnfLoes         2154   2780   3712   5307   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828   2828
CASH OUTFLOW.S
investmnts   11200      2800   280    2800   2800
economic value          0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94
Adjusted Investmeint     2632   2632   2632   2632       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0
Prcduction cost             0      0      0      0   2736   2736   2736   2736   2736   2736   2736   2736   2736   2736   2736   2T36   2736   2736   2736
economc value           0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93   0.93
Adjusted production co      0      0      0      0   2544   2544   2544   2544   2544   2544   2544   2544   2544   2544   2544   2544   2544   2544   2544
Sales fee                   1      7     17     33      28     28     28     28     28      28     28     28     28     28      28     28     28     28    28
Taxes                       9     59    133    261    226    226    226    226    226    226    226    226    226    226    226    226    226    226    226
Uorking capItal          1000   1000   1000
Loan interest             157    368    693    826    654    654    572   491    409    327    245    164        82     41
Principal repayments                                                1022   1022   1022   1022   1022   1022   1022   1022
Total debt service        157    368    693    826    654    654   1594   1513   1431   1349   1267   1186   1104   1063         0      0      0      0      0
Net cash outflows       3799   4066   4475   3751   3453   3453   4393   4312   4230   4148   4066   3984   3903   3862   2799   2799   2799   2799   2799
INCRIENEETAL CASH FLOW      -1645  -1286   -763   1555   -626   -626  -1566  -1484  -1402  -1320  -1239  -1157  -1075  -1034        29     29     29    29      29
IRE                       -0.520
Constant currency           -1645  -1146   -539    918   -373   -358   -897  -1049   -828   -788   -710   -663   -616   -731        17     17     16    16    16           0
-0.530



