DasmmN of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLV,
CA  /.X>3-   C'fI'@
Report No. 6072-CRA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 1, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has 8 restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit     - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00              Y 3.2
Y 1.00               US$0.31
(As of April 1, 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)         - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    - 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      - 2.47 acres
1 ton (t)           - 1,000 kg
= 2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)     - 2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC       - Agricultural Bank of China
ADC       - Agricultural Development Corporation
HH        - households
HP        - horsepower
ICB       - International Competitive Bidding
IS        - International Shopping
JCC       - Joint Coordinating Committee
kV        - kilovolt
kVA       - kilovolt-amps
kW       -- kilowatt
MAAF      - Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
MJS       - Management Information System
m         - cubic meter
M m       - million cubic meter
PCC       - Project Coordination Committee
PMO       - Project Management Office
PO        - Project Office
SDR       - Special Drawing Right
SOE       - Statement of Expenditure
sq m      - square meter
sq km     - square kilometer



OR OFfCI&L USE ONY
CHIA
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Sumary
Borrower:        People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:   Jiangxi and Fujian Provincial Governments
Amount:          SDR 34 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Relending Terms: GOC procedures for agriculture sector; currently 20
years including 5 years of grace at 4% p.a. interest.
Provinces bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:   The project would develop for cash crop and livestock
production by individual households about 27,000 ha
of underutilized land in red soil areas of Jiangxi
and  FuJian provinces.   It would support  integrated
and diversified development including land terracing,
contour planting, irrigation and drainage; estab-
lishment of orchards, ramie, feed grains, fodder, and
woodlots; and rehabilitation of tea plantations. It
would provide purebred stock for dairy and pig breed-
ing farms. The project would provide farm, construc-
tion and transport machinery and construction of
processing facilities for most project products.   It
would expand and upgrade rural infrastructure inclu-
ding rural electrification, roads and bridges; sup-
port -construction of farm buildings; and provide
technical assistance and training to existing manage-
ment and extension institutions.   A pilot program of
research and demonstration on less favorable sites
would be included in order to increase che demonstra-
tion value for 10 million ha of upland red soils in
south China. At full development, the annual value
of the projeot's incremental output would be about
US$74 million, including oranges, ramie fiber, milk,
pork,  timber,  and  tea.   Project land  development
would  generate  about 41,000  full-time  jobs.   The
project faces no significant technical, marketing, or
organi s'onal risks.
This docunwt has a nstiedtditibution and ay be -used by recipients ony i the prformne
Of th offmc dutis Its contents may not otherwise be discled without WoaM Oank auth_ltion.



Estimated Costs la:
Local    Foreign     Total
(USM million) ..
Land Development               20.6         1.1      21.7
Infrastructure Improvement      7.7        3.4       11.1
Buildings                       5.8        4.8       10.6
Machinery and Vehicles                     4.8        4.8
Crop Establishment             22.1       12.3       34.4
Livestock Breeding              2.7         2.6       5.3
Agroprocessing                  2.2         1.4       3.6
Research, Training and
Office Equipment              0.1        0.8        0.9
Pilot Project                   0.6        0.1        0.6
Training and Technical
Assistance                    1.6         0.7       2.3
Base Cost                  63.4       31.9       95.3
Physical Contingency            3.0         1.3       4.3
Price Contingency              15.3        7.3       22.6
Total Prolect Cost /       81.7       40.5      122.2
Financing Plan:
IDA                             0.0       40.0      40.0
central government              3.3        0.5        3.8
Local governments              16.1        0.0       16.1
Agricultural Bank of China     27.8        0.0       27.8
Participating farms            34.5        0.0       34.5
Total                      81.7       40.5      122.2
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY   1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
-- (US$ million) --
Annual                 4.0  10.0  12.0  10.4   3.2   0.8
Cumulative             4.0  14.0  25.6  36.0  39.2  40.0
Rate of Return:  290
La    Based  on an  exchange rate of Y3.2 -  US$1.   Shortly  before
negotiations, a devaluation led to a new rate of Y3.7 - US$1.  At this
rate, the total project costs would be Y411 million (US$ 111 million)
and both the foreign exchange component and the IDA Credit would be
36%  of project costs.  Adjustment of economic costs and benefits  to
reflect the new exchange rate would leave the project's economic rates
of return unchanged.
aE Project is exempt from taxes and duties.



CHINA
RED- SOILS AREA DEVEWPKENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGR,OUND ..........................   .1 ...... 
Introduction ....      .. .      ......... .................    I
The Agricultural Sector .............    . ..   .. .... .       1
Sectoral Objectives snd Bank Leding            ...    2
Project Formulation and Rational . .                            3
II.  THE PROJECT AREA . ... ...................... .............        4
Locationscn..........                                           4
Climate ...... .......................                          4
Topography . .                                                  5
Soils and Land Use  . .
Infrastructure and Support Services.                            6
III.  THE PROJECT .     .    .     .......................................... .   8
Project Description ........................... .   .....       8
Detailed Features .................................... . .      9-
Water Supply, Demand and Quality. .                            15
Status of Project Preparation              ....   15
Implementation Schedule             ....16
Cost Estimates                 .          ... 16
Financing                 . . . ...........  16
Procurement                      ....17
Disbursement                     .....19
Accounts and Audits               . ..........  20
Envirozmental Effects             ....20
TV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND NANAGGFENT .20
Project Organization .20
Execution of Project W      o...    23
Management Information System   .             .23
Financial Nanagement. .......   24
This report is based on the findings of a preparation mission to China
in  June 1985 and an appraisal mission In September 1985.   Members of
the preparation mission were T.B. Wiens, R. Deshpande, W. Panton
(IDA), A. Brown, and H. H. Cheng (Consultants). the appraisal mission
comprised T.B. Wiens, K. Abmed, R. Deshpandk, S. Salman, M. Walshe, E.
Zuckerman (IDA), C. Cronberg and R. Koo (Consltants).  Ms. P. Harrell
(Consultant) also contributed to the report.



ii
V. PRODUCTION. PROCESSING. MARKETING. AND PRICES ..........  25
Production ................................-*......  25
Processing and    Marketing ............................    28
Prices ..............................................  30
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS       .     .        30
Benefits ...................................        30
Farm Incomes .....     ................................  30
Employment ..........................................    31
Project Charges ..................................,.  31
ADC Cash Flows ....................................... i ..32
Economic. Analysis ...................................    32
Project Risks ..........................            34
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................    34
TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1 Project Farming Units                           11
3.2 Cost Summary                                    17
3.3 Procurement Arrangements                        18
6.1 Summary of Rate of Return Analysis              33
ANNEXES
1. Background Data
climate
Project Area Statistics
2. Cost Data
Project Cost Summary
Project.Expenditure Schedule
Expected Price Increase
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Cost Estimates: Land Development
Irrigation
Electrification
Roads, Bridges and Culverts
Building Construction Area and Cost
Cost Estimate:  Machinery and Vehicles
Crop Establishment Costs: Jiangxi and Fujian
Cost Estimates: Research, Training and Office Equipment
'Training and Technical Assistance
Agroprocessing Fixed Capital Investments
3. Inputs, Production and Prices
Sample Crop Irrigation Water Requirements
Incremental Production with Project
Border Prices of Major Products and Inputs
Fresh Milk Border Price Calculation
Selected Conversion Factors for Inputs



4. Financial and Economic Benefits
Cash Flow Models for Specialized Household Parmers.
Seasonal and Total Labor Requirements With Project
Rent and Cost Recovery -
Financial Returns to Agroprocessing
Sources and Uses of Funds: Jiangxi and Northern Fujian ADCs
Economic Benefits and Costs
Sensitivity Analysis
5. Documents Available in Project Files
LIST OF FIGURES
1. Implementation Schedule
2. Organization for Project Implementation
3.  Flow of IDA Funds
MAPS
IBRD 19407R, IBRD 19408R, AND TBRD 19409R



CHIA
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. MCKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of China has requested Bank Group  assistance
in  financing  an area development project in the red soils  areas  of
Jiangxi and Fujian provinces. The project would develop for cash crop
and livestock production a gross area of about 27,000 ha of underuti-
lized land in six counties and two state farms in eastern Jiangxi and
five counties and two municipalities in western Fujian. The initial
proposal, presented by the Ministry of Agriculture, 4,nimal Husbandry
and Fisheries (NAAF) in February 1984, was confined to an area in
Jiangxi Province.   The project scope was enlarged to include a conti-
guous area of Fujian Province following a visit by an Identification
Mission in July 1984.   The project area was visited by a Preappraisal
Mission in June 1985, and the project was appraised in October 1985.
The Agricultural Sector.
1.02      Agriculture in China,  including crops,  livestock, forestry
and fisheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people, is the
source of income for some 190 million farm families, and accounts for
about 35% of the country's GDP. Only about 100 million of China's 960
million  ha are arable.   Farming systems are  intensive,  with  large
inputs of labor,  chemical and organic fertilizers and water.   Nearly
half  the arable land is irrigated.   Food grains occupy about 70%  of
the cropland and account for about one-third of total agricultural
output.   This intensive farming system allows China to meet the basic
food requirements of its population (about 22% of the world's total)
from less than 8S of the world's arable land.
1.03    Major changes in farm policies since 1979, most importantly a
shift from collective to family farming and major increases in farm
prices, have led to rapid growth and diversification in agricultural
production. The system of contracting out production to small-scale
family  farms has given farmers more flexibility in  determining what
crops  to grow,  how much to produce and where to market their output.
Results have been dramatic:  production increased by 10% per year over
the period 1980-85 in comparison with an average of 3S per year in the
preceding 23 years. Grain output reached a record 407 million tons in
1984, 34% greater than in 1978, despite a reduction in the area sown
with  grains.   In 1985,  responding to growing  surplus  stocks,  the
Government began a new phase of reform, replacing compulsory procure-
ment quotas with voluntary contracts, adjusting procurement prices and
greatly enlarging the role of the market.   These measures contributed
to  a  decline in grain and cotton area and output as farmers  increa-
singly shifted-productio.s into livestock and other industrial crops.
As the current reforms are extended, the challenge to China's agri-
culture will be to maintain an adequate growth rate while continuing
to- improve consumption patterns.     In terms of the average  Chinese
diet, Chinese planners project a rapid increase in the demand for



2
fruits,  vegetables,  meat,  poultry,  fish, and dairy products with a
corresponding decrease in the share of direct grain consumption.
1.04        Red Soils Area.   China's "red soils areas",  so named be-
cause of their clharacteristic red or yellow subsoil colors, lie south
of the Yangtze River and cover two million sq km, or 21% of China's
surface area, in tl provinces. Favorable climatic and rainfall condi-
tions give the area potential for producing many elements of a more
diversified  agriculture.   The lowland areas of the south with  their
alluvial soils and extensive dike and irrigation systems are properly
devoted primarily to paddy rice cultivation.   Development of  animal
husbandry is constrained by shortages of feed and poor  transportation
links  to the surplus feed producing areas of the  northeast.   There-
fore, the Government in recent years has given increased attention to
formulation of a strategy for development of some 10 million ha of
underutilized land in the uplands and adjoining hills and mountains
where conditions are favorable for establishment of orchards and other
tree crops, feed crop cultivation, pastures, and commercial forest
plantations.   These  upland red soils areas have been deforested  and
subjected to continuous firewood collection, communal grazing, or non-
intensive farming which has resulted in considerable soil erosion.
Large and concentrated tracts of uncultivated red soils are found in
Yunnan Province, mainly in remote, mountainous terrain, and on Hainan
Island, where they are suitable for tropical tree crops; other large
tracts, which are economical to develop, are located in Jiangxi and
Hunan Provinces, with smaller and scattered tracts iR eight other
provinces, including Fujian Province.
1.05       Throughout the red soils area,  most of the land of modest
slope has been terraced for production of paddy rice, field crops or
fruit, and much steeper land has also been terraced for production of
tea or other tree crops. However, yields on some eight million ha are
very low for want of fertility improvements, erosion protection and
irrigation, and present Government policy is to withdraw the steeper
unterraced slopes and hilltops from crop cultivation, for planting to
forest  or pasture.   Something like 2-3 million ha of idle land with
slopes  in  the range 5-20O,  including about 650,000 ha  in  Jiangxi
alone, can be economically opened for cultivation if proper soil
improvement and conservation measures are taken. Terracing, crop rota-
tions involving legumes, applications of organic manures and chemical
fertilizers, including micronutrients and lime in extreme cases of
soil degradation, are among the required measures.
Sectoral Oblectives and Bank-Lending.                    - - 
1.06      The  Government's long-term objectives in  the  agricultural
sector are to (a) to- increase and diversify the production of food,
feed and industrial crops to meet requirements created by population
and income growth, and (b) to raise incomes and employment opportuni-
ties in rural areAs. Given China's shortage of arable land (.1 ha per
capita), development planners have focussed on the need to increase
the productivity of existing cropped areas and develop efficiently the
remaining  unutilized land.   Steps are algo being taken to  stabilize
food grain 'utput at the 1983 level, increase production and quality
of animal feed, livestock, fruit, fish, and industrial crops, and



-3e
expand agro-processing activities so as to raise the Value added in
the farm sector.   Improved producer incentives include:  (a) contract
systems whicb permit household-level management within both collective
and state-owned farm sectors;  (b) continued expansion of the market;
(c) adjustment of producer prices; and (d) establishment of private,
public and mixed enterprises in rural agro-processing, transport and
commerce.
1.07     The Bank's strategy for lending in the agriculture sector has
supported  these efforts.   Lending to date has focussed primarily  on
land development (North China Plain [Cr.  1261-CHA], Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation (Ln. 2261-CHA/Cr. 1347-CHAJ, Rubber Development, [Cr.
1417-CHA/SF 5-CHAJ) and strengthening agricultural support services
(Agricultural Training and Research [Cr   1297-CHA},  the Second Agri-
cultural Research Project (Cr. 1516-0-CHA), and Rural Credit I [Cr.
1462-CHA] and II (Cr. 1642-CHAJ, and the Seeds Project (Cr. 1577-
CHA]).     Future lending is expected to  include support for  specia-
lized product subsectors and area development, along with upgrading
of  support service activities.   Projects of the specialized product
subsector type include the Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1605-
CHA), the Freshwater Fisheries Project (Cr. 1689-CHA ), and proposed
livestock  and  agro-processing projects.   The area  development  ap-
proach, which generally targets difficult development problems, com-
bines in a single project assistance to land development and support
services previously the subject of separate projects.   It responds to
central and local Government emphasis on increasing farm incomes
through  diversification  into higher valued  agricultural  activities
even in areas where staple crop production can be increased.    It  is
appropriate for most of China, including poverty areas lacking infra-
structure and services as well as areas where much basic infrastruc-
ture is already in place and further productivity growth requires
upgrading of physical works and support services. It takes advantage
of the close integration of governrental functions at the local level
in China, which facilitates inter-agency cooperation. The Pishihang-
Chaohu Area Development Project (In.  2479/Cr. 1606-CHA) was the first
of this type, and the proposed Red Soils Area Development Project
would be the second. Further projects of this type include proposed
assistance in developing the arid regions of Gansu and Xinjiang Pro-
vinces.   The  lending program will continue to support repeater  pro-
jects in subsectors which are large and diverse--e.g., livestock,
agro-processing--or in subsectors which support the development of
small-scale,  family farming--e.g.,  rural credit.   Implementation of
ongoing. Bank Group financed projects in the agriculture sector is on
-.schedule.   Notable features of all the projects are the high standard-
of management at the central, provincial and county levels and the
enthusiastic participation of the collectives and farmers.
Project Formulation and Rationale
1.08         Development  of the hilly and mountainous red soil  areas
would contribute to the Government's objective of diversifying agri-
cultural  production  by:   a) enlarging the area  devoted  to  fruit,
legumes, and industrial crops; b) helping to meet the southern shor-
tage of feedstuffs, at the same time as relieving the burden on the
transport system imposed by internal and external trade in feedgrains;



-4,
and   c)  supplementing or replacing high-cost suburban p;oduction  of
livestock,   notably  of  dairy cattle and lean breeds  of  pig,  thus
freeing high valued suburban land.for more profitable uses.   It would
also enlarge employment opportunities and narrow income differentials
between advanced lowland areas and impoverished hilly and mountainous
areas within the soutk.
1.09     The major rationale for Bank support is that the project is a
well-prepared and innovative demonstration of environmentally-sound,
comorehensive technical and organizational approaches to land develop-
ment,  and has applications elsewhere in China.   The land development
scheme, featuring broad terracing along the contours, well-designed
irrigation and drainage systems, protective afforestation, and inte-
gration of chemical and organic means of soil improvement, combines
techniques individually proven in earlier Chinese trials.   The  sites
selected are those most economical to develop; however, the inclusion
of less favorable sites in a pilot program would increase the demon-
stration  value for other red soils areas.   The project has benefited
during the preparation process from significant input from Bank staff
and  consultants.   This is also the first Bank-supported agricultural
project in China which would:   (a)  fully integrate land development,
raw material production and processing; (b) introduce new approaches
to China's dairy industry, such as reliance on household dairy farming
and emphasis on use of low-cost forage and distribution of liquid milk
products;   (e)   be managed by Agricultural Development  Corporations
(ADCs) as the executing agencies for the provincial governments, (d)
attempt nearly complete cost recovery through lending at interest to
farmers;  (e)   be coordinated by an interprovincial commission,  with
minimal central government supervision; and (f) be fully based on
specialized household farm management.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01       The proposed project area is in northern Jiangxi and north-
western Fujian provinces, on the northern fringe of the red soils
region of southeast China. It covers parts of six counties (Jinxian,
Dongxiang,  Guixi,  Jinxi, Linchuan and-Chongren), and two state farms
(Provincial Breeding Stock Farm and Red Star Breeding Stock Farm) in
Jiangxi and five counties (Guangze, Chong'an, Pucheng, Jianyang and
Jian'ou)  and two municipalities (Nanping and Shaowu) in Fujian.   The
project would-cover -a gross area of 27,523 ha at 72 sites in Jiangxi,
with cultivable areas at each site ranging in size from 8 to 3,075 ha;
and  62 sites in Fujian ranging from 24 to   200 ha (Annex 1 and  IBRD
Maps 19407-09).
Climate
2.02       Located between 27 and 29 degrees north latitude,  the pro--
ject area has a sub-tropical monsoonal climate with hot humid summers
and  mild winters.   The frost-free period at most project  sites  is
around 270 days.   Annual rainfall averages about 1,600-1,900 mm, with
the  main  rains falling in March through June.   High evaporation  of



1,200-1,600 mm, concentrated in late summer-early autumn together with
occasional droughts require irrlgation mainly during the July-Septem-
ber period for satisfactory crop yields.
Topography
2.03       The  Jiangxi project sites are typically located in  gently
sloping   uplands   between  mountainous  red  soils  areas  and   the
intensively-developed, alluvial valleys and plains which characterize
much of the northern part of the province.   Elevation varies  between
50  and 80 m above sea level.   Reportedly,  about 650,000 ha of  such
land remains to be developed in Jiangxi alone.
2.04      The Fujian project area Is more hilly and mountainous,  with
annual crop cultivation confined to the floors and lower sides of
narrow, flat bottomed valleys at heights of up to 250 m above sea
level.   Sites  selected  in Fujian are widely scattered  due  to  the
limited  availability  of potential agricultural land  with  suitable
slope.  Those  with  slopes of up to 20 degrees,  which  represent  a
reasonable limit for agriculture, would be terraced for annual and
tree crops, and 20-25 degrees to forests.
Soils and Land Use
2.05       The red soils areas of China comprise an  extensive  zone--
about one-fifth of the Chinese mainland--of mostly steep and mountain-
ous land interspersed-with.gently sloping or flat bottomed valleys and
plains of variable width, situated in the sub-tropical to tropical
south  and southeast.   The term 'red soils" refers to a complex  soil
pattern which includes soils of varying depth, slope, physical condi-
tion and fertility whose most visible unifying feature is their color,
which varies from crimson to brick red to yellow, depending on the
nature of the parent materials and local climatic conditions.
2.06      These soils are variously classified,  in scientific  usage,
as laterites, latosols, lateritic red earths, red earths, and yellow
earths, or,- in the most modern terminology, as oxisols or ultisols.
They are characterized chemically by their acid (low pH) condition and
a  relatively  low nutrient status resulting from continuous  leaching
under the heavy rainfall typical of the regions where they occur.  The
soils are usually deep and well structur_d, except where erosion,
either natural or man-induced, has truncated or otherwise impoverished
the soil profile. Except in the very steepest or high altitude situa-
-tions,  red  soils are suitable for a wide range of tropieal and  sub-
tropical crops,  especially deep rooting perennials,  or for forestry.
In the most gently sloping areas,  or on artificially terraced  lands,
annual field cropping can also be practiced.
2.07       The  red soil zone in China is unusual compared to  similar
soils in southeast Asia and elsewhere because of the many centuries of
exploitation to which it has been subjected.   During this long period
the original forest cover of broad-leaved evergreens has been largely
replaced either by sparse pine, bamboo, shrubs and grasses at higher
elevations or, in the valleys and lower slopes, by permanent agricul-
ture. In the course of.this transformation those soils which have not



-6
been  carefully husbanded have undergone a slow decline in  fertility.
Concerns  about the adverse eicological situation coupled with  rising
population pressures have led in recent decades to the introduction of
rehabilitation programs aimed at protective reforestation in the
steeper and higher areas, and the introduction of improved sustained
yield agricultural systems to replace the spasmodic and exhaustive
traditional systems on the agriculturally suitable lands at lower
elevation.   The  techniques being used to rehabilitate these marginal
lands include irrigation, drainage and terracing combined with modern
conservation farming techniques and supported by improved seeds, fer-
tilizers (especially organics) and other inputs.
2.08      Soil quality has been a major consideration in project  site
selection, which was conducted with the aid of large scale (1:5,000)
soil maps.   Depth and texture of soil were the most important  selec-
tion criteria along with other site characteristics including gentle-
ness of slope and uniformity of terrain; proximity to irrigation
sources; and reasonable accessibility to existing infrastructure
(roads,  electric  power).   Project  sites are presently  idle  lands
sparsely  covered by coarse grass and scattered shrubs  subjected  to
occasional communal grazing of draft animals and coll6ction of brush
and grasses for fuel.   Sites in Jiangxi are usually large in area and
many plots would be distant from existing villages in the bottomlands,
whereas the Fujian sites are typically small and easily accessible to
adjacent residential centers of paddy rice farmers.
Infrastructure and Support Services
2.09       Irrigation  Facilities.    The Jiangxi and  Fujian project
sites lie in the watersheds on either side of the Wuyi Mountains.
Runoff  from  a  large number of rivers and streams  is collected  in
hundreds  of mostly small-scale reservoirs and ponds,  which presently
feed into irrigation systems to service the needs of lowland paddy
rice  cultivation.   Total  storags volume is about 187 M  m   in  ths
Jiangxi project area,  aid 345 M m  in Fujian,  of which about 20    m
in Jiangxi and 17 N m can be used to supply the needs of project
development, and additional amounts can be realized by raising some
existing  small  dams.   Vith the construction of canals  and pumping
stations, sufficient irrigation water can be delivered to project
sites which are mostly on high ground.
2.10      Rural Power -nd Transport.  The provincial power grids serve
the project area and towns and most villages have access to electric
power. However, many of the project sites are remote and isolated,. and
have not yet been connected to the provincial grid.
2.11       The  project area lies on a trunk rail line connecting  the
two   provincial capitals of Nanchang (Jiangxi) and  Fuzhou  (Fujian),
which each have populations of over one million.   China's main north-
south rail line also cuts across the Jiangxi project area, and lies
within a few kilometers of many project sites.   The project sites are
mainly clustered along paved or gravel roads linking county towns and
townships, short access roads would need to be constructed or upgraded
to facilitate communications.



-7-
2.12      Research.  Extension and Training.   The Jiangxi and  Fujian
project counties have a complete institutional structure for research,
extension and training which in the past has been notably effective in
channeling improved technology and research results to farmers.  Howe-
ver, the recent shift to a farming system -cganized around individual
households rather than collectives has p. .ced additional demands on
extension workers, who lack the training and equipment required to
support  development  of fruit culture,  ramie and dairy farming on  a
scale new to the project area.   At tiq grass roots level, each county
typically has an agroextension station, industrial crop station,- vete-
rinary and seed stations, and simple soil laboratory. Staffing of
these institutions totals 746 technically-trained personnel in Jiangxi
and 767 in Fujian, of which 368 and 173 respectively are classified as
college degree holders in agronomy, animal husbandry and agricultural
engineering.  -
2.13      Support exists for training of existing and new staff.   New
graduates can be supplied by the Jiangxi Agricultural University,
located outside Nanchang, Fujian Agricultural University, near Fuzhou,
and Jianyang Prefectural Agricultural College, as well as a number of
agricultural middle schools and secondary-level technical schools in
each project area. Training courses in Jiangxi can also draw on staff
of the Horticultural Research Institute of the provincial Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, the provincial Forage Experimental Station,
Veterinary Research Institute, Ramie Research Insitute, and the Fuzhou
Prefecture (Jiangxi) Agricultural Research Institute; in Fujian, on
the  Jianyang Prefecture Agricultural Research Institute,  a  Forestry
Institute, Citrus Research Institute and several other specialized
institutes in the project area.
2.14       Since 1963,  the Red Soils Research Institute,  located  in
Jinxian County (Jiangxi project area), has been responsible for basic
research  on red soils improvement in Jiangxi Province.   With a staff
of 50 researchers, 120 laboratory technicians and a well-equipped
analytical laboratory, the Institute has carried out soils surveys and
studied agronomic techniques for production of paddy rice, and upland
annual and perennial crops on red soils.   The Institute has  recently
augmented its staff and enlarged the scope of its research program to
study  forage  and fruit crops as well as suitable  paddy-upland  crop
rotation  systems.   It would be responsible for the  pilot  research
program for management of marginal red soils under the project.
2.15      Planting Material and Seeds.   Both provinces have nurseries
capable  of  supplying seedlings for the first two years  of mandarin
orange  plantings,  along with budwood for grafts:  'in Jiangxi,  the
Provincial  Shuangjin Mandarin Orange  Experiment  Station,  Binjiang
Primary Nursery, Nanfeng Orange Research Institute, Juchuan County
Nursery, and Provincial Fruit Tree Research Institute; and in Fujian,
the Jianyang Agricultural Research Institute, and several privately-
managed nurseries.   The provincial Seed Companies can supply seed for
root stock plantings in nurseries established under the project.
Seedlings of camphor, China fir, 4asson pine, and other tree varieties
can be supplied from existing nurseries maintained by county and local
governments, such as (in Jiangxi) the Jinxian County Dagongling Tree
Farm.   Seed for ramie nurseries can be procured from the Baste  Fiber



Institute of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences and the
Jiangxi Yichuan Ramie Research Institute sand seedlings for renewal of
tea plantings in Fujian from the Chong'an County Tea Farm and local
nurseries.
2.16       Livestock  Breeding.    The  Jiangxi Provincial Livestock
Breeding Farm, located near Nanchang Municipality, and the Red Star
Farm,  located  in  the heart of the Jiangxi project  area, maintain
nucleus herds of Holstein dairy cattle presently totalling about 1,600
cows.   The  former also supplies south China dairy farms with  frozen
semen for artifical insemination. Both farms are a source of seed for
fodder crops. Although these farms have been increasing their herds,
they could market up to 400-500 heifers per year.    The veterinarians
and other specialists on the staff of these farms are capable of
providing the technical support for development of household dairying
on  surrounding  farms.   A number of small county-run farms and many
private households in the project area presently maintain sows and
boars for breeding, although mainly of local pig varieties which dress
out at only 40% lean meat. The Jiangxi project area has conducted a
program of crossing leaner, imported varieties with favored local
breeds, to the extent that about 30% of pigs marketed are now cross-
breds.   Dongxiang  County,  in the Jiangxi project area,  maintains a
breeding farm with some 87 breeding sows and boars of Yorkshire, Large
White, and Duroc parentage.
III. THE PROJECT
Project DescriRtion
3.01         The  main objective of the proposed project would be  to
demonstrase efficient methods of developing the productive potential
of presently unutilized land in the red soil areas of south China.
The project would introduce cultivation of cash crops and livestock
production under individual household management in six counties and
two state farms-in Jiangxi Province and five counties and two munici-
palities in Fujian Province, and Improve infrastructure and support
services in these areas. The main features of the project are:
a)   development of a gross area of about 27,000 ha of idle land,
through terracing, contour planting, on-farm irrigation and
drainage, and construction of farm access roads;
b)   civil  works  to improve or extend existing  infrastructure,
including enlargement of small reservoirs, canal construc-
tion, installation of pumping stations and sprinkler-irri--
gation systems, rural electrification, road and bridge con-
struction;
c)   construction of housing, schools and clinics, administrative
buildings,  warehouses, laboratories and extension stations,
and livestock sheds;



-9-
d)   provision  of construction  and farm machinery as well  as
trucks and other vehicles required for land development,
support services and management;
e) establishment of orchards, ramie, feed grains, fodder crops,
and woodlots as well as rehabilitation of 2,400 ha of low
yield tea plantation, including provision of fertilizer and
seed or seedlings;
f)   provision  of purebred  stock and feed for  dairy  and pig
breeding farms and specialized households;
g)  rehabilitation  or new construction of processing  factories
for ramie, dairy products, and feed premix, and cold storage
and packing facilities for fruit;
h)   provision of research,  training and office  equipment   to
upgrade and enlarge the existing extension system as well as
training and management institutions;
i)   a pilot program of research and demonstration to be  condutc-
ted on areas of more marginal red soils;-
J)   domestic and overseas training,  study tours,  and technical
assistance to project management organizations and the staff
of agrotechnical service agencies.
Detailed Features
3.02         Land Development.   The land to be developed  in Jiangxi
consists in large part of a few large tracts of uncultivated red soils
with less than 10 degrees slope; and in Fujian it consists of the
lower portions of hills with slope ranging up to 20 degrees at nume-
rous  sites.   Land preparation would be carried out  in Jiangxi  by
format-ion of 12-meter wide terraces along the contours mainly with
mechanized  or animal-drawn equipment or by contour plowing with light
tractors where slopes are under 5 degrees.   Three-meter wide  contour.
terracing would be carried out with labor-intensive techniques mainly-
in Fujian where slopes range from 10-20 degrees. Topsoil would be
preserved by moving it prior to terracing and  later  replacing  it.
Slopes  greater than 20 degrees would be cleared of brush and planted
to trees but otherwise undisturbed.
3.03       Land- development  includes the excavation of  lateral  and
sublateral itrigation channels and installation of structures at pro-
ject sites.   Structures would include offtakes,  regulators, bed con-
trols, drops, checks, crossings and lining of canals where steep
gradients and permeable soils are encountered. Where slopes are
gentle, three-meter wide farm roads would follow the canal banks;
otherwise they would be constructed at regular intervals on a diagonal
to  the contours.   Field drains would be constructed where necessary,
feeding into the natural drainage system.
3.04      Project sites presently belong to township governments,  and
would be  leased to farmers under 20-year  renewable  contracts.   In



- 10
Jiangxi  the  sites  would mostly be developed into  complete  farming
communities, including housing and village schools and clinics; farm
units  of  1.6-2.8 ha would be contracted to farm  families  with  an
average of three laborers apiece for management as speciaUized  farms.
In Fujian, sites would be divided into smaller units ranging from 0.4
ha for tea to 7.0 ha for woodlots, and would be contracted for manage-
ment to farmers residing in adjacent-villages (typically large fami-
lies with an existing 0.6 ha in foodgrain and averaging 3.5 laborers
per family).   About 19,000 households with 61,000 family farm workers
would  receive  land contracts.   Each type of farm would be sized  so
that seasonal requirements for additional hired labor would be limited
to no more than 1-2 months per year (Table 3.1).
3.05            Infrastructure  Improvement.   The land  selected  for
develupment has access to existing sources of irrigation water, county
roads,  and the provincial power network.   The civil works  component
would  connect  project sites to these facilities,  provide  for  some
upgrading,  and  construct the necessary delivery system.   Within the
Jiangxi project area, there are five medium and 94 small size reser-
voirs as well as 598 ponIs accumulating surface runoff and providing a
usable supply of 187 M m of water, some of which would be available
to  the  project.   In addition,  16 reservoirs would be  enlarged  by-
raising the dams and improving the outlets and spillways and four new
small reservoirs and ponds would be constructed to meet the added
demands of the project (para.  3.18).   In the Fujian psoject area, in
addition to ample groundwater reserves, some 344 M m of water are
provided by 176 rivers and streams and 1,215 small reservoirs and
ponds, sufficient to meet project requirements without significant
upgrading.   Main  and branch canals totalling 500 km in length  would
convey  water from these sources to project sites.   Most of the  land
lies above these canals, and numerous small electric pumps would need
to be installed.   Because of its gentler slopes,  Jiangxi would  rely
mainly on furrow irrigation for on-farm delivery, whereas in Fujian
simple sprinkler irrigation systems would be installed on some 1,850
ha of steeper sloping orchards and tea plantations.
3.06      The additional power requirements for  irrigation,  agropro-
cessing and residential use would be met by installing 67 km of-35 kV
lines, 349 km of 10 kV lines, and 225 km of 0.4 kV lines, along with
enlargement of several substations and addition of 160 transformers.
Power would be drawn from the provincial and local grids, except in
the case of Linchuan County in Jiangxi, which would install a small
hydropower station on an existing main canal to supplement existing
hydropower  and diesel plants.   Project sites vould be linked to  the
existing network of paved county roads by adding or upgrading 232 km
of all-weather, gravel roads.  These would be designed and constructed
to the Ministry of Communication's Grade IV standard, which is the
grade appropriate for rural roads where traffic is less than 200
vehicles per day.  Road embankments, generally 1.0-1.5 m high and 7.0-
8.5 m wide at base, would have a top width of 6.5-7 m. Bridges would
be double lane with a width of 7 m. In addition, village access roads
each averaging 2-3 km in length would be built of packed earth to
similar dimensions.



-Table I1: PRoJECr FARMDG3 UNITS
House-
Type of Specialization  holds   Citrus    Rauie      Tea     Rice  Forest  Forage    Dairy,    Pgs
(no.)    (ha)    (ha)    (ha)    (ha)   (ha)    (ha)    (head)   (head)
Citrus               5,935       1.0                                0.25      0.12                8
Ramie                 3,268               1.4                       0.35      0.16               10
Dair-y                  550                                         0.50      1.6       10
Pig Breeding             90                                         0.50      1.6                20
SuLbtaQ    '4 a              i9       &.575'3 WS  P°                              ,°D 
Citrus               2,580       1.0                        0.6               0.05                4
Tea                  6,017                         0.4      0.3                                   4
Pig Breeding            1So                                                   1.6                10
Forestry                193                                 0.6    7.00                           4
aw       L           o   /856                  204Q     404mQ   1,50                       36 O
La  Totaal* forIutivad     s ar  summdprduct of-number of farms ti Iare e  farm.M
ta Totals for cultivated areas are summed products of number of farms times hectares per farm.



- 12
3.07       Buildings.   The  project would  include  construction  of
343,000 sq m of buildings, excluding factory buildings and housing
associated with the agroprocessing component (pa.  3.13).  More than
half  of  this total would be farmsteads for farmers  contracting  for
land management in the Jiangxi project area, about 50% of whom are
expected  to resettle in the project area.   Cattle and pig  sheds  of
simple design for the two pig breeding farms and specialized dairy and
pig breeding households account for another 20% of building area.
Schools and clinics, and storage warehouses each account for 5%. The
remainder  chiefly includes administrative offices,  laboratories  and
housing associated-with a planned expansion of research, extension and
management  staff serving the project area.   Buildings would be  eon-
structed of brick, tile and concrete according to present local stan-
dards for similar construction. Unit costs would be about Y 65 per sq
m for warehouses and animal sheds,  Y90-100 for farmsteads,  and Y115-
250 for other buildings.
3.08       Machinery and Vehicles.   The project would provide 4 craw-
ler tractors to supplement existing equipment for use in canal and
road construction as well as land development.   Transport is a signi-
ficant bottleneck in the project area, and the capacity of the present
rural truck fleet would not be adequate to handle projected volumes of
transport required for project implementation or incremental project
production. The project would provide 237 trucks, ranging from 1.75 t
to 8 t, sufficient in aggregate capacity to meet expected annual
transport volumes after project completion as well as requirements
during implementation. Specialized vehicles, such as tankers for milk
collection, and veterinary and utility vans, would be provided to
service agencies or ADC enterprises.   Small numbers of field vehicles
and motorcycles would be provided mainly for project management use.
Construction machinery and heavy trucks would be owned by the Agricul-
tural Development Corporations (ADCs, para. 4.04) and leased to con-
tractors for operation; most pickups would be sold to farm households
operating a transport sideline in the project area.
3.09      The project design, which calls for relatively large manage-
ment units (exceeding one ha) farmed intensively by individual fami-
lies, takes into account both total and seasonal labor availability.
The project would provide farmers with small farm machinery such as
-pedestrian tractors, power foggers and strippers to be used to alle-
viate specific labor bottlenecks occuring in transport, pest control,
and harvesting of ramie.   This equipment would be owned and  operated
by individual farmers.
3.10       Crop Establishment.   The project would support the  expan-
sion of several locally well-proven cropping systems by financing
initial investments in labor, fertilizer, seedlings, and other inputs
required  to  establish the perennial and annual  crops  (para.  5.02-
5.07).   Of the newly developed land, which would provide 19,925 ha of
net  cultivable area,  about 43% wo,Id be planted to citrus and  other
fruit, 12% to feed or forage, 224 to woodlots, and 23% to ramie, an
indigenous perennial fibre crop with strong domestic and export de-
mand.   Tree planting,  mainly of China fir (Cunninthamis  lanceolata)
and Masson pine (Pinus massoniana), would be carried out on the steep-
er slopes, on crowns of hills, in shelter belts surrounding fields or



. 13 -
lining canals, and on lower quality red soils. The rehabilitation of
2,407 ha of existing, low-yield tea plantations would be carried out
through severe pruning (2,852 ha) or replacement with higher quality
varieties (555 ha), incorporation of organic matter and remedial
applications of chemical fertilizers, as well as improvements to
terracing and installation of irrigation and drainag, facilities.
3.11       Crop  establishment  would depend on  the  availability  of
organic  fertilizers (mainly stable manure,  with  effective  nutrient
content of about 0.16% N,  0.06% P O    and 0.47% K-0, but also night-i
soil, oilseed cakes and green manure}) to supply about 40% of nutrient
requirements.fl  The availability of organics would depend in turn  on
the rate of increase in livestock raising. Use of organic fertilizers
has the advantages of minimizing cash costs, improving the tilth of
red soils, and supplying micronutrients. The project would provide for
procurement of some 32,000 t of chemical fertilizers (1:0.5:0.75
N:P:K, plus  micronutrient requirements as determined by ongoing soil
and foliar testing) required for crop establishment and maintenance
prior  to first harvest during the project implementation period.   An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that a plan for provision of
chemical fertilizers sufficient to meet annual crop nutrient re-
quirements beginning from the first harvest would be prepared and
submitted to IDA for review prior to November 1 of each year.
3.12        Livestock Breeding.   Livestock is important to red  soils
area development as a steady source of cash income, employment and
organic  fertilizer  for  soil  improvement.    The  presence  of  two
technically strong livestock breeding farms, the availability of
undeveloped land suitable for feed and forage production within the
project area, and recent changes in price policies create favorable
conditions for pig and dairy production. This component would support
the development of household pig breeding and dairy farming through
the provision of breeding stock and fishmeal. The Jiangxi Provincial
and Red  Star Breeding Farms would be provided with  1,200  imported
Holstein pregnant heifers, which would replace an equal number of
reserve  heifers  to be sold to 550 individual  dairy  farmers.   The
reserve heifers, with supplementary stock purchases from domestic
sources,  would be  built up to herds each averaging nine  cows  and
heifers.   A cut-and-carry feeding system would be practiced, based on
fodder  cultivation and purchased feed concentrate.   A pure breed pig
farm would-be established in each province, stocked with a total of
225  Large White,  Duroc and Belgian Petrain breeding sows and boars.
These  farms  would  sell second-generation  crossbreds  to  some  240
multiplier households,  who  in turn would produce  third-generation
breeders and lean-type feeder pigs for sale to farm households. Local
availability of feed concentrates is expanding at a rate sufficient to
meet  incremental demands with project.   However,  the project would
remedy an imbalance between local supply and demand for high-protein
feed ingredients in the initial stage of project implementation by
import of about 550 tons of fishmeal.
ZI   Nutrient content estimated, assuming 5a:50 pig manure:straw, with
adjustment for differences in plant absorption of nutrient between
organic and common chemical fertilizers.



- 14 .
3.13     Mro-processing.   The project budget would include an amount
sufficient to finance construction of a number of processing facili-
ties to meet the needs of the project areas; however, agreement was
reached at negotiat'ons that detailed studies of technical and  finan-
cial feasibility be carried out and submitted for review and ap-proval
by  IDA before any investments would be undertaken.   An understanding
waS reached at negotiations on the form, content, and acceptability
criteria, including an economic rate of return of 12%, for agropro-
cessing feasibility studies acceptable to IDA.   The following  provi-
sions are expected to be made for agro-processing:
3.14       Milk  produced by herds on or near the  Jiangxi  Provincial
Breeding Farm would be processed by an existing plant which the pro-
ject would provide with equipment for production of pasteurized milk
and liquid yogurt for the nearby Nanchang market, and Ultra Heat
Treatment (URT) soft pack liquid milk-soymilk product for provincial
and national markets;   milk produced on or near the Red Star Breeding
Farm, located over 120 km from the major market, would be processed
into milk powder by upgrading an existing plant; milk produced else-
where in the project area would be locally collected and sold unpro-
cessed in nearby county seats or municipalities. Cold storage and
equipment for sizing and waxing would be provided Jiangxi to take
advantage  of  seasonal  and quality-related price  differentials  for
fresh fruit. A new plant would be constructed in Jiangxi for process-
ing  3000  t of raw ramie into 2000 t of  semi-processed  ramie.   The
project would provide a small (2.5 t/hour) feed mill producing high-
protein premix for combination with local feedstuffs in the Fujian
project  area;   feed  requirements in Jiangxi would be met  from  two
mills currently under construction outside the project.
3.15       Research, Training and Office Equipment.  The project would
provide the equipment necessary to expand and upgrade extension ser-
vices and farmer-training to serve the needs of a household-based
system  producing perennial crops and livestock  products.   It would
also provide office equipment needed for efficient operation of the
management organizations. The major research institutions and labora-
tories serving the project area, particularly the Red Soils Research
Institute  in  Jiangxi and the Jianyang Prefectural  Agricultural  Re-
search Institute in Fujian, would acquire analytical equipment, and
extension stations at all levels would upgrade their testing laborato-
ries.   The  ADCs  in each project area would be equipped  to -produce
training  and extension materials using mass media such as  video  and
audio  tapes  and slides,  and would also procure  microcomputers  for
project planning and monitoring.
3.16       Pilot Project.   The sites selected for project development
are those generally favorable in terms of slope, soil characteristics,
and access to water.  However,  conditions are less favorable in parts
of the undeveloped red soils areas of south China. In order to in-
crease the demonstration value of the project for other red soils
areas, a pilot project would be carried out in areas with above-
average  development problems.   In -these areas, -Jiangxi's Red  Soils
Research Institute would undertake trials of new techniques for soil
conservation and productive use of the more difficult to develop red
soils.   The project would provide the Institute with a research  bud-



- 15 -
get,  including costs of additional staff,  technicians and field wor-
kers, equipment and operating costs during the project implementation
period.
3.17        Traininx and Technical Assistance.  A detailed program for
local and overseas training, study tours and technical assistance has
been prepared  and discussed with IDA (Annex  2,  Table  15).   Local
training would provide about 4,200 training opportunities in the form
of short courses (typically one month, often spread over the growing
season)  for  extension workers and selected farmers  from  each  land
development site, as well as training for local project management
staff and agroprocessing technicians. Some 220 higher level personnel
would be sent for refresher courses averaging 6-12 months offered by
various institutions in China, or arranged locally at training facili-
ties maintained by the Jiangxi Province ADC offices and the Jianyang
Prefectural Agricultural College.   A small number of technical staff,
now undergoing foreign language training, would be sent abroad for one
year  non-degree  training in key subject areas.   The  project would
provide about 21 man-months, spread over the 5-year implementation
period, of the services of local and overseas specialists, who would
be invited to give short training courses in such key subjects as
citrus management, experimental research methodology, and enterprise
financial management and accounting, as well as to assist in agropro-
cessing feasibility studies and to serve as technical advisors as
needed.   The  project  includes seven study tours to  examine  modern
techniques of production, processing and distribution in advanced
producing countries.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
3.1$       Local  estimates of per ha  crop  irrigation  requirements,
representing 3-6 irrigations at i3tervals of 10-15 dlys, are about
3,750-3,900 m 3 for citrus,  2,880 m  for tea,  3,000 m  for ramie  and
2,160-2,700 mi for various feed or forage crops.  These estimates have
been verified by calculations based on the Pan Evaporation Method
(Annex  3).  Total  incremental water demands- for3 crop,  livestock,
agroprocqssing and domestic use amount to 69.4 H m for Jiangxi and
19.3 M mi for Fujian project areas. These would be met by enlargement
of existing reservoirs, constructing diversion canals from reservoirs
with  surplus water,  and pumping from rivers and streams.   The water
from these sources is of excellent quality, and has been used for many
years with no harmful effects.
Status of Project Preparation
3.19      The project is at an advanced stage of preparation.   Deve-
lopment sites have been designated and site maps and preliminary
designs have been prepared.   On a trial basis,  detailed layouts have
been prepared and land development, financing, contract assignment and
crop establishment have been carried out at two small sites in Jiang-
xi. Designs and feasibility studies have been prepared for each major
infrastructure subproject and are under review by the relevant bu-
reaus.   For-structures such as bridges,  culverts,  roads, and build-
ings, there is a high degree of standardization in designs, which have
been  in use for years.   Sample designs for these items as  well  as



- 16 .
typical canal systems provide a basis for quantity estimates with a
reasonable degree of accuracy. Training courses for project staff and
extension workers and preparation of detailed technical specifications
for procurement are underway.
Implementation Schedule
3.20      The project would be implemented over a period of six years
beginning in November 1986.  Deliveries of materials procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) and selection of contractors
for initial stages of construction would be timed to permit a start on
construction  in January 1987.  Land development and other earthworks
would be  carried out during Noveuber-March when idle farm  labor  is
readily available. Work on structures would be carried out year round
by contractors, as far as possible using standardized sizes and pre-
fabricated elements for the minor structures to facilitate rapid
construction.   Fall  or winter land development would be followed by
spring  crop establishment at each site.   A  detailed  implementation
schedule is given in Figure 1.
Cost Estimates
3.21       The total project cost in January 1986 prices is  estimated
at US$122 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$40.6 mil-
lion, or 33% of the total. No taxes are imposed on major cost items,
and imported materials and equipment would be exempt from duties.
Construction costs are based on quantity estimates derived from de-
signs described in para. 3.19, using prices currently prevailing in
the project area.   Prices for locally available materials and  equip-
ment are based on data provided to Jiangxi and Fujian ADCs by local
suppliers.   Prices for steel,  chemical fertilizer, imported breeding
animals, equipment, and vehicles are based on list prices obtained
from manufacturers.   Physical contingencies,  equal to 10%  of base
costs, are included for land development, civil works, and buildings
(including  agroprocessing).   Price  escalation for both foreign and
local costs is based on escalation rates for all goods and services of
7% in 1986 and 1987, 7.5% in 1988, 7.7% in 1989,- 7.6% in 1990, and
4.5% in 1991, and would amount to 18% of the total cost. The training
and technical assistance component constitutes 2.4% of total base
costs. Estimated costs are summarized in Table 3.2 and details are
given in Annex 2.
Financing
3.22       Bank  Group  assistance would be an IDA Credit  of  SDR  34
million  (US$40 million equivalent),  and would cover  33%  of  total
project costs.   The balance of US$ 82.2 million equivalent would come
from  the budgets of  provincial and local,governments (US$ 11.1 mil-
lion), lending from the central government (US$ 3.8 million) and the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) (US$ 27.8 million), and investments
of farmers and state farms (US$ 39.5 million). Details of the flow of
funds are given in para. 4.12-4.13 and Figure 3.



- 17 -
Table 3.2:  COST SUMMARY/
Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign  Total Exchange
-- (Y millions) --  .  (US$ millions) --   (%)
Land Development             65.0    3.5   69.5    20.6    1.1   21.7        5
Infrastructure Improvement, 24.8   10.8. 35.6       7.7    3.4   11.1       30
Buildings                   18.7   15.3   34.0      5.8. 4.8   10.6         45
Machinery and vehicles              15.3   15.3            4.8    4.8      100
Crop Establishment          70.7   39.3  109.9    22.1   12.3   34.4        36
Livestock Breeding            8.7    8.2   16.9     2.7    2.6    5.3       48
Agroprocessing                6.9   -4.6  11.5      2.2    1.4    3.6       40
Research, Training and
Office Equipment           0.?-   2.6    2.9      0.1    0.8    0.9       88
Pilot Project                1.8    0.2    2.0      0.6    0.1    0.6       10
Training and Technical
Assistance                  5.2    2.3    7.5     1.6    0.7    2.3       31
Base Cost              203.0  102.0  305.0    63.4   31.9   95.3        33
Physical Contingency         9.5    4.4   13.9      3.0    1.3    4.3       32
Price Contingency           48.9   23.4   72.3-   15.3    7.3   22.6        32
Total Project Cost      261.4  129.8  391.2    81.7   40.5  122.2        33
Ll   Based on an exchange rate of Y3.2 - US$1.  Shortly before negotiations, a
devaluation led to a new rate of Y3.7 - US$1.  At this rate, the total project
costs would be Y411 million (US$ 111 million) and both the foreign exchange
component  and the IDA Credit would be 36% of project  costs.  Adjustment  of
economic costs and benefits to reflect the new exchange rate would leave the
project's economic rates of return unchanged.
Procurement
3.23       International competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance  with
Bank Group guidelines would be followed in the procurement of goods
worth about US$18.5 million, or 46% of the IDA Credit (Table 3.4). It
is expected that there would be four main procurement  packages:   (i)
construction steel and aluminum conductor (US$4.3 million); (ii)
machinery and vehicles (US$3.3 million); (iii) chemical fertilizers
(US$8.8 million); and (iv) agroprocessing machinery (US$2.1 million).
Qualified domestic manufacturers would be awarded a preference over
competing foreign bidders of 15% or the customs duty, whichever is
lower, in bid comparison. Prior Bank Group review of contract awards
would exclude small contracts (US$ 200,000 or less) estimated to cover
less than 15% of the value of all contracts. Final preparation of bid
documents would be carried out by the International Tendering Company
of the China National Technical Import Corporation (ITC-CNTIC), the
-agency normally responsible for ICB procurement in China. Bid invita-
tion, bid evaluation and award recommendations would be the responsi-



- 18 -
Table 3.3:  PROCUREHET ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
ICB   IS ka  Other t    Total
Land development                                             29.3       29-.3
(8.8)     (8. 8)
Construction steel and aluminum wire L        4.3                        4.3
(4.3)                     (4.3)
Irrigation canals                                             i.8        1.8
(0.6)     (0.6)
Machinery and vehicles                        3.3     2.5                5.8
(3.3)   (2.5)             (5.8)
Crop establishment /d                         8.8            33.2       42.0
(8.8)           (4.1)    (12.9)
Livestock breeding                                    3.3      3.4       6.7
(3.3)   (0.0)     (3.3)
Agroprocessing machinery                      2.1                        2.1
(2.1)                     (2.1)
Research, training & office equipment                 1.1     0.0        1.1
(1.1)   (0.0)     (1.1)
Training and technical assistance                              2.9       2.9
(1.1)     (1.1)
Other components-e                            0.0     0.0    26.2       26.2
(0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)     (0.0)
Total                                    18.5    6.9    96.8       122.2
(18.5)   (6.9)  (14.6)    (40.0)
Note:  Figures  in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA Credit.
All amounts include contingencies.
/a   International and local shopping.  For breeding animals, this requires
quotations from at least three suppliers from-two different countries.
fb   Includes (i) local procedures, irncluding LCB, direct contracting,
force account, and direct purchase by farmers; and (ii) procure-
ment of technical assistance and training.
fc   Of which, for use in irrigation systems, $0.6 million; rural elec-
trification, $..0 million (including $0.6 million aluminum wire);
bridges and culverts, $0.2 million; buildings, $2.2 million;
agroprocessing factory buildings, $0.3 million.
/d   Of which, ICB procurement is of chemical fertilizers.
Le   Including  costs  of reservoir enlargement and sprinkler  irriga-
tion, rural electrification, roads, bridges and culverts, buil-
dings, crop maintenance, and the pilot project, other than costs
of materials and equipment procurement included in other catego-
ries (notes c-d).



- 19 -
bility  of ITC-CNTIC in consultation vith the provincial  authorities.
Breeding animals and fishmeal (US$3.3 million), and small amounts of
research, training and office equipment (US$1.1 million) would be pro-
cured through international and local shopping (IS), fn accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA. Field vehicles and motorcycles for
extension agencies (US$ 170,000) as well as farm machinery such as
garden tractors, power sprayers, and ramie strippers (US$2.3 million),
to be procured in small lots and sold to farmers on demand over the 5-
year implementation period, would also be procured through IS.
3.24     Civil works,  including land development (US$29.3  million),
infrastructure -improvements (US$13.2 million), and construction of
rural buildings (US$12.1 million) scattered over 11 counties and
carried out over five years, would be too dispersed to be suitable for
ICB.   These  civil works would be executed by local  companies,  work
teams or individual farm families hired under local procedures, and
supervised by the ADCs. There is a growing trend toward use of compe-
titive bidding  for local construction jobs.   Labor  contributed  or
hired by farmers would be used for crop establishment and maintenance
(US$33.2 million).   The remaining components (US$7.9 million), mainly
local expenditures for training, breeding animals, and small equipment
items, would be procured locally under procedures which are acceptable
to IDA.  Consultants would be selected under terms of reference agreed
with the Bank Group and in accordance with its Guidelines on the use
of consultants.
Disbursement
3.25       Disbursements for construction steel,  aluminum  conductor,
breeding  stock,  fishmeal,  machinery  and vehicles,  and  research,
training and office equipment would be at 100% of the foreign exchange
costs  of  imported items or 100% of the ex-factory price  of  locally
manufactured  items and 75% of local expenditures for  imported  items
procured  locally.   Disbursements  for overseas training and expert
services  would be  100%  of  total  costs.   Disbursement  for  land
development, construction of irrigation canals, and first-year crop
establishment costs (exclusive of cherical fertilizers) would be at-
30% of total expenditures.
3.26       Disbursements for overseas training,  contracts for  expert
services, equipment, breeding animals and vehicles costing less than
US$ 200,000, land development, new road construction, and crop
establishment costs would be against statements of expenditure (SOEs).
In the case of land development, canal construction, and crop
establishment  costs,  SOEs  would be supported by  progress  reports
showing physical quantities and unit prices which would be updated
annually by  the  Project Offices and reviewed by  IDA.   Supporting
documentation would be retained by the Jiangxi and Fujian POs and be
made available to Bank Group supervision missions.
3.27       In order to provide for efficient disbursement,  a  special
account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA with
an initial deposit of US dollar,equivalent of SDR 2.1 million (US$ 2.5
million)   which   represents   the  average   estimated   four-month
expenditure. Applications for replenishment-of these special accounts



- 20 -
would be submitted by the JCC Secretariat quarterly,  or whenever the
special account is drawn down.to 50* of its initial deposit, whichever
comes first.
3.28      It is estimated that the project would be completed by about
June 1991 and the closing date would be June 30, 1992. The disburse-
ment experience in China, although short, has been favorable and
better than Bank-wide and regional averages.   The projected disburse-
ment profile is in line with that for specific investment loans in
China.   Estimated  schedules  of expenditures and disbursements  are
given in Annex 2, Tables 2 and 4.
Accounts and Audits
3.29     Records of local project expenditures would be maintained by
the Jiangxi and Fujian branches of the Agricultural Bank of China
(ABC)   which would be  responsible  for  disbursements   to  ADCs,
enterprises and farmers,engaged under the project.   Complete  records
of project expenditures on materials, equipment and civil works would
be  maintained by the ADCs.  ABC and ADC records would be  forwarded
-annually to the provincial POs and thence to the Secretariat 'of the
Joint  Coordinating.  Committee (para.  4.02),  which would prepare  an
annual  account  of these expenditures.   Assurances were obtained  at
negotiartions that the Jiangxi and Northern Fujian ADCs and the Secre-
tariat would maintain the consolidated accounts for auditing annually
by the State Audit Agency and that the audited accounts would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each financial
year.
Environmental Effects
3.30       Project  activities would improve environmental  conditions
and no  detrimental effects are anticipated.   The hilly land  to be
developed is very sparsely vegetated and, in its wild state, subject
to, serious erosion.   Terracing,  planting of perennial  crops,  and
afforestation would enhance ground cover, reduce surface runoff,
extend windbreak  protection,   and  relieve  pressure  on   fuelwood
supplies.   The pilot project, concerned with more marginal red soils,
would develop practical methods of soil conservation applicable to
large areas of south China where land is now highly degraded.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Organization
4.01       The  governments of Jiangxi and Fujian Provinces  would be
responsible for overall project.implementation, under the -general
supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
.Fisheries (MAAF). A Joint Coordinating Committee (JCC) established by
the two provincial governments, with a Secretariat located in Nanchang
Nunicipality  (Jiangxi),  would provide interprovincial  coordination.
Each provincial government has established a similar organizational
structure comprised of a Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC) for



- 21 -
inter-agency  coordination;  a  Project Office (P0) in the  Bureau  of
Agriculture to function as a secretariat to the PCC and an administra-
tive  organ for obtaining government approvals;   and an Agricultural
Development Corporation (ADC),  a state-owned autonomous entity  which -
would serve as the implementing agency for the project.   The ADC is a
form of organization new to China and has been created as a means of
separating the government's normal administrative and extension func-
tions from developmental and commercial activities.   The organization
for project implementation is shown in Figure 2 and the flow of pro-
ject funds in Figure 3.
4.02       Joint Coordinating Committee.   The JCC would meet periodi-
cally as needed to make policy decisions and resolve common problems.
It would be chaired by the Secretary-General of Jiangxi Province, and
include representatives of provincial bureaus of agriculture and fi-
nance, planning commissions, and the branches of ABC from both pro-
vinces.    Its  Secretariat,  which would handle  day-to-day  affairs,
would maintain an office in the headquarters of Jiangxi ADC with staff
seconded by the two provinces.  This office would, with the assistance
of national procurement agencies, arrange combined procurements under
ICB or international shopping, coordinate common training and techni-
cal assistance programs, and prepare applications for withdrawals from
the IDA credit,  consolidated accounts and progress reports.   In view
of the coordinating role of the JCC and its Secretariat, MAAF would
assign staff only to provide for general oversight and liaison in
Beijing with central government agencies, foreign governments and IDA.
4.03      Project Coordinating Committees.   In each province, the PCC
would be chaired by a provincial vice-governor and would include
representatives  of about ten agencies,  commissions or bureaus  whose
responsibilities  bear on specific aspects of the project.   Each  PCC
would act as a policy, planning and review board for the portion of
the project falling within the province, and serve to enlist the
support of the agencies represented.   A Project Office (PO) acting as
secretariat to the PCC would be established within the Bureau of
Agriculture.   The  PO would obtain PCC approvals for the annual  work
program and budget, approve disbursement of IDA and government funds
by the provincial Finance Bureau to ADC and local government accounts,
and monitor  project  execution and repayment of funds  by  executing
agencies.   An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the provin-
cial POs, the JCC and its Secretariat, and the PCCs would be main-
tained  during the project implementation period with a  staff,  func-
tions,  and responsibilities acceptable to the Association.  Each pro-
vince would also maintain a Technical Advisory Group composed of
'specialists drawn from government,  the universities and research  in-
stitutions.   Members of this group would be asked to review plans and
provide technical advice concerning project design and implementation,
as requested by the P0s-or ADCs.
4.04      Agricultural Developmen  Corporations.  The Jiangxi Province
Agricultural Development Corporation and the Fujian Province Jianyang
Prefecture Agricultural Development Corporation would serve as agents
of  the provincial governments in implementing the project.   The  two
ADCs have charters consistent with regulations approved by the State
Council, giving them the status of legal persons. The charters detail



- 22 -
the scope of activities, sources and amount of capital, and borrowing
powers.   They describe management structure,  including provision for
boards of directors and professional managers.
4.05      Provincial ADCs have a mandate for a broad range of develop-
mental activities including implementation of the proposed and similar
projects; introduction of foreign capital and technology through joint
ventures  and other forms of collaboration;  marketing of  inputs  and
products;  and  provision  of technical assistance.   Provincial  ADCs
would implement project and other activities through subsidiary compa-
nies.   These would include county-level ADCs established with  equity
provided by local governments and supervised by the provincial-level
ADCs, and wholly- or jointly-owned subsidiaries, such as new agro-
processing facilities, which would be organized and managed as inde-
-pendent-financial entities.
4.06       ADCs  would rely on revenue earning  activities,  loan  fi-
nancing and service fees for recovery of development costs including
servicing of foreign exchange borrowings. An understanding was reached
at negotiations on operational guidelines for ADC financial viability,
including requirements that the ADCs maintain a debt-equity ratio not
greater than 5:1; activities selected for ADC investment participation
should have projected financial rates of return of at least 12%; and
sublending by ADCs to farmers and enterprises would be at prevailing
ABC  rates  (para.  4.13).   ADCs would pay profit and-other taxes  to
provincial governments, and allocate after-tax profits as determined
by the boards of directors.
4.07       County Level Organization.   PCCs,  POs and ADCs similar in
structure and function to those at the provincial level would be
established at the county level in each province, as well as in Jian-
yang Prefecture in Fujian (as all project activities would fall within
this prefecture); and at two state farms in Jiangxi (Red Star and
Provincial Breeding Stock Farms) which operate directly under the
provincial  government.   County and state farm ADCs would differ from
provincial ADCs in that the former would be empowered to directly
manage production and agroservice enterprises, whereas the latter
would serve mainly as holding companies.
4.08       Specialized  Households.   Use rights for the  land  to be
developed  would be granted by county governments or- state farms on  a
renewable,  long-term basis  to some 18,800 farm families in parcels
whose size would be determined by household labor capacity for the
planned  mix of activities.   Farmers would be selected by county  go-
vernments and state. farms from among applicants who possess  requisite
experience and managerial skills, long-term local farm residence, and
resources to contribute about 30% of on-farm development costs (in-
cluding land development,  buildings,  crop establishmnent, -livestock,
and farm machinery and equipment) in the form of cash, physical assets
or  labor.   Loan contracts between ADCs and households would  specify
the terms and conditions of farm development and management, repayment
of development costs, and charges for use of service facilities. They
would provide means of adjustment of farm size and permit hiring of
outside labor as necessary for viable farm operation, and farmers
would retain the option to use any available channels for procurement



- 23 -
of inputs,  sale of output,  or finance of working capital.   At nego-
tiations,  an  understanding  was  reached with IDA Jn the  terms  and
conditions of a typical loan contract.
4.09       Arrangements to ensure effective communication between  the
implementing agencies and individual farmers would include: (i) ADCs
and local governments would encourage the establishment of cooperative
farmer associations in the project area, following recent precedents
elsewhere in China, and would grant representation to these a'ssocia-
tions on boards; of directors of local ADCs; (ii) farmers at each
site would be selected for formal training and to serve as  demonstra-
tion farmers for extension purposes; and (iii) a sample of farms would
be' selected for frequent and regular surveys as a basis for technical,
financial and'economic monitoring.
Execution of Prolect Works
4.10       Within the framework of review and approvals by the provin-
cial ADCs and POs, county- or state farm-level ADCs would be responsi-
ble-for executing, the project's land development, crop establishment
and livestock breeding components, 'including support facilities.  In-
frastructure improvements, including irrigation, power supply, and
roads, bridges and culverts, would be the responsibility of line
agencies of local government.  Actual construction would be contracted
to construction enterprises, teams or local farmers, depending on-the
component  and local circumstances.   Most land development  and  crop
establishment would be carried out by farmers using their own or hired
labor as part of the responsibility associated with receipt of land
contracts.   Provincial ADCs would directly implement the higher-level
training program, prepare feasibility studies for the agroprocessing
component, contract for the construction of agroprocessing facilities
serving the project area, and manage leasing of construction and
transport  equipment owned by the provincial ADC.   The pilot  project
would be carried out by the Red Soils Research Institute under ADC
supervision.
Management Information System
4.11       Although  the provincial POs and JCC Secretariat  would be
responsible for monitoring the progress of the project and compiling
reports to' Government and IDA, the ADCs would be the implementing
agencies and their management information system (MIS) and project
accounts would be the main source of data required for project-monito-
ring.   Accordingly,  ADC offices would include on their staff trained
accountants, agricultural economists -and data processing specialists.
Offices at the provincial and county levels would be equipped with
equipment for rapid communications; and microcomputers and appropriate
software for data storage, analysis and reporting. Provision has-been
made  for training in financial management,i accounting,  and  use  of
microcomputers  in project management.  To initiate the implementation
phase of the proposed project, Bank and local staff would conduct a
project launch workshop in China for staff of the POs and ADCs in both
provinces.   The  purpose of the workshop would be to review the total
process of implementAtion and tolfamiliarize project staff with their
responsibilities.   Topics  to be covered would include:   procurement



- 24
and  contracting  procedures,  project financial  management,  use  of
microcomputers in project implementation, and the project MIS syst-em.
All agencies and contractors involved in the project would be required
to periodically submit information on the physical and financial
progress of the project to the ADC staff. An assurance was received at
negotiations that ADCs would maintain a continuous sample of farm
households  for  monitoring of farm budgets and  family  incomes.   In
addition to continuous reporting to ADC managers, MIS staff would be
responsible for providing the information, on the basis of which the
Joint Committee Secretariat would submit to. IDA biannual progress
reports within one month of the end of each half year and a project
completion  report  not later than six months followin& completion  of
credit disbursements.
Financial Hanazement
4.12       The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed against expendi-
tures for materials, equipment, livestock, land development, road
construction, crop establishment, and overseas training, study tours
and consulting services. Funds for these items would be onlent by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) to the Governments of Jiangxi and Fujian
Provinces at 4.0% p.a. interest to be repaid over 20 years including a
five  year grace period.   The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the provincial governments.
4.13       A  portion of the IDA funds would be used directly  by  the
provinces to cover the costs of technical assistance and training.
The remaining funds would be made available to the provincial or
county ADCs in the form of subloans issued by the Jiangxi and Fujian
provincial  govertments  through  their provincial or  county  finance
bureaus.   Repayment  terms  would be the same as  those  between  the
central government and the two project provinces. End-users of foreign
exchange other than individual farmers would also bear the foreign
exchange risk.  Along with IDA funds, project ADCs would receive inte-
rest-bearing  loans from ABC,  an interest-free loan from the  central
government (Fujian only),  and local governmental funds  which, in-the
case of budgetary expenditures for project improvements to basic rural
infrastructure,  research  and  extension,  would be in the  form  of
grants.   Expenditures  by the ADCs on the development of the  project
area, and material ind equipment procured and distributed by the ADCs
for this purpose, would be treated as loans by the ADCs to individual
farm  households  or other productive enterprises.   An assurance  was
obtained at negotiations that these loans would be extended at the
prevailing ABC rates for similar medium- to long-term developmental
loans, which currently range between 5.6% and 10.08% p.a.   The spread
between the cost of funds-to the ADCs, estimated at 4%, and the
sublending rates to individual farmers and enterprises would be suffi-
cient to cover both the default risk and ADC's share of the foreign
exchange risk.
4.14      Cost Recovery.   Farm households and enterprises would repay
loans from ADCs on schedules determined by analysis of the projected
cash flows of the farms and enterprises.   Local branches of ABC would
serve as agents of the ADCs in both disbursement and recovery of
funds, for a 0.5-0.6% service charge; they would also review applica-



- 25 -
tions  by subborrowers jointly with the ADCs.  -ADCs would  repay  the
provinces and the provinces in turn the MOF for use of the IDA Credit
according to the prescribed schedules. During negotiations an assu-
rance was obtained that the 'float", i.e., -any net cash accruals by
ADCs due to differences in timing between sublto n receipts and repay-
ments to Government, would be used by the AiXs only to finance agri-
cultural development or agroprocessing activities. Under present regu-
lations for state enterprises, ADCs would pay taxes at normal enter-
prise rates, but would otherwise be allowed to retain -net profits.
Additional cost recovery would be effected by Government, particulari-
ly for the infrastructure and extension components, through service
fees, water and electricity charges and sales taxes.
V. PRODUCTION. PROCESSING, MARKETING, AND PRICES
Production
5.01      About 22,332 ha of cultivated area would be developed by the
project, of which 38% (8,515 ha) would be planted with citrus or other
fruit, 20% (4,575 ha) with ramie, 11% (2,485 ha) with feed grain and
fodder, 19% (4,350 ha) with woodlots, and 11% (2,407 ha) with improved
varieties of tea to replace present low-yielding or inferior planta-
tions. Although most plantings would be of perennial crops, the 1,600
ha of land used for feed grain would be planted with a mix'of early
and late corn and soybean, peanut and sweet potato, with a total
cropping index of 190%; 900 ha in fodder would be planted to rotations
of 2-3 crops per year, including silage corn, squashes, and cabbages
and various grasses.   Farms typically would specialize in one  crop,
have woodlots at least as windbreaks, and fatten 4-10 pigs p.a. Dairy
farms would be self-sufficient in fodder and pig breeding farms par-
tially self-sufficient in feedstuffs.
5.02      Fruit.     About 90% of the area designated for fruit  trees
would be planted with varieties of orange (mainly mandarin orange)
with  no  more than 10% planted with other fruits such as loquats  and
grapes.   Citrus varieties would be nursery budded onto year-old frost
and disease resistant-seedling rootstock, such as Poncirus trifoliata,
and transplanted after one or two years in the field at spacings
ranging from 2 x 1 m to 2.5 x 2 m, depending on variety and terrain
conditions. Where soils are acid (below pH 5.5), lime would be applied
at rates of 3-4 t/ha.   Land planted with fruit trees would be  inter-
cropped for the first three years with peanuts,-cowpeas, watermelons,
and  legumes used as green manures,  providing an early source of cash
income.- Irrigation, required during-July-December,- would be distri-
buted through the orchards by simple channel systems or, on the-steep-
er  terraces,  by  moveable  pipe and spray gun. Average  yields  are
expected to reach 20-21 t/ha at full maturity, and, with proper pru-
ning,  could be maintained to year-25 at a level exceeding 19 t/ha, at
which time the orchards would be replanted.   Yields of peanuts as  an
intercrop would average about 2 t/ha.   Fruit production at full deve-
lopment (1999) would total about 175,000 tons, mainly of mandarin
orange.
5.03      Ramie.  Boehmeria nivea, a perennial plant suited for tropi-



- 26 -
cal  and subtropical areas,  is grown on a comerci*l scale in  China,
the Philippines and Brazil, with Chinasaupplying about 80% of total
world  production.   Jiangxi Province,  with a planted area  of  about
13,300 ha,  is China's third largest ramie producer.   Ramie would be
planted at a density of 0.6 m x 0.3 m with protection provided  either
by windbreaks or by planting the crop on the leeward side of hills.
Under good management practices, including irrigation and adequate
fertilizer use, harvesting up to four times a year in May, July,
September,  and  October is possible.   Annual yields of 1.5-1.6  t/ha
would be attained beginning in the fourth year and, with periodic
thinning, would be maintained for 20 years. Total production at full
development (1994) would be 7,100 tons.
5.04      Tea Improvement.  The high altitude and warm,  humid climate
of northern Fujian provide ideal conditions for producing the high
quality  tea  for which the area has been famous  for  centuries.   In
recent years, however, yields have declined to an average of about 0.5
t/ha on many plantations because of inadequate plant renewal and poor
management, a trend which the province is seeking to reverse through a
rejuvenation program begun in the project area in 1980. The rejuvena-
tion program includes several components:   (a) radical pruning of tea
plants to remove all dead and weak branches; (b) replacing weak or
missing plants with new seedlings; (c) cultivating to a depth of 30-45
cm to remove dead and injured roots and incorporation of organic
fertilizer; (d) adding sand and mineral nutrients including phospho-
rus, calcium, magnesium and manganese; and (e) levelling fields,
shoring up terraces, and constructing irrigation and drainage ditches
as well as access paths. On about 23% of the area planted with tea in
the project, inferior varieties would be completely replaced with
superior clones and land reshaping would be extensive. On the rest of
the area, partial replacement and land improvement would be carried
out with minimal disturbance to existing plantings.   The distribution
of acreage would be about 25% best-quality Oolong tea, 30% Narcissus,
and the remainder common Oolong tea.
5.05       Tea would be harvested 8-10 times per year with the  spring
harvest accounting for about 50% of annual income.   Fresh picked  tea
is-sun-dried to about 40% of fresh leaf weight before transport to the
processing factory.   Following rejuvenation, yields (sun-dried basis)
would increase to 1 t/ha by year four and 1.9 t/ha by full development
(1996), and peak production would be 4,800 tons, compared to 1,400
tons without project.
5.06       Feedrain  and Fodder.   Land would be developed  for  feed
grain- and- fodder production in support of the -livestock  component;-
incremental production would meet the needs of dairy and pig-breeding
households under the project, but provision has not been made for the
requirements of farm households finishing pigs  (para.  5.01).   Dairy
households growing 2-3 crops of fodder p.a. would produce, on average,
53 t/ha (fresh weight) of corn, squash, cabbage, and grasses for fresh
consumption or preparation of winter silage.   Pig breeders and house-
holds specializing in feed production would chiefly grow corn and
soybean in a double-cropping system, with annual yields reaching six6
t/ha  at full development (1997).   Feed grain would be sold to  local
mills for processing into balanced feed concentrate. Incremental pro-



- 27 -
duction with project would be 9,600 tons of feedgrain and 46,000 tons
of fresh fodder-.
5.07       Forests.   Tree plantings would include a mix of  evergreen
and broadleaf species, with Hasson pine (Pinus massoniana) and China
fir (Cunninghamia lanceolata) among the most common species.   Project
sites in Jiangxi would be crisscrossed by broad belts of 4-5 rows of
trees 8-10 meters wide planted north-to-south against the wind and
narrower  belts running east to west,  at a planting density of 2,500-
3,000 trees per ha. This would account for half of total tree plan-
tings; the remaining plantings would be along roads and canals, sur-
rounding ramie fields and orchards, around settlements, and in exposed
areas where runoff is serious.   In the Fujian project area,  which is
protected from high winds by the Wuyi Mountains, emphasis would be
placed on large commercial plantings on sites with slopes over 20
degrees.   Planting  sites  would be cleared of brush  but  otherwise
undisturbed. Organic fertilizers and chemical fertilizer (mainly 180-
200 kg/ha of urea supplemented by small amounts of phosphorus and
potassium) would be applied during transplanting, with follow-up ap-
plications made until the trees are well established.   Thinning would
be carried out during the year 8 and year 13 and woodlots would be
harvested by about year 25. Cumulative yields per hectars of poles
and  roundwood,  including thinningg,  vould be about 140 m  and total
production would approach 600,000 m.
5.08      Dairy Farming.  Through the project-supported heifer  import
program,  the  Jiangxi  Provincial and Red Star Breeding  Farms  would
increase  their  own milk production levels as well  as  improve  the
quality of south China's nucleus herds and help to establish 550 new
dairy households in the project area.   Recovery of investments by the
two state farms in support of household dairying, including the diffe-
rential between the costs of imported and domestic heifers, would be
achieved through increased milk yields of about 0.4 t/cow over present
levels of about 6 t/cow p.a.   Incremental milk production on the  two
farms  would  be about 800 t p.a.   The dairy households  would begin
operations with six pregnant heifers each with plans to expand to nine
cows and heifers.    Fodder would be produced on 1.6 ha of land allot-
ted each household and feed concentrate purchased from two large mills
being constructed in the project area (para.  3.14).   With cull rates
rising to 20% and lactation rates for mature cows of 90%, milk yields
are  expected  to rise from 4 t/cow initially to 5 t/cow within  three
years.  Dairy  households  at full development would  annually  market
about  17,300  tons  of milk,  330 tons of beef from  culls,  and  700
heifers.
5.09       Pig  Breeding.  Based on an initial stock of 225  sows  and
boars and assuming two litters per year with an average of 8.5 survi-
ving pigs per litter, the two primary breeding farms established by
the  project  (para.  3.12) would supply the secondary-level  breeding
households with about 4,400 breeder pigs annually in addition to culls
and  pigs sold for finishing.   The secondary-level  households,  each
maintaining 10-20 sows and boars, would directly supply nearly 20% of
the expected demand by project households for 115,000 pigs for finish-
ing and would sell another 30,000 pigs as breeders to other households
engaged  in small-scale breeding activities.   Through this three-tier



- 28 -
breeding  network,  the 3,500 so8w maintained on breeding farms  esta-
blished by the project,  together with their offspring,  would  supply
close to one-third of current demand for pigs for finishing in all
project counties (1.4 million), in addition to the incremental demands
of project households.   Incremental  output of pigs  (live weight)
finished and marketed by project households alone would total 16,100
tons and, due to use of leaner breeds, these pigs would command a
premium price.
Processin& and Marketing
5.10     In  order to offset the high cost of red  soils  development,
products selected for project production are characterized by a large
potential market and high domestic income elasticities of demand. The
Bank's projections for the year 2000, based on comparisons with con-
sumption patterns of Chinese populations elsewhere in Asia and assu-
ming a 3.5% p.a. growth rate of per capita GNP, suggest that domestic
consumption of fruit is likely to increase 675% from 1980-82 levels of
5.7 kg per capita; milk products 860% from 1.5 kg; pork 60% from 12 kg
(with a shift of demand toward lean meat); and beef 67% from 0.3 kg
per capita. Annual tea consumption in China at present averages under
0.3 kg per capita, compared to levels in Hong Kong and Japan (1976-78)
of  1.8  and 1.0 kg respectively.   Although most  project  production-
would be consumed in domestic markets, China is an exporter, mainly to
Hong Kong and other Asian markets, of all products produced by the
project except dairy products.
5.11       Fruit. Oranges would be mainly marketed as fresh  product,
although some products such as grapes would be processed into wine  or
juice in existing small-scale faeilities.   At present domestic prices
of fresh oranges, processing into juice or juice concentrate appears
only marginally profitable and uneconomic in comparison with border
prices, although this situation might change within a few years as
China's  production levels rise.   Transport of 200,000 tons of  fresh
fruit out of the project area immediately after harvest would be
impractical, and market prices of fruit held in storage 2-3 months are
more than twice the prices prevailing at the peak of the harvest.
Consequently, in addition to planting of varieties of varying maturi-
ties in order to phase the harvest over several months, the project
would finance construction of facilities for cold storage, waxing and
packing of citrus and other fruit.
5.12       Ramie.   Raw ramie fiber  receives  preliminary  processing
through chemical baths, washing, beating, boiling, rough combing and
hot air drying before being spun into yarn.   Present factory capacity
for preliminary processing in Jiangxi is 12,000 tons of raw fiber,
more  than twice 1985 crop production.   However,  within three years,
the province plans to triple the present area of 13,300 ha and inten-
sify production techniques so that local processing capacity will soon
be t tstripped. International and domestic market prices of processed
ram. are at record highs, and are likely to fall as supply increases.
Nevertheless, preliminary processing appears highly profitable even if
price levels of raw and semi-processed ramie fall to 45% of present
levels,  as assumed in both the financial and economic analysis.   The
project would include construction of a plant to process 3,000 tons of



- 29 -
raw ramie, about 40% of project output. The remaining project output
would in the short run be shipped to adjacent provinces or Shanghai
for preliminary processing.
5.13       Tea.  The project would add about 34t to Jianyang  Prefec-
ture's  present production of about 10,000 tons of Oolong tea.   About
one-fourth of output is now exported, but further increases In exports
would be very limited, with Japan absorbing a small increment. Howe-
ver, domestic prices for the area's premium teas are more than double
export prices and the domestic market could ea-aly absorb- additional
supplies.  Capacity for processing--selection, drying/semi-fermenting,
sorting, and packaging- -would need to expand in line with increased
production.   Upgrading  of existing plants would be arranged without
financing by the project.
5.14      Feed.  In Jiangxii supplies of feed concentrate would depend
on existing mills as well as on two 5,000 t/year mills presently under
construction on the Provincial and Red Star Breeding Farms (para.
5.08).   These  mills would draw on abundant local materials  such  as
rice bran and peanut cakes; corn and soybean produced in the project;
and supplementary synthetic amino acids, fishmeal, and other ingre-
dients imported to the province. In Fujians Jianyang Prefecture, one
existing feed mill, supplying 7,000 t/year of a low quality product,
cannot  satisfy existing demand for concentrate  feed.   Consequently,
the project would include construction of a 6,000 ton capacity premix
feed mill.   Its product, consisting of 30% fishmeal, 50% soymeal, 17%
corn and 3% mineral additives, and supplying about 40% crude protein,
would be sold for mixing with lower quality local feedstuffs to meet
the needs of lean pig breeders and finishers.
5.15      Dairy Products.  Dairying is not a traditional  activity  in
China and, except among minority populations in the northeast and
northwest, dairy products are a relatively new, albeit rapidly
growing,  dietary component.   The market is composed of two segments:
a  nutrition-oriented  segment geared  to  consumption  of  fresh  or
reconstituted milk mainly by young children and the sick or elderly;
and a luxury market for milk-based drinks, tce cream, and yogurt.
Demand for butter and cheese is largely confined to bakeries and the
tourist trade.
5.16       The project would provide modern equipment to  upgrade  the
two  existing,  medium-scale  milk processing plants on  the  Jiargxi
Provincial and Red Star Breeding Farms (para.  3.14).   The Provincial
-Breeding Farm plant would consume 15,000 tons of fresh milk to produce
about 4,800 t of pasteurized milk in plastic containers, 2,100 t of
aseptic milk, -600 t of liquid yogurt, and-1,200 t of milk powder. The
Red Star Farm milk plant would be improved to increase its capacity to
14,600 t p.a.  and reduce energy consumption.  Annual output would be
about  6,000 t of milk powder (18% sugar content).   Milk produced by
150 households located in two counties in the southern part of the
project area, and totalling 4,500 t p.a., would be- collected and
distributed fresh from retail points in county towns by local ADC
enterprises.   The  project would provide 10 milk  collection  centers
with chilled holding tanks and milk tanker trucks to carry the fresh
product to the processing or distribution points.



- 30 -
Prices
5.17       As  a  result  of  the  1984  reform  measures,  the  quota
procurement system has been replaced by a system of contractual
procurement,   with   contract  prices  annually  determined  by   the
Government with reference to supply and demand conditions.   Contract
prices are likely to be at or near market prices for the commodities
produced by the project; although farmers are expected to find
contractual sales to ADC-owned processing and marketing enterprises
advantageous, they would-be under no obligation to sign contracts, and
could  sell  produce freely on the market.   Future price  trends  are
highly uncertain, hence the financial analysis is conducted largely in
January  1986 market prices.   However,  ramie prices currently are at
record highs and may fall to more normal levels in the future; the
1995 price is conservatively assumed to be 450 of the 1986 price.
5.18      The economic analysis is based on Bank Group commodity price
forecasts for 1986 (project costs) and 1995 (farm input and output
values),   adjusted  for  international  and  domestic  transport  and
handling  costs  and expressed  in January  1986  constant   prices.
Conversion factors are used to derive economic prices for items which
would not enter into international trade (Annex 3).
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01            The project would add about 22,300 ha to  net  culti-
vated area in 11 counties, two municipalit..es, and two state farms.
Incremental production would amount to 175,000 tons of citrus and
other fruit, 7,100 tons of ramie fiber, 3,400 tons of tea, 9,600 tons
of feed grains, J6,000 tons of fresh fodder, and a cumulative yield of
about  600,000 m  of timber.   The expansion of dairy farming and  pig
raising would increase annual production of milk (17,300 tons),  beef
(330  tons),  and pork (16,100 tons);  and supply additional  heifers,
bull calves, piglets of lean varieties,- and breeding services for
expansion of livestock raising elsewhere in Jiangxi and Fujian Pro-
vinces.- An additional Y 3.4 million in net revenues would be gene-
rated  annually by further processing of these products in  facilities
financed by the project.
Farm Incomes
6.02            Farm Models.    Based on the farm specialization  and
project  area location (Jiangxi or Fujian),  eight types of farms have
been-modelled,  with cultivated areas ranging from 0.6 to 2.1 ha -(ex-
cluding woodlots). These would be mostly new farms in Jiangxi, but in
Fujian mainly expansions onto contracted upland plots (citrus and
forestry) or renovations (tea) of existing farms which also grow paddy
rice.   Estimates  of  farm budgets were derived  from  farm  surveys,
estimates of Government staff and the mission during project prepara-
tion and appraisal. Annex 4 presents cash flow models summarizing-the



.31     .
farm budget analysis for each of the eight farm models. The financial
rates  of  return (FRRs) to farm households would range from  19%  for
Fujian  tea farms to 48% for Jiangxi ramie -farms,  indicating  strong
incentives  for participation in the project.   All types of household
would be able to repay development loans (para. 4.13) covering two-
thirds of investment costs over periods ranging from 7 to 20 years
(including 2-7 year grace periods).
6.03            The  farm  families assuming land contracts  would  be
above the local rural average in size,  labor force, skill, and there-
fore probably income levels, which in the two provinces would be about
US$119 and US$109 per capita at present, compared to estimated
national GNP per capita in 1984 of US$310. At full development in the
year 2000, the projected per capita incomes would average US$490 and
range between US$212 and US$889, with increases averaging 330% (rang-
ing from 70% to 647% respectively), while the national per capita
income  is  expected to rise to.about US$540.   Thus  project  benefi-
ciaries would then have incomes above the critical consumption level
(CCL of US$135), defined as one-fourth of the GNP per capita.
Employment
6.04            The  farm labor force in the neighborhood of  project
sites -is currently seasonally underemployed. Recruitment of some
19,000 farm families for participation in the project would be direc-
ted toward existing farms with excessive labor/land ratios. The labor
force in these families is employed on and off-farm for about 280
workdays per laborer, with seasonal peaks in May-June and September.
The project farms would be sized, varying according to their mixes of
activities, to permit the family labor force to meet peak seasonal
labor requirements, allowing for peak-period overtime and dependent
labor, as well as up to 1-2 months of hired labor per farm. Off-farm
employment would continue to contribute substantially to income during
slack  periods.   On-farm  activities financed by  the  project would
provide  the equivalent of about 41,000 additional full-time jobs  (at
300 days/year) for family and hired labor.
6.05            The financial wage in the project area is about Y 2.50
per workday, close to the average value-added per man-day in crop
production and in excess of the value of labor's marginal product.  As
about  one-half of this figure is estimated to represent rental  value
of  farmland,  for the purposes of the  economic  analysis,  unskilled
labor  has been-priced at 50% of this figure,  multiplied by the  con-
-sumption conversion factor to yield-a shadow wage of Y 2.23 per work-
day.
Project Charges
6.06            Cost recovery for the project would have several major
elements.   Almost  one fourth of project costs (Y 75 million in  con-
stant 1986 values) would be contributed by beneficiary households in
the form of cash or labor, representing no direct cost to Government.
About Y 153 million would be extended as medium- to long-term loans to
households,  and repaid with interest at about 8% (para.  4.13).   The
costs of irrigation, electrification, roads and bridges, extension,



32 -
research  and training would be fully recovered through a  combination
of water and electricity charges, management fees, and a 5% tax on
gross  sales (para.  4.14).   Investments in agro-processing would be
recovered from taxation of enterprise profits.
6.07           Rent recovery at full development averages 28%, varying
from 24% to 64% for different types of farm. Discounted over the life
of the project, the rent recovery index averages 73%, which is higher
than the full-development figure because of zero or negative rents in
the  initial years of farm development.   Public sector  outlays  are
defined to exclude farmer's share of farm development expenses, costs
of housing, schools and clinics (the benefits of which are also not
evaluated), the pilot project, and agro-processing investments (reco-
vered from profits of processing).   On this basis,  the cost recovery
index would be 120%. A high rate of overall cost and rent recovery is
considered satisfactory in view of sizeable increases in net farm
income generated by the project.
ADC Cash Flows
6.08          -.nalysis of cash flows was performed in current prices
for the project activities of combined local and provincial ADCs in
each province.   It was assumed that additional equity would be  pro-
vided to ADCs as needed to maintain the proposed 5:1 debt-equity
ratio, and that short-term lending from ABC or the government would
help  cover working capital needs.  The main application of ADC funds
would be project loans made to households or-enterprises, amounting to
about Y 188 million in Jisngxi and Y 58 million in Fujian.   Over  90%
of this lending would be recovered within 15 years, and borrowings of
IDA and government funds would be repaid with interest within 20
years.  Assuming cost of funds averaging 4%, average interest rate on
lending of 8%, and administrativs costs estimated at 2.5% of outstan-
ding loans in years 1-6 and 1.5% thereafter, the ADCs' cash flow would
yield an annual revenue surplus which would range from Y 2-5 million
in the middle years (years 6-13).   These funds,  together with equity
contributions by local and provincial governments, would provide re-
sources for building the liquidity to meet lending or foreign exchange
risks, as well as for further investments in subsidiary enterprises.
Economic AnalYsis
6.09          - The economic analysis was carried out for the  project
as a whole and for each type of agricultural production activity,
province, -and  type of production unit (aousehold or breeding farm).
For the purpose of this analysis, investment cost excludes components
amounting to 16% of project cost, including:   farm housing,  schools
and clinics (US$ 6.8 million), because the unquantified social bene-
fits would at least equal costs; agroprocessing (US$ 3.6 million), and
investment costs associated with project management, research, train-
ing and extension (US$ 6.0 million), the benefits of which extend to
large numbers of farmers and agroprocessing enterprises outside the
project and for which service fees are charged and included in farm
operation costs.  A total initial investment cost of US$ 81 million,
which includes physical but excludes price contingencies, was used in
the  economic analysis.   All economic values were converted to  local



-33..
currency- at  the official exchange rate expected at negotiations  of
Y3.2 - US$1.00. Prices and conversion rates as well as all components
of cost and benefit strems are presented in Annexes 3 and 4.
6.10          Using these assumptions and discounting costs and bene-
fits over 25 years, the project's overall economic r*te of return
(ERR) is 29% (Table 6.1), ranging from 138 for the Provincial and Red
Star dairy breeding farms to 36-37% for household pig breeding.   At a
discount rate of 12%, wh£ch is considered to approximate the opportu-
nity cost of capital in China, the net present value (NPV) of the
project  is Y 621 million (US$ 194 million equivalent).   The ERRs for
the  main farming activities generally exceed  20%.   Forestry,  which
typically suffers from the long gestation period before most benefits
are  realized,- is  an acceptable exception.   The two dairy  breeding
farms would provide breeding and technical support not only to project
Table 6.1: SUMNARY OF RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Economic                 Economic
Value of  Economic rate net present
Investment   of return   value @ 12%
(Y million)     (%)      (Y million)
Total Project                  .258.7           29         620.6
Subactivity
Mandarin Orange
Jiangxi                        93.0         32         301.0
Fujian                         33.5         32         127.3
Ramie                            38.5         32          72.3
Tea Improvement                  31.5         24          78.3
Forestry
Jiangxi                         7.4         16           6.2
Fujian                         3.5          17           2.9
Dairy
Jiangxi Prov. Breeding Farm    4.4          13           0.2
Red Star Breeding Farm         4.3          13          .0.-2
Specialized Household Dairy   27.2          21          19.5
Pig Breeding
Jiangxi Purebred Farm           0.4         17           0.1
Jiangxi Specialized Household  1.6          37           3.0
-Fujian Purebred Farm           0.6         25            0.8
Fujian Specialized Household   1.6          36           2.8
Feed and Fodder-
Jiangxi                         9.5         21           5.8
-   Fujian                          1.7         17            0.4
dairy households,  but other dairy farms in south China (para.  5.08);
the  economic analysis omits these indirect benefits,  hence  the  13%
ERRs for their project activities are considered satisfactory.
6.11         Sensitivity of the ERRs for each activity was tested  for



- 34 -
shortfalls  from projected yields or prices,  cost overruns,  and  in-
creases  in  the economic cost of-labor (Annex 4).   Switching  values
(value of the variable tested at which the NPU of the project, with
benefits and costs discounted at 12*, is reduced to zero) and NPV
elasticities (the percentage change in NPVs due to a one percent
change in the key variable) were calculated. No single variant proved
crucial to the economic viability of the project as a whole or any
major production activity.   Only the Jiangxi dairy breeding farms and
the Fujian feed cultivation components show sensitivity to yield,
price or cost projections.
Proiect Risks
6.12       The  project faces no significant technical,  marketing  or
organizational risks. The land development program would combine
methods which have been locally tried and proven, and apply them to
red soils sites selected for their ease of development. Local farmers
have considerable experience with the crops to be grown, and the
existing breeding farms have the expertise required to train the dairy
and  pig raising farmers.   The products to be produced by the project
have large and rapidly growing domestic markets. The successful track
record in implementation of IDA-funded land development projects in
China indicates that POs belonging to local government have been able
to  coordinate a work program involving multiple  agencies.   In  this
project, the need for a high degree of coordination has been removed
by building this coordination into the structure of the ADCs. The use
of ADCs as implementing agencies whose longevity and income depend
entirely on successful project implementation thus promises further
improvement on this record.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      At negotiations agreement was reached with the Jiangxi and
Fujian Provincial Governments that:
(a)  a  plan for provision of chomical fertilizers sufficient  to
meet annual crop nutrient requirements beginning from the
first harvest  would be prepared and submitted to  IDA  for
review prior to November of each year (para. 3.11);
(b) E detailed studies of technical and financial feasibility  of
project-financed agroprocessing facilities would be  carried
out and submitted for review by IDA prior to approval of -any
investments (para. 3.13);
(c)  the  provincial  POs  and the Jiangxi -and  Fujian Jianyang
Prefecture ADCs would maintain the consolidated accounts for
auditing annually by the State Audit Agency and that the
audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months
of the close of each financial year (para. 3.29);
(d)  the provincial POs, as well as the JCC Secretariat, would be
maintained during the project implementation period with a



- 35 -
staff, functions, and responsibilities acceptable to the
Association (par&. 4.03);
(e)  ADCs  would maintain a continuous sample of farm  households
for monitoring of farm budgets and family incomes, and would
review findings annually with the Association (para. 4.11);
(f)  sublending by  ADCs to farmers and enterprises would be  at
prevailing ABC rates for similar loans for similar purposes
(para, 4.13); and
(g)  any  net cash accruals by ADCs due to differences in  timing
between subloan receipts and repayments to government, would
be used by the ADCs only to finance agricultural development
or agroprocessing activities (para. 4.14).
7.02      Understandings were reached at negotiations:
(a)  on the form,  content, and acceptability criteria, including
an  economic  rate  of return  of  12%,  for  agroprocessing
feasibility studies acceptable to IDA (para. 3.13);
(b)  on  operational guidelines for ADC financial  viability,  to
include requirements that the ADCs maintain a debt-equity
ratio not greater than 5:1; and activities selected for ADC
investment participation should have projected financial
rates of return of at least 12% (para. 4.06); and
(c)  on  the  terms  and conditions of a  typical  loan  contract
(para. 4.08).
7.03      A condition of effectiveness would be approval of the Credit
Agreement by the State Council.
7.04      Subject to the above conditions,  the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 34 million (US$40
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms.   The Borrower would be the
People's Republic of China.



AM Z=L ABUA DIU   Zta
cli,atlo.±cal Dala (1£i06)
Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dee  Total
Average Daily Tenperature (C)   4.8  6.4  11.0  17.2 26.2  26.2  29.7  29.0  23.5  19.3  13.4  7.0
Average Ralnfall (n)            67  114  194  Z20  185  217  145  157   90   64   54   26  1,584
Average Evaporation (mn)        48   46   67  104  164  183  272  237  151  129   93   71   1,566
fJ1an koiea km
Average Daily Temperature (C)   7.0  8.2  19.1  17.7  21.5 25.0  27.7  27.3  24.2  19.3  13.8  7.9
kAerage Rainfall (mm)           66  125  256  363  270  319  115  145   92   58   27   27  1,863
Average Evaporation (mm)        45   35   56   84  112  125  175  172  129  109   70   54  1,164
I .. . . . ..... _ " ." ~~l"



Z= ABU .MMM P SQ
Counies, munioipali-   Jln- Dong- Gul- Jin- Lin- Chong-  PBSF R2SF            Gmu- Ohong- Pn  sJlan- Jian- Man. sao-
tiea or state fams:    xianxiang  xi   xl  chuan ran  La   Lb  Total             ze    an  cheng  yang  'oa   ping wu   Totl
llural poplation   5.8   298  387  220  628  207   4.1  1140 2,341                           132   1U4  319  295  419  261  118  1,788
fam houukolda                       112   5172    4    126   39  1.1   3.3   448              27   a8   67   6092    49   36   359
labmfer oe       \                  182  114  160   72  225   87  2.3  5.6           48       55    3 115   77  106   79   64   545
Per capita tnccw (YLc                 319  266  244  331  380  255   432  500   341            348  370  315  350  328  300  414    346
Total area                          197  127  248  136  200  152   1.6  3.4  1,065           224  280  337  307   423  265  284 2,120
Cldtivated area                      57   29   36   29   53  223  .57   1.3   429             13   21   39   31   35   20   23    182
olaldeable land                       9    14   20   47   21   43  .85   1.1   156            20   28   14  127   32   20    8   249
Cultivated area per capita (he) La  .11  .10  .09  .13  .08  .11  .13  .13   .11             .10  .15  .12  .12   .10  .08   .12   .11         @
ft. of peot dites                    33    3    2    16   12    1    2    3    72              9    9   10   10    7        8    8    62
A             Ai e eL             2,704 2,189 1,103 2,675 2,504 3,3075  750  750 15,750      745  831 1,041 1,141 1,181   803  839 6,582
larg*st site                      200 1,030  836  810  592 3,075   300  300                107  200  167  169  183  131   133
lest site                           8  339  267   36   11 3,15 350  150                     24   30   40   33   32   41   30
Fruit                           1,165 1,000  880  600 1,165 1,125               5,935      133  244  300  434  594  525   349 2,580
Jale                              900  750        1,125   900  900              4,575
Tea                                                                                        271   368  543  534   325           367  2,407
Feed                               39   39   23  450   39  450  600  600 2,240             245                                       245
Forestry                          600  400  200  500   400  600   150  150 3,000            96  220  198  173  262  278   124  1,350
Za  Provincial Llvestock Breeding Farm
Lb   Red Star Breeding Fanm                                                                                                                    '
Za   Totals are averages.



38 -
AM2
am ~ ~ ~ u
Z= ABUA             F= 
-ro=nect SZmazE La
Jiangxi F4jian Total Jiangxi Fujian Total
Category                           -   Y millions-    -  US$ millions-
Land Developnent                    48.4  21.1  69.5    15.1   6.6  21.7
Infrastructur ove=1
irrigation System                 14.4   6.2  20.6     4.5   1.9   6.4
Rural Electrification              5.1   1.5   6.6      1.6   0.5   2.1
Roads and Bridges                  4.0   4.3   8.3      1.2   1.4   2.6
Subtotal                        23    I      351      IA    3.Z.&  iL.1
Building                            29.9   4.1  34.0     9.4   1.3  10.6
Machinery and vehicles              12.4   2.8  15.3     3.9   0.9   4.8
Orchards                          55.0  12.8  67.8    17.2   4.0  21.2
Ramie                             10.4        10.4     3.3          3.3
Tea Improvenent
Forests                            6.5   2.9   9.3      2.0   0.9   2.9
Feed and forage                    3.8   0.6   4.4      1.2   0.2   1.4
Subtotal                        7MA.  34.2  109L.    2L1  10.7 I34.
lvesk Breeding
Pigs                               0.4   0.4   0.8     0.1   0.1   0.3
Dairy Cattle                      16.1        16.1     5.0          5.0
Subtotal                        1L5   DA   1LA        5.a   i.     a S.
Agroprocessing                      10.7   0.8  11.5     3.3   0.3   3.6
Research, Training & Office Equipnent   2.3   0.6   2.9  0.7   0.2   0.9
Pilot Project                       2.0          2.0     0.6          0.6
Training and Technical Assistance    5.5   2.0   7.5      1.7   0.6   2.3
Base cOst 2269  Z                            0 7.0 AQ  2L&  95.d
Physical Contingency                10.2   3.7  13.9     3.2   1.2   4.3
Price Contingency                   53.2  19.0  72.3    16.6   6.0  22.6
ITaPrl ei  Ct                   29QLJ 1QQ.& 3QSA   3OI:7         IZ 12-
La  Totals mwy not add due to rounding.



- 39 -
TAMl 2
Z= jQ -AM FVU   PM;E;
Project RxseStur Sh lul  a
Category                         1986  198T  1988  1989  1990  1991 Total
Land Development                  1.6   3.2   9.6   4.9   1.7   0.7  21.7
tue    wmnt
Irrigation System               0.8   1.7   2.9   0.9            0.1   6.4
Rural ELectrification                  0.8   0.9   0.4                  2.1
Roads and Bridges               0.3   0.6   1.1   0.6                   2.6
Subtotal                       J.   LI   L                           fl.i
Building                                 3.7   4.3   1.9   0.7           10.6
Machinery and vehicles                   3.5   1.1   0.1                -4.8
Orchards                               1.1   3.0   5.4   6.0   5.7  21.7
Rnie                                   0.7   2.5                        3.3
Tea lInprovenent                       1.6   2.1   1.3   0.6   0.1   5.6
Forests                                0.6   0.8   0.6   0.5   0.3   2.9
Feed and forage                        0.3   0.5   0.4   0.2            1.4
Subtotal                             LAA    A        Z   AL   f i.  34.4
Livewstoc Breed U
Pipgs                                  0.2   0.1                        0.3
Dairy Cattle                           1.2   1.3   1.3   0.8   0.4   5.0
Subtotal                                   la  La   DA&   DA.   S.d
Agroprocessing                                 1.4   1.5   0.7            3.6
Research, Training & Offioe Equipment    0.6   0.3                        0.9
Pilot Project                            0.3   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
Training and Technical Assistance        0.9   0.9   0.4   0.1            2.3
m  C -             ^          2z. ZL1  33A   IRA   IIL   Li  95 d
Physical Contingency              0.3   1.0   1.9   0.9   0.2   0.1   4.3
Price Contingency                 0.2   2.4   6.5   5.7   4.4   3.4  22.6
- Total P C no add dLue to rounding
La  Totals may not add due to rotmding.



- 40 -
AN  
FeRWkd prig IDaCoM
(US  illion)
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991 Total
Base Costs plus physical
contingencies              2.5  12.3  24.3  14.5   7.8   5.0  66.4
Expected price increase      0.2   1.3   4.5   4.0   2.9   2.3  15.3
Forei
Base costs plus physical
contingencies              0.5   9.7  10.6   6.2   3.8   2.4  33.3
Expected price increase      0.0   1.0   2.0   1.7   1.4   1.1   7.3
Totals
Base costs plus physical
contingencies              3.0  22.1  34.9  20.T  11.6   T.1  99.7
Expected price increase      0.2   2.4   6.5   5.7   4.4   3.4  22.6
Annual escalation rate (S)
Locl and foreign            7.0%  7.0%  7.5%  7.7%  7.6%   4.5%
Price contingency multiplier    0.07  0.11  0.19  0.28  0.37  0.46



-41-
ABU 2
M B2       AMiA ,.DLE OPUENT EROJECT
Di bursainnts                Bank Group
Semes-   Cul3a.    Cumul a-    Disbursement Profile
IDA fiscal year       tral     tive        tive           for China
or semester          (US $ million)        (M)        Yr/Sem a  (5)
1987                                                 Year I
1st              0.6      0.6         1.6              1   0.0
2nd              3.4      4.0        10.0              2    5.0
1988                                                 Year 2
lst              4.8      8.8       22.0               1   16.0
2nd              5.2     14.0        35.0              2   29.0
1989                                                 Year 3
1st              5.6     19.2        48.0              1   44.0
2nd              6.4     25.6        64.0              2   61.0
1990
1st              6.14    32.0        80.o
2nd              4.0    36.0         90.0
1991
1st              1.6    37.6         94.0
2nd              1.6    39.2         98.0Q
1992
1st             .0.8     40.0       100.0
L.a  Fram date of Board approval;  China, specific projects, FY82-85.



- 42 -
AM2I
Jl
-j             of                I tfik
q Xb3 ~~~~~~~~~~adX '                                            lis
CAtqM             smad Dajim  Ubl  J!1    hjilm  vam1         owiia to bs fino
Kail b,elgimmt           ^2       9   29.3    61   2IJ    8.         35
_tmuiudii  saL          OA   03   0.       OA   0.2   OA          us.6f steel a.um dim ndt.bu
Otli mat                5J    23   7.9    OA   0.2   OA          35f1   ml c     .
mo  looiuifiatimA        2.2   OA    2.8    oa   0.2   1.0         105t1 ml ad &Iu   m
lows ma lUdds"          1J    16   33       0a    0a    02        10of stel 2msuoI Ima ted
Mtotal                2o  ftJ     &       la    OZL  2 &
hadi   A                  12A.  1.7    3       2.0   0.2   210 o             l  mtuatmsteeials
N,.mm ad vdics             4.8   1.1   5.8    4.    1.1   Si         1
onmafmtiua               9.9  S4 A    .3   5s 31    8.8 
0U  in lsI               18.9  7.8  Si       2.8  1    43         35 af le y   utX idm   ast
P,  fidmi A              03   0.2  0<5    0.2   0.1   Oh           105 d f1 Isnlq  St^ fidin
aily cattlle             6.1         6.1    2.9          2.9       1       etanzeft on&
- 8tuctm Stl A           03   0.    0.3      0     0a    03        103
Kwuhch  ad *ot           3.8   0.2   4.0    240   04    231        10 of         adlmy ad
*t.ta1          ha~~L fla   ha     L     LI   2Al
-aeth 7-fos aad
affloe spi_m             0.9   0.2   13      0A    02   13         mm
Pi  vwxoj                  0le         0.8
Jma a4wls3               1.4  OA    1.8
Ramdpo  uiaft aT.hL      OJ   OA    1      . OJ   OA    13         105
MaIL   QL  J        IL   DAL1
la YinhdhMig dw of rislee unthdmi ad easabd price iteeau (tbimn 1ant 
22.a WA n .X  bme pst *p sti  omtqmdas fe J1    ad uaim zgeevly).
11bd ddxmamt.fw  metiee md mm_ab. .w ud be dbt US 4.3 ofUiJ0e.
'fi    Oa Clap _             *oqt &U_|I. h-* dd, Wsot   f 1  d  s _lisia. . fbo
WOM&iUM  fW   Al i, m of                 Eta I_fqd f hba     MANd %=  Mt Ids fh ei



i J~~£IM&|I1L..|F
Unit         Ojmn. tv                            Unit          , 
mni pDin    Lev lLtng  Totl        Amount       Pri  D         levliu   totd    _   magt
boDeSpUan                     U0 (VA    M   llA (al5   Y§090 115$000,   (V"<  (J tl)                   (03)   4i00  00
Topsoil dilacemnt L       0.83   1000       200  1,200  1,000    313       0.83  1,500       300  1,800  t,50      469
Tm~ciog,t64               1.00  1,314            1,314  1,314    411       1.00  1,005            1,005  1,005    314
Levelling and tillsg £4   0.83             ;f3    263    219       68      0.83              201    201    168      52
Fieldacoeu rom  sZ.    0.83        15         8     23      19      6      0.83     92        46    138    1t5      36
Sublbters it t            0.83      5                5       *      1      0.83      5                5       4      1
Flead ditches L           0.83    167              167    139      43      0.83    667              667    S56    174
Plders f,otion Lb        1.00              150    150    150      47      1.00              501    50?    501    158
nood dw. dittws /A                                                         0.83     45               45      38     12
Oeaor pits L.                                                             0.83     48               48      40     13
m    M                                         1.M   at
Unit                                            Uit
Cost    Aea             TaaL td                 Cos      Aea 1
WT/ho)    (hb)          T'OOO US000             (f/AW)    (ha)          f*4p    low
.                                    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
*1w Terra. Deeloosst Cost 4k        2,84     17,000         48,376  15,118           3,932      ,106'35 5136
STGe w tblil a                                                                     1e500    2,469           3,704   1,158
Feedeani belopst la                                                                  2,846      327            930    290
Iiani:         ing an w,er       5 degree slope, with 12 a wide trraces; Fuians  15 dgrees. 3 a mdde.
£5 Jiangi: Topol rwod  to depth ai 0.1 *; Fujian: depth ot 0.15 M.        of eertrek requirhst needed for resprading.
z5 Jimgi: Cated s6as (a s tadiMo) xo.S 8311; Faulanas 1.5m x (1.5m s taolo) xO.5 z 3333.
id  ottb: 23 of tecacig erUwark volue,
ZS Jiangui: 0.5. surwtae heght, 3 * width, 10t  length per ha (paralleling the sublaterals); FuJian. ame dmlcensionst but
deuigld so Out eaoh point Is within 8D a of a fam red  Levellingtoping at 506
4i Both: apinat the contours, 0.4 a bottom width, 0.7 a depth, 1:2 side slope, aweraging 10 a len8th per ha, a4ssaiig 50 ha
oand are a 1,000  a sPaing,
4Z  Both: fotllwing the contours, at base of polders, 0.3 a botiom width, 0.4 a depth, 1:2 side slope, 834 D average length In
Jisogl, 3,333 a In FWlan                                                                                                        >
Lb abth: 0.5 a wide, 0.3 * h4i, along the contour and agirnt the cotour at 56 a iterals.
,a  Fujimn: 1 .2 a   width, 1.5   depth, 1.8 * top wdth, 1000   per S0 ha.
LFuJin I    n: 3a s   ci us a,     f two  peprr  et re.
IS  Both: Gross area crop orea, including 25% of area absorbedby terracing, ditches, roads, etc, but exolud' s foreat area.
FuJian Inatudea citrus and 23% of too impovement area&
,a FPian: 77% of tea Iprovent area, rstuirlig varlng degrees of tgading or repair.
I  Fujian: feed area, on land with S-10 degre slope; s   terracing staards on Jiangsi aswlued.



M=fl AMFA fELgZMWU  PMJE
Jiangil                              Fujian
Unit                              Urnt
Price Quintlty      Amount        Price Q'ant4t   _        :
Descriptlon                           Unit  (Yuan)             Y'OOO US$'000  (YUn)              I0oo0  U$O000
E "oo 00   1,000   1,885    1,885     589
Stone and mmd                               8t000     259   2,075       64*-
Xent                                tcq       140   3,878      543      170
Lbber                                         400     682      273       85
Stee3                               tons   t ,400     172      241       75
subtotal                                                   5J1i   145"
no               151                                25
Eartlrltk                        '000       1,000   1,203   1,203       376   1,000      149    *149        17
stone ai fand                     '000      8,000      171   1,370      128   8,000       20      156       49       P
Cmt                                 t4 10   3,761              527      165     1410     u150     63       20
L   r                                         4100    718      207       90     400       87       35      11
stee                                ton    19,00      258      361      113   1,100       32      415       14
eetrit PA-S                           w        34   8,0115     214       a5      3*1   1,000       34      11
Subtotal .~ 
Isin AU kaa  m1;                        1275                                               140
Artdmemrk                        '000       1,000   1,511    1,511    4172   1,000      573      573      179
stm   and sand                   '000 u    8,000       182   1,458      456   8,00o       70      S5R      17*
C nt                ;                         140   1,234      173       54     1*0      #0        66-   21
Lmber                                          00      226      90       28     *100      r        34       11
Stee                                tons   1 ,100      132     185       58   1,400       50       70       22
SWUMl                                                       341  lag
Sprirdder lrrigtion (fixed)           ha   5,250      375   1,970       616   5,250
Sprinkler lrriga"ton (lai-pem.)       ha                                       2,950    1,420   4,189   1,309  
Subtot al                                                   49                                5        1           II
XQ.  e                  ..4 ,                                                                     _       . 



;~~fnv F-ullaF
JIM~~JlS8 _A A_F _Wa       2Fi1CT
Ulit                               Unit
Price  Quantity .     wza           Price  Quantity      A" 
Deacripton                         Urdt  (Yuan)             Y0OOO US$1000   (Yuan)              rooo  Us$o00o
franatoins       -                  no.              133                                  27
kHA     100  16,tl5    1,619      506       112   1,350       151       47      
2.S kanMiaAIoN IL=                                   520
35 K  lines                       A    15,000       22      330      103   20M000       45      900      281
10 R lines                         i    6,500      349   2,X9       709
0.4'    linea                      l    5,000     19       7115    233    5,000        76      3o0      119
owedrp    statin (1)                 W    1,006      320      3        101
Xat-                                                                 _                        1,81n



F               Bf           0   fi¢8
*   * e           f
*   3 5        e        ta 
a'             81         f 
tt,%t~~~~ _0  - b
8 t       gw-F  R    8 
E  - W 9 g 8    2  &§&-*    fLu -  hi
*    8E
N                    
r   K           t   *  _ t J
6 ane~~~~~~~~~~-
t . _ 98 P'0



3W MUfl ABULWEE 
Bd1n                 Ara  Am oas
Farm   Of ices,  Work-    Ware   Labors.   Storage CatUe   Pig
Housing  Dorms  dops a  houses  tories,i  Sheds  Sheds   Sheds  Total
Unit Costs  (Y/sq m)              90      115     130      110       170      65      115      65
Schools and clinics                    17.9                                                         17.9
Orchards                      89.0                                                                  89.0
Ranie farms     :             68.6                                                                  68.6
Dalry cattle fanms            19.5      0.4      1.5     2.5                       35.9     5.4    65.2
Pig breeding farms             2.2      1.0              1,6                                16.8    21.6
Extension & research                   14.8     6.4                2.0                              23.2
Training facilities                                                1.0                               1.0
ManagmflDent                            3.9     9.2                                                 13.1
-IZt     3L1               JAI .                      _D MA   Zama 2   na.
Construction cost  {Y '000)   16,141   4,379   2,220       451      510            .4,130    1,445  29,25*
Utilities and other (Y '000)     300                                 350                               650
AitQ"   JUi1   LY.    If4416           4,       2y0        t       Oa              43      t,     2q
Unit Costs  (Y/sq m)             100      115     130       95S     250       65               65
Orchards                      12.9              0.5      7.7                                        21.1
Pig breeding fams                       0.8              2.5                                17.3    20.6
Extesion & research                                                2.0                               2.0
sS=~~~~~~~~I"                  DA      DA§  12   2^ Q Q^                   OAQ  IIL 
Construction cost  (Y '000)    1,290       92      65      969      500                      1,124   4,040
Utilitles and other (Y '000)                                                                   25       25
ao   EM±aD                   1 ±Ji 1.    92       61                5E                      -t 2  3-
Inc ludes hU er standard±housing
jj Indludes hilerV standard hlousing.



-48-                         AM  Z
m am
LoaL ZIMMIm Babtnsr AM YlAbd
Urdt         °uanuty
Price Jiangxi  Fujian   Total    ..hunt
(Y'000)                             Y'O00 US$1000
Truckso 8 t diesel              54.4             -4          4      218      68
Trucks, 5 t diesel              32.0      45       16       61   1,952      610
Ptckups, 6 pass. 1.75 t dies    19.2     120       52      172   3,302    1,032
Refrig. milk tankers 5 t       160.0       4                 4      640      200
Veterinary van                  25.6        8       1        9      230       72
Utity  Mans                     19.2       10       8       18      346      108
Field vehicles, 4W1D            32.0       9                 9      288       90
Motorcycles, 125 cc              3.2      30       10       40 - 128          40
Tools, parts & spec. os   @-10%                                    T71       222
Crawler tractors, 140 HP       224.0       4                 4      896     280
Ripper attachment               32.0       2                 2       64      20
Root plao attachment            16.0       2                 2       32      10
Digging bucket                  32.0       4                 4      128       40
Tools, parts & spec. ols e 10%                                      112       35
Akbtotfil                                                       ,  2
£anz kcbinorv
Pedestrian tra¢ters, 7-12 HP     3.2   1,t100      12   1,112   3,558   t,I12
Power pesticide fogger           1.0 -400                  400 - 400        125
Raw cultivators, 3.5 HP          2.2               10       10       22       7
Hole digger, 2-3 HP              1.5               10       10       15        5
Ruie strippers, 10 kg/hotr       1.0   1t,500            1,500    1,500     469
Orange slzer                   160.0                1        1      160      50
Tools, parts & spec. olls @ 10%                                     566      177
- -Suht::lt ,6Z1   1044
. - . - - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~15'26    4J7



- 49 -
0 ~     ~         ~
- -~~ AMA ~ W
*           Sml
UrUt Rqwrmmu                          Iotl A ft%draw"                     UwUt
gataC iIbIm.si          1987    1goe      I99    1990    1991   Total   pro      ko A it
-tUaLti pu   -_                           (yata)                         (yin) (Y'OOO)
yew 1   2"4
Are* (ha).                                             1,10      a      2,100     600      33S   5,93S
lAr (dts '000)                    .426  .31t             W1  I,'l?   1,842   to.82   1,561   6,793   2,500   16,982
See3 1w  ('000)                   .95                  1,0I3    1.75    2,08      515    3w      578       500   2,893
Orgpnnc fertilizer (t'000)        .08 9  .An              54     t42      215     24       2?      952  1O,O00   9,5;3
Nhterw   (1N, t)                  303  .40               333     99    1,00   2,2Z2   t1938   7,306   1,665  12,165
Rsoshusa (Pi;,( tow)              .329  .157             362     T6o   1,146      9       81    8,072   1,080   4,39
Potaa=Ka(, turn)                 .I"   .?                252     700   12'    1,7*   I've8  4,964          77S 
*  m 0 opu r1a  expawia (Tt'00)    .255  .270           5281      ?     t,319   1,503   1,300   5,158   1,000   5,158
.1 taa  Lg                                             LIA      L 1I 5
1AN                               Tear I
Area (ha)                                              1.000    3,ST5                            4,575
Labor (dms '000)                  209                    205     f33                               938   2,500   2,345
Seelap  ('000)                    .068                    68     283                               311   3,340   1,039
"rI    fertlizer (teM00)          .038                    38     13b                               174  10,000   1,739
Iitropn (y, tos)                  .235                   235     840                             1,075   1,665  1t790
RlilosIhe    (P  , tow)           .203                   203     726                               909   1,080   1,003
Potawda (K  6ts)                  .35                    35    1,165                             1,491     m75   1,156
Other opwang exp_l  CT'000)    .300                      300   1,073                             1,373   1,000   1,373
Yew 1   2-5
Am  (ha)                                                 600     900    g9m       600            3,000
Labor (doys 'o00)                 .360  .W5              216     369      837     396      225   1,683   2,500   4,106
SaSOlip ('000)                  2.500                  t,S00   2,250   2,250   1,S00             7,500     100      750
zrpudc fertlizer (tW000)         .009                      S       8        8       5               27  10,000      zro
Nitroepn (N, tow)                 .167                   112     168      168     112              561   1,665      934
Rshorm (P,A#, ts)                 W00                      3       S       5        3               t5   1,080       16
Pottassiu(K2, touw)              .082                    25       38      38      2X               15      775       98
Other opatYng expa  (TI'O )    .045  .019                2?      52      69       73       57     2r8   1,000      278
Area (ha)                                                540     700     700      300            2,280
Labor (daWs '000)                 .300                   162     210      210      90              672   2,500    1,680
Seed (t)                          .030                    16      21       21       9               67   3,340      224
Orgrp c fertilizer (t'O00)        .030                    16      21       21       9               67  10,000      672
Nittr45n (N, tns)                 .100                    54      70       70      30              228   1,665      373
Pho 0ai  (P2,  tow)               .07S                    41      53      -S3      23              168   1,080      181
Potsslt(K20, tona)                .038                    21      2r      27       11         -      5     7?5       66
Other °PwstQ  ea   u  (T'O00)    .283                    153     198      198      a5              634   1,000      634
Area (ha)                                             .3,240   6,97S   3,700   150        335  15,750
Labor (daos '000)                                     . 105    2,94     2,459   2,318   1,700  10,045   2,500  25,113
Seesesdllp (T'000)                                       967   1,905   1,319      473      163   4,907            4,90T
sai fertnizer (t'000)                                    114     3ar     274      289     237   1,220  10,000  12,204
Nitropn (1, tons)                                        7 35   2*O3   2,058   2,368   t,938   9,166   1,665  T5,A2
Rhosarw (P,, tow)                                         W0   1,54Y   1,203   1,008      81T   5,184   1,080   5,599
Postasls (1:to,   )                                      624   1,936   1,320   1,509   1,T8   6,666       775   5,166
Other opera as exa a (T00O)                              760   2,079  1t,S8    1,661   1,357   T,4                7,442
grw                      ,A    12                          .M      L



-~~~                            ia.~~~ZO   ia
m        _ muia  -    w
JkM MU AI& 930a=  P
Unit biLuirms                         Tt  ReinirDeEt                      Unit
Esta6. /NSInt.euna      1986    198m    1988    1989    1990   Total   price   Ankwt
_ (urnts pe hr) -                         (-- ts)                        (ywn)  (tP0O)
Eoat                         Year 1     2   345
aret (ha)                      a                    258      774     TT4     516      258   2,58)
Labor (das '000)                    .30D  .240                77     294      480     588   1,4640   2,500   3,599
Seedling  ('000)                   .675                      174     522      522     348   1,567      500    784
Organto fertiller (t'WM0)           .051-  .051               13      53       92     118      276  t0,000   2,763
Nitropo (N, tons)                   .181  .281                4?     213      430     601   1,290   1,665   2,148
FmphosFo (PA, tons)                .150  ,120                 39     147     240      294     720 - 108        77?
Pot&'u        82,tons)             .2      2                  71     286      500     643   1,501      775   1,163
Other expense (Y'000)              .280  .30T                 72     296      534     699   1,601    1,000   1,601
-A_"                                                   .51 2      Z=      la       s-ta          .za2,
1a9 iEfl1int                 Year 1     2      3
Area (ha)                                          1,100   1,122     185                     2,407
Lar (durs 'Oo)               .50I  .116  .180       551      690     421      223      33   1,918   2,500   4,796
Seedlfigs ('0o0)            9.320  .900          10,252  11,447   2,734       167           24,600      60   1,476
rnie fertAliser (t'WOW)    .095                     105      107      18                       229  10,000   2,287
Nitroen (NM ton)             .568  .417  .4t7       625   1,096   1,031       545      77   3,373   1,665   5,616
Rioita*hrtsP25, tons)        .270  .213  .213       297      538     524      279      39   1,677   1,080   1,811
PotamuisuU C2, tons)         .584  .140  .140       6*12     809     419      183      26   2,080      775   1,612
Otber expense (Y'000)        .060  .033  .033        66      104      84       43       6      303   1,OO       303
Year 1   2-5
Area (ha)                                         - 67S     675                              1,350
Labor (duVs '000)            .360  .075             243      294     101      101     101      840   2,500   2,101
seening  ('000)             2.4A0                 1,620   1,620                              3,240      30      97
(rhsnio fertmizer tt'OOD)                                                                           10,000
Nitrogen (N, to)             .20                     38      138                              275   1,665      459
Ibosyhas (Pi, ton)           .010                     7       7                                14   1,080       15
Potassiua (K2  tons)        .085                     S7      57                                115     775      89
Othelr expense ('OOO)        .020  .019              14       26      26       26      26      117   1,000      117
E~~~~~~~~~.                                          ZII   Z11 ZU
;oga                         Year I
Area (ha)                                            77      168                              245
Labor (duwe '000)            .300                    23       50                               74   2,500       184
Soed tt)      -              .859                    66      144                              210      607      128
Oreanic fertllizer (t'000)    .035                    3       6                                 9  10,000       86
Nitrogen (N, tons)           .192                    15       32                               47   1,665       T8
Fhosnihiar  (P  , tone)      .t11                     9       19                               27   1,080       29
PotassiuD (K!, tons)    .- 215    -   -              17       36                               53      7        41
Other expense (P'000)        .268                    21       45                               66   1,000       66
g        ~       ~      ~                              Ii -   !U  iQ '                                     1
Area (ha)                                         2,110   2,739      959     516      258   6,582
Lbabr (days '000)                                   817   1,111      816      805     723   4,272   2,500  10,680
Seed/seedlipgs (r'000)                              704      910     425      271     174   2,485            2,485
Organic fortAllger (t'00)                           107      126      70       92     l1a     5t4  10,000   5,136
iOropen (I, tons.)                       -           m -  - 77    1,31*   1,244  975  -  678   4,986   1,665   8,301
FRpho*scrws (PA, tons)                              312     602      671     519      334   2,437   1,080   2,632
PotasiLuD (Kl,-tons)                                716      974     705     683      669   3,748      775   2,905
Other expenae (Y'000)                               100      24T     406      602     731   2,086             2,086
La Land developient costs inrurred In year t; crop extablimdent In year 2.



- 51 -
AM 
m muX "A nFROJECT
-  ~       ~~ kCoast  9 ;      aRch  Trainine .iM  Tce
Unit      Quantity
Price  Jiang- Fu    -Total       hnamt
(Y't003    xi  jian            y't0   US$'OO0
Electronic balanoes                     5.4      3      1      4       22        7
Atanic absorption ;hotospectraneter    89.6      1      1      2      179       56
Kjeldahl nitrogen analyzer              6.4      6             6       38       12
Milk analyzer and flow meter          124.8      2             2      250       78
Multi-unit plant growth chamber       150.4      1             1      150       47
Stereoscopic microscope                 9.6             1      1       10        3
Binocular vertical microneter          16.0      1             1       16        5
Body cell calculator                   96.0      1             1       96       30
Miscellaneous domestic equipment (Y'000)--     193                    193       60
kat±n±1g  mtuoe
Video cameras, editing and
reproduction equipment              112.0      1      1      2      224       70
Cameras, 35 mm                          1.6      6             6       10        3
Tape recorders                          0.3             8      8        3        1
Slide projectors wI screen              1.6    10       8    18        29        9
Misoellaneous danestic equipnent (Y'000)        58                     58       18
Subtotal                                          ~~~      ~~~~~~~~3a  l
Telex machine                           9.6      1             1       10        3
Microcanputer syst,s-                  29.6    22       8    30^-   888        278
Plain paper copiers (b&w)-             12.8      9      8     17-   218         68
Qectric typewriters                     8.0      2             2       16        5
Facsimlle equipment                    11.5      9      1    10       115       36
Miscellaneous donestic equipuent (YV000)        64                     64       20
Stel:-:907^ 



- 52 -
AM A
::Mc      ;M  AR  Bf&a
No. nE-a~Q     w-                     ~                  ---    -      w 
Description                          persons    1987              199    1990   Total frosd otent
A. ..., -ra
1. Extension varkmrs and Ms A                                                      Crop and liveetoci husbadry,
(2,864/512)                  3,376   1,531   157         5511           3,632  MoAM7 uaintanwrep/lr.
2. Other owrty-lev.l staff                                                         Enterprise ag    At/soclai4tl,
(648/160)                      80       240     318      330              888  au 8poos        tehoclogY.
3. H4iger-levl persoml                                                             Vai£ng of trais to above
(160/60)                       220      9TO     766      280            2,016  subject**, plus Ml1sh lwong*,
re hdi oqupemnt use/intarn.
B. Fnain kraInlMg La
1.ita'iaaampert                     3/3        8      20      20       12      60
2. Raaie Woductlon/prooeSalng        1tO       12                                12
3. Datry fam .anagamept              2/0               24                       24
4. 9Sire mana6ffoent                 2/2       24      24                       48
5. Dairy proeessng                   2/0       12      12                        24
6. Soil & toiler anaysis             1/1       24                               24
T. FinrAnal _aagu,ent                1/1       24      24                        48
8. I6crocxaputer use                  2        2        2                        4
S""                  ~~~iiaL    la       ~     ~            a     a
1. Red soils   mgeaat                14/                        8                8 U.S. CUoath Caroim)
2. Citrus outlvstionh,rcasin8g       4/4        8                                8 U.S. (nlorld) ar ustrala
3. Dary producton/proosing           8/0       8                                 8 U.S. Astralia, or Na  Zalad
4. S"ine maugeaent                   6/2                         8               8 U.S&, De,rlc or Mreland
5. Rabil prod*'3ton/prooesssng       8/0                8                         8 Bail or  aiWpims
6. Houtzhold dalryintgcduection      8/0                                 8       8 InIa
7. Tea cultivatlon/prooesing         08                 8                         8 Sri Lad
.~bAtAl                       38L1       16A     a                 i
D. XMURma AaahAAiU La
1. Traninag courses                    6                6       4        2      12 Citres, e ope a mttaod,
enterprise aensmllg
2. Arovoessing feasibility
studIes                          2        2       1                         3
3. Tediacal advice                     6                2       2        1       5 Cultivation/agroooasing
3auul                            11a      a       I        4 A
ran   US '000
A. l~aw  Mral"1
Jd-gX                                     509     451      182            1,141
Fi4ian                                    145     135       63              343
-   B. E a ZnanAag                                                 '''
JianI       .92                                   110       18              219
Fujlan                                     68      50       12              130
ih      JM       31               31A
C.  Stigi Tir
Jiwpd                                     55      40       40      35      170
FuJLan                                     20      40       30               90
51  Za  ~31 
D. ,ahrneal Aa                                                         .                 -
- Jlan               --       .26                  16       38      38      178
FUjian                                             38       38               76
wi                            ~~~~        ~~26  31  71  31i    2YL
JianpI                                    681     676      278      73   1,108
Fujian                                    233     253      143              638
I" L                                            131      ml1      23.S2
44 *  indieates Jian ia/F1jian brekahrn. Tediaal 8asstIsnce costs plit 70:30 JianIRI:uJia



-53                                  ANNEX 2
Table 16
PAM, 1
-~~~~~~~~~~~ .in  £amLtSD  Zuata&s 1t
Unit     Unit Cost   bount           tal
Ct/urit)  (units)   (Y'000) (US$'000)
Buildings                              sq 5            150    9,000      1,350       422
Electrlcity                                                             650.-      203
Water, water treatent                                                    710       222
Steam boiler                                                            520        163
Zuk;al                                                              ig~           A
Pressure vessela                     units        35,000        7        245        77
Fibre beating                        units        26,000        6        156        49
Combined acid wash                   units       156,000        2        312        98
Acid cooker                          units        26,000        2         52        16
Process tanks                        units         6,500        4        26          8
Shakers                              units         3,800        6         23         7
Centrifuges                          units         9,200        6         55        17
Hot air driers                       units        65,000        2        130        41
Packaging machine                    units        10,000        2        20          6
Crane                               uinits       130,000        1        130        41
Supplementary equiwent                                           -        51        16
Freight and insurance (10%)                                              120        38
Installation  (105)                                                      120        38
- ub al                                                              1_440 a
Contingencies (155)                                                       203         63
zotal                                  4J                                            R23
Dairx  ronuisimn ZiLnt fPraUaM kf A4L Fg orm)
Homogenizer                          unit        136,000        1        136        43
M4ilk-fat analyser                   unit        182,000        1        182        57
Milk seperator                       unit        156,000        1        156        49
Plastic bag fillers (milk)           unit        60,000         2       120         38
Plastic bag filler (powder)          unit        176,000        1        176        55
Sterilizer                           unit       290,000         1       290         91
Aseptic filling machine              unit       660,000         1       660        206
Freight end Insurance (105)                                              172       554
Installation  (10%)                                                      172        54
Training                                                                   100        31
Totai                       --16 -                                     -  tlS4 h 
Building modifications                 m2              100      500         50        16
Boiler                               unlt        104,000        1        104        33
Electrical tnstallation              set      :20,000           1        20          6
0   a l   '  .          0.                               J2!L       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3S1
Centrifugal seperator (5 t/h)        unit-       156,000    I-          156    - 49
Storage tanks (3 & 8t; 2 * it)       unit         10,000        5         50        16
Pasteurizer (4 t/h)                  unit        35,000         1        35         11
Evaporator, dual effect (3 t/h)      unlt       600,000         1       600        188
Spray equipment (2 t/h)              unlt         70,000        1         70        22
PIpes                                unit         12,000        1         12         4
Compressor                           unit         45,000        1         45        14
Spare parts                          5%                                   48        15
Freight and insurance (10%)                                              102        32
Installation  (105)                                                      102        32
Training                                                                    30         9
Contingencies (15%)                                                     -    8         2
Xnkal                                                                   I!A3I         Hzl



- 54 -
ANm   2
Table 16
Unrt =   Unit Cost   mount           Total
.(Y/unit)  (units)   (Y'000)  WUS$'O0M)
Land                                                                          50         16
Civil Works                                                                  442        138
Process Equipment                                                          150         47
Miscellaneous                                                               70         22
Freight and Insurance (10%)                                                 22          7
Installation (10%)                                                          22          7
Contingencies (15%)                                                           66         21
£riJk =A zarw
Land                                                                          75         23
Buildings                                sq m            150    2,000        300         94
Insulation                              m3               140    5,000        700        219
Utillties & Equipment                                                        860        269
Miscellaneous                                                                 69         22
Freight and Insurance (10%)                                                   86         2?
installation (10%)                                                            86         27
Contingencies (15%)                                                           23          7
Total                                                                       2lm         oiB
Total Agrogrcegsinpig Inveagjnt                 -                           11.4 488     .so
La  Estimates subject to revision following detailed feasibility studies.



- 55 -
AM-
XABZIEJ
A1MR Lo kIaaL&Rlaw  ~4m&
Month         Apr   N.r  Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec  Total
Evaporation  (uWday)   4.1   4.0   5.3   7.5   7.4   4.7   3.0   2.3   1.6  39.9
E'o     (=/day)        3.3   3.2   4.2   6.0   6.0   3.7   2.4   1.9   1.3  31.9
Crop Coff. (iw)        0.6   0.6   0.7   0.8   0.9   0.8   0.7   0.6   0.6   6.2
ET cro     (=/day)    1.8   1.9   3.0   4.8   5.4   3.0   1.7   1.1   0.7  23.3
ET crop    (nw/math) 54.3  58.8  89.2  148.8  166.1  89.7  51.7  34.8  22.1  715.4
Eff. rainfall (mWmo) 112.2 240.8 143.7  102.2  92.0  62.7  49.7  13.1  12.6  829.0
Surplus/Deficit       58.0  182.0  54.5  46.6  -74.1  -26.9  -2.1  -21.8  -9.5  113.6
Gross irripaton requirmnt
at 60% effileincy         l.  1235   MA    IL  31  1A  3DA
Evaporation  (nfday)   4.1   4.0   5.3   7.5   7.4   4.7    3.0   2.3   1.6  39.9
ETo     (m/day)        3.3   3.2   4.2   6.0   6.0   3.7-   2.4   1.9   1.3  31.9
crop Coef. (ko)        0.6   0.6   0.7   0.8   0.9   0.8   0.7   0.6   0.6
ET crop  (r(day)       2.0   1.9   3.0   4.8   5.4   3.0   1.7   1.1   0.8  23.6
ET crop   (w/mo)      59.2  58.8  89.2  148.8  166.1  89.7  51.7  33.7  24.1  721.2
Eff. rainfall (Woi'o) 112.2 240.8  143.7  102.2  92.0  62.7  49.7  13.1  12.6  829.0
Surplus/Defloit       53.0  182.0  54.5  -*6.6  -74.1  -26.9  -2.1  -20.6  -11.5  107.8
Gross irrigption reluirent
at 60% efficiency           7       7. 123.S  "A                    3A   19s.a  222
Evaporation  (m,day)  4.1   4.0   5.3   7.5   7.4   4.7    3.0   2.3   1.6  39.9
E1o     (t=(day)       3.3   3.2   4.2   6.0   6.0   3.7   2.4   1.9   1.3  31.9
Crop coeff. (ic)       0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.9   0.7   0.5   0.4   0.4
ET crop (jut/day)      1.3   1.6   2.5   4.2   5.4   2.6    1.2   0.7    0.5  20.1
ET crop (tmo)         39.5  49.0  76.5  130.2  166.1  78.5  35.8  22.5  16.1  613.9
Eff. rainfall (nut/mo) 112.2 240.8 143.7  102.2  92.0  62.7  49.7  13.1  12.6  829.0
Surplus/Deficit       72.8  191.8  67.3 -28.0 -74.1  -15.7  13.9  -9.4  -3.5 215.1
Gross irriation requiraent
60% efficiency                           LAU  1235   2L                     SA  Z
La Estimates based on Jianrang Prefecture (Fujian) climatic data and calculations according
to the Pan Evaporation Method, frao FA0, buiA*m  X=r vrd±cin  ca Mac
E'a=immn~ {(Rome, 1977). As the estimates conform well to local reporting of
requirements and Jlangxi project area conditions are similar, computations wve performed
(or oply three zajor crops.



- 56 -
MMZ3
soav          mu X D EVE PWECT
.A verage
*i    aiUiLdUYI4ouaahoLdf   Total
Units    Jiangxi Fuj ian          Project LA
Citrus       tons        20.3     21.0        174,500
Rumie        tons         2.2                   T,100
Tea          tons                  0.6          3,400
Timber Lb    m3                   51.6         35,800
Feedgrain    tons                               9,600
Fodder La   tons                               46,000
Milk         tons        30.0                   17,300
Beef         tons         0.6                      330
Heifers      head         1                       700
Piglets      h bead     318      150           58,700
Pork         tons                              16,100
La   Including specialized and other households as well as
state faems.
LJ   Total harvest of timber from thinnlngs and clearcut,
averaged over 17 years.
La  Fresh weights
£d   Net of reserves within project-developed breeding system.



-57-
AM  I
-~  -G flA 
A   =          OMLS   nr 5
&aQ  srAt if tO hUbAU ANd lmU  LA
nduain  R1i                 SW                Potassium
orange   fiber    Pigs   lop     iro      DAP dil'ride
La      LA      La      tf      La    L
otttrae status                           I      X       X I             K      N         4
bport price ($/t or                                                         IO 180   88
Oceen freight Cs)                                                            34      30
CW or FOB Fthou (t)                 524           1,192      12    205    214       118
CF or FM3 Fuzhb YC.)               1,67T?         3,814    262    696    685         378
Port chars and
distributor's margin a            -163           -340      49      84      87      59
Tnsport: Pcrt-wholesalers LI         -5              -5       5       5       5       5
Traeawt: Fare-whoZaalerm A           -d             _2       22      22      22      22
Price ex-mill                      1,486          3,441     338    767    799       464
Proessdng adjustment a                              J75
Processing cost less bypoduct value                  30
Euals econroic price (Y)           1,486          2,555     338    767    799       464
FlrIinial price (1)                  800  8,000  2,400      220    766    798       465
port price t()
Ocn frallt (O)
CIF ar FM Rufou (O)                  450   1,250   1,430     87    243    253        99
CI? or PFSB Ftu (Y)                1,440  4,000   41,57     280    778    810       317
Port ciarps and
distributor's margin LI           -44   -355   -03         50      95      98      54
Transport: Port-wholesalers LI       -5      -5      -5       5       5      5        5
Transport: Fam-wholeesalrs Lk       -22    -2       -I       22      22      22      22
Price ex-iln                       1,269  3,618  4,147    357    900    935         397
Procesdsg adJustme  LI                              .75
wocesaing cost les byproduct value                   30
EQuals ecoanic price (1)           1,269  3,618   3,08Q     35T    900    935        397
FUancial price (Y)                   800  3,600  2,400    220    766    798          465
La     World Bank projectiao  for January 1986 sand 1995 in January 1986 constant valugs,
&agumats, Zulmal 1gandi, Juli 19ili, pp. 9, 11 and 14; and General Adinrdstra-
tLanof Cultoms, P.1.C.,             ,              N. 2 198, June 1985, pp. 24-36.
Lb      Averag export unlt vaLue; ,qdted  nd projected using index of EC indicative price,
CIF Paris, for Mediterranean exports.
La      Unroceased rdne, RB fInle, 1981 prlie (converted to 1986 constant volue) taln as
approximtion of lon-run quiibris price (currnt interatiod prces are hieer).
La      Average export imit valu  for po-rk; Projected using beef U.S. mort price index.
La      Averge Import unit value; updsted and projected usig prices of Vest African SapeUi
lcp.
LL      Avragp imort unit value; updted end proJeed using pric  for w, bagped, FOB
W Ewope (465 N). Fiamnoial prices are project ud8getwy Woes, for imported poduct.
La     Di_mocis 0hosphate (I8t  N, 46S P2 0c) k, SFOB US Gulf. Finencial  rices are
project budgetay prices, for lpci; t5d product.
Lb      Potassim chloride (605 K20), bulk, FM Vuaouwer. Finncial prices are project
budgetry prioes, for Impfted product.
L      lPort diargs of Y25/t and 9% distributor's mrgin.
L       Average rail freight dirge to conaing ar  (aatuesd 300 la); nil trauport
conversio rateofs 0.99.
Lk      125 i  averap rrz   ollecton to distribution point. bV truck at YOM./tm;
conversion rate of 0.sr. .
Lia     Adjutments fre cass vdjst to live weiht.



- 58 - 
Ereall P Ardgr              C     an
(1995 Price/ton, 1984 Constant Values)
Nonfat
Dry   Butter  Liquid
Miik      Fat    Milk
New Zealand FOB, 1995 (US$) LA       800    1,500
Ocean freight (US$) La               150      150
CIF Fuzhou (US$)                     950    1 ,650
CIF Fuzhou (Y)                    3,040    5,280
Port charges, distrib. margin Lb    299       500
Transport, Fuzhou-Nanohang            10       10
Price ex-processor                3,349    5,790
Kg dry matter/t 2.8% butterfat
reconstituted milk                 100       28
Cost of dry matter                   335      162      497
Reconstitution cost                                     50
Pasturization/distribution costs                       191
ggh&otal                                           z
Taste & quality premium (10%)                           74
Est. retail r&^ce/tt fresh milk (2.8%)                 812
Pasturizing plant revenues
from butter oil sales                                 32
Collection, pasteurization and
distribution costs                                  -191
Border price equivalent of
raw milk (3.5%) at farmgate                          653
Fanmgate price                                         640
La   Estimates provided by EPD.
Lk   Port charges of Y25/t plus 9% distributor's margin.



_ 59-_
AM S3
£tE MU AMA DPE   T
Selected  nvers in Fag    fir inmia La
Conversion Factor
aectricity  b                          0.914
Rail transport                         0.99
Road transport                         0.87
Construction  La-  1.13
Mixed concentrate feed Ld              1.20
Consuoption conversion factor 1986 La   1.33
Consumption conversion factor 1995 La   1.7T
Farm labor La                          0.89
La  Based on an update of estimated conversion rates in S. Icshima
and A. Wood, &23nomica1y&J.a    AluasM         litll±z1 Sb ane i aa
(May 1982). The update used an exchange rate of Y3.2/US$1,
January 1986 local or national prices, and international price
projections for early 1986 in current prioes fran EPD, Maero mMA
Financial Aa umLiQh D  H a1rD kioA±n   Cn mmwitv pice
Earrmata, Internal Memorandum, December 1984, p. 11;  1985
prioes '- petroleum products CIF Hong Kong, from EPD, &A   ar
Crade  etrgIesm an  Petrolgum Products 2L±rd Quarter  _9.i,
Internal Memorandum, December 1985; Chinese import or export
prices for 2nd Quarter 1985 from General Administration of
Customs, P.R.C.,        Custows Statistles, No. 2, 1985, pp. 24-
36, adjusted to January 1986 using the most appropriate index
from EPD Eorecast; and energy prioes, see note b.
La  Economic price based on long-run marginal cost of thermal power
at retail level, from AEPEN, atakf  ARgral al kpRartL hjQl±fA
&       EPwr =rw   Annex 19, draft, January 22, 1985. K
La   Based on 1986 conversion rates for unskilled, technical and
supervisory labor, steel, timber, cement, machinery, and non-
traded goods or services of 0.67, 2.66, 1.33, 0.82, 1.51, 1.12,
1.11, and 1.33 respectively (see note a).
Ld  For 1995; average for 70:30 mix of maize and soybean,
La  Weighted average of ratios of projected 1986 or 1995 economic to
financial prices for rice, wheat, vegetable oils, and pork, the
weights based on recent Jiangxi and Fujian rural consumption per
capita.
La   Fifty percent of market wage, times consumption conversion
factor.



- 60 -
MM&
MM& 1a8a i
amn X&zc a                 _ E o Aahd mi
Gto t    2    3    4    S    6    7 812 13  14-181-24 M5
SLtnu1su  JlouAabaa 14 ta znad" 065 JO LUiU      An1 ULCa& Z *AU Lflfl   M &I aXEAB   B a. MUl
r Aa l    a,_L ,A1   M M ,1                   7,9 ,..
Rale                               0.5  5.0  5.0  7.6  7.6  1.6  7.9                7.9  5.0  7.6
Forestry                           0.0  0.0  0A   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.?  0.0  0.0 11.8
Pip                                0.0  3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3 33.   3.3
Feed                               0.2  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3
Oflr-f&--A  CM'                    1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2 t.*2  1.2  1.*2  1.2  1*.2  1 2  1.2 t.Z
blintenncoe Lose                   7.6  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Buhl"                            %A   OA 9A1a    A2e  3L         UJ 7  I    13al IL   93, &l
UIvestments                        9.0                                                        -0.4
Operat1ng ELpenditures             2.8  4.3  4.3  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.1  4.1  4.1  4.1  4.3  4.2
Project Charges                    0.1  0.9  0.9  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  0.9  1.6
lnormental Voridn$ Capital         2.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 -3.4
Hlred Labor                        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Loan Repament                      0.0  0.6  0.6  1.7  1.S  1.4  1.2  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
IIQ  'i '        6s1  LSI  LS  La  5A   Si  SA   LaI  LI
Net Inene With Project             -4.5  4.1  4.1  5.6  5.8  S.9  6.4  7.6  8.2  7.6  4.7 22.2
Net Income Without Project          2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1
launmb  -nn                       oI L             3L LI    3A %A LS Ll 64    &A L8
FmulAQimM1YUo   LNiBuSi
With Project                       902  916  916  "91   991  9  1,013 1,013 1,048 1.013  929 1,245
Without Project                    8O   840  640  840  840  840  8t40  840  8W   840  840  840
IncmuzabaUahaC                    62   21   26  35   151  M5   1= 31   211   8    I      Alll  AM15
~L1aa1I lb=  MAala  I la n          4      uz                               181. a Z2LOJ = . fi  a nu
£araa lia,m at kfma&INAM  Z
Citrus and intercrop               2*3  2.3  2.3  0.0  5.3  5.3  5.3  16.2 16.2  16.2 15.1  15.1
forestry                           0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.5  0.0  0.0  8*8
Pigs                               0.0  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6
Feed                               0.1  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0*2  0.3  0*3  0*3  0.3  0.3  0.3
off-fto  Income                    0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5
NainterAnce Loan                   5.9  1.6  1.6  1.8  0.0
swla                -LA  2.1  LA   LI  LA   Li  AA  IL   20i.1  1L Ll                          l
Inveastents                        6.1                                                        -0.1
Operating Lxpenditures             3.4  4.8  4.8  3.9  4.5  4.5  4.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  4.5  4.6
Projeot Charges                    0.3  0.?  0.7  0.4  0.7  0.7  0.?  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.2  1.6
Inermental Working Calital         0.7  0.0  0.0  1.1  0.0  0.0  1.3  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 -1.9
Hlred Labor                        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4
Loan Repsent                       0.0  0.5  0.6  0.8  0.9  0.9  0.9  2.7  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
_WML                           A101 6AA  LI 6L  LI LI ZI L9  LA 1.2 LA  AA
Net Income With Project            -1.7  1.5  1.3 -1.1  2.2  2.1  0.9  9.6  12.9 12.S  12.4 22.?
let Inco,e Without Project          2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.
Lumn~~~~~~aL~ Lam-        e3L2 .01 aLA   LL  LiJ 0^.0 t-442.  19.1 3J  Ll 20.1
Emus "O=m XNLuaMnt L~wzkwm
With Project                     1,015  189  889  673  868  868  875 1,025 1,OS1 1,025  935 1,11t7
Without Project                    o40  840  840  W840  SC  840  840  80        0  640  8e0  840
il l .  11   81316A  ZMf?  21   31  l61  21   1        95   m



- 61 -
r 1            3    4    5   -        7 00.213  14.18 19.24   25
ilialgatAla kaUn  Enmsbn~A11111 AA la £aca&  34 in £m £an   la5 .fulDim  L  amSS
,k  a Pr   Isb
ereedias Pip                        0.0  0.0  2.8 22.8 22.8 22.8   22.8 22.  22.8  22.8 22.8 22.8
Forestry                            0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.9  0.0  0.0  16.9
F"ee                                1.4  2.2  2.2  24   2.8  2.6  3.4  3..  3.1  3.4  3.4  3.4
Off-famu Zoom                       0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4 0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4
Maintenance l1 16.3                         0.1 0.1    .   0.1
2o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  255 LQ 26A  OAE 2 - f.  ZIA 2L                          U4
Xiaest.ate  -20.8                                                                              -1.
Operetfg IExPenditurea              1.1  0.8 13.2  t3.3  t3.3  1r.3  13.64 13.4 13.5  13.4 13.4 13.7
Project Qkarwa                      0.3  0.3  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.?  2.7  2.7  2.0  2.T  2.?  3.6
normstal Working Captal            0.7  0.0  3.8  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  4.6
Hired Labor                         0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.   7.1  0.1  0.1  0.1 0t.1  0.1  0.1
Laxn Repaent                        0.0  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  2.8  2.1  0.0  0.    .0  0.0
UL1 2A 2=  545V  5  ILI 5 4    = MA
Ibt inca. With project              -4.6  0.3  4.4  8.6  8.6   8.4  T.s  6.2  11.2  10.3  10.3 32.6
flet leea Without Project            2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1
Zm&a kis                           dZ A  2LI L-5 LI 6L  54i 6LI   .LI L.2                       S
With Project                        61T  452  629  87e n   7   87   965  965 1015  905   65t
ithout Project                      840  840  840  860  840 860  &0  840  810  80   840  40
_X c dll~~~~~~~~~a=   zU    32   U    3t   M :.S = 35,I5
; AII 8U =UU                 tA               in 3A                                    11 U=1
EMm laiua at Z=OmA13a WOU1
oroty                               0.0 16.9 18.6 25.2 26.6 26.2 26.2 26.2 26.2 26.2 26.2 26.2
Foreatrn                            0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.9  0.0  0.0 16.9
Off-t.f Income                      0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Nalnte,.n.c Lean                   29.5  0.1  - 0.1  0.1  0.1
5 =  l.  25A 26A & 545-A4 5LI  aLl 5454  MA
Inv-tetents                       431 
Oprting Expenditures                0.4  6.9  7.2  8.2  8.4  8.4  8.4  8.4  8.4  8.4  8.4  8.6
Project harges                     0.0  2.3  2.5  3.0  3.2  3.2  3.2  3.2  3.2  3.2  3.2  4.0
Incramutal Working Capital         2.3  0.1  0.3  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 -2.8
Hired Labor                         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Loan Repayment                      0.0  2.4  2.4  4.6  4.1  3.7  3.4  2.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
suhtotsl&5~  1115 54 45 5 jL                                           4 4   L 
met Ineon WVih Project            -16.2  5.4  6.4  9.5  11.1  11.1  11.4 12.3 15.6  14.8 14.8 59.0
net Inoo.. Without Project          2.t  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1
Insatome     Zmsin                s1L   34A  IJ  LA   LA   LA   24           45     544         =SLI
With Project       At240    91,02 1,150 1,191 1,191 l11 1,191 1,261 1,1 1,19t 1,541
Without Project                     840  860  8    860 S80 s80  860  860   6 0  860  860  840
.    _maI laM                    lm    2Q   3    351- 351   51  3S1  A    351  351  ZU
AaIlaa MMa XMIaSbuALU OA ha 3 I l hainuz  iL ana  LIE *1in aZLMj in aim
uAto  "bea;=8'' Als no    MET 
TM                                 0.0  0.0  0.0  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6  4,9  4.9  4.Y  3.?  3.?
Pigs                               0.0  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  -1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3
Padd                               0.9  0.9  0.9  0. O 0.9  04   0v  0.1  04   04   049  0.9
Off-tam Ine                         1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  t.   1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1
Ibintonane Loan                    2.1  0.4  0.4
L  3. 3LI-L 5A   5A LI L  La LI La 2L
Sm a~ntr                            1.8
Oper4tiq Sapenditure.         -      .S  1.7  1.7  1.       r 1.?  1.?  1.T  2.1  2.1  2.1  t.9  1.9
ProJect Olarges                    0.0  0.2  0.2  0.3 - 0.3  0.3  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.3  0.3
InroENta  orkn Ca~pital             0.3  0.0  0.0  0.?  0.0  0.0' 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 -1.3
HIred Lboer                         o.s  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  O.S  0.5  0.5  Co   0.5  0.5  0.5
Loan Repayment                      0.0  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.7  0.4  O.u  0.0  0.0
not ince  With Project              0.0  1.1  1.2  2.5  3.2  3.2  3 2  4.6  4.8  S.3  4.3  5.6
Net Inca.. ilthout Project          2.S  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5
Zmgom1 ham                         u84 "L .14 04 AA AA LA 34 &4 LA I4 la
With ProJ"et                       924  806  832 1,162 1,1t2  1162 1,162 1,387 1,3t 1,387 1,2TO 1,270
Withoat Project                      9096 98 909090  98   98090,  98   980  980
2       1 c         :kL"         Sc  .111 M        i      1        JI  SQZ   &c Z9Q   an   4M



- - 62 ^
AN= 4
'Table I
Peart    2    3    4    5    6    7 8-tZ   13 14-18 1924   25   26   27   26
EhAmLs  Ulu at Had: 1. 4a  ma   4  b4   u L                                 l
v ae ko Produn LZOUGI
Citruse a4 itcrorep                 0.0  2.3  2.3  2.3  0.0  5.7  5.7  17.9 11.9  17.9 15.9  15.9
Pig                                 0.0  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3
Fead                                O.   0.1-  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
orr_f   e                           ° 4  0 4 1.7  14T  1.7   1   7         1T .    .I  1.    17   .T7  1.7
Oft-ftr bonae                       0.0  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.0  0. 0 G4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4
Bantensace Loan                     4.6  1.7  1.5  1.5  1.5
1*60101                              GA   P.A  1.   La  54  sL %A LX           al 2112.1 A.  136  i
l,w.ataentT 7.5                                                                                 -0.2
Operting £spenitures                0.5  3.8  3.7  3.7  3.1  4.1  4.1  4.8  4.8  4.8  3.8  3.8
Project Cesrep                      0.0  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.3  0.6  0.6  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.1  1.
Lncruental  Vridna Capital          *.1 -0.3  0.0 -1.2  1.7  0.0  1.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 -4.1
4ired Labor                         0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Loan Repsuent                       0.0  0.4  0.5  0.6  O.?  0.9  0.9  2.T  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
AW9&dkl    ~1&4  LA   La   3A  54   LA   §AZ  LA   LI   LI  LA  CLA
e Inemo   Wilth Project             -5.5  3.2  2.7  3.8 -0.8  3.6  2.5  12.6  15.3  15.3  14.5 18.9
Iet Incme Without Project            2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2S   2.5  2.s  2.5  2UP  2.5  2.5
EA1z 10mn JAMUM           w* kms
Vith Project                        662 1,238 1,7T8 1,t79  939 1,209 1,212 1,362 1,362 1,362 1,272 1,272
WIthout. Project                    980  980  980  980  980  980  980  980  980  980  980  980
kuimaNd"l awe                    Smli   2A   310  31!  =U   281  2la  33    M   312  292  29
fGsla a-t Z fram&Imn  ±M
Breoding Pigs                       0.0  0.0  10.9 10.9  10.9  10.9 10.9 10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9
Fetd                                0.8  1.1  1.1  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.7  1.T  1.7  I.T  1.7  Ut.
Oft-tm ilnme                        1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6
Haintenance Loan                   14.2
La  2LA      A  13 I   iLl  14114 2IL 1142 19AL  ILL  112
inveat.enta                        14.0                                                         -0.9
Opeating Expenditures               0.4  0.4  6.5  6.6  6.6  6.6  6.6  6.6  6.6  6.6  6.6  6.6
Project Chargsa                     0.1  0.1  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3
Xncrental  oridang Cpital           0.4  0.0  1.9  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.0  Q.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 -2.3
Hired Labor                         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.U  O.u  O.u  0.0  0.0  0.0
Loon Repuent                        0.0  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.8  1.8  1.0  O.T  0.0  0.0
Iuhse                            IeA   LZ 1.1  LA  9 Q  Li eA              I  AAI  AA   LI   L4
kt Income VIth Project               1.8  1.t  2.8  4.9  4.9  4.7  4.4  4.4  5.2  5.5  6.2  9.4
get Incme Without ProJect            2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5
lmantwiLi loam                     L   -1-    k   2, L   2Li   La I .   a,& 2L        =   S1 i   1
Uith Project                       1748  748  97  971  971  971 1,01S 1,015 1,015 1,015 1,015 1,0S
Without Project                     980  980  980  980  980  980  980  980  980  980  980  980
1aacml  1loza  in3                                  *I i3d af        A    313A    31  3131
LUjimF £ t-u fimualgW. I ba £nuezD  bJa an:u   A nse £1 I1 a XlA.Dflu Lb
Drals ni frPinaun   'I'M
_ForeWtry                            0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  3.0  3.8  1.9  0.0  6T.5 6.5  6t7.S 33.8
Pigs                                0.0  1.3  t13  1.3  1.3  t.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  71.3
Pay                  -.T  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.T  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.1  1.t  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.T  1.7
Oft-ferm Inceoe                     1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4
Hsintenane Loan                     1.9  2.2  2.4  1.8  1.0
&A  !L   Ai   5    l.A  LA   LA   LA   LA   5A  LA  ILl 38A  ILl  IL
In eata.nta                         0.4
Operating Sapenditures       =       .5  2.6  2.6  2.2  1.7  1.7  t.T  t.7  1.6  1.6  1.5  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.0
Proj.ct Oiargea                  -- 0.0  -0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.2  0.2  3.5  3.S  3.S  1.8
Snore5ta: WorMing Capital           0.3  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 .0.3
Hired Labor                         0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.2  1.1  1.0  0.0
Loan Repyaent                       0.0  0.2  0.3  0.5  0.7  0.7  0.T  1.4  1.0  0.8  0.0  0.0  0.0  °.0  0.0
- - - 22                          LA   23.51   L         A   2-  L       Z.i SLa .   -A 3=  -i   La    "    US3.
let rme With Prject                  2.4  3.3  3.4  3.0  2.5  1.5  1.S  3.7  0.8  3.3  2.3 63.4 63.5 63.6 33.7
Not lnoome Witut Project             2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.   2.5  2.5  2.5  2.S  2.S
-a0 n  Zm                           L  8,.Q1Q.QC .   LDA   La  d.1   .1   14    AI  LA  OAL   QA  Ala             1.
Wth Project                       1,16 t,5t2 1,572 1,272  942  942  942 1,142 1,142 1,042  96? 1,260 1,260 1,260 1,260
Wlthout Project    -                980  9oo  988 980 980  980  9o0  980  980  980  980  980  980  980  980
_ mni   ,U             !13L   532  S92  au    _2  -311 --    lZ  211 62   3a1  2     al   au   UR
R 1 mdels asise basic developtentl tneetu.nt ade in lea 1. InVeetent as presnted in the model
*xeludes housing cost (for which no InCae is ettr buted either), crop *etablisisent cost (incled in
Operating *2enditure), and tnrestructurt,  NagNeSnt, ond servce Costa ftnanced by Coverment ond repid
-by Camers throv   aItce fees and texes (e., provect charges). Incrental tcome its dftnd to oash
flct 4Wter f1wnoing but borte  tIrtnncing of wwttdig capital requirments.
3i  FM? for forestry is Infinite. buse oa tft# tie distribution of Inoremental lnece.



JR MU AIKA MIUM= IX
aaNA"  Ad Ia"  La=  fb        tdM b kaec
Ibnth".y *bgrRqnuirm   (Voriat                           Total Workdaya
Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  Vey  Jma  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Total   t OOOs)
Citruo (per ha)         15.0 60.0 30.0 30.0 75.0 37.5 90.0 30.0  82.5 90.0 105.0 15.0    660         3,917
Rauie (ha)                         7.5 22.5        73.0 15.0 69.0 15.0 61.0         30.0    293      1,340
Forests (ha)            12.0 12.0  8.0  4.0                               2.0  10.0 12.0     60        180
Mixed Fodder (ha) La     1.7  0.4  36.3  7.1  4*7 34.6 36.3  15.4 36.3 50.0 45.8 27.0    296           260
Mlxed Feedgratn (ha) Lb           53.0 27.0 34.0  16.0 56.0  8.0  40.0 31.0                 265        360
Dalry Cattle (cow)      4.9  4.9  4.9  4.9  4.9  4.9  4.9  4.9  4.9  4.9  4.9  4.9           59        326
Pig Breeding (ew)       2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0           24         43
Pig Fattendng (pig)     0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8            9       721
FuHian
Citrus (ha)             15.0 60.0 30.0 30.0 75.0 37.5  90.0 30.0 82.5 90.0 105.0 15.0    660         1,703
Tea (ha) L&                        7.9  80.9 434.7 226.8 390.7 202.9 223.8                 1,568     3,773
Forests (ha)            12.0 12.0  8.0  4.0                               2.0  10.0 12.0     60         81
Paddy (ha) Ld                      12.0 72.0 80.0 80.0 73.0 56.0 96.0 29.0 20,0             518      1,797
Mlxed Feedgrain (ha) L             53.0 27.0 34.0 16.0 56.0  8.0 40.0 31.0                  265        -65
Pig Breeding (sew)      2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0           24        36
Pig Fattering (Pig)     0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.3   0 6           9        316
Ida   1M iS SUDD1  awfd   !MZ
Labor requirements    217  483  431  427  587  700  802  609  736  996  784  377  7,149
Faily labor supply LA  738  738  764  740  831  891 1,001  869  853 1,132  998  760 10,314
Labor requlrawnts      84  200  :91  563 1,555  953 1,469  791 1,123  373  383   84  7,771
Family labor supplyie  787  787  787  787 1,148 1,083 1,148  889 1,148  895  895  78T  11,139
La 11o year rotation including early and late corn silage, squash, winter and spring cabbage, and sweet potatoes,    I i
designed to maxilze yields while minimizing hired labor.                                                        I
Lb  Of each cultivated hectare, 12.5S In early corn and late soy; 37.55 in early soy and late corn; 50% In peanuts.
La With project; labor requireuents without project would be less than half these amounts.
Ld With or without proJect (no increoent in labor requirement over the without project alttation).
LBa Labor supply assumed to vary seasonally by household according to requirements, with "overtime" work by adults
and part-time child labor used to the maximu before employment of hired labor.



-64-
iS - -m 3
JISUSI JIanpi JIsapi  JlsqW   FWlsa Ful4l    FuJsn  FuMJin
1ae   Ciu1.   kU£        PIg      r.T aC         Pi    Forest    Tota
35  5to S935i    Sp 550         6,913 NH 4,I0NHl  ISOHN   75 IHI frw 1ot a
At JMU kdimdt 2UUAl    Lb
Iowaetal 1om. La                     7.2   12.1   16.T    11.8    3.2    14.1    5.1         3.7      1626
Ln:
hpAod Value, FSly Lsbr  LA         0.3     0.3   O0S       0.2    0.5      0.5    0.04    0.2         7.2
aKte4Valm, IWmgntSavtasLa  0.7             1.2      .7     1.2    0.3      1.4    0.       0.4       16.2
moied  Rentr  to Om ColpttS a      OA      1.1     22      t.6     0.4     2.8    1.1      0.6       2042
Allinee for RI WUo t IS            0.7     1.2     1.7     1.2    0.3    1.4       0.5     0.4       16.2
Subtotal                         ZAi    3.A      LI      L2      LI      LI    2L         LI       MA
:t~s
P .n                                LI a    LI Z7   2.              LI      3.      2L2      JS
Wr, Ihumw es Feesand TumS         1.0    1.3     3.2    2.8      0.4      1.2     1.3    0.3       18.7
Debt Service Za                  0.4     o 0.8    1.4    0.      0.2     0.7    0.6    0.6          9.9
I" alm                          IA   LI  #A  3A                         1A  1A   LI   2a
A"  a.cr  .          Lb              3Q       a       Il      la      31       1      Al      i a
a--in Lm ! VA MU LL
"rofeot Reat                        22.2    24.8   54.9   39.6    2.3   16.4    16.1    11.8          314-3
Water, Segment arA Ts   t         .6     7.?   23.3   19.4       2.2    6.1    9.4       2.2      115.9
Loan R t _pmt                    5.4     8.2    18.3   10.1    2.1       7.?    8.2      5.7      112.1
Ini                                                      t13.l    A5. 31  &  1     u
Xa~                        ~~~~ 59          z& a2 iN                        s~                 1 
"Meat -tbas a                         11.1    12.6   31.7    17.7      4.0   12.2   13,3    13.9        190.0
Sam 1um a iu  m      1k                11      11      13      2       Sl      m3 132           S        is
er Capits UN, 2000 (USO)              468    T35    8O9       635     212    663      241    214         490
la nviAue hOUI.d flew. vWdt*d I    bs Of  oWdIa   Nd ttaL     DrOM" ha o_ ld  a-lyla sWUM  Op est*
bIjbant *oeer in rew It en aayt, bsed n fr0ioated 1 mlaeatation WOl $i. slitly diffeent figrs.
al  For te yar 2000, or Ow 13th year        itial Ietet In G otooat 1966 val; eoept that dt svla. Is On
avd vale sweed over 24 resr,* ae11ug differna In repqmit palod.
is  SWore deduction at po* dW as             wvia.
IA  Valued at SO   os _ubat M, Or 11.5 Per _u"W.
a   Ten per-ent at not ineresa ima.
IC  t ally    Iahi aId lm1ae0el Uf1114U cepitle Ouelq 15 rot at return to atwiutivor _Ug
La  hasmiag 8.01 intelst padd, Pam pfeods end repm t periods waiftg tw  'p at _oeid; au ooieed to ombut
1986 valu    a n linde basedn 1iutatiml rats of plea Ceolaia
n Preojet uie as . percet at w1O39t ren,
L       w p d am pret valus over 2 5-r Pdt  lits, dlesowted at 123.
Si  Total pubUc ou    , *el       teats   r*  f             m  e      s,  s            on     s                
linaes (repad in   4re*  t         tM           dt s       ,   t    t      ot p a (not oti            to    u
taw  bandts), and aPoes  uese    rd   f                    ts  t          e).
Ofet Ceargesa a p11    t Cproe  a0s.



JO SOia kA    A M r*aa  saa*1¶
(t mUIlon to 1906 onwstant vaim)
Year 1    2     3      4     5     6     7     8      9    10   11    12    13    14    15
froaotlCn (t)                       1.0   1.8   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
Total rmue-.                        8.0  11.2  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0
jtwes~emt             3.4   1.4
Operatlns cost                    7.3  10.3  14.7  14.7  14.7  14.7  14.7  14.7  14.7  14.7  14.7  14I.  14.7
Xat4 a"1 A    14   La  10. .L    iLl   wl tL    ILl  I4                                              L
X.c       mt ZL1   14   LI    LS 14   la    la    La   La   14   1                          la   1      14   14
J~aaz~.m~f £Ra        &Mn1Z   U     laa)L' iU LWk ia 13  MlUmi EN a 381
at*AsrSd  Milk              3.4   8,.8  4.8   4.0   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   8.8   4.8   4.8
oAMPC MIlk/amik             1.5   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2,1   2.1   2.1   2.1
Toc0t                       0.4   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6  06.6   0.6    .       A6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6
Nlwk pond                   0.8   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2
Total r.em                    9.7  13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9  I3.9  13.9  13.9  13.9.
prating coA                 9*1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1  13.1
L~~  L    134  13s.  13.   13.1  13431   13.   13.    311.    3.    311.
I.~~1  U&   -    in2aZ 0w I   04   04    04 0           4 0         4 04 0             4 0         4 0
Ban         aux Ls1 k         M        a flaft aI&Il    SD a AU
Iwo.  lewo.n  (t)             0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9
Iweo  ross                    5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   S.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5
Inure. qaURt  coL          4.5   4.5   4.5   4.5   .5   8S   4.5        5       4.S 4..58.    8.5   8.    4.5   8.S
X1   1"  LA  'i  L' AI§                    L&  LI  LI  LI  L: LI  LI  &A
z -.  -4  I4  14  34  34  14  14  34  14  14  1  LQ LQ    1 1                                        4 LA
Ead     MM"'I I J  L1  a MA4 aW.1mi- III a 3
hvdeotln (t)                  4.2   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
Tot  rsenm                    3.9   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   .5   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5   5.5
Xiw.sai               0.8                                                                                         'IiR
peratsng aost               3.6   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2
,       xa      S    5^2   5-2 iOA5-2 5.9   5^2 S.Z              La   5WA   La2  514   ,A  5^-  La
0h   34  ea   5.O   Oa          a   Oa    Oa   Oa   Oa   La    &I   Oa    la   La.
Iwala   mt m .   0  I L  .  I L    I 01 L             I L         I L         I L



~masa      imso am  AM~I JlBIn±fM11l nA=    aniha
(1 afioa caw t t priesa)
Year 1    2      3     4     5      6     7      8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    iS        17    18      19    20   TotW
1. Iwmeal AvC equity lb            0.6   7.6   8.2  13.0   4.8   3.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  37.5
2. i 1~ .I
(a)  Ul crest drawdfm             1.3  25.1  32.3  15.7   8.5   1.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   87.0
(6) Govt.. lann a                 1.8  14.8  33.8  21.9  16.0  12.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    CO   0.0  100.7
Li U.&  M4A 3flA    AA                      Q.A  OA  LA  LA  LA  LA  OA     U 2    LA  "A    a  LU JLa
1. Valdag 6uital lan               0.2   1.8   1.5   0.4   0.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.?
4. Cast recoeawy                   0.0   0.0   1.1   2.0   4.1   6.6   8.9  10.6  1.4  19.1  24.0  24.2  22.9  19.2  12.2   4.9    2.4   1.?    1.6    1.6  181.6
5. met rvems La                    0.0   0.2   0.9   1.6   1.9   2.0   3.6   3.3   3.0   2.6   2.1   1.4   0.8   0.1  .0.5  -.0.9    0.8  -0.5  -0.2    0.2  20.9
dt     a~   -6                  3.9  ILQ   22 19LA   3J   24   25  13.  J124  ZIA   Al 2Z ZLZ  284  210   LA    l.A    14     1.1 9                             38
1. AWC-FlO Project iswestats    3.1  39.9  66.1  37.6  24.5  16.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  187.7
2. Lcan repomats
(a) IDA FSfd                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   5.8   5.8   5.8   5.8   5.8   5.6   5.6   5.8   5.8   5.8   5.8    5.8    5.8    5.8    5.8  87 1  0%
(b) Gov't u"ds                   o.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.0   5.0  10.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  10.0   5.0   5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0   2.7  100.7 ?        K
A%WL                                  LU    La   LU   LUl  5LA    5A    LAA                                      is*A   n&a"LaMALA  lia    .lA                  aAzS
3. Iepsnl otw a-i g4 epital        0.0  nfo   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   1.8   1.5   0.4   0.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    4.7
41. ^aplw fad fir iwstant in
s_y  O*MVrss La             0.8   9.7  11.7  l'7.0  11.6   6.t   6.T   4.9   4.8   4S5   4.9   4.1   2.8   3.5   0.9  -6.8  -9.2  -9.5  -9.4  -6.8    52.2
Oda saw i               3J   MA  2A  MIA 3L  2M.A  1A ,13.!1 17& 22  a4 .Z 23,  12  U4  LB  1    1l  1.   1413 A 2
(a) etust Mr on BC Investments 0.1   1.8   6.1  10.1  12.5  13.8  13.9  13.2  12.4  11.2   9.7   7.7   5.8   4.0   2.4   1.5    1.1    0.9   0.    0.6  129.6
1-:
(6) Interest cm,
(1) IDA funds (45)             0.0   0.6   1.7   2.7   3.1   3.3   3.2   3.0   2.8   2.6   2.3   2.1   1.9   1.6   1.4   1.2    0.9    6.7   0.5    0.2  35.8
(2) Other lo-tem  lom (4)    0.0   0.4   1.3   2.5   3.2   3.8   4.0   4.0   3.9   3.7   3.3   2.7   2.1   1.5   1.1   0.9   0.7    0.5   0.3    0.1   40.1
(3) VurSr capital              0.0   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    2.9
AW" S                            14  31i  19 4  54   La LU  Li  LI  LI   A  5L AI  L   34AL   24  41  1A  la  LA  LI 70L
(a) dnrdAtratiev  cos Ad          0.0   0.6   1.9   3.2   3.9   4.3   2.6   2.5   2.3   2.1   1.6   1.5   1.1   0.7   0.5   0.3    0.2   0.2   0.1    0.1  29.8
m ANW tLA  L   AA  LA  .U  LA  LA  la  I   L9A  L   3Li  LA  OI 34  A                                                                   A  =4  =I  L& 20A.
LA Te caah nwa relates to ADCs' r      operations only. Cash nla, t subsdiary entpriaes I3 not reflected e105t for the cost rea-efy of Wnti  investments,
Lb ality sp  ^-en lams wd iaq in monts andf ty law ln acoordans# with A1fund requirebents within on overall debt-aquIty ratto ot S. It. 
l The cash surplus fro  plrJect activities would be u:ed by AiCe for cookwvially vlable activities. AOs would also bulld up reserves for meeting ar? unforeseen shortfall in cost
recovery. bamgment tea  and operatical swluses reolved frmn suosldiary enterprises (not Included In the asia fla) aw4 he available to *DCs for loan repayments due In
yeaws 16-20.
A It 2.5S of net Iumeste3ts in years 1-6 and at 1.51 therafter.



i' im AW inMM  M
Avx= AN gm at amaL  MM=n &Uma Zdla' a  faiMt AM La
(11u1011 Garres price
tew  1   2      3    4    5    6       7    8    9    l0   11   12   13   14   i5   16    17    18    19    20  ToS
1. lwo.Sa  Mt  quity La          0.3  2.0  3.5  2.6  -1.   1.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   o.o   o.o   0.0   0.0  11.6
2. 1         l
() 311 Cedt d_mden             0.5  5.8  8.6  7.4  5.3  4.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  04.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  32.0
(b) amt. lotw  A                0.9  4.3  . 7.0  S.?  3.6  2.7  0.0  0.0  o0o   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 o.o   0.0   0.0   0.0  264
; 1.1  0.  IL   13.1   A    LI   LO   LA   2&   Ll   0    0    0    L    L                                                        AA    L            50.o
3. Iki4 eawtal loan              0.1  0.4  0.4  0.2  0.2  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.5
4. CD^ roo                       0.0  0.0  0.3  0.3  0.8  0.4  0.4  0.6  1.6  3.6  6.1  8.1  9.4  9.2  7.0  4.6   2.7   t.2   0.6   0.6  S7.0
S. ett rneru Is0 0.0  0.1  '0.2  0.4  0.6  0.?  1.3  1.4  1.4  1.5  1.4  1.3  1.0  0.7  0.3  0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  12,D
Mi  -11111=1                       114  22-l  IL   11.8  LA   L         ZS   3.0   51   1A    9   ILS   9A   LI   la   Aa    1-2   DLA    a* 
at c_                           ' 
1. WC-flmud project limest.   1.S  10.1  17.6  13.1  8.9  7.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0*0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  50.2
2. lawa
C.) 31  _tub                   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1  32.0
(b) Go't ftwA                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.8  1.7   3.0  4.0  4.5  4.S  3.7  2.5   1.5   0.0   0.0   0.0  26.2
LL A             u  OL LA 3. 13.114434l4 LI AA LA   sa   341 2 2I  W SL5
3.  =U         or wrld4g capital  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.3  0.3  0.5  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.o 0.0   0.0   0.0    1 ,5
4.  tu w t  for t       _sne .A In
wAsidu    atowias 4a         0.4  2.5  4.5  3.6  3.0  0.5  -0.4  -0,2  -0.1   1.0  1.9  2.6  3.8  3.2  1.5  0.1  -1.0  -1.0  -1.5  -1.5  22.9
XuL2    R12m                  1.A  1"   U2   IL?  114   LA   =.?   2*   3    LI   14- LI  10.   0.                          24   1U&   0         4
a_s
to) intwt CS) )   ADnC lawastJeta 0.1  0.5  1.6  2.8  3.?  4.3  4.5  4.5  4.5  4.3  4.1  3.6  2.9  2.2  1.4  0.9   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.1  47.0
1-a
(b) Zst
(1)  D fkf (45)       °      -0.1  0.4  OA    .T  1.0  1.2  1.2  1.1  1.0  0.9  0.§   0.4  0.7 0.6 0.5  0.4   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.1  12.11
(2) _tr ln-ter leam (4)    0.0  0.1  0.*4  0.7  0.9  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  0.8  0.7  O.S  0.3  0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   104
(3) UwWb cpta                0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   01   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   s.0
040 4 L1A  =  W  L" 248 &4#a1 1 414 .1A110a0L Q0044AAL& OA ua
(e) inig1.U,. Mt                0.0  0.2  0.5  0.9  1.2  1.3  0.9  0.0  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.7  0.5  0.4  0.3  0.2  0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0  to.e
M _m a                        LA   04 0O2    4A  04    .   L3l  1A   1A   1A   IA  13   lo   0.1  0.3  CA   0A    LA    La   LA   iL
l  a_to floe n re ate to hOCo' poject wapotios cnl. 0ub flaet of idiUy enterprises to not refed ee ~   Uw tct r M  eoft tUlit lntetsets.
4> ItV inad  vu t l1ns weld 'my In emma gnd bt yew in sccw*ne with hOC.W fad rtquismmnto within n oveall d0t-ult MUti* f Oil.                 aa
_ eplin tato rojeot aotivitie.e wUs$ l be be qbC th Cas for comabciloY vias sctistes.  WC wold uas buld up r*ve tow610 SW unooaex ahorttall in coa* ML
resevay. bwngessnt tees sai oowratmae.l arplaines receved trm a*t4iary ewrpris (not inclubd In the MA f nlo) .t.d l6 Wdlal$ U £DC. for lcon repayomnts den in
A  t 25  ,   tw            in e   16 me *t 1.511 tberafter.



1 :;QILAA DE=E WCOS
dBfitLZ a
(Y millions, 1986 values)
Net benaeflts with projeet                            -      -tenqFIt. without prroeQ    lnrfenta.l
Mandarin           Tea b-    Feed                          Pig             Tea hi-                                 net
Year         orange    Ranie  provenent  crops  Forestry   Dairy   breeding  Total provenent   Dairy    Ot#er    Total   benefits
1987        -22.2    -13.3    -11.0       -2.7     -1.8    -13.9      -1.0    -66.0      7.0       3.2      0.0      10.1      -76.2
1988        -34.3    -27.6    -13.0       -2.8     -2.5     -4.6      -1.6    -86.4      7.0       3.8      0.0      10.8      -97.2
1989        -28.7       8.0     -6.1      -1.5     -2.7      4.2      -1.0    -27.8      7.0       4.6      0.0      11.6      -39.4
1990        -18.9      16.4      5.4       0.3     -2.2      11.6      1.2     13.8      7.0       4.8      0.0      11.7        2.0
1991        - 8.9      16.6     16.9       1.6     -0.5      12.2      1.7     39.7      7.0       5.0      0.0      11'.9      27.8
1992          2.5      16.6     18.8       1.8    -0.5       12.7      1.7     53.6       7.0      5.6      0.0      12.5       41.1
1993          18.8     17.5     18.8      2.1      -0.5      12.8      1.7     71.1      7.0       5.7      0.0      12.6       58.5
1994         46.1      17.4     17.4       2.3      1.6      12.8      1.7     99.1      7.0       5.7      0.0      12.6       86.5
1995         98.2      17.4     39.2       2.5      2.2      12.8      1.7    174.0      7.0       5.7      0.0      12.6      161.4
1996         151.6     17.4     37.7       2.5      2.3      12.8      1.7    226.0      7.0       5.7      0.0      12.6      213.3
1997         160.3     15.8     36.3      2.5       t.7      12.8      1.7    231.1       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      218.5
1998         169.7     16.4     43.2       2.5     -0.3      12.8      1.7    246.0      7.0       5.7      0.0      12.6      233.4
1999         175.0     17.4      43.2      2.5      2.3      12.8      1.7    254.9       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      242.2
2000         175.2     17.4     43.2       2.5.     3.1      12.8      1.7    255.9       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      243.2
2001         175.2     17.4      43.2      2.5      3.1      12.8      1.7    255.9       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      243.3
2002         175.2     17.4     43.2       2.5      2.3      12.8      1.7    255.1       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      2U42.
2003         175.2     17.4      43.8      2.5     -0.3      12.8      1.7    293.0       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      240.4
2004         171.0     17.4     45.0       2.5     -0.3      12.8      1.7    256.1       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      243.5
2005         177.9      t7.4     33.0      2.5     -0.3      12.8      1.7    244.9       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      232.3
2006         176.4     17.4     28.0       2.5     -0.3      12.8      1.7    238.5       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      225.9
2007         173.9     15.8      28.0      2.5     -0.3      12.8      1.7    234.4       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      221.8
2008         158.5     16.4      28.0      2.5     -0.3      128       1.7    219.6       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      206.9
2009         109.3     17.4     28.0       2.5     -0.3      12.8      1.7    171.4       7.0      5.7      0.0      12.6      158.8
2010          38.4     17.4     28.0       2.5     -0.3      12.8      1.7    100.5       7.0      5.7       0.0     12.6       87.8
2011          16.5     23.0      31.7      4.0     48.9      39.3      3.4    166.8       8.3      7.7      0.0      16.0      150.8
2012           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     64.7       0.0      0.0     64.7       0.0      0.0      0,0       0.0       64.7
2013           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     64.8      0.0       0.0     64.8      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       64.8
2014           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     49.2       0.0      0.0     49.2       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       49.2
NPV (125)     428.3     72.2    139.6       6.2      9.1     63.7       6.7    725.7     61.3    143.8       0.0    105.1       620.6
Eooniuc rate of return  295



-    -   h ASA 8iUa        Wgil
InemaU"A1 Yidj  at 5Fj1 Ow.1opmnt  O-utmi Adam at Fun1 D~aweanent- FAnainj*Ljluam    Iama   rt4aC
(thal ifow, ou  /ha or pigletx/w)   (Vt or V/u a iiajaJr   Iot 1/piet)                  (t/rats)
Appraial Mhting   Omange  Eleat1- ApPraisl  Sitchig    CaDge  E i- AWridsal St4ng   Oango   usti-
Aativ1t.                    value  value La             city a    VAU      Yaue       (          ty             value       (S)     city
Jiangzi (orane               20.3      7.9      .61       1.6    1,269       495      -61       1.6    5,427   13,074       141     -0.7
Fujian (ange                 21.0      8.2      -61       1.6    1,269       495      -61       1.6    54'35   15,029       177     -0.6
Jiangx l Rae                  1.6      0.9      -44       2.3    3,618    2,080       -*D       2.3    3,143    6,806       100     -1.0
Fujias Tea                    1.4      0.8      -45       2.2   11,346    5,446       -52      1.9    5,634   12,966        130     -0.8
Jianpi Forestry             125.0     68.6       -45      2.2      357       196      -45       2.2       51       95        86     -1.2
Fmjian tcrstrv              125.0     67.5      -46       2.2      357       193      -46      2.2    1,284    2,733        113      1.2
Provliuial Breoding Farm L4    0.      0.3       -25      4.0      653       647       "1    108.8         0   37,200       WA       WA
Red Star lreedln Farm  I      0GA      0.3      -25   -4.0         653       647       -1    108.8         0   3S,CC0       WA       WA
S9ecalized Mboelbcd Db1ry    5.0       3.6       -28      3.6      653      4*0       -26       3.8   14,770   19,679        33     -3.0
Jiasnoi P18 Fam              17.0     14.0      -18       5.7       96        84      -12       8.3  101,000  118,271        17     -5.8
Jiaqulu     Pis Dradng       17.0     12.0      -29       3.4       84        60      -25       4.0   15,31    20,331        33     -3.1
FuSion Pis rm                17.0     12.0       -29      3.4       96        72      -         C.0  290,0     394           30      2A.6
FlaJin SH  ga Bredig         17.0     12.0      -29       3.4       s0        60      -25      4.0    8,360   11,2*1         35     -2.9
JAigl Fad                     6.0      5.0       -16      6.1       420      351      -16       6.1    5505    6,8143.       24     -1.1
Nilan Fad                     6.0      5.41     -10      10.0        20      378      -10      10.0   2,U0    2,6111         16     .6.1
~~~~~Ramil Vah  .. T.~                             :as          .I                       - ,,.,I
(W    11, Y/ha,  /ow, f/aw)                  (tY/iNnd41)
Appaisal Siltobin    Oaug    W..tti Awpaisal &uitchig   Gng   fash..
Actvity                      visu    valu         (S)     oitOy    value    value        )        ty
Jianpi Iorbee                4,852   55,550    1,I05      -0.1      2.2      14.6      S55      -0.2;
Fujian langs                 5,556   49,339       788     -0.1      2.2      14.9      567      -0.2
JIanul aRIO                  5,724   21,465       275     .0.4       2.2      9.0      310      -0.3
FuI"n Tea                    4,107   33,151       701     .0.1       2.2      7.6      241      -0.41
JIangul ForeetrY               187    2,238    1,100       0.1       2.2      5.7      1514    -.6
FuJian Forestry                373    2,510       573     -0.2      2.2       6.2      178    .0.6
Prlainoal Breeding Fer La   6,557    7,086          8    -12.1       2.2      WA       WsA       W/A
Red Star Dreading Fanm       6,535    6,982        7    -14.6       2.2       WA       WA        W/A
SPl ulled Imeold Odrm   7,312    13,387            83      -1.2      2.2     14.2      536      -0.2
Jianu Pig Fam                3,743    5,015        31     -2.9       2.2      8.7      291      -0.3
Ji1aul So Ka Dreding           929    3,07        226     -0.        2.2     16.9      657      -0.02
Nl-X  Pg FAM                 2,389    5,612       135     -0.7      2.2      19.0      750      -0.1
FAianH Pi  Bredng            1,O18    3,175       212     -0.5      2.2      1 .7      739      -0.1
J 1Ipi fgeed                 2,69?    5,288        96     -1.0       2.2      3.7       68      -1.5
Fpot  Faed                   3,592    5,278        47     -2.1      2.2       3.3       46      .2.2
s  Ylouo of variablo tested at whieb not present value ct prject ooasts and boeaitl (discounted at 12S) io reduoed to  zro                  I
Zk  *oe"  debue In net preatnk value (discounted at 125) due to a 1 doapge In the varable.
4a OpwtUng oats and labor requirm"es would be tho ame wlth and wlthout projeot.



ANNEX 5
2 ~SOILS ABEA DLEWE  P
Relat  Doc s.X  a  DatA Avai±ale In Uf PrJec Flies
A.  kDrapW al Mission Reort,2 Ae
A.1  Activity Models (15 Mdels, Including Investments, Operation
Costs, Production and Revenues With and Without Project;
at Financial and Econcmic Prices)
A.2 Agroprocessing Preliminary Feasibility Reports (7 Reports and
Annex Tables)
B.  Loa&  Feasibility £eort .an Studies (Sentefmber Iq95)
B. 1  Jiangxi ADC, k .d -Soilsq Project Feasibilitv R  t  i=  Anznexe
B.2  Jiangxi ADC, Inyestm= itaJLIModls
B.3  Jiangxi ADC,                ougzeh xu Lds EroYa
B.4   Jiangxi ADC, FQrganic .ertilizr .uij~1LDman IakJ&
B.5  Jiangxi ADC, Processing Prognoal
B.6  Jiangxi ADC, k=cr Qgagerzan54  lectric -Power, Road
B,7  Jiangxi ADC, Procuruntma   Proosals
B.8  Jiangxi ADC, ADL  rtEb2r
B.9  Jiangxi ADC, Prgject QrganizatI
B.10  Jiangxi ADC, Financial Hglaiokua ns
B.11  Jiangxi ADC, J.   ci  B3lcamation Tecinical Standards
R 12  Jiangxi ADC, .E±ll  Prgject fro,al
B.13  N. Fujian ADC,   2 Dseo  mient Prgosalas =ith Attached ItXa
B.114  N. Fujian ADC, L4anPi,g areediingErgoo1al
B.15  N. Fujian ADC, Processing Proposals
B.16  N. Fujian ADC, PfrouroMn   Pro=osals With Tabl
B.17  N. Fujian ADC, Reearch A     raining Prq=ala
eB.18  N. Fuj ian ADC,     Liu=lation 9n Financlal
B.19  N. Fujian ADCO Projgi  Oganizatign A:
B.20  N. Fujian ADC, AM  Charter
C.   ErMI=.t Arm JIa  .ans  fiagra
C.1    Fujian Project Area Soil Map
C.2    Fujian Project Area Contour Map
C.3    Fujian Project Area Present Land Use Map
C.4    Fujian Project Area Site Locations
C.5   Jiangxi Project Area Site Locations
C.6   Jiangxi Sanple Site Layout



Ca rtiM Yenr                           I      M 986          187       1    188        I    1i*0         l0             I      2L9n  :  i
Q"^sr .                                I I t. 2 7    3 t 4 1    1 2 1 3 14 1 1 1 t  1 1 -1 I   I      4 1 2 1 3 1 4 1  1 2 IAIII  I i  I  I
A. Lead Developmente gt                                                      e
*          ~ ~~I  I  I  I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I    I   I   I   I   I   Ii'     I   I   I    I'    i  I
B.~~~~~~~                        I   ISnur    I-a  I rI   I   I   ii          I   I   II    I   I   lii                I Iti  | | | | | 
Irrigation System               i   i SoSooooa3 M**********atnIJ*********arrlIlJ*********I0333mlI]*********a UTI        I     I   i
Rural glectrification            I   I
11         11         1          li    | | | |t    I  J   I   Ii  I   I   I   I i I    I   I   I 
Roads and Bridges                I                                 t                                                      I   I   I
C.; Buildings                          I                                                                               I             I   I
t             I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I    I   I   I   I   I   I   I   t   I   I   I    I   I   I
lea I^prove eat   ;t g | | |lX||        lII|  
Forests                          |   I I I   I   I CM   I   IM  I  M   I   IM  I          I   Im  I oc   I   ID       I   I   I   I
Feed and Fodder                  I    I   I     t      IIIIIIJI   I   ILIJTTlIJi            I      Wl      IIflhJJJi  i1         l
*                       b l  d   I I      I I   I   I   I    l      I   I   I   I     I   I   I  teI     I   I 1 
I   I   I   I   1   1    I   I  I   I   I   I    I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I    I   I
Construction Materials      1           J'                         f1Q J1[U:f}iwZ  oii EnIxu                             I   I    
C h ebic d F e rtilz                  t              I   I   I   I   I   I   I   l e     I   I   I
Nachinery. VehiclesantAnimala          I   Is  bel4   1   1                   I    e   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I  1   I   I   I
Research, Tribicidg &iiOffice Sqlip.1   I
I   I   I     al    bl  c    I    dl  I  I  I  I  e  I   I  I  e  I  I   I   I   I   I   I    I   I
Cbeica  FetilzerIp.lllttlJl   ]JJlllLllllll! I I                                         I   I   I   I   I1   I   I   I   i   I
Research, Training & Office    E q u alip.lI    til                             I I    I      I 1           II       li|             1'
Overseas Training 6 Study Tours   I    I                                                                                I   I
Local Traiuing                                                                    I                                                II
Consultant Services                I   I   I   I                                                                                 I   I
Effective dateJ                                                               Completion date_J
COO0  Detailed design work   0CD  Implementation   ***  Construction and installation work only  XIO  continuous design & coustructionl
Notes on procurement:  a ;  invitation to bid; b   bid evalustion; c a contract awards d   being deliverys e   finioh delivery.



CHINA
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization for Project !glementation
Jlaxxl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u I    1~
Provincial             Jisq                          foilit                   Fujian                      provitnctai
Coodination .uovital                                 d  ttee         .Prowinal                            Coordiastion
iadttee   -_--  _     overwmnot    - - - -                        _            erment    - - - - - -    Coctee
.  .    ~~(project Office)              Secretariat             (Project Office)    .--                  1
Coordination_-- Gow't/State -aren                                        Couty              County G-t _ ---C--diiation
Comdttees  (Project Office.)          AAC                                           (Project Of f1ces)       Cnte
Spcwializet   owueelSta                             Specialized tufettold.s
CoordinatXn __ Gw'tlState Famis _  Pamis  Ximtg       _    aomtr Gove   __ Colmty Cdlnstlon   :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.
Oittees  (Projct Offices)   Cs      _  _  _             (Prdect Off)              : 



- 73 -
FIGURE 3
RED SOIlS ARDEVEOPMw PRIU)JEC
Flow of IDA ftkde
i~~~~~~~~~~u ti-
JaW                                                            Fujian
Pr 1nca                                                 Provinia
-, ie Burea                                                   Fiace  BtWeau
A)C~~~~~D
l 1h~~Eterpri_se1s=  1_
X-County Fnuwe                                              |Prefecture-Wntyr
|Buresus /b                                       .       Finance Bttreaus lb
| Fan |   |ADCs la |                               I~~~~~~~~ADCe a 
Specialized Households                                          Speciallxed Households
Js ADC9 to charge fees for techaical services funded by XA.
7b For onlentig to ADca md -infrastructue construction.



IBRD 19407R
Nf. IV4.Sqa   X  , . r . t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~tirli
.  ~~  <   ;  t*.M7t                         .     ~~~~C H I N A
JaFA    $ RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
- *,,, a *           JIANGXI AND FWIAN PROVINCES
MaP A .                      _,^ .  .m+e 2 A ] f PROIECT AREA
,1 G:Jft^o r . . il- _ ~~~~~~~~~~ROAD$
*        tdAS4GK   ,.K  t    l                                  - _.--.  WRAILROADS
I-. PORTS
_   Ap "nt.n.  .;,  >, A  I  HX 4    I                  *   AIRPORTS
____________'_'______________'_________'                                       DISTRICT   BOUNDARIES
,3&E -                     _        ig  '  /; .                             PROVItCE B0UNDARES               w
- . zj_INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
uvnin( /                                       *
0;,At"     t  J5/    54  lO(t100  5  200
To Y/g                           -= _ANCHA              Lping                             KILOMETeRS
Y'hu _.~~, 5'                               ',-
/v   $ ts/  
Yu n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.p ~
)   }   ,     z     v    .  >  < \    Plnt4Zhen9thV gan        ongta       , kj1.-i
To Shaongzbo; t/  '      g        fengc
280-
24°-   r    G  U  A  I<GtO    NtGt   rozfni                                               24e.~~~~~~~~~~FO Lqua
ro Shq.i1o,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ToWnzo
,  ,  >    ~~~~~~~~~  t unxioo,   / ./~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xip
114°          !    trO Guongeho  116°                              11,8                             120
MAY fy86



IBRD 194MR
\                  ~~~~~~~~~C H i N  A                      A
RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT \
FUJIAN PROVINCE
_ fROjEs' SOwh5xRt \ Z H E J I A N G
-           i:  i -Ra4 ot^42nS       - J I A  N  G  X  I    '
_ t'-% 'IA R .O.CR-f fHNT
NE: AN,~
=   falRA:<s  OdNDAa1                          ,
-    ' Cv'N- FOuN4RlFS                >    )         ,      eTi 'h
, _-._ ~PROO!NCf OUNDAMES
s      I-fRNATFRNAT,oNAL E3UNDARITS                X,oftn          f2
28,                                                                                    28v > w;lDg  _ ,    } \ -   >+  tie,  t \ rO tongqvr
to tongqu,on
~~ S  A  N  AA    Il G                 hncan
4*ms C A                          L  X 0 iX  (~~~~~~~~~~~~   T
I)40o                        .rn*ot  7)....n   ,o t m\> r7 14oonw.   -_  \   -  C. i
q-                7a D- ---.   m-     'nA Cc  a,p  C
prw9      'ooc                          204,UQ
9; R  x    Jo;s L Sp AQ,s                      isL OMF i5 QS                        / ob.
<  "  Gua.p,,, CZ;Xg_  T#i~l - r- si4Wesss^.sireer                   *              /      S H 
-^'o Oi> iK  ?5~" a-~ >  ~ ~-w 9 iYq2  \,;'2t
;,*s,,    2~PNE   .11-                                                   FU      JN      19°fJ
He~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~A b1386...                            t



k  to hujiuotlg 169m|                                 116030;                                               C H  I N  A
2ROVINCIAL    K)                         /                                    RED SOILS AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROEDINCI FARML            N                                                                                       JIANGXI PROVlNCE
PROJECT BOUNDARIES                              ROADS
T* Xiwhui  -          NANCHANO       S  H  I                                                      PPOJECT 8REEDING FARMS                     R+ AILROADS
mt.      =  FRUIT ORCHARDS                             COUNTY BOUNDARiES
-&  /  >  _ RAMIE                                -  -- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
FEFED LANDS                 _                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
a - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3O  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~ ~ oL"281301
:'C=
To\) PiiiExiex
2800~~~~~~~~arqW
.nchuo  Xuwan          0                                           ''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Tf  wa
JIOOQheOIICUn  To Y~~~~~~~~~~~~hoong                          KILOMUERS     T/Nw iv                                       ww
/  TgJian~~H0                                  
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~~o                                              G o a                                                         -  M__ _ _p_ _A__ _ _ _ _ _



