OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTSI
CREDIT NUMBER 1733 CHA
Project Agreement
(Red Soils Area Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
JIANGXI PROVINCE
and
FUJIAN PROVINCE
Dated                         tRC-'ttt  , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1733 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     "   Z                   , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
JIANGXI PROVINCE and FUJIAN PROVINCE (the Provinces).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that the Provinces agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Provinces, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Each of the Provinces declares its commitment
to the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out its part of the Project described in said Schedule through
the respective PO and Corporation with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and rural development practices, and shall pro-
vide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for its respec-
tive part of the Project.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Provinces shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement and its part of the Project.
Section 2.04. Each of the Provinces shall maintain: (i) the
Joint Coordinating Committee and its Secretariat established by
the Provinces for the purposes of providing interprovincial coor-
dination of the activities to be carried out under the Project;
and (ii) the Project Coordinating Committee and the     PO estab-
lished within such Province, all with competent staff     in ade-
quate numbers, and with functions and responsibilities acceptable
to the Association.
Section 2.05. Each of the Provinces shall:
(i) by November 1 of each year, starting November 1,
1986, prepare and discuss with the Association a
plan for provision of chemical fertilizer suffi-
cient to meet crop nutrient requirements; and
(ii) thereafter implement such a plan.
Section 2.06. Each of the Provinces shall prepare and submit
to the Association, for th-e Association's review and approval,
detailed studies of the technical and financial feasibility of
the agroprocessing investments under Part G of the Project,
before approval of those investments by such Province.
Section 2.07. (a) Each of the Provinces shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of its part of the Project, the per-
formance of its obligations under this Agreement and other mat-
ters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Each of the Provinces shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to


﻿-3-
interfere with the progress of its part of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by such Province of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Each of the Provinces shall cause the respec-
tive Corporation to maintain a continuous sample of farm house-
holds for monitoring of farm budgets and family incomes, and
shall review the findings with the Association.
Section 2.09. Each of the Provinces shall cause the respec-
tive Corporation to charge interest on Sub-loans at ABC's pre-
vailing rates for similar loans for similar purposes; and shall
from time to time review such interest charges with the
Associaciation in light of the cost of funds to such Corporation
and its financial viability, as well as changes in ABC's interest
rates.
Section 2.10. Each of the Provinces shall cause the respec-
tive Corporation to use any net cash accruals by such Corporation
due to differences in timing between sub-loan receipts and repay-
ments to the respective Province, only for financing agricultural
development or agroprocessing activities to be agreed with the
Association.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Provinces shall: (i) main-
tain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condi-
tion in respect of activities related to its part of the Project;
and (ii) cause the respective Corporation to maintain records
and accounts, including separate Project accounts, adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its opera-
tions and financial conditions.
(b) Each of the Provinces shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account     for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;


﻿-4-
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, including
each of the Corporations' financial statements, in
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof and
said records as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, each of the Provinces shall:
(i) maintain, and cause its respective Corporation to
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last wl'hdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures have been used for the pirpose for
which they were provided.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Provinces thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the Genaeral Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement sh,ll be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Jiangxi Province:
Bureau of Agriculture, Animal
Husbandry and Fisheries
Nanchang, Jiangxi Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
2814
Nanchang, Jiangxi
For Fujian Province:
Bureau of Agriculture
Fuzhou, Fujian Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
8056
Fuzhou, Fujian
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any of either of the Provinces may be
taken or executed by the Vice Governor of such Province or such
other person or persons as such Vice Governor shall designate in
writing, and each of the Provinces shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   11      A       P   _oF e t"     L
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
JIANGXI PROVINCE
FUJIAN PROVINCE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


