OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1733 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Red Soils Area Development Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated            ,t   h    (     , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1733 CRA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        LC-tJ,                , 1986, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA     (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) The Project will be carried out by Jiangxi Province and
Fujian Province both (hereinafter called the Provinces), with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Provinces the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Provinces;.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a) "Jiangxi" means Jiangxi Province, a political subdivi-
sion of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b) "Fujian" means Fujian Province, a political subdivision
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;


﻿(c) "Provinces" means Jiangxi and Fujian, and Province
means either Jiangxi or Fujian, as the context requires;
(d) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Provinces of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e) "JADC" means Jiangxi Agricultural Development Corpora-
tion, a state-owned enterprise of the Borrower established and
operating pursuant to its Charter;
(f) "JADC Charter" means the Charter of JADC, dated
June 20, 1985;
(g) "FJPADC" means Fujian Jianyang Prefecture Agricultural
Development Corporation, a state-owned enterprise of the Borrower
established and operating pursuant to its Charter;
(h) "FJPADC Charter" means the Charter of FJAPDC, dated
January 16, 1986;
(i) "Charters" means the JADC Charter and the FJPADC
Charter;
(j) "Corporations" means JADC and FJPADC, and Corporation
means either JADC or FJPADC, as the context requires;
(k) "PO" means the Project Office established within each
of the Provinces;
(1) "Sub-loan" means a sub-loan to be made, by either of
the Corporations, partly out of the proceeds of the Credit, to a
Sub-borrower under the Project;
(m) "Sub-borrower" means a recipient of a Sub-loan;
(n) "ABC" means Agricultural Bank of China, a specialized
banking institution established and operating under the Laws of
the Borrower;
(o) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(p) "ha" means hectare.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-four million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 34,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for th,e Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank accept-
able to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory   to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Sche-
dule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992, or
such  later  date   as  the  Association   shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April I and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1996, and ending April 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Develooment
Credit Agreement, shall cause the Provinces to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of the Provinces therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appro-
priate to enable the Provinces to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available the equivalent of
SDR 25,500,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit to Jiangxi in
accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall make available the equivalent of
SDR 8,500,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit to Fujian in
accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' 6ervices
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, res-
pectively) shall be carried out by eaclh of the Provinces pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Either of the Provinces shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that either
of the Provinces will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(c) Either of the Charters shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of either of the Corporations to per-
form any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of either of the Corporations or for the suspension of its
operations.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of


﻿- 6 -
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council has
approved the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the Provinces,
and is legally binding upon each of the Provinces in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date    of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China


﻿-7-
Cable address:                        Telex:
FINANMIN                            22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D,C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By             Al           4
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category &Iad the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Land development,         11,490,000        30%
canal construc-
-  tion aid crop
establishment
(2) Materials, breed-         21,610,000        100% of foreign
ing animals,                               expenditures;
equipment and                              100% of local
vehicles                                   expenditures
(ex-factory
cost); 75% of
local expendi-
tures for other
items procured
locally
(3) Technical                    900,000        100%
assistance
and over-
seas training
TOTAL          34,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the p7ovisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 1,
1986.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to demonstrate efficient
methods of developing the productive potential of presently
unutilized land in the red soil areas of south China, through:
( ) introducing of cultivation of cash crops and livestock pro-
duction under individual household management in six counties
and two state farms in Jiangxi, and five counties and two munici-
palities in Fujian; and (ii) improving of the infrastructure and
support services in these areas.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:   Development of an area of about 27,000 ha of idle land,
through terracing, contour planting, on-farm irrigation
and drainage, and construction of farm access roads.
Part B:   Improving and extending the existing infrastructure,
including enlargement of small reservoirs, canal con-
struction,   installation  of   pumping   stations  and
sprinkler irrigation systems, rural electrification,
road and bridge construction.
Part C:   Construction of housing, schools and clinics, adminis-
trative buildings, warehouses, laboratories and exten-
sion stations, and livestock sheds.
Part D:   Provision of construction and farm machinery as well as
trucks and other vehicles required for land develop-
ment, support services and management.
Part E:   Establishment of orchards, ramie, feed grains, fodder
crops, and woodlots as well as rehabilitation of about
2,400 ha of low yield tea plantation, including pro-
vision of fertilizer and seed or seedlings.
Part F:   Provision of purebred stock and fishmeal for dairy and
pig breeding farms and specialized households.
Part G:   Rehabilitation   or  new  construction   of  processing
factories for ramie, dairy products, and feed premix,
and cold storage and pack'ng facilities for fruit.


﻿- 12 -
Part H:   Provision of research, training and office equipment to
upgrade and enlarge the existing extension system as
well as training and management institutions.
Part I:   Conducting a pilot program of research and demonstra-
tion on areas of more marginal red soils.
Part J:   Local and overseas training, study tours, and technical
assistance to project management organizations and the
staff of agrotechnical service agencies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in China may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Research, training and office equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of not more than $1,100,000; breeding animals and
fishmeal estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
$3,300,000; and field vehicles, motorcycles and farm machinery
estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $2,470,000 may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Civil works, including land development, canal construction
and crop establishment may be procured in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where


﻿- 14 -
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Associaciation has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of the
ProjectAgreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the .Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of '-chedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to SDR 2,100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Acccunt and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 16 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn, by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) ot this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 17 -
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


