Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6590-E
TECHNICAL ANNEX
-EXICO
INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AUGUST 2, 1995



Currency Equivalents
(As of July 21, 1995)
Currency Unit = Mexican New Peso (MexN$)
US$ 1.0 = MexN$ 6.10
Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
API               Autoridad Portuaria Integral
(Integrated Port Authority)
ASA               Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares
(Airports and Auxiliary Services)
BANXICO           Banco de Mexico
BIS               Bank for International Settlements
CAPUFE            Caminos y Puentes Federales
(Federal Highways and Bridge Authority)
CFE               Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad
(Federal Electricity Commission)
CID               Comisi6n Intersecretarial de Desincorporaci6n
(Interministerial Commission on Privatization)
CRE               Comisi6n Reguladora de Energfa
(Energy Regulatory Commission)
DGAC              Direcci6n General de Aviaci6n Civil
(General Directorate of Civil Aviation)
FNM               Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico
(Mexican National Railways)
FTAL              Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan (ME-3838)
ICAO              International Civil Aviation Organization
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
IFC               International Finance Corporation
IMF               International Monetary Fund
IPP               Independent Power Producer
MIF               Multilateral Investment Fund
NAFIN             Nacional Financiera S.N.C.
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
PCS               Personal Communications Services
PEMEX             Petr6leos Mexicanos
SCT               Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes
(Secretariat of Communication and Transport)
SECODA            Secretarfa de la Contralorfa y Desarrollo
Administrativo
(Secretariat of the Controller General and
Administrative Development)
SECOFI            Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
(Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development)
SHCP              Secretarfa de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit)
TELMEX            Tehlfonos de Mexico S.A. de C. V.
TELECOMM          Telecomunicaciones de Mexico



MEXICO
INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pae
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background  .....................................   1
Current Status of Privatization ..........            ..................  2
Project Design .....................................  4
Project Description ................................... 7
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Organization .................................. 12
Training Plan ..................................... 12
Project Costs and Financing ............................. 12
Procurement .....................................   12
Disbursements ..................................... 13
Accounts and Audits .................................. 13
ATTACHMENT: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  PLAN   .............. 15






MEXICO
INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
I.     Background
1.     Throughout the last decade privatization has been a key component of
structural reform policies in Mexico in the pursuit of productivity gains for the
economy. In the mid-1980s the Government complemented macro-economic
stabilization policy with structural reforms, including privatization, to spur
productivity growth. Sales of smaller state-enterprises dominated the period 1986 to
1988, after which followed a large scale privatization program of larger companies
operating in competitive markets, mainly manufacturing firms and banks. Between
1989 and 1992 total privatization proceeds amounted to 6.3 percent of average annual
national output. Proceeds were essentially used to repay debt and thus helped place
the Government's debt exposure on a sound footing. In 1990 the Government began
selling firms in sectors requiring economic regulation, most notably Telefonos de
Mexico, S.A. de C. V. (TELMEX), the national telephony operator. Though the
overall economic outlook brightened, the difficulties of selling other infrastructure
businesses without greater attention to the legal and regulatory aspects became
apparent. Consequently, the announced program, comprising power plants, roads,
airports and ports, slowed significantly in 1993.
2.     The successful implementation of these and other far-reaching structural
reforms, along with reduced interest rates paid on investment alternatives abroad,
induced a surge in net foreign capital inflows that averaged US$27 billion per year
during 1991-93. Until the end of 1994, these inflows enabled Mexico to run a large
current account deficit, which peaked at 8 percent of GDP in 1994. The capital
inflows also caused the real value of the peso to appreciate. Strong political conflicts
that arose in 1994, however, led to an abrupt slowing of the capital inflows, so that
Mexico was forced to finance its current account deficit through a loss of foreign
reserves. When the markets realized that the relative supply of pesos was growing too
fast, panic selling further depleted the foreign exchange reserves of Mexico in late
December 1994 and January 1995, and led to a major devaluation. Though the
market appears to have stabilized, the peso depreciated by about 77 percent, from
about 3.45 December 1994 to about 6.10 on July 21, 1995.
3.     In March 1995 the Government announced an austerity program to
reestablish trust in the economy and minimize the required macro-economic
adjustment. The main targets of the program are to: (i) achieve a primary budgetary
surplus of 4.4 percent of GDP for 1995; (ii) limit net domestic credit creation to a
maximum of MexN$10 billion for 1995; (iii) achieve equilibrium in the current
account; and (iv) restructure MexN$65 billion of outstanding debt of the private
sector, representing 13 percent of the total commercial bank loan portfolio. The
program is backed by unprecedented balance of payments support, announced to



2
amount to some US$50 billion, from sources including the International Monetary
Fund (IMF), US government, Bank for International Settlements (BIS), World Bank
and Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). As part of the program, the
Government has announced its intention to accelerate the privatization of major state-
owned enterprises, mainly in infrastructure. The program includes a large number of
entities in telecommunications, energy and transport. Compared with others in Latin
America and other regions, this is one of the most extensive privatization programs.
The ambitious goal is to obtain sales revenues of about US$6 billion in 1995 and
US$6-8 billion in 1996.
II.    Current Status of Privatization
4.     The Government is advancing at a very fast pace in preparing the various
sectors for privatization. The privatization of container terminals in four major ports
is most advanced and the call for tenders was published in the Official Gazette on
February 23, 1995. Concessions for two major terminals were awarded on July 7,
1995. Deregulation of basic telephone services and rail privatization are being
pursued aggressively with basic laws submitted to Congress in April 1995. In a
major departure from past policy, the Government also introduced a law on natural
gas deregulation in Congress in April 1995. Groundwork has started in the areas of
airports, roads, radio spectrum auctions, satellite privatization, power generation and
secondary petrochemicals. Now that the immediate efforts to put in place a macro-
economic program are no longer dominating the attention of top policy makers, the
pace of reform in infrastructure is accelerating further. In support of the privatization
process, however, a host of issues related to privatizing infrastructure firms with
natural monopoly characteristics need clarification and analysis, e.g., design of
market structures and regulatory arrangements, concession design, public procurement
rules, contracting practices, rules for issuing Government guarantees, and the
development of appropriate financial infrastructure for financing investments,
including means of securing credit, issuing insurance contracts, etc. Lack of clarity
about these matters has been a major obstacle for infrastructure privatization and the
conclusion of financeable deals.
5.     Electiricity and Secondary Petrochemicals. The Government's approach to
private participation in these sectors has been rather gradual. Since 1992, it has
introduced a number of measures to gradually open the electricity sector, within the
limits of Article 27 of the Constitution which reserves public electricity service for the
State. It has introduced a new legal and regulatory framework which provides the
basis for private ownership in power generation in the form of: (i) independent power
producers (IPPs); (ii) self-generators; (iii) cogenerators; and (iv) small power
producers. Power sales by IPPs are made exclusively to the state-owned electricity
monopoly, Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (CFE), while sales under the remaining
three classes may be to private parties. While private companies have shown much
interest, lack of confidence in the fuel supply agreements (which would be with the
state-owned hydrocarbons monopoly, PEMEX) and questions about how power
purchase agreements might be managed by CFE have so far stalled progress. The
Government is now exploring ways to reform policy such that existing and new power



3
plants may be privatized without the need for extensive government guarantees of
contractual performance under the required supply and offtake agreements. In
particular, the Government is exploring to what extent private power plants may be
given a choice of fuel suppliers, how to establish adequate tariffs to render CFE
creditworthy, and to what extent competition could be introduced in the power sector.
6.     In late 1992, the Government announced plans to privatize some 60
secondary petrochemicals plants. These plans were defacto shelved during 1993.
Meanwhile, PEMEX has internally been reorganized into four major profit centers,
one of which comprises secondary petrochemicals. Current discussions revolve around
how to privatize the secondary petrochemical business - as a whole or in parts.
7.     Transport. Since the late 1980s, the transport sector has been deregulated
and services increasingly provided by the private sector. The Bank had in particular
supported trucking deregulation with sector work and an adjustment loan in 1990
(Loan 3207-ME).
8.     Between 1992 and 1994 some 76 terminals outside the major ports were
concessioned to private operators. In the main port of Veracruz, three stevedoring
concessions were let in 1991. Tender announcements for concessions of container
terminals in Mexico's four major ports (Altamira, Veracruz, Manzanillo and Lazaro
Cardenas) were issued in February 1995. Two concessions were awarded on July 7,
1995 (Veracruz and Manzanillo). The legal underpinnings for this program are the
Port Law, Navigation Law, and Customs Law and their corresponding regulations.
The Port Law provides for the creation of integrated port authorities (APIs) to act as
landlord for each port and to be responsible for the concessioning and privatization
activities within their port. Airlines were privatized in the large privatization wave
around the turn of the decade. Airports are currently under the management of a
government agency, Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA). The Government has
begun to consider options for privatizing ASA's operations.
9.     Until this year, privatization activities in the Mexican railways company
(Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico, FNM), which is essentially a transporter of
freight, were limited to contracting out the operation of repair shops and some track
construction and maintenance. Now, the Government wants to proceed with the
privatization of FNM and is considering alternative plans to do this. Under the
current economic adjustment program, Congress, in early 1995, approved a change in
the Constitution to allow for railway privatization. A new railway law was presented
to Congress in April 1995.
10.    Telecommunications. Major reform of the telecommunications sector was
launched in 1989 with the privatization of TELMEX, the 56 percent state-owned
monopoly telephone company. A 20 percent, controlling interest in TELMEX was
sold in 1990 for $1.76 billion to a consortium of Mexican and foreign investors.
Public offerings in 1991 and 1992 fetched a further $4.5 billion, bringing total sales
proceeds to $6.3 billion. TELMEX now accounts for about 30% of the equity traded
in Mexico's stock exchange and also figures prominently in the US capital markets.



4
11.    The results of this privatization have generally been satisfactory. Since 1990
TELMEX has invested in excess of $2 billion annually, telephone density increased
from 6.3 lines per 100 inhabitants to over 9, rural service was extended to some
8,000 rural communities, and the number of payphones increased from 83,000 to
205,000. However, while investment performance met expectations, steps towards
opening up the core telephone business to competition have proceeded rather slowly.
In particular, the agreed timetable for rebalancing TELMEX's tariffs has not been
met. Weighted average rates remain among the highest of OECD countries. High
connection fees stifle the demand for new lines. Quality of service has generally
improved but remains below targets in the Federal District.
12.    Other important elements of the 1989 reform were: (i) licensing an
independent private cellular service provider in each of nine regions; (ii) transferring
the remaining state telecommunications operations from the Secretariat of
Comunicacion and Transport (SCT) to Telecommuniciones de Mexico (TELECOMM,
a decentralized state entity); and (iii) expanding under TELECOMM the domestic
satellite system, including investments of about $0.7 billion.
In.    Project Design
13.    Project Objectives and Approach. The project aims to: (i) help the
Government choose structural options for sector reform; (ii) develop a sound legal
and regulatory framework in support of privatization; (iii) reduce, and if possible,
eliminate constraints to privatization in selected sectors (ports, airports, railway,
telecommunications, power, secondary petrochemicals); and (iv) provide support to
the privatization preparation process in each of these sectors, through the
Interministerial Commission on Privatization (CID, para. 16).
14.    The Government's overall framework on privatization is as follows.
First, those companies that operate in competitive markets for tradeable
goods and services can and will be sold as soon as possible with the goal of
maximizing sales revenues.
Second, all other firms and institutions in the subsectors listed above which
produce non-tradeable and largely monopolistic services, will require the
establishment of a suitable framework for economic regulation. In these
cases the Government will ensure that the establishment of efficient solutions
takes precedence over the quick generation of cash. The Government will
also maximize the scope for competitive forces and minimize the need for
economic regulation, if need be by relying on intermodal and inter-
concession competition rather than attempting to establish a system of
economic regulation, that requires significant fine-tuning. Forms of
privatization will be chosen that minimize reliance on explicit and implicit
government subsidies and guarantees so as to strictly limit the exposure of
the Government. This implies inter alia the need to set tariffs at levels
sufficient to cover competitive costs, including the cost of capital, and to



5
allow investors maximum freedom to choose creditworthy and reliable
suppliers and customers.
Third, the proceeds of privatization will be used to improve the composition
of the Government's balance sheet.
Fourth, while the establishment of sound regulatory systems requires careful
preparation, it will be undertaken with determination and without delay, such
that the process of privatization and deregulation will be initiated in 1995 in
some sectors and completed within three to five years in those sectors
requiring more upstream strategic work.
15.    The project's design builds on the conceptual approach adopted by the
Government. The focus on legal and regulatory frameworks is an essential first step,
aimed not only at identifying and eliminating obstacles to private sector participation
but also in ensuring that the "rules of the game" are applied transparently and
consistently.
16.    Institutional Framework. The privatization program is complex and wide
ranging, addressing issues of sector structure, competition and efficiency. To steer
this undertaking, provide policy guidelines and ensure a consistent, comprehensive
approach across sectors, the CID was established by Presidential Decree on April 7,
1995. It is chaired by the Secretary of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), and its
permanent members include the Secretaries of Commerce and Industrial Development
(SECOFI), Control and Administrative Development (SECODA), and Labor. The
President of the Federal Competition Commission is a permanent observer. Sector
ministries and entities (e.g. SCT) participate in the CID for matters pertaining to
those sectors. The CID is supported by a small Technical Secretariat, headed by a
senior official in SHCP. The Technical Secretariat oversees the day-to-day affairs of
the CID, coordinate contracting of consultants and advisers, reviews proposals, and
ensures consistency throughout the process.
17.    The CID is charged with: (i) designing the privatization process and
supervising its implementation; (ii) naming a special commissioner (comisionado
especial) to coordinate each specific privatization; (iii) reviewing the regulatory
framework and proposing changes; (iv) reviewing concession designs and agreements,
particularly those aspects related to penalties for non-compliance with the conditions
of the concession agreement or the requirements of the basic laws under which it is
made; (v) establishing guidelines for valuation of state-owned entities and overseeing
the process; (vi) establishing and carrying out a communications strategy with respect
to privatization; and (vii) contracting the advisers necessary to support its work. The
decree also states that the CID has final approval of all privatizations and that
proceeds of the privatization process will revert to the federal treasury.
18.    The privatization activities to be supported in each sector (power and
secondary petrochemicals, transport and telecommunications) are directed by working
groups related to each ministry, under the direction of the special commissioner
appointed by the CID. The Technical Secretariat provides support to the working
groups. The decree requires that each working group: (i) define a sector strategy and



6
privatization plan; (ii) review the adequacy of the legal and regulatory framework;
(iii) recommend changes; and (iv) supervise the operational aspects of the actual
divestiture, concession or auction. Each working group is, therefore, the primary
locus of responsibility for identifying and implementing policy studies and other
analytical work, and for preparing and submitting options papers and decision
memoranda to the CID. In addition to hiring of consultants, workshops, seminars,
study tours and training would be organized and authorized by each working group.
19.    Bank and Other Multilateral Assistance. To support the immediate needs
for technical assistance, the Bank is providing substantial direct support to help in the
development of the overall strategy and sectoral policies, and in particular the drafting
of sound laws and regulations. This assistance, which will continue throughout the
project, has taken the form of policy notes in response to requests by the authorities,
draft terms of reference, the organization of consultations with international experts in
relevant areas, and comments on draft documents the Government has submitted to
Bank experts. Six workshops, on railways, power sector restructuring, regulatory
policy, telecommunications deregulation, spectrum auctions and satellite privatization
have already been organized.
20.    The Bank's assistance strategy is being coordinated with both IDB and the
IFC. It started with an aide-memoire on privatization strategy which was supported
by all three institutions and issued on January 13, 1995 to the Government at the end
of a joint mission. The IDB is exploring ways to utilize its Multilateral Investment
Fund (MIF) in support of the program. IFC is similarly exploring ways to support
the privatization process and to arrange financing and securitization for new
investment projects.
21.    Risks. The project faces several important risks. The first is that the
privatization program may be weakened in the face of opposition from unions, the
state owned enterprises themselves, private sector groups seeking to limit competition,
or other organized groups. The broad composition of the CID, however, and planned
activities (such as workshops, public relations campaigns, and briefings with the
domestic and international investors) will mitigate this risk. Continued macroeconomic
instability would also damage the program e.g. by increasing country risk for
investors and by giving greater urgency to quick - though ultimately damaging -
dispositions of assets before adequate legal and regulatory structures are in place. An
unfavorable public reaction to the Government's economic program, or to the
privatization program itself, may make it much more difficult to eventually effect the
sales or concessioning process. The Government's economic plan, which was
announced in March 1995, is currently succeeding in stabilizing the exchange rate.
The Government is also taking steps to improve its relations with international
investors by providing better access to central bank information and by undertaking
more frequent consultations, and is pursuing an active public information campaign.



7
IV.    Project Description
22.    The project provides support for: (i) the privatization preparation processes to
be undertaken in transport (ports, railways, and airports), electricity and secondary
petrochemicals, and telecommunications (basic services, satellites and radio
spectrum); and (ii) cross sectoral studies and coordination to be undertaken by the
CID. Depending on the readiness for privatization in each sector, the project supports
diagnostic studies, strategy formulation and implementation, and regulatory
institutional strengthening. The CID component also includes support for an
evaluation of the privatization process. The Attachment provides greater detail
concerning the objectives, activities, outputs, forms of assistance, timing and costs
associated with the project.
Transport
23.    Ports. A process of restructuring the ports has been under way since early in
the last administration. More than 70 port terminals dealing with single products, such
as fertilizers, grain and cement, have been concessioned and a new Ports Law was
approved in July 1993. This Law permits the creation of Integrated Port Authorities
(APIs), with full responsibility for the operation of the port(s) under their jurisdiction
and the possible concessioning of individual terminals or berths within the port and of
common port activities such as provision of navigation aides, pilotage and dredging.
APIs have already been formed for 17 ports. They are all functioning as public
companies with 100% state ownership, but the new law provides for private
participation in their ownership with up to 49% foreign capital. Recently, SCT has
issued a call, on behalf of the relevant APIs, for pre-qualification submissions for the
operation of container and general cargo berths in the four largest ports - Veracruz
and Tampico on the Atlantic/Gulf Coast and Manzanillo and Lazaro Cardenas on the
Pacific Coast. Two concessions were awarded in July 1995. The project would
support privatization preparation activities for terminals as well as port authorities.
24.    Railways. In February 1995 a Constitutional amendment was approved by
Congress allowing for the railways privatization. In April, a new Railways Law, that
would permit the concessioning of the railway as a whole or in parts, was presented
in Congress. The project would finance a series of studies needed to implement the
privatization process. (i) review of proposals. The project would finance a final
evaluation of the current recommendations (made by external consultants), which
divide the railways into a number of separate operations: three large concessions and
a number of short lines to deal with short distance bulk movements of specific
commodities and with regional lines that would not be viable as part of a larger
concession. (ii) details of each concession. While the consultants' recommendations
define the general extent of each concession, they leave open the details for the
bidding documents that are to be prepared. The project would finance this work. (iii)
alternative methods of dealing with current workshop concessions. As part of the
previous administration's process of out-sourcing ancillary railway activities, seven
locomotive workshops were concessioned in 1994 for a period of 15 years. These
concessions could be seen as a disincentive for potential concessionaires of the lines



8
and services supported by these workshops. At the least, it is likely that the terms of
the workshop concessions would need to be renegotiated. The project would review
the alternative ways of resolving this problem and recommend a solution that best
meets the Government's requirements. (iv) prepare and implement FNM
regionalization. It is likely that the concession agreements will be expressed in
regional terms, so that additional lines can be included or excluded from the
concession without a need to make revisions to the agreement. To facilitate the hand-
over process from FNM to the private concessionaires, FNM will be restructured on
the same regional basis as implied in the concession agreements, and operate on that
basis for as long as possible before the hand-over takes place. The project would
finance the work to prepare, implement and monitor this process. (v) inventory and
valuation of assets. The project would finance these inventories, including technical
assessments, and valuations. This work would include all present FNM assets and
would pay particular attention to the issue of land ownership, much of which is in
dispute between FNM and the local authorities in whose area it lies. (vi) plan for
resettlement of illegal settlers on FNM land. There is no reliable estimate of the
number of illegal settlers on FNM land, but whatever their real number, resettlement
issues will need to be resolved prior to awarding concessions. The project would
finance the studies needed for FNM to develop a policy on resettlement. (vii)
environmental assessment of railway facilities. As part of the preparation of a possible
Bank-financed railway project, and as an antecedent to the privatization of the railway
mechanical workshops in 1994, environmental assessments were carried out for
twelve workshops and associated installations. In addition, an Environmental Action
Plan was prepared, detailing the actions needed to remedy the problems. The project
would finance the required environmental updatings and assessments, as well as
advise on the most appropriate method of financing their resolution. (viii) training
schemes for FNM staff. The project would evaluate alternative ways of structuring
and financing retraining programs.
25.    Airports. The growth in air transport since the deregulation of the airlines
in 1989 has put pressure on the operational capacity and financing requirements of
many Mexican airports. The opening of direct services between the US and many
Mexican tourist destinations has also increased pressure on regional airports, although
it has provided some relief in Mexico City, where the airport is approaching both
runway and terminal capacity. The difficulty of finding public finance for the basic
non-commercial facilities has led to a reorientation of policy towards a possible
concessioning of airports, perhaps following the model of the APIs. The project
would finance the development of an airports privatization strategy, and following
completion of the report, a seminar would be held, with participation of
representatives of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), ASA, SCT and
SHCP and ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organization) and other specialists with
experience in airport management, operations and finance. The objective of the
seminar would be to recommend an appropriate structure for the management and
development of airports. The project would also finance studies of specific issues
critical to the implementation of a privatization process: (i) financial review and
inventory and valuation of regional airports' assets as part of the evaluation of their
attractiveness for future private participation; (ii) airport needs for Mexico City,
including the use of existing facilities and the possible development of a new airport
with private participation; and (iii) safety standards, to assess compliance with ICAO



9
standards. Finally, a restructuring of DGAC and ASA would be studied. Until now
the DGAC and ASA have acted as providers of airport services. In the future they, or
their successors, will need to act mostly as monitors and supervisors of services
provided by others. This will require a profound change in their structures and staffs.
The project will examine the future strategy for the provision of airport services, and
once this has been determined, will recommend a new supervisory structure both for
the management of airport concessions and for regulation of the sector, including the
possible creation of a Civil Aviation Authority as part of a broader regulation and
monitoring of the whole aviation sector.
Electricity and Secondary Petrochemicals
26.      Electricity. The effectiveness of past efforts to foster private investment in
power generation has been limited. While by no means unanimous, a consensus is
emerging in Mexico on the need to reassess basic policies in the sector. This is based
on a growing recognition of the powerful role direct and indirect competition could
play in fostering efficient private investment of the magnitudes required to meet the
prospective demand for electricity over the next decade. The power sector component
of the loan is designed to support the Government in identifying tractable options for
choosing the best possible sector structure, including opportunities for introducing
competition, and for initiating actions toward this end in the near term. More
specifically, the project will support the Government in: (i) the definition of desirable
future sector strategy and policy. The project will provide support for advisory
services to assist the Government in undertaking a diagnostic study of past
performance and future prospects of the electricity sector in Mexico. Guiding
principles for this effort include: (a) reliance on commercial incentives to govern the
operations of power sector companies with the goal of providing the best possible
service at the best possible price; (b) strictly limiting the financial burden the power
sector places on the Government; and (c) introducing competitive forces where
possible. (ii) near-term restructuring. The project will provide advisory services to
the Government to identify and evaluate options to restructure the power sector, in
particular the separation of generation, transmission, dispatch and distribution into
arms-length entities. This would include an assessment of options to introduce
effective competition among generating units and competition for customers. The
restructuring options would be based on an analysis of the current organization and
performance of the power system as well as ownership and competition options
possible under existing Mexican law (or suggestions for changes in such laws if they
would improve the range of desirable options). (iii) electricity pricing policy. The
project would finance advisory services to assist the Government in analyzing the
current tariff system and in developing proposals which would: (a) set tariffs at
economic levels, i.e. levels sufficient to cover the costs of capital required for system
expansion and all operations and maintenance costs; (b) use tariff policy to provide
incentives for companies to operate efficiently in the power sector; (c) enhance
creditworthiness.
27.    Three other issues related to sector structure would be considered under the
project. First, advisory services, training, and study tours would be financed to assist
the power sector regulatory entity in order to provide a credible commitment to: (i)
investors operating with reasonable efficiency that they will be allowed to recover



10
their costs and earn a profit commensurate with the risks that they bear; and (ii)
consumers that they will be protected from the abuse of monopoly power by any
public or private entity that operates with a de facto or de jure monopoly. Care
would be taken to distinguish between activities that need to be regulated and those
that need not. The regulatory entity could be structured to rule in disputes about
contracts between participants in the power market relating to matters of economic
regulation. Second, to enhance the management autonomy of power sector companies
and to widen the scope for efficiency improvements, options to diversify fuel supply
sources would be investigated based on an analysis of the existing arrangements for
the supply of fuels. This would, in particular, cover the supply of petroleum products
and natural gas. Various options to deregulate prices and supply arrangements of
these products would be evaluated including deregulation of domestic distribution and
liberalizing trade and their consequences for the organization of these markets. Third,
the project would finance advisory services, study tours, and seminars to evaluate
ownership options in the power sector including means of creating arms-length
commercial relationships between Government and government-owned companies
through commercialization and corporatization as well as ways to use private
ownership to improve the performance of the power system. Privatization options
would include the use of licenses and/or concessions for providers of energy services
and new contracting options to allow retail consumers to enter into hedging contracts
with power producers in a competitive power system.
28.    Secondary Petrochemicals. After having temporarily abandoned plans to
sell secondary petrochemical assets in 1993 the Government has now revived such
plans. PEMEX has retained an investment banking firm to advise on the sale of all
secondary petrochemical assets. The current privatization effort is to lead to the sale
of all assets by the first quarter of 1996. To fully prepare a sound privatization
strategy a number of analyses have to be prepared. As a first step, market prospects
for petrochemicals would need to be assessed to help identify how best to package
plants for privatization and which types of investors to target. Other issues include:
(i) to what extent PEMEX might remain involved in the production of petrochemicals,
particularly inputs for secondary plants; (ii) how feedstocks are to be priced; and (iii)
to what extent there will be free trade in feedstocks.
29.    The privatization strategy itself would need to be based on an assessment of
the current state of the assets in Mexico, including operating, safety and security risks
as well as an assessment of environmental issues. To support the process, the project
would finance work that would complement that of the current advisors to PEMEX.
In addition it would finance: (i) environmental assessments, (ii) technical, security and
operational assessments and (iii) plant inventories.
Telecommunications
30.    The second phase of sector reform aims to liberalize the market for basic
telephone services and stimulate some US$4 billion in new foreign investment by the
year 2000, chiefly for competitive long distance and local services. Additionally, the
reforms are intended to generate significant revenue from the sale of radio spectrum
licenses and the privatization of the satellite business, as well as increasing tax
revenues from existing and new operators as sector growth accelerates. At the center



I1
of this second phase of sector reforms lie four major tasks to be financed under the
project: (i) opening basic services to competition. The project will finance a review of
options for introducing competition in basic services. It will also finance the
preparation of guidelines and international benchmarks for technical and pricing
aspects of interconnection, with emphasis on facilitating new entry in basic services.
SCT will also retain consultants to assist in rebalancing TELMEX's tariffs and
negotiating revisions of the pricing rule under competition. (ii) privatizing the satellite
business. Under the project, SCT will retain economic consultants as well as
financial and legal advisers to help prepare the privatization of TELECOMM's
satellite operations. The economic consultants will help develop a privatization
strategy as well as maintain a policy and regulatory focus throughout the privatization
process. Legal and financial advisers will be retained to restructure TELECOMM's
satellite operations. (iii) auctioning part of the radio spectrum. The Government
intends to move from the traditional approach of managing the radio spectrum (on a
first-come first-served basis subject to relatively low flat fees or taxes) to an approach
more responsive to market forces. The project will finance consultants to help define
an economic approach to radio spectrum management, establish guidelines for
implementation, define the scope and modality of spectrum auctions, and oversee
initial auctions. SCT will also retain advisors to carry out the first auctions for
personal communication services (PCS). (iv) regulatory function. SCT's regulatory
capabilities have not kept up with sector development. Moreover, SCT's role as
policy maker and licensing authority increasingly conflicts with its regulatory
responsibilities. Under the project, consultants will be retained to help review options
for divesting SCT's regulatory functions to a new federal agency and related staffing,
financial, and legal matters; design the organization; outline a staffing and
development program; and monitor progress during initial implementation.
Cross Sectoral Activities
31.    This component consists of activities to strengthen the CID and ensure a
coordinated approach across sectors. The project will finance a diagnostic review of
existing legislation and institutional frameworks, past privatization experience and
sector specific privatizations plans and strategies, as well as consultations with the
investment community and key interest groups. Additional support would be rendered
to the CID in establishing and servicing the working groups. As appropriate,
workshops, seminars and short courses would also be financed. Support for the CID
would focus on three areas: (i) legal and policy issues arising from the privatization
process that affect more than one sector; (ii) key regulatory issues including the rules
governing the award, amendment and revocation of concessions, broader regulatory
approaches such as application of anti-trust norms in each sector and principles
governing the design and establishment of autonomous regulatory institutions; (iii) the
overall business environment for private participation in infrastructure and hence
affect the longer term sustainability of private capital flows in these sectors, e.g.
taxation measures and granting and enforcing security interests.



12
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND  IMPLEMENTATION
32.    Project Organization. The United Mexican States would be the Guarantor
for the loan made to Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN) a state-owned
development bank. Execution of the project would be undertaken by CID and the
working groups in each sector.
33.    To ensure that the activities financed under the project remain closely tied to
the evolving priorities for the privatization process, semi-annual reviews would be
undertaken to update the rolling program of work and evaluate the proposed indicators
of impact. A project launch seminar is planned as well. During the semi-annual
reviews, the Bank, the Executing Agency, the Borrower and each working group
would assess the status of project implementation, evaluate the workplan for the next
six months and agree on any needed modifications to the originally proposed
program. Project completion is targeted for December 31, 1998.
34.    Training Plan. The Technical Secretariat will be responsible for the
collection of relevant data and information regarding the training courses financed
through this project. Each working group will provide the Technical Secretariat with
a yearly training program, derived from the particular privatization strategy for its
sector. The Technical Secretariat will compile these plans (including its own training
needs), which will be evaluated at the time of the semi-annual review with the Bank.
While the training plan will be based on strategic objectives, the data required will
include: (i) historical information on training taken (or committed) to date; and (ii)
current year's plan, with title and budget for each course, number of participants to
be financed, name of individual or institution responsible for training, time and
location of training.
35.    Project Costs and Financing. Estimated total project costs are US$46.0
million. (Schedule A) They include: (i) cross sectoral support, US$6.0 million (13%
of total); power and secondary petrochemicals, US$15.25 million (33%); transport
sector, US$14.35 million (31 %); and telecommunications, US$7.7 million (17%); and
price contingencies, US$ 2.7 million (6%). The Bank would provide US$30 million,
the Government the remaining US$16 million.
36.    A fixed rate US dollars single currency loan is proposed in accordance with
the Government's request. The loan would have a repayment period of up to 15
years; and each semester's disbursements would have a maturity of 12 years from the
rate fixing date, including 3 years grace. The Government of Mexico is eligible for
single currency loans. The proposed US$30 million represents 3 percent of the FY96
lending program for Mexico (US$920 million).
37.    Procurement. Two types of procurement would be undertaken through the
loan: (i) consultant services; and (ii) goods, primarily computer hardware and
software. As financial agent, NAFIN would act as the coordinator and adviser to the
CID for all procurement activities under the loan. Selection and appointment of
consultants for studies, technical assistance and support of project execution would be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by the



13
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
All contracts with lawyers or law firms will follow specific Bank guidelines for their
selection and appointment. Procurement of goods would follow the Bank Guidelines
for Procurement (January 1995). To the extent feasible and practical, the
procurement of goods would be done by grouping the various items in bid packages
estimated to cost US$350,000 equivalent or more. Packages in this category would be
required to follow International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures using the Bank
Standard Bidding Documents. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be
undertaken for goods estimated to cost more than US$150,000 but less than
US$350,000 using standardized bidding documents to be agreed upon with the Bank.
For equipment that cannot be grouped in packages valued at US$100,000 or more,
international and national shopping procedures would be followed by comparing price
quotations received from at least three suppliers.
38.    Bank review of procurement procedures would be as follows: (i) for
consulting services, the Bank would conduct prior review for all contracts exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent for individuals and US$100,000 equivalent for firms; and for
procurement of goods the Bank would review ex ante documentation pertaining to
each ICB and the first two NCBs; (iii) all other procurement documentation would be
subject to ex post review. This review process would result in a prior review of
approximately 75 percent of all Bank financed contracts for goods and 90 percent of
all Bank financed contracts for consulting services, both expressed in value.
39.    Disbursements. Proceeds of the loan would finance: (i) 100 percent of the
cost of foreign goods, consulting services, training and technical assistance; and (ii)
90 percent of the cost of local goods. The proceeds of the loan are expected to be
disbursed in accordance with the categories shown in Schedule B of the Memorandum
of the President. To expedite project execution, a special account in U.S. dollars
would be established at the Banco de Mexico, with an authorized allocation of US$2
million equivalent, representing the average amount equivalent to four months of
eligible expenditures that are expected to be paid from the account. Separate accounts
of all expenditures by the project would be maintained by the Borrower. Withdrawal
applications would be fully documented, except for contracts smaller than the
following specified levels: US$350,000 for goods; US$50,000 for individual
consultants; and US$100,000 for consulting firms. In the case of contracts below
these specified levels, NAFIN would prepare certified Statements of Expenditure
(SOE) to be used as the basis for disbursement. Supporting documentation for SOEs
would be retained by NAFIN and made available for examination by Bank staff
during supervision missions.
40.    Retroactive financing of up to US$3 million would be provided for eligible
expenditures incurred after April 1, 1995. Such financing is necessary to put in place
the institutional structure required to carry out the project and avoid delays in the first
year of project implementation. The project completion date would be December 31,
1998 and the closing date would be June 30, 1999.
41.    Accounts and Audits. NAFIN and the Executing Agency would maintain
adequate records to reflect all expenditures made under the project in accordance with
sound accounting practices. The accounts and statements of expenditures would be



14
audited each year by auditors satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied. The audit report would be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months following the close of the fiscal year.



15
ATTACHMENT: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN



I



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: CID
Matrix of Objectives, Activities, Timing and Costs
TIMING
OBJECTIVES                                          ACTIVITIES                                   OUTPUT                         FORMS OF
ASSISTANCE
Start I  Finish
A. CROSS-SECTORAL PRIVATIZATION FRAMEWORK: This sub-component will focus on key cross-sectoral issues raised by the proposed privatization transactions themselves. Examples of issues
that may be addressed under this sub-component include: (i) treatment of debt, environmental and other liabilities of enterprises; (ii) labor and tax issues; (iii) contracting approaches, including issues offorce
majeure, alternative dispute resolution procedures etc; (iii) strategic sequencing of programs etc.
Cost: US $2.5mm
1. Identification of legal and polcy issues raised by  Support to CI in establishing and servicing cross-   Diagnostic study                 Consultants/Legal advisors   05/95      12/95
privatization transactions in more than one sector which:   sectoral working groups
(i) raise important questions of policy coherence, (ii)
offer net benefits from adopting consistent approaches  Review existing and proposed legislative and
across sectors, or (tii) offer significant efficiency benefits  institutional frameworks, past-privatization                                 Seminars/Workshops
from dealig with issues centrally rather than on a sector   experience and sector-specific privatization plans
by sector basis                                       and strategies.
Consultations with investor community and other  Consultations
key interest groups.
2. Definition of strategy for elaborating a cross-sectoral    Support CID in working with cross-sectoral  Proposed implementation strategy,  Consultants/Legal advisors   08/95      12/95
privatization framework that deals effectively with  working groups and other interests.             including, as appropriate, cross-
issues identified in phase 1.                                                                        sectoral coordination mechanism and
Develop detailed recommendations on legal and    draft list of maters to be subject to
institutional responses to cross-sectoral issues  cross-sectoral policies, legislation or
regulation.
Seminars/Workshops
3. Effective implementation of cross-sectoral         Support CID by providing general legal counsel   Draft policies, legislation or       Consultants/Legal advisors   10/95      End of
privatization framework                            and in working with cross-sectoral working groups   regulations dealing with cross-sectoral                                    process
issues.
Liaise with sector working groups to promote     Dissemination products (eg, booklets,   Seminars/Workshops       10/95       06/96
effective cross-fertilization, communication and  pamphlets etc).
coordination
Draft policies, legislation and regulations
4. Evaluation of privatization process, including     Record analysis, surveys, econometric studies.   Final report(s).                     External consultants        06/96       One year
economic and social impacts                                                                                                                                                      after end
Seminars                               of
process



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: CED
Matrix of Objectives, Activides, lming and Costs
OBJECTPIES                     I                 ACTIVITIES                                OUTPUT               F3ORNMS OF ASSISTANCE I              TIMNG
I                      I                                                      I                            I   Stant zI
B. CROSS-SECTORAL REGULATORY FRAMEWORK: This sub-cmponent winl focas on key ross-sectoral regulatory issues: it, those defining the longer-term relationship between investors,
consumers and the State. Examples of issues that may be addressed under this sub-component include: (Q) rules governing the award, amendment and revocation of concessions; (ii) broader regulatory
approaches, such as the rote of the Competition Commission in each sector, and (iii) principles governing the design and establishment of autonomous regulatory institutions.
Cst: US S2.Smm
1. Idlfdcation of polcy, legal and intbuional issues   Support to CID in establihing and servicing c-  Diagnostic study          Consultants/Legal advisors   05195         1V95
raised by the elaboration of regulatory frameworks    secoral workig groups
in more than ot ecor which: () raise important
queios of polic cohre, () offer net benefits   Review existing and proposed legislative and                                    Seninars/Workshops
from adop6ng ce _m ap   ccs   ectors,   instiiona framework, past privatization and
or (iii) offer sigifiat efficiency benefits from  regulatory experience and sector-specific
dealing with isue ceirlly rather than on a sector    privatization plans and regulatory strategies.
by ector bass
Consultations with investor community and oWher
key interest groups.
2. Definition of tategy for elaborating a cross-  Devdop detailed recommendations on legal nd     Proposed implementation        Consultants/Legal advisors   0S/95        06/96
ecal regulatory framework that deals effectively   institutional response to crosaecctoral regulatory    Strategy, including, as
with is   s idanified in phase 1.               framework issues                                appropriate, cros-aectoral
coordination mechanism and
draft list of regulatory matters
to be subject to croasedoral    Seminars/Workshops
policies, legislation or
regulation
3. Impleatation of cross-sectors regulatory       Support CID m working with crss-sectoral        Draft policies, legislation,   Consultants/Legal advisors   01/96        End of
frmavork                                        working groups. Liaise with sector working      regulations, organizational                                              process
groups to promote effective cros-fertilization,  arrangements etc deling with
commaunication and coordination                cross-sectoral regulatory issues
Draft poliaes, legishtion, regulations,                                       Seminars/Workshops
organztional arrangements etc
4. Dcvdopment of reglatory institutions           Formulate and implement a cross-wectord program    Outputs might include: )    Consultants/Legal advisors   01/96        Endof
to support the devdopment of institutional capacity    Training programs and                                            process
by regultors.                                  material; and (ii) Support to  Seminars/Workshops
developnment of research
As appropriate, coordinate assistance to regulatory   institute/program for regulators   Training programs &
agencies.                                                                     materials



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: CID
Matzix of Objecives, Activities, Timing and Costs
TEMING
OBJECTIVES                                        ACTIVITIES                                    OUTPUT                         FORMS OF
ASSISTANCE
start  I 
C. GENERAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT FOR PRIVATE PARTICIPATION IN INFRASTRUCTURE (PPI) This sub-component will focus on legal, regulatory and institutional constraints to effective
private participation in infrastructure (PPI) that are not addressed by sub-components A and B. Given the potential breadth of this work, the focus will be on the key constraints that have a signflcant impact on
the PPI business environment. Examples of issues that may be addressed under this sub-component include approaches to granting permits; alternative dispute resolution processes; financing issues, including
the granting and enforcng of security interests; environmental aspects; transparency of legal system; and taxation.
Cose. US S1.Omm
1. Identification of key legal, institutional and  Support to C1D in establishing cross-aectoral  Diagnostic study indicating nature and   Consultants/Legal         05/95      12/95
regulatory constaints in the general business   working groups                                  relative significance of key constraints.  advisors
enviriomen that are not covered by A & B (above)
but have a ignificant impact on efficient private  Review existing and proposed legislative and
participation in infradructure (PPI).           institutional frameworks and sector-spedfic                                              Seminars/Vorkshops
development objectives and privatization plans.
Consultations with investor community and other
key interest groups.
2. Definition of strategy for improving the general  Support CID in working with crosa-sectoral   Proposed implementation strategy,        Consultants/Legal        08/95      06/96
buins environment for PPL                      working groups.                                 including, as appropriate,               advisors
coordination/consultationmechanisms and
Develop detailed recommendations on legal,     draft list of matters to be subject to
institutiona and institutional responses to issues  priority reform.
identified in phase I                                                                   Seminars/Workshops
3. Implementation of strategy for improving the   As required, work with CID and other key entities    Draft policies, legislation or regulations  Consultants/Legal  I10/9      End of
genaal business environment for Pm.             in drafting policies, legislation and regulations  dealing with cross-sectoral issues.  advisors                             process
4. Promotion and dissemination of investment      Recompilation of relevant laws and regulations  Brochures, booklets, videos.             Road shows                08/95      12J96
opportunities
Presentations to financial intermediaries, consulting   Inventory of investment opportunities and    Seminars
firms and investment community                 appropriate databases.
Workshops
Liaise with Mexican Investment Board
TOTAL FOR SUB-COMPONENTS A-C                                                                                                                                                  $6. 0mm
3



PROJECT IMPIMiENTAlION PLAN: ElECTRICrTY AND SECONDARY PEITROCHEMICALS
Matrix of Objectives, Actiities, Thing and Costs
OBJECTIVES                     |                    AClIVrITES                        J                  OUP1UT                      |  FORMS OF ASSISTANCE  |
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   _     _      _     _     _    J                                                 j                                 ~~~~~ ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Start  Finish
A. ELEC1RICrrY SECTOR: ThLis sub-comoetllsupport the review of key stategic options, sector restrcturing and preparation of privatization.
Cot US $12.25m
1. Identify appropriate policy framework for      Evauate amative suttural, ownership and market         Sector diagnostic.                             Local consultints.             05/95      12/95
private sector participation in the            coordmation options for introducmg competition mto the
electricity sector.                            electricity sector.                                    Sector restructuring sategy.                   External consultuats.
05/95      12/95
Identify regulatory and polcy/planning functions and                                                  ExLernal reviewers.
swttures commensurate with restructuring options.
|2. Define stategy for implementing revised policy  Analyze electricity pricig poliies                  Tariff polcy ad subsidy criteria.               External consultants           10/95      03/96
framework for the electricity sector.
Assess options and make recommendationa for grouping    Sector re=icturing strategy.                  Study tours                   07/95       06/96
upfaing Imits.
Inventory of assets                                                                                   External advisors
Review divestiture options and scquencing.            Privatization strategy, auction schemes and plmn  Seminars                    08/95       06/96
of action.
Evaluate options for ensng efficient fuel supply.                                                                                   10/95       03/96
Draft fuel supply contracts/agreements
Specify regulatory and institutional arrangements
Action plsa for implementing regulatory and                                   02/96      03/96
Identify ekmlems of publc relations strategy.         instiul modifications as needed.
4



3- Prepare strucijug and privatiation           Fmae legl/re  story    oriL                          Draft regulations.                            External consuants            06/95      1296
Estabish opeating entities.                         Prepare entities to point of divesure         Study tours                   01/96      09/96
Desgn qsyem  openticn/coordinationprocedures and                                                                                01/96      12/96
initiate  stial aragemcma.                                                                        Extermal advisors
Reommend apropriae tariff polices and wrvice                                                                                    01/96      12/96
staidards for distrbution, tmxsion (and genention                                                 Tnranng (regulation, systems
during t      ndtio pes                                                                           operations, setdement
systems)
Caduct mnat and mveannen prfecaabiIy stdies.                                                                                    01/96      12/96
Priorite existhg fwiliaew capacity to be offered to    PrivatiuAtion strategy.                                                  01/96      12/96
private investors.
Draft model cntracts for tr_inson services.                                                                                    01/96      12/96
Undertake saes promotion.                           InformAonMemorandsnn                                                        12/96      06/97
Prepa  bidding documents.                             une biddig documents.                                                     01/96      12/97
4. hwns     latetung                            Suportpolicy nd regulatoty insttin                                                                 Extemal consultnts            1          10/98
5



PROWECT IMELUITATION PLAN: XClRUCITY AND SICCONDARY FETROCUEWICALS
Nd  of <Oedma, Ahid., IThg   i Cub
OBJECTIVES                                  ACTIVITIES                                    OUTPUT                      FORMS OF ASSISTANCE
I                                                                                       I                            I     Start       Fsidh
B: SECONDARY PETROCEM CAIS: Asidance would fous on support to prepare for privatization.
Cost US S3.0mm
1. Define privatization options and aess   Inventory of asses                                                                         ernal consultants         05/95         12/95
inveaet climate.
Speify grouping of auets and rnles of accs    Privatization strategy
and pricing of common use facilities
Specify feedstock supply arrangements       Draft feedstock supply contracts
Design auction/bidding pzocedures           Aucdion strategy
Prepare environmental assement
2. Prepa  privatiztion                     Sales promotion                             Information Memorandum                      External consultants         10/9S         06196
Prepae bidding do en-ts                    Ise bidding documents.
TOTAL FOR SUB CO (ONENTS A-B:                                                                                                                                            US S15.25mm
6



PROJECT IMPLENENTATION PLAN: TELECOMMUNICAnONS
Mhbix of Objedvl, Ad tbsu T g g d COds
OBJECTIVES                                 ACTivnIES                               OUTPUT                        FORMS OF                          TINMNG
ASSISTANCE
sun       |      Fibb
A: BASIC TELEPHONE SERVICES: This sb-component will addres specific issues related to deregulation of local/long distance services.
Cost: US S2.5mm
1. Economic analysis of sector structure     Assess pricing, new entry, and social    Sector diagnostic report          Extemal consultants         7/95              6/96
obligations
2. Numbering and other technical plans       Design implementation of numbering,      Implementation of numbering,      External consultants         7/95              4/96
signalling, billing, routing and         signalling, billing, routing and
synchronization                          synchronization
3. Support for legal and regulatory framewori   Draft rtviews and comments                                              External consultants        07/95             4/96
7



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Mautix of Objectives, Activities, Timing and Costs
OBJECTIVES                                      ACTIVITIES                               OUTPUT                j        FORMS OF                  TIMING
ASSISTANCE
B: SATELLITES: Preparatory work has been undertaken. This sub-component will assist with preparing the privatization of the satellites.
COst US S1.0mm
1. Idedify appropriate policy framework and        Prepare recommendations for sector structure    Sector diagnostic               External consultants       05/95       02/96
istitutional arrangements
Prepare privatization option               Privatization strategy              Study tours
Prepare regulatory framework                                                   Seminars
2. Prepare privatization                            Inventory of assets                       Information Memorandum               External consultants       09/95        12/96
Sales promotion                                                                External reviews
Issue bidding documents            Investment Bank
Prepare bidding documents
8



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN:
Matrix of Objectives, Activitis, Timing and CO0ts
OBJECTIVES                                     ACTIVITIES                              OUTPUT                   FORMS OF ASSISTANCE
TIMING
Start       Finish
C: RADIO SPECTRUM: This sub-component will focus on the sector tucture and the design and implementation of the auction process.
Cost: US S3.0mm
1. Review of spectrum issues                     Economic analysis of spectrm management    Sector diagnostic                 External consultants             05/95        4/96
2. Formulation of auction strategy               Feasibility of auction of spectrum for new  Auction strategy including       External consultants             08/95        6/96
services                                   frequency planning
Establish auction rules
Define auction process
3. Prepare privatization                         Auction software and management            Information Memorandum            External consultants             08/95       03/97
Prepare bidding documents                  Issue bidding documents           External reviews
4. Investment promotion support                 Promote opportunities to potential investors  Maximize auction results        Investment bankers               07/95       06/96
5. Legal and regulatory support                  Draft reviews and comments                                                   External consultants             07/95       06/96
9



PROJECT IMPLENENTATION PLAN: TELECOMMUNICATION
Matrix of Objecives, Adies, Tim  ad Cast
OBJECTIVES                  J               ACTIVITEES                                OUTPUT                         FORMS OF ASSISTANCE                        TIMING
D. REGULATORY STRENGTHENING: This sub-component will support the redesign and strengthening of a regulatory entity.
CosLd US S1.2mm
1. Strengthen regulatory and institutional   Analysis of existing institutions         Establishment of new regulatory       External Consultants                    10/95      03/97
development                                                                         entity
Create regulatory entity                                                        Short courses
Training                                                 .                      Seminars
TOTAL FOR SUB-COMPONENTS A-D:                                                                                                                                                US 7.7m
10



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: TRANSPORT
Matix of Objectives, Activities, Timing and Costs
I                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TEIUNG
OBJECTIVES                                  ACTIVITIES                          OUTPUT                 FORMS OF ASSISTANCE
str       Finish
A: PORTS: This sub-component would support the privatization process that has been inhtiated.
Cost US S2.5m
1. Preparation of privatization and melated     Prepare APIs, terminals and other                                    External consultants            05/95           6/97
rgulatory framvwork                             faclities for privatization
Exteral reviews
Design regulatory framework (where
appropriate)                                                         Seminars
Regulatory framework
Prepa bidding documents
Information Memorandum
Bidding documents
2. Invedment promotion support                  Promote oppotunities to potential     Maximize auction results       Investment bankers              05/95           06/97
investo
3. Intionl Skengtening                          Support for pott planning and                                        Extenal consultants             10/95           12/97
supervison/adaptation of concessions (as
neceau7y)



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: TRANSPORT
Matrix of Objectives, Activities, Timing and Coets
TIMING
OBJECTIVES                                        ACTIVITIES                           OUTPUT                  FORMS OF
ASSISTANCE                               Finis
B: RAILWAYS: This sub-component would support the formulation of a privatization strategy and regulatory framework.
Cose US $6.5mm
1. Formulation of privatization strategy and     Review of market structure proposals for         Privatization strategy  External local consultants   04/95       12/95
regulatory framework                             privatization
Semiinars
Review alternatives for trackage and haulage rights                                               06/95          12/95
for each concession                                                     Study tours
Define passenger/freight service for social reasons                                              08/95           02/96
Design regulatory framework                      Regulatory framework                             05/95          03/96
2. Prepare privatization                         Prepare privatization plan                       Information            External consultants      07/95           12/95
Memorandum
FNM regionalization plan                                                                          07/95          09/95
Inventory of assets.                                                                              07/95          09/95
hinvestment banikers
Resettlement and environmental assessment                                                         07/95          12/95
Design auction/bidding procedures                Auction strategy                                 06/95          03/96
Sales promotion                                                                                   07/95          02/96
Issue bidding
Retraining proposals                             documents                                        11/95          03/96
3. Regulatory Strengthening                      Support regulatory institutions and process                             External consultants      10/95           12/97
12



PROJECT EMPl4MfENTAT[ON PLAN: TRANSPORT
Matrix of Objectives, Actiitlies, Tbning and Costs
4ThllNG
OBJECThES                                             ACTIVIrEES                              OUIPtrl                FORMS OF ASSISTANCE
Start      |       flni6h
C: AERPORTS: This comiponent would emphasize the review of strategic options, preparation of a straegy, and dte regulatory fumntion.
Cost: US 5.35mm
1. Review of sector structure                               Disaggregation of ASA accounts by airport     Sector duignostic               External consultants          07/95               06/96
Review sources and uses of airport revenues                                                                10/95               06/96
Financial and economic assessment of airports                                                              11/95               06/96
Strategy for airport needs for Mexico City                                                                 11/95               12/96
ICAO review of safety standards at all passenger
airpons                                                                                                    8/95                06/96
2. Formulation of privatzation strategy                     Prepare concessioning plan                    Privatiation plan               External consultants          09/95               09/96
Detailed concessioning plan each airport
3. Prepare privaioatou                                      Inventory of assets                                                           Extemal consultants           07/95               06/96
Concesion design                                                             Investment bankers            06/96               12/96
Prepare bidding documents                    Issue Bidding Documents                                       06/96               06/97
Sales promotion
4. Regultory stngSthening                                   Design regulatory framework                   Regulatory framework and        External consultants          12/96               12/97
institntions
Seminar
Traning of staff in regulatory function.                                     Short courses
SUB TOTAL FOR SUB-COMPONENTS A-C:                                                                                                                                                           US $14.35mm
13









I



