Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3937 ME
                              Loan Agreement
               (Privatization Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                           Dated October 8, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3937 ME
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even
Page  2
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as
set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency
Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "CID" means  Interministerial Privatization
Commission (Comision Intersecretarial de Desincorporacion)
created pursuant to, and structured and operating according to
the terms of, the CID Decree (as hereinafter defined);
      (b)   "CID Decree" means the decree creating CID and
published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette (Diario Oficial
de la Federacion) on April 7, 1995;
      (c)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date
herewith from the Guarantor to the Bank, containing, inter
alia, the schedule and targets referred to in Section 3.01 of
the Guarantee Agreement;
      (d)   "SHCP" means the Guarantor's Finance and Public
Credit Secretariat (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico);
and
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount equal to thirty million Dollars
($30,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco
de Mexico on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or
Page  3
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply
with the terms of, contractual arrangements with the Guarantor,
satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for:  (a) the
transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b)
the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as
the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of
principal, interest and other charges on the Loan.  Except as
the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or
fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under such contractual
arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan.
      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, and maintenance) shall be carried out, or
caused to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section
3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the semi-
annual reviews referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of the Guarantee
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the
resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of
the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section and the records
                  and accounts for the Special Account for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  generally accepted auditing standards and
                  procedures consistently applied, by independent
                  and qualified auditors;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
Page  4
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested;
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank each month certified
                  statements of the Special Account; and
            (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts as well as
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall provide to the
Guarantor any information that may be required by the Guarantor
to comply with the Guarantor's obligations under Section 3.05
(c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a) The Guarantor or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of CID or for the suspension of the operations
of CID.
      (b) The CID Decree shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of the
Bank, affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the
Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) or (b) of
this Agreement shall have occurred.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the contractual arrangements referred
to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement shall have been entered
into.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that on behalf of each of the
Borrower and the Guarantor, the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified, and executed and delivered, by the
Borrower and the Guarantor and are legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with the terms of such
contractual arrangements.
      Section 6.03. The date January 8, 1996 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  5
      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Direccion Internacional
            Torre IV, piso 8
            Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            01020 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  NAFIN                           NAFIME 383-1775765
                  Mexico City                     Mexico City
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By  /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                        By  /s/ Federico Patino
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
Page  6
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated                 % of
                             (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                         Dollar)              to be Financed
(1) Consultants'                  25,550,000          100%
    services (including
    for the provision
    of training and the
    carrying out of
    audits, studies,
    inventories and
    valuations)
(2) Goods                          4,450,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures; 85%
                                                     of local expendi-
                                                     tures
                                  __________
        TOTAL                     30,000,000
                                  __________
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of the Guarantor; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000,
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after April 1, 1995.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower, for expenditures for:  (a) goods and equipment
contracts estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per
contract; (b) contracts with individual consultants estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c)
contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent per contract.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to:  (a) assist the
Guarantor in choosing among options for structural reform in
the telecommunications, electric power, secondary
petrochemicals and transportation sectors; (b) develop a sound
legal and regulatory framework, and establish and strengthen
the administrative framework required therefor, in support of
privatization initiatives in said sectors; (c) reduce, and if
possible eliminate, constraints to privatization which may
exist in said sectors; and (d) support the process of preparing
privatizations in said sectors.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  7
Part A:   Cross-sectoral Assistance
1.  Provision to CID of legal, financial and economic technical
assistance to develop approaches to privatization which are
consistent across sectors, with a focus on:
    (a)   generic issues relating to the mechanics of
privatization (such as treatment of debt, environmental and
other liabilities of privatizable enterprises; treatment of
labor and tax matters; and definition of contractual mechanisms
to handle privatization transactions);
    (b)   generic regulatory issues impinging on privatization
(such as establishment of rules governing the award, amendment
and revocation of concessions; definition and implementation of
consistent competition-promotion policies; and preparation of
principles to govern the design and establishment of sector
regulatory institutions); and
    (c)   generic issues relating to the encouragement of private
sector participation in infrastructure sectors (such as
development of financing vehicles for such participation and
improvement of legal frameworks regarding matters such as
security interests and alternative dispute resolution
processes, but not including issues regarding the structure and
operations of the Mexican judiciary and legal system in
general).
2.  Carrying out of studies and training activities (in support
of cross-sectoral initiatives developed pursuant to the
technical assistance provided under Part A.1 of the Project).
3.  Provision of goods and equipment to CID (and Guarantor line
ministries for the sectors covered by Part B.1 (a) of the
Project) in support of their privatization and Project-
execution functions.
Part B:   Sector-specific Assistance
1.  (a)   Provision of legal, financial and economic technical
assistance to prepare for privatizations in the:  (i) electric
power sector; (ii) secondary petrochemicals sector; (iii)
telecommunications sector (with respect to communications
satellites, basic telephone services and radio spectrum use);
and (iv) transportation sector (with respect to ports, railways
and airports).
    (b)   Provision of technical assistance to prepare for and
proceed with regulatory initiatives related to the possible
privatizations in the sectors referred to in Part B.1 (a) of
the Project.
2.  Carrying out of studies and training activities (in support
of sector-specific initiatives developed pursuant to the
technical assistance provided under Part B.1 of the Project).
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.  General Definitions
    For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings:
    (a) "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest
Page  8
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account in such Interest Period;
    (b) "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including an Interest
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest
Payment Date;
    (c) "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and
    (d) "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest
Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.  Interest
1.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into
Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed
Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a
floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a
fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph
2 of this Part B.
2.  (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not
including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to
the applicable:
          (i) LIBOR Base Rate; plus
          (ii) LIBOR Total Spread.
    (b) From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount
until final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed
Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i) Fixed Base Rate; plus
          (ii) Fixed Total Spread.
3.  For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following
terms have the following meanings.
    (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in
which a Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the
Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum.
    (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in
which each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
          (i)   one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for
                such Interest Period, below (or above) the London
                interbank offered rates, or other reference
                rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
                loans or portions thereof made by it that include
                such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
Page  9
percentage per annum.
    (c)  "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month
deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (d)  "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
          (i)   one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on
                the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
                below (or above) the London interbank offered
                rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
                deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund
                single currency loans or portions thereof made by
                it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
         (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the
                Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
4.  The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR
Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total
Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
5.  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other
than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts
of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
C.  Repayment
1.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15,
the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th)
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on
the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date following the
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment
shall be one-eighteenth (1/18th) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
C, if any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount
would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be
payable after December 15, 2010, the Borrower shall also pay on
said date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.  After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of
the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
                                SCHEDULE 4
Page  10
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,250,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
Page  11
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to expenditures
covered by such eligible Categories, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
Page  12
