Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3464 
Project Name 
Third Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP III) 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General education sector (40%);Health (30%);Other social 
services (30%) 
Project ID 
P108373 
Borrower(s) 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
November 26, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 2, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
December 13, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The Economy 
 
More than five years after the outbreak of the second 
intifada
 in 2000, the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) 
remains in a state of protracted economic crisis, as the volatile political and security situation continue to 
block conditions for economic revival.  Intermittent conflict and Israeli security measures severely restrict 
movement of goods and people between and within Palestinian territories, fragmenting the economy and 
imposing significant transaction costs that have reduced its growth potential.  The decision by Israel, 
taken in early 2006 and only recently rescinded, to suspend the transfer of clearance revenues that it 
collected on behalf of the Palestinian Authority (PA), has led to a severe fiscal crisis that undermines 
public institutions and the delivery of essential public services.  Clearance revenues usually account for 
some 60 percent of PA revenues. 
 
Economic performance is poor.  Real GDP is estimated to have fallen by 5 to 6 percent in 2006, and 
average per capita incomes, currently at US$1,000, are some 40 percent below their 1999 level.  About a 
quarter of the Palestinian labor force is out of work, and there is large-scale underemployment with 
significant regional differences - the situation is particularly severe in Gaza, where the unemployment rate 
was 39 percent in 2006 compared to 28 percent in the West Bank.  The labor force participation rate is 41 
percent, indicating that a significant number of working age individuals have altogether stopped looking 
for a job.   Only increased donor support has prevented the economy and household incomes from falling 
even more rapidly, and over the short- to medium term, high levels of donor assistance will remain 
critical for sustaining the Palestinian economy. 
 
While stronger than expected official and private inflows have helped cushion the overall contraction in 
incomes and consumption, a narrowing tax base and, in particular, the withholding of clearance revenues, 
reduced government revenues by over a third in 2006, severely eroding the Palestinian Authority’s (PA) 
capacity to provide basic services.  Government expenditure fell from US$1 billion in 2005 to US$656 
million in 2006.  The resumption of clearance revenue transfers in July 2007 ostensibly reduced the fiscal 
burden faced by the PA, but has not restored fiscal sustainability as the PA faces: (i) reconstruction needs 
in the public sector, (ii) the impact of spending policies introduced under the Hamas government that 
Page  2
dramatically increased the public sector wage bill, and (iii) the fiscal impact following the expulsion of 
Fatah from Gaza that brought economic activity there to a virtual standstill.  Consequently, the 
Government’s capacity to provide basic services remains severely compromised. 
 
The uncertain security situation with intermittent conflict, the closures and movement restrictions, and 
economic and fiscal deterioration have had a profound impact on the livelihoods of ordinary Palestinians.  
As a result of declining incomes and precarious employment, the proportion of people living below the 
poverty line by end-2006 was 66 percent, an increase of 16 percent over the March 2006 figure.  Again, 
the situation in Gaza was worse, with over 75 percent of the population living below the poverty line 
(compared to 59 percent in the West Bank).  With public resources stretched, essential services have been 
lagging, and this is reflected in key health and nutrition indicators.  There was a reversal of trends in 
infant mortality in 2006, as infant mortality increased by 4.5 percent that year compared with 2004, from 
24.2 deaths per thousand births to 25.3 per thousand.  Mortality rates are noticeably higher in Gaza than 
in the West Bank.  While strong community and family ties have pre-empted acute household hunger, 
chronic malnutrition is rising, and micro-nutrient deficiencies are an increasing concern.  The FAO/WFP 
estimates that some 45 percent of the population is either vulnerable to becoming, or already is, food 
insecure – that is, unable to access an essential food package. 
 
The Social Sectors 
 
The economic and social implications of the crisis are evident in deteriorating performance in the social 
sectors – health, education, and social services. Insufficient domestic revenues squeeze operating budgets 
and cause disruptions and decline in service provision; and limited mobility between the West Bank and 
Gaza reduce the scope for allocating resources where they are most needed while also raising transactions 
costs.  While the large wage bill reduces the resources available for operations and maintenance, salary 
budgets also are insufficient, causing intermittent strikes and absenteeism by civil servants, which further 
disrupt services.  Donors play a key role in helping maintain services, but assistance has so far been 
insufficient to maintain an adequate level of service delivery in the public sector.  For the immediate 
future, a sharp re-focusing of both domestic and donor resources on a selected subset of essential social 
services is needed to avoid a collapse of public provision. 
 
Health.
 
With the sharp drop in domestic revenues over the past fifteen months, the health system has 
seen service standards deteriorate and health indicators worsen.  Restrictions on movement of goods and 
services have aggravated shortages of medical supplies and drugs disrupting services; intermittent health 
worker strikes have exacerbated the situation.  Public sector facilities are often under-staffed and mostly 
under-equipped, and in most instances operate at levels significantly below capacity.  While other health 
providers – UNRWA, NGOs, the private sector – play an increasingly important role, they have not been 
able to fully compensate for public sector declines.  Drug shortages are frequent as the PA has yet to 
establish a reliable procurement and funding mechanism and thus has to rely on ad-hoc donor support. In 
addition, drug storage facilities are limited. The PA is beginning to address this issue and is likely to fund 
drug procurement through its regular budget. The MOH is also taking steps to strengthen its drug 
procurement capacity. Donors provide significant funding for operations and maintenance, which has 
helped slow down the deterioration of services.  The key challenge for the immediate future is to ensure 
that sufficient resources are available to maintain public services at some minimum acceptable level, 
while at the same time leveraging complementarities between public and private provision. The MOH has 
prepared a first draft of its three-year health sector development plan. This plan will be the basis for 
MOH’s reform to address the above issues. 
 
Education.
 
In the short term, the education sector faces problems similar to those in the public health 
sector – a shortage of financial resources to keep the school system operational and a large wage bill 
limiting resources for operating expenditures.  Both need to be dealt with: (i) an adequate salary budget 
Page  3
will avoid disruptive strikes, and will reduce the number of teachers leaving the public school system; and 
(ii) with the beginning of every new school year, the system faces growing demands on non-salary 
operating resources, including the need to cope with new entrants into the system.  In addition, the 
situation over the years has not been conducive to ensure proper upkeep of education facilities and thus a 
number of schools require rehabilitation. Again, donors play an important role as providers of resources 
for essential goods and services, and in facilitating stronger interaction between public and private 
provision. MOEHE has finalized its 2007-2011 Education Plan, which tackles quality of education issues. 
This plan differentiates between development and emergency assistance to the sector which has enabled 
this operation to be framed within the latter part of the plan. 
 
Social Affairs.
 
Given the limited financial resources and large social assistance requirements as growing 
numbers of households and individuals fall below the poverty line, or become at risk, it is critical that 
available resources are targeted to those most in need.  This will require priority-setting among ongoing, 
under- or un-funded programs.  Key interventions may require focusing resources on a few high profile 
interventions, including: (i) the Special Hardship Case Program (SHC) established to provide cash 
payments to poor households which has been paying benefits to some 35,000 households under a EU 
funded Temporary International Mechanism (TIM); (ii) merging the various on-going cash assistance 
programs (including the Bank’s Social Safety Net Reform Project) into a PA administered program; and 
(iii) shelters, rehabilitation and training centers for youth, handicapped, elderly and women’s 
development that are run by the Ministry of Social Affairs, providing vocational training, social support, 
meals and overnight residence to vulnerable individuals.  As in the case of the public health and education 
authorities, public resources for spending on services beyond salary payments are severely constrained.  
Still, maintaining these programs, which cater to some of the most vulnerable individuals and households, 
is an essential element in preserving the social fabric in the West Bank and Gaza. A strategy focusing on 
the continued provision of essential support to the poor and vulnerable should be integral to rebuilding the 
PA, both in the short term and over the longer period.
 
2. Objectives 
 
The proposed project will help mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential public services in 
education, heath and social services.  In order to do so, the Bank will provide a US$10 million grant from 
the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank to support the PA’s Emergency Program in the Social Sectors. 
The proposed project would mainly fund operating costs
1
for the Ministries of Education and Higher 
Education, Health and Social Affairs, focusing on recurrent expenditures essential to the continued 
functioning of public facilities, and using line ministries’ administrative practices.  These are acceptable 
to the Bank.
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
This proposed Bank financed Third Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP 3) will be one of the 
main instruments that finance the PA’s social sector emergency program.  It will be closely linked to the 
ongoing Bank Administered ESSP Multi-Donor Trust Fund. These two operations will have the common 
objective to help mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential public services in education, 
health and social services by maintaining essential social services during the protracted crisis that WBG is 
undergoing.  The project will allow faster disbursement than has been possible under the ESSP MDTF, as 
1
Operating costs will include:  (a) rent payments for offices and facilities; (b) water and electricity utilities; (c) transportation 
including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance; (d) communication including telephones, fax and mail; (e) 
consumable and other perishable items; (f) maintenance of equipment and buildings; (g) heating fuel; (h) cleaning services; 
(i) advertisement costs solely related to procurement under the Project; (j) commercial bank charges; and (k) per diem and 
transportation allowances for MOEHE, MOH, MOSA and PCU staff for activities directly related to the project. 
Page  4
the bulk of disbursements will be against recurrent expenditures, not subject to Bank procurement 
guidelines.  
 
ESSP 3 complements other Bank operations financed through the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank 
(TFGWB).  Its assistance to poor and vulnerable population groups complements the support provided 
through the Bank’s Social Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP) and that provided to communities under 
the Palestinian NGO Project (PNGO 3).  They will serve to strengthen the policy dialogue on social 
safety net reform.  The ESSP should facilitate implementation of some activities under the ongoing 
Tertiary Education Project, and will allow the Bank to support policy reforms in the health sector.  The 
Bank is also re-engaging the PA in its policy dialogue on pensions, which complements the dialogue on 
the fiscal impact of the wage bill and how to contain it. 
 
The PA’s emergency program in social services was launched with the help of the World Bank in 2002 
with the aim to provide a means of rapidly channeling donor funds to priority social services in a 
coordinated manner. The Bank and donors have provided support for the past five years through ESSP 1, 
ESSP 2 and the ESSP Multi-Donor Trust Fund.
2
Over the 2002 to mid-2007 period these mechanisms 
have disbursed over USD 200 million for the non-salary recurrent expenditures. Implementation 
arrangements have included design elements to compensate for institutional weaknesses in the 
participating agencies, while maintaining rigorous fiduciary and implementation procedures acceptable to 
the World Bank. 
 
An Operational and Policy Services (OPCS) review of emergency operations established the ESSP model 
and adopted it as a best practice instrument in the Bank for similar country situations. Such operations 
address priorities that are particularly important in a time of crisis, such as the continuity in provision of 
essential social services for poor and needy populations, with an added value of safeguarding social 
cohesion. In addition to funding recurrent emergency expenditures, this has given the Bank a solid 
platform to maintain a policy dialogue in the social sectors.
 
4. Description 
 
The project will consist of four components. Component 1 will finance the non-salary operating costs for 
education services, costs of general examinations and support to higher education institutions. Component 
2
will finance the non-salary operating costs for health services including non-medical recurrent 
expenditures, and treatment in private and non-governmental clinics. Component 3 will finance the non-
salary operating costs for the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA), and its shelters, rehabilitation and 
treatment centers. The final component will support project management and monitoring, namely the 
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) in the Ministry of Finance and its incremental operating and audit costs. 
 
The outcomes of the project will be of significant importance to the social welfare of the Palestinian 
people. In line with its primary objective, the project will help maintain a network of public social 
services available to all Palestinians and in particular the poor and most vulnerable as they are particularly 
dependent on public education and health systems.  Its support for social care services is of special 
importance – it directly addresses the needs of individuals who often are most at risk – abandoned 
children and youth, the unskilled, the elderly and refugees from precarious family situations.  In this, the 
series of ESSP projects have already garnered much appreciation among the Palestinian population, and 
this project builds on, and is an important extension of, those experiences.   
 
2
ESSP 1 was effective from March 2002 to June 2004; ESSP 2 was effective from January 2003 to December 2004; and the 
ESSP MDTF as been effective since September 2006. 
Page  5
Beyond its direct effects on the target population, it generates other tangible outcomes that are beneficial 
to the broader economy.  It will continue to create an enabling environment that draws in donor resources 
and helps focus those resources on areas that are essential for maintaining the Palestinian social networks 
and civil society.  At the same time, serving as a catalyst for donor moneys, it becomes an important 
instrument for the PA to channel such moneys quickly into priority areas, including ones that can be 
expected to have a large impact on the general well-being of the population and, just as importantly, on 
maintaining, and possibly enhancing, human capital development for future growth. 
 
Finally, it is an important means of enhancing the policy dialogue between the PA and the Bank in the 
social sectors. It draws a broad spectrum of donor interests into this same dialogue, and thus benefits from 
the resultant synergies.
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Special Financing 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will have primary responsibility for overseeing project implementation 
and ensuring coherence with the Bank’s procedures and guidelines.  In performing this function, the MOF 
will draw existing technical and implementation capacity in the Ministries of Health, Education and 
Higher Education, and Social Affairs.  The implementation arrangements will be similar to those under 
the ESSP MDTF, with one exception which will be to revert back to the 2002-2005 set-up whereby the 
Ministries of Health and Education and Higher Education were fully responsible implementing project 
activities and managing their respective Designated Accounts.   
 
The ESSP Project Coordination Unit/Ministry of Finance (ESSP PCU).
 
The ESSP PCU will continue to 
oversee and manage the proposed operation.  The MOF Director General for International Relations and 
Development Projects (DIRD) will head the PCU and thus be the Bank’s main interlocutor. As such, the 
DIRD will be responsible for project oversight and rely on PCU staff to carry out fiduciary and project 
management tasks.  The PCU staff includes a project coordinator, a financial officer, a disbursement 
officer, a procurement officer, and four accountants, who are knowledgeable in World Bank financial 
management and procurement procedures due to of to their involvement in previous phases of the ESSP. 
 
The PCU will make the link between the line ministries and the MOF on project implementation and 
fiduciary issues.  The PCU shall:  (a) ensure that financing of the Operating Costs of MOEHE, MOH, 
MOSA and PCU shall be made against the items set forth in the Operating Budgets for these respective 
entities as approved during negotiations.  Any changes to these operating budgets will be subject to 
Bank’s prior approval.
 
Role of the line ministries.
 
The Ministries of Health, Education and Higher Education, and Social Affairs 
will be responsible for the day to day implementation and the management of the Designated Accounts 
for the respective components.  These Ministries will prepare individual work programs and budgets and 
will in turn be responsible for monitoring project performance through defined performance indicators.  
These indicators will further be confirmed by field spot check audits.  These functions will be carried out 
by existing staff within these ministries as a means of continuing to strengthen their capacity.  The line 
ministries will be required to report on quarterly implementation performance to the ESSP PCU who in 
turn will be responsible for consolidating this information and preparing quarterly progress reports.  The 
Page  6
PCU will continue to support the Ministry of Social Affairs in the implementation of its activities, 
including the preparation of annual work plans and budgets.  
 
7. Sustainability 
The Palestinian population will reap most of the benefits of this operation. Most importantly, essential 
budget needs will be met, allowing schools and health services to operate, and social care to remain 
available.  In addition to filling the most critical financing gaps in the social sector, the ESSP offers the 
PA a flexible instrument with transparency and fiduciary rigor that can also attract donors to contribute 
moneys, thus continuing to increase budgets for social services that are critical for the well-being of the 
population.  Mechanisms are in place to allocate and disburse donor contributions relatively quickly 
meeting needs as they arise. The ESSP instrument also minimizes the duplication of efforts in the social 
sectors through the pooling arrangements designed in the ESSP MDTF.
 
Derived ESSP benefits not only alleviate immediate social service shortages, but also lay the foundation 
for forward-looking programming and funding of recurrent expenditures. This is of particular importance 
in light of the upcoming donor conference in mid-December 2007, where the availability of ready 
conduits for effective use of moneys will be an advantage. Thus, combined with the greater ownership as 
the three social sector line ministries will be responsible for project implementation, the project will 
continue to ensure the delivery of key social services.  
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Over the past decade, the Bank has become increasingly involved in fragile states. This includes the West 
Bank and Gaza where it has provided emergency support since 2002 to social sector line ministries, 
utilities and municipalities. The Bank has also funded development projects in WBG. Lessons learned 
from the implementation of these operations has been reflected in the design of ESSP 3 and include:  
 
·
Emergency operations must be simple, rapidly executable and sharply focused; a simple 
operation that can channel funds quickly to minimize disruption in social service delivery is an 
efficient and effective vehicle for responding to emergency and crisis situations; 
·
Rapid preparation ensures that the design of the operation does not deviate significantly from a 
country context that tends to evolve quickly;  
·
Streamlined implementation arrangements are needed to avoid delays in project execution; close 
monitoring, in particular through field-based staff, is a means of ensuring responsiveness in 
emergency and crisis situations; 
Large volumes of procurement transactions are not conducive to rapid implementation, as experienced 
under the ongoing Bank administered ESSP MDTF.
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [ 
] 
[x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[x] 
Page  7
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
·
Public Expenditure Review: from Crisis to Greater Fiscal Independence
,
The World 
Bank, Report No. 38207-WBG, February 2007 
 
·
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank - Status Report
,
The World Bank, Report No. 38026-
WBG, December 2006 
 
·
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank - Request for Replenishment & Proposed 
Moratorium on Service Charges and Commitment Fees
,
The World Bank, Memorandum 
of the President, November 2006 
 
·
Food Security Update
,
World Food Program / Food & Agriculture Organization, June 
2007 
 
·
Food Security and Vulnerability Assessment, 
World Food Program, January 2007 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Eileen Murray 
Title: Lead Operations Officer 
Tel: +961 1 987 800 
Email: Emurray@worldbank.org 
Location: Beirut, Lebanon (IBRD) 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
