Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF094560 GZ
 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Third Emergency Services Support Project) 
 
between 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
Dated July 14, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF094560 GZ 
 
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 2009, between the PALESTINE LIBERATION 
ORGANIZATION 
(the “Recipient”) (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “World Bank”), acting as 
administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank, established on October 19, 
1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and 
IDA 95-3 and Resolution No. 96-11 and IDA 96-7, and as further amended by Resolution 
No. 99-3 and IDA 99-2 and Resolution No. 03-193 and IDA 03-208, of the Executive 
Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the 
International Development Association (the “Trust Fund”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association has 
resolved, on June 4, 2008, to, 
inter alia,
 replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of fifty 
five million dollars ($55,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the surplus of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (“Gaza”) and the West Bank (the “West 
Bank”), which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(B) 
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, among other 
things
,
sets out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank 
(the “Interim Agreement”); 
 
(C) 
Section 5(b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases described 
thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority; and 
 
(D) 
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Recipient, has requested the 
World Bank to provide additional financing for activities related to the Original Project 
(as defined in the Appendix I to this Agreement) which are described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (the “Project”). 
 
WHEREAS the World Bank has agreed, on the basis, among other things
,
of
the 
foregoing to extend the Grant to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Grant 
Agreement. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE I - STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008
 (“Standard Conditions”) including the modifications 
set out in Appendix II to this Agreement, constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement.  
 
1.03. 
All provisions of the Original Trust Fund Grant Agreement remain in full force 
and effect. 
 
ARTICLE II - THE PROJECT 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”), and shall cause the Palestinian 
Authority to carry out the Project, through the MOF, MOEHE, MOH and 
MOSA, in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard 
Conditions and the Disbursement Plan. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall cause the Palestinian Authority to carry out the Project, through the MOF, 
MOEHE, MOH and MOSA, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - THE GRANT 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to five 
million United States Dollars ($5,000,000) (“Grant”) to assist in financing the 
Project. 
 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World 
Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the Subsidiary Agreement referred 
to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority, as represented by the Minister of 
Finance of the Palestinian Authority. 
Page  4
3
4.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 4.01(a), there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank 
of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, a 
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the Recipient, 
showing the following matters:  
 
(a) 
on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally binding 
upon it in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the 
Palestinian Authority and is legally binding upon each such party in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
4.03 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement 
shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the 
Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 4.01 
(“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which 
would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the 
World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this Section 
until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist.  
 
4.04. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has 
not entered into effect by the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, 
unless the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes 
a
later date for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE V - 
RECIPIENT’S REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority  
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
H.E. Dr. Salam Fayyad 
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance 
Palestinian National Authority 
Ramallah, West Bank and Gaza 
 
Telephone: 
    Facsimile: 
970-2-297 
8846 
    970-2-297 
8845 
 
Page  5
4
5.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at the West Bank, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
By /s/ Salam Fayyad                       
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
By /s/ Dina N. Abu-Ghaida 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to mitigate the deterioration of the delivery of 
education, health and social care services to the Palestinian population in the parts of the 
West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project: 
 
Part A
:
Education Services
Support to MOEHE for the delivery of educational services, through:   
 
1. 
the financing of recurrent expenditures of MOEHE and school directorates;  
 
2. 
the financing of the cost of general examinations, including stationary, printing, 
and per diem expenses for examination monitors and reviewers; and 
 
3. 
the supporting of higher education institutions, through payment of salaries of 
non-civil servant teaching staff. 
 
Part B
:
Health Services
Support to MOH for the delivery of health services through: 
 
1. 
the financing of recurrent non-medical expenditures of MOH and health 
facilities; and 
 
2. 
No activities will be undertaken within this sub-component under this Additional 
Financing. 
 
Part C
:
Social Welfare Services
Support to MOSA for the delivery of social care services, through the financing 
of recurrent expenditures of MOSA, and its shelters, rehabilitation and training centers. 
 
Part D:
Project Management and Monitoring
No activities will be undertaken within this component under this Additional Financing.
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Grant available to the Palestinian Authority under a subsidiary agreement between 
the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority, under terms and conditions approved by the 
World Bank.  
 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of the Palestinian 
Authority therein set forth; (ii) to take all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of 
the Project; and (iii) not to take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the World Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Grant. Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not assign, amend, arrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement of any of its 
provisions. 
 
B.
 
Project Implementation
 
1. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause the MOF to 
maintain overall responsibility for the Project, including adequate compliance with the 
World Bank’s fiduciary requirements. To assist in its performance of this function, the 
MOF shall maintain a PCU in a form and with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the World Bank (including a project coordinator and specialists in 
financial management, and accountants). The PCU shall have responsibility for day-to-
day implementation and management of Parts C of the Project. 
 
2. 
The MOEHE shall be responsible for day-to-day implementation and 
management of Part A of the Project and the MOH shall be responsible for day-to-day 
implementation and management of Part B of the Project. The Recipient, through the 
Palestinian Authority, shall ensure that the MOEHE and the MOH assign adequate staff, 
including financial management specialists, and resources for the implementation and 
management of their respective Parts of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the World 
Bank.     
 
Page  8
7
3. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause the MOEHE to 
keep detailed lists evidencing the names of university teaching staff, their date and period 
of appointment, ID number, bank account detail, position and monthly salary, and receipt 
of the salary from the university (copy of bank transfer to the respective personal account 
of each university teaching staff), under Part A.3 of the Project, in a manner satisfactory 
to the World Bank. 
 
4. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall (a) ensure that financing 
of the Operating Costs of MOEHE, MOH, and MOSA shall be made against the items set 
forth in the Operating Budgets for these respective entities, as approved by the World 
Bank, and (ii) shall undertake any changes to said itemized Operating Budgets only after 
approval of the World Bank. 
 
5. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall ensure that the following 
transaction, control and clearance processes are followed for the purposes of financing 
Operating Costs out of the Grant proceeds, as defined in Section III.B.2 of this Schedule: 
(a) the MOEHE, MOH, and MOSA, respectively, shall initiate all transactions based on 
the respective itemized Operating Budgets; (b) upon receipt of invoices for said 
transactions, the MOEHE and MOH (for their respective Operating Costs) and PCU (for 
MOSA
’s Operating Costs), shall carry out appropriate due diligence to determine: (i) 
eligibility of the expenditures; (ii) availability of sufficient resources; (iii) proper 
authorization and approval of all supporting documents; and (iv) compliance with the 
Recipient’s applicable laws and regulations; and (c) the payments for Operating Costs 
shall be processed upon successful completion of the review described in sub-paragraph 
(b).  
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority, through the MOF, to monitor 
and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the 
indicators agreed with the World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
each calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five 
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.
 
Page  9
8
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority, through the MOF, MOEHE 
and MOH, to maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
cause the Palestinian Authority, through the MOF, to prepare and furnish to the World 
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority, through the MOF, to have its 
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the 
Standard Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall 
be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6)  months after the end of such period.
 
4. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority, through the MOF, to submit 
quarterly spot audits not later than (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter in a 
form and substance acceptable to the World Bank that confirm eligibility and delivery of 
items financed by the proceeds of the Grant.  
 
Section III
.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions, (b) this Section, and (c) such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as 
revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement 
pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below.   
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  10
9
Category 
 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated   
(expressed in US  
Dollars) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
 
(1)  Operating Costs 
 
(a) under Part A of the Project 
 
(b) under Part B of the Project 
 
(c) under Part C of the Project 
 
300,000 
 
2,500,000 
 
400,000 
 
100% 
(2) Salaries under Part A.3 of the 
 
Project 
 
1,800,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
5,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of the table in Part A of this Section: 
 
(i) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the expenditures incurred by the 
MOEHE, MOH and MOSA in accordance with itemized Operating 
Budgets approved by the Bank and referenced in Section I.B.4 of 
Schedule 2 of this agreement, related to: (a) rent payments for offices 
and facilities; (b) water and electricity utilities; (c) transportation, 
including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance; (d) 
communication including telephones, fax and mail; (e) consumable 
and other perishable items; (f) maintenance of equipment and 
buildings; (g) heating fuel; (h) cleaning services; (i) commercial 
bank charges; and (j) per diem and transportation allowances for 
MOEHE, MOH and MOSA staff for activities directly related to the 
project.  
 
(ii) 
the term “Salaries” means salaries of teaching staff of higher 
education institutions, excluding civil servant staff, paid in 
Page  11
10 
accordance with the list referenced in Section I.B.3 of Schedule 2 of 
this agreement. 
 
3.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard Conditions is 
December 31, 2010. 
Page  12
11 
APPENDIX I 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Disbursement Plan” means the work plan dated April 7, 2009, setting forth the 
projected disbursement targets and modalities for disbursements under the 
Original Project and the Additional Financing. 
 
5. 
“MOEHE” means the Ministry of Education and Higher Education of the 
Palestinian Authority or any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority or any 
successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“MOH” means the Ministry of Health of the Palestinian Authority or any 
successor thereto. 
 
8. 
“MOSA” means the Ministry of Social Affairs of the Palestinian Authority or 
any successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“Operating Budget” means an operating budget for MOH, MOEHE, MOSA or 
PCU, respectively, specifying the Operating Costs for each said entity eligible for 
financing under the Project, as approved by the World Bank on November 13, 
2007 and updated and approved by the World Bank on April 2, 2009; and 
“Operating Budgets” refer to these budgets collectively. 
 
10. 
“Original Project” means the project described in the Original Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Original Trust Fund Grant Agreement” means the Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
for the Third Emergency Services Support Project (TF091212) between the World 
Bank and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (for the benefit of the Palestinian 
Authority), dated January 17, 2008. 
 
Page  13
12 
12. 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit of the Recipient, located within the 
MOF, and established under the trust fund credit agreement dated March 1, 2002, 
between the Recipient and the World Bank for the Emergency Support Services 
Project (TF050473). 
 
13. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Grant Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make 
the proceeds of the Grant available to the Palestinian Authority. 
 
Page  14
13 
APPENDIX-II 
 
Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 2.09 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.09. 
Visits. 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation of the 
Project and for a period of ten (10) years thereafter: 
 
(a) 
enable representatives of the World Bank to visit any part of the West 
Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority for purposes related to 
the Grant; and 
 
(b) 
enable the World Bank’s representatives: (i) to visit any facilities and 
sites included in the Project; and (ii) to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, and any documents relevant to the performance of its obligations under the 
Grant Agreement.” 
 
2. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 3.07 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.07. 
Financing Taxes.   
 
(a) 
The Grant Agreement may specify that the proceeds of the Grant may 
not be withdrawn to pay for Taxes levied by, or in the parts of West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority on or in respect of Eligible 
Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  In such case, 
if the amount of any such Taxes decreases or increases, the World Bank may, by notice to 
the Recipient, adjust the percentage of such Eligible Expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant specified in the Grant Agreement, as required to ensure 
consistency with such limitation on withdrawals.” 
 
3. 
Sub-sections (a) and (h) of Section 4.02 are deleted, and consequently,  
Sub-sections (b) through (k) are re-lettered as Sub-sections (a) through (i). 
 
4. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (b) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
Fraud and Corruption. 
At any time, the World Bank determines that any 
representative of the Recipient (or any agency thereof or any entity in the West Bank and 
Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or any other recipient of any of 
the proceeds of the Grant) has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of the Grant, without the Recipient 
(or any such agency thereof or any such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority or any other such recipient) having taken timely 
Page  15
14 
and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to address such practices when 
they occur.” 
 
5. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (c) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Cross Suspension
.
IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient or any agency thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, to make withdrawals under any 
agreement with IBRD or with IDA because of a failure by the Recipient, or any agency 
thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority, to perform any of its obligations under such agreement or any other agreement 
with IBRD or IDA.” 
 
6. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (f) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(f) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. 
The Recipient or any 
other entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project has, without the consent 
of the World Bank: (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in part, any of its obligations 
arising under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property or assets financed wholly or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Grant; provided, however, that the provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business 
which, in the opinion of the World Bank:  (A) do not materially and adversely affect the 
ability of the Recipient (or such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising 
under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project; and (B) do not materially and adversely affect the financial condition or 
operation of the Recipient (or such other entity).” 
 
7. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (g) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(g) 
Condition of Recipient.  
If the Grant has been made to a Recipient which 
is not a member of IBRD: 
 
(i) 
Any action has been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment 
or suspension of operations of the Recipient (or of any other 
entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project). 
 
(ii) 
The Recipient (or any other entity responsible for implementing 
any part of the Project) has ceased to exist in the same legal form 
as that prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
In the opinion of the World Bank, the legal character, ownership 
or control of the Recipient (or any other entity responsible for 
implementing any part of the Project) has changed from that 
prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement so as to 
Page  16
15 
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient (or 
such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under 
or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement, or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project.” 
 
8. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (h) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(h) 
Ineligibility
.
IBRD or IDA has declared the Recipient ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by IBRD or IDA or otherwise to participate in 
the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by IBRD or 
IDA (including as administrator of funds provided by another financier), as a result of a 
determination by IBRD or IDA that the Recipient has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any 
financing made by IBRD or IDA.”  
 
9. 
Sub-section (c) of Section 4.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Fraud and Corruption. 
At any time, the World Bank determines, with 
respect to any amount of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient (or any agency 
thereof or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority, or any other recipient of the proceeds of the Grant) without the Recipient (or 
any such agency thereof or any such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or any such other recipient of the proceeds of the 
Grant) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to 
address such practices when they occur.” 
 
10. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 4.05 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
If the World Bank determines that an amount of the Grant has been used 
in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Grant Agreement or these Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon notice by the World Bank to the Recipient, 
promptly refund such amount to the World Bank. Such inconsistent use shall include, 
without limitation:  
 
(i)  
use of such amount to make a payment for an expenditure that is 
not an Eligible Expenditure; or  
 
(ii)  
(A) engaging in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive 
practices in connection with the use of such amount, or (B) use 
of such amount to finance a contract during the procurement or 
execution of which such practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient (or any agency thereof or any 
entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority, or other recipient of such amount of the 
Page  17
16 
Grant), in either case without the Recipient (or such agency 
thereof or such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
World Bank to address such practices when they occur.” 
 
11. 
Sub-section (j) of Section 5.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(j) 
If, within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award have been 
delivered to the parties, the award has not been complied with, any party may:  (i) enter 
judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of competent 
jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by execution; or  
 
(iii) pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for the enforcement of 
the award and the provisions of the Grant Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment or enforcement of the award 
against the Recipient except as such procedure may be available otherwise than by reason 
of the provisions of this Section.” 
 
12. 
Paragraph (17) of the Appendix is deleted and, consequently, paragraphs (18) 
through (26) are re-numbered as paragraphs (17) through (25). 
 
