Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF090212-GZ 
 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Third Emergency Services Support Project) 
 
between 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
Dated January 17, 2008 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF090212-GZ 
 
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 2008, between the PALESTINE 
LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the 
“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
“World Bank”), acting as administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank, 
established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as amended by 
Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and Resolution No. 96-11 and IDA 96-7, and as 
further amended by Resolution No. 99-3 and IDA 99-2 and Resolution No. 03-193 and 
IDA 03-208, of the Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development and the International Development Association (the “Trust Fund”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association has 
resolved, on December 14, 2006, to, 
inter alia,
 replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of 
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the surplus of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (“Gaza”) and the West Bank (the “West 
Bank”), which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(B) 
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, among other 
things
,
sets out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank 
(the “Interim Agreement”); 
 
(C) 
Section 5(b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases described 
thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority; and 
 
(D) 
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Recipient, has requested the 
World Bank to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Grant 
Agreement (the “Project”). 
 
WHEREAS the World Bank has agreed, on the basis, among other things
,
of
the 
foregoing to extend the Grant to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Grant 
Agreement. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE I - STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Fund
s, dated July 20, 2006 (“Standard Conditions”) including the modifications 
set out in Appendix II to this Agreement, constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II - THE PROJECT 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”), and shall cause the Palestinian 
Authority to carry out the Project, through the MOF, MOEHE, MOH and 
MOSA, in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard 
Conditions. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall cause the Palestinian Authority to carry out the Project, through the MOF, 
MOEHE, MOH and MOSA, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - THE GRANT 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to ten 
million United States Dollars ($10,000,000) (“Grant”) to assist in financing the 
Project. 
 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - ADDITIONAL REMEDIES 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension referred to in the re-lettered Section 4.02(g) 
of the Standard Conditions consists of the following, namely that IBRD or IDA 
has declared the Recipient ineligible to
 
be
awarded a contract financed by
 
IBRD 
or IDA. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World 
Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the Subsidiary Agreement referred 
to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority, as represented by the Minister of 
Finance of the Palestinian Authority. 
 
5.02. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement 
shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the 
Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 5.01 
(“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which 
would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the 
World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this Section 
until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist.  
 
5.03. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has 
not entered into effect by the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, 
unless the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes 
a
later date for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE VI - 
RECIPIENT’S REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority  
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
H.E. Dr. Salam Fayyad 
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance 
Palestinian National Authority 
Ramallah, West Bank and Gaza 
 
Telephone:  
Facsimile: 
970-2-297 8846  
970-2-297 8845  
Page  5
4
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at the West Bank, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
By /s/ Salam Fayyad 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
By /s/ David Craig  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to mitigate the deterioration of the delivery of 
education, health and social care services to the Palestinian population in the parts of the 
West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A
:
Education Services
Support to MOEHE for the delivery of educational services, through:  
 
1. 
the financing of recurrent expenditures of MOEHE and school directorates;  
 
2. 
the financing of the cost of general examinations, including stationary, printing, 
and per diem expenses for examination monitors and reviewers; and 
 
3. 
the supporting of higher education institutions, through payment of salaries of 
non-civil servant teaching staff. 
 
Part B
:
Health Services
Support to MOH for the delivery of health services through: 
 
1. 
the financing of recurrent non-medical expenditures of MOH and health 
facilities; and 
 
2. 
the financing of contracted health services not available, through public facilities. 
 
Part C
:
Social Welfare Services
Support to MOSA for the delivery of social care services, through the financing 
of recurrent expenditures of MOSA, and its shelters, rehabilitation and training 
centers. 
 
Part D:
Project Management and Monitoring
Support for Project management and monitoring, through: 
 
1. 
the financing of Project management staff, operating costs and audits; and 
 
2. 
the financing of short term consultancies to strengthen the capacity of the PCU, 
MOEHE, MOH and MOSA. 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Grant available to the Palestinian Authority under a subsidiary agreement 
between the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority, under terms and conditions 
approved by the World Bank.  
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of the 
Palestinian Authority therein set forth; (ii) to take all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate for the carrying out of the Project; and (iii) not to take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the 
Project. 
3. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the World Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant. Except as the World Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, arrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement of any of its provisions. 
B.
 
Project Implementation
 
1. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause the MOF to 
maintain overall responsibility for the Project, including adequate compliance 
with the World Bank’s fiduciary requirements. To assist in its performance of 
this function, the MOF shall maintain a PCU in a form and with functions, 
staffing and resources satisfactory to the World Bank (including a project 
coordinator and specialists in procurement, financial management, and 
accountants). The PCU shall have responsibility for day-to-day implementation 
and management of Parts C and D of the Project. 
 
2. 
The MOEHE shall be responsible for day-to-day implementation and 
management of Part A of the Project and the MOH shall be responsible for day-
to-day implementation and management of Part B of the Project. The Recipient, 
through the Palestinian Authority, shall ensure that the MOEHE and the MOH 
assign adequate staff, including financial management specialists, and resources 
for the implementation and management of their respective Parts of the Project, 
in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank.     
Page  8
7
3. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause the MOEHE to 
keep detailed lists evidencing the names of university teaching staff, their date 
and period of appointment, ID number, bank account detail, position and monthly 
salary, and receipt of the salary from the university (copy of bank transfer to the 
respective personal account of each university teaching staff), under Part A.3 of 
the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
4. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall (a) ensure that financing 
of the Operating Costs of MOEHE, MOH, MOSA and PCU shall be made 
against the items set forth in the Operating Budgets for these respective entities, 
as approved by the World Bank, and (ii) shall undertake any changes to said 
itemized Operating Budgets only after approval of the World Bank. 
 
5. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall ensure that the following 
transaction, control and clearance processes are followed for the purposes of 
financing Operating Costs and Other Services out of the Grant proceeds, as 
defined in Section IV.B.2 of this Schedule: (a) the MOEHE, MOH, MOSA and 
PCU, respectively, shall initiate all transactions based on the respective itemized 
Operating Budgets; (b) upon receipt of invoices for said transactions, the 
MOEHE and MOH (for their respective Operating Costs) and PCU (for MOSA 
and its own Operating Costs), shall carry out appropriate due diligence to 
determine: (i) eligibility of the expenditures; (ii) availability of sufficient 
resources; (iii) proper authorization and approval of all supporting documents; 
and (iv) compliance with the Recipient’s applicable laws and regulations; and (c) 
the payments for Operating Costs shall be processed upon successful completion 
of the review described in sub-paragraph (b).  
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority, through the MOF, to monitor 
and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on 
the basis of the indicators agreed with the World Bank. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of each calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the World 
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.
 
Page  9
8
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority, through the MOF, MOEHE 
and MOH, to maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
cause the Palestinian Authority, through the MOF, to prepare and furnish to the 
World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority, through the MOF, to have its 
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
(b) of the Standard Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover 
the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements 
for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6)  
months after the end of such period.
 
4. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority, through the MOF, to submit 
quarterly spot audits not later than (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter in a form and substance acceptable to the World Bank that confirm 
eligibility and delivery of items financed by the proceeds of the Grant.  
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, with the provisions of this Section, and with the 
Procurement Plan.    
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  10
9
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
 
According to paragraph 3.6 of the Consultants Guidelines 
 
(b)  Single- Source Selection 
 
According to paragraphs 3.9 to 3.13 of the Consultants Guidelines 
 
(c) Individual Consultants 
 
According to Section V of the Consultants Guidelines 
 
(d) Consultants’ Qualifications Selection  
 
According to paragraph 3.7 of the Consultants’ Guidelines 
 
C. 
Procurement of Other Services 
 
Other Services, as defined in Section IV.B.2(ii) of this Schedule, shall be 
procured following a competitive process, acceptable to the World Bank, based 
on a set of Requests of Proposals and Forms of Agreement approved by the 
World Bank. 
 
 
 
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the World Bank:  (a) 
the first contract for Other Services; (b) each contract for consultants’ services 
procured on the basis of Single Source Selection; (c) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; and (d) each contract for consultants’ services provided by 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more.  All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.
 
Page  11
10 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions, (b) this Section, and (c) 
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.   
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated   
(expressed in US  
Dollars) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
 
(1)  Consultants’ Services and 
 
Other Services 
 
(a) under Part B of the Project  
 
(b) under Part D of the Project 
 
3,750,000 
 
220,000 
 
100% 
(2)  Operating Costs 
 
(a) under Part A of the Project 
 
(b) under Part B of the Project 
 
(c) under Part C of the Project 
 
(d) under Part D of the Project 
 
2,000,000 
 
2,500,000 
 
500,000 
 
30,000 
 
100% 
(3) Salaries under Part A.3 of the 
 
Project 
 
1,000,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
10,000,000
Page  12
11 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
For the purposes of the table in Part A of this Section: 
 
(i) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the expenditures incurred by the 
MOEHE, MOH, MOSA and PCU in accordance with itemized Operating 
Budgets approved by the Bank and referenced in Section I.B.3 of 
Schedule 2 of this agreement, related to: (a) rent payments for offices 
and facilities; (b) water and electricity utilities; (c) transportation, 
including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance; (d) 
communication including telephones, fax and mail; (e) consumable and 
other perishable items; (f) maintenance of equipment and buildings; (g) 
heating fuel; (h) cleaning services; (i) advertisement costs solely related 
to procurement under the Project; (j) commercial bank charges; and (k) 
per diem and transportation allowances for MOEHE, MOH, MOSA and 
PCU staff for activities directly related to the project.  
 
(ii) 
the term “Other Services” means specialized medical services contracted 
by the MOH from non-governmental organizations and private sector 
hospitals; and 
 
(iii) 
the term “Salaries” means salaries of teaching staff of higher education 
institutions, excluding civil servant staff, paid in accordance with the list 
referenced in Section I.B.3 of Schedule 2 of this agreement. 
 
3.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard Conditions is 
December 31, 2009. 
Page  13
12 
APPENDIX I 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“MOEHE” means the Ministry of Education and Higher Education of the 
Palestinian Authority or any successor thereto. 
5. 
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority or any 
successor thereto. 
6. 
 “MOH” means the Ministry of Health of the Palestinian Authority or any 
successor thereto. 
7. 
“MOSA” means the Ministry of Social Affairs of the Palestinian Authority or 
any successor thereto. 
8. 
“Operating Budget” means an operating budget for MOH, MOEHE, MOSA or 
PCU, respectively, specifying the Operating Costs for each said entity eligible for 
financing under the Project, as approved by the World Bank on November 13, 
2007; and “Operating Budgets” refer to these budgets collectively. 
 
9. 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit of the Recipient, located within the 
MOF, and established under the trust fund credit agreement dated March 1, 2002, 
between the Recipient and the World Bank for the Emergency Support Services 
Project (TF050473). 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated November 7, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
Page  14
13 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Grant Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make 
the proceeds of the Grant available to the Palestinian Authority. 
 
Page  15
14 
APPENDIX-II 
 
Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:   
1. 
Section 2.09 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.09. 
Visits. 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation of the 
Project and for a period of ten (10) years thereafter:   
 
(a) 
enable representatives of the World Bank to visit any part of the West 
Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority for purposes related to 
the Grant; and 
 
(b) 
enable the World Bank’s representatives: (i) to visit any facilities and 
sites included in the Project; and (ii) to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, and any documents relevant to the performance of its obligations under the 
Grant Agreement.” 
 
2. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 3.07 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.07. 
Financing Taxes.   
 
(a) 
The Grant Agreement may specify that the proceeds of the Grant may 
not be withdrawn to pay for Taxes levied by, or in the parts of West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority on or in respect of Eligible 
Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  In such case, 
if the amount of any such Taxes decreases or increases, the World Bank may, by notice to 
the Recipient, adjust the percentage of such Eligible Expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant specified in the Grant Agreement, as required to ensure 
consistency with such limitation on withdrawals.” 
 
3. 
Sub-sections (a) and (g) of Section 4.02 are deleted, and consequently,  
Sub-sections (b) through (i) are re-lettered as Sub-sections (a) through (g). 
 
4. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (c) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Cross Suspension
.
IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient or any agency thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, to make withdrawals under any 
agreement with IBRD or with IDA because of a failure by the Recipient, the Project 
Implementing Entity, or any agency thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement or any other agreement with IBRD or IDA.” 
Page  16
15 
5. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (e) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(e) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. 
The Recipient or the 
Project Implementing Entity has, without the consent of the World Bank: (i) assigned or 
transferred, in whole or in part, any of its obligations arising under or entered into 
pursuant to the Grant Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, assigned, or otherwise 
disposed of any property or assets financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with 
respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business which, in the opinion of the 
World Bank:  (A) do not materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient (or 
such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under or entered into pursuant 
to the Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not 
materially and adversely affect the financial condition or operation of the Project 
implementation entity.” 
 
6. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (f) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(f) 
Condition of Recipient.  
If the Grant has been made to a Recipient which 
is not a member of IBRD: 
 
(i) 
Any action has been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment 
or suspension of operations of the Project Implementation Entity. 
 
(ii) 
The Project Implementation Entity has ceased to exist in the 
same legal form as that prevailing as of the date of the Grant 
Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
In the opinion of the World Bank, the legal character, ownership 
or control of the Project Implementation Entity has changed 
from that prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement so as 
to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient (or 
such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under 
or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement, or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project.” 
 
7. 
Sub-section (c) of Section 4.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c)  
Misprocurement;
 
Fraud and Corruption. 
The World Bank: 
 
(i) determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, that (A) the procurement of such contract is inconsistent with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Grant Agreement; or (B) corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or the Project 
Implementing Entity during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank 
to remedy the situation; and (ii) establishes the amount of expenditures under such 
Page  17
16 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Grant.”  
 
8. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 4.05 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
If the World Bank determines that an amount of the Grant has been used 
in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Grant Agreement or these Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon notice by the World Bank to the Recipient, 
promptly refund such amount to the World Bank. Such inconsistent use shall include, 
without limitation, use of such amount to: (i) make a payment for an expenditure that is 
not an Eligible Expenditure; or (ii) finance a contract during the procurement or 
execution of which corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Recipient or the Project Implementing Entity, without the 
Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to 
remedy the situation.”  
 
9. 
Sub-section (j) of Section 5.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(j) 
If, within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award have been 
delivered to the parties, the award has not been complied with, any party may:  (i) enter 
judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of competent 
jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by execution; or  
(iii) pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for the enforcement of 
the award and the provisions of the Grant Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment or enforcement of the award 
against the Recipient except as such procedure may be available otherwise than by reason 
of the provisions of this Section.” 
 
10. 
Paragraph (17) of the Appendix is deleted and, consequently, paragraphs (18) 
through (26) are re-numbered as paragraphs (17) through (25). 
 
