                                       Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2431



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     (TF-91212 TF-94560 TF-98204)



                                         ON A

                                        GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 18 MILLION


                                        TO THE

                   PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION

            (FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY)

                                       FOR THE

         THIRD EMERGENCY SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT (ESSP III)



                                      June 25, 2013




Human Development Sector
MNCO4
Middle East and North Africa region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective: June 24, 2013)

                  Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel (NIS)
                            US$1.00 = NIS3.64
                            NIS1.00 = US$0.27

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Review
CTA         Central Treasury Account
DA          Designated Account
DIRD        Directorate of International Relations Department (Ministry of Finance)
EC          European Commission
EPP         Emergency Project Paper
ESSP        Emergency Services Support Project
ESSP MDTF   Emergency Services Support Project – Multi-Donor Trust Fund
EU          European Union
FAO         United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
FM          Financial Management
FMR         Financial Management Report
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         International Development Association
IERC        Interim Emergency Relief Contribution
ISR         Implementation Status Report
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MDTF        Multi-Donor Trust Fund
MOEHE       Ministry of Education and Higher Education
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOH         Ministry of Health
MOSA        Ministry of Social Affairs
NGO         Non-governmental Organization
OPCS        Operational and Policy Services
PA          Palestinian Authority
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PENRA       Palestine Energy & National Resources Authority
PLO         Palestine Liberation Organization
PMM         Project Management and Monitoring

                                      ii
PNGO       Palestinian Non-governmental Organization Project
RFP        Request for Proposal
SSNRP      Social Safety Net Reform Project
TF         Trust Fund
TFGA       Trust Fund Grant Agreement
TFGWB      Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
TIM        Temporary International Mechanism
UNRWA      United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees in
           the Near East
WBG        West Bank and Gaza
WFP        World Food Program
WHO        World Health Organization

        Vice President:            Ms. Inger Andersen
        Country Director:          Ms. Mariam J. Sherman
        Sector Manager:            Mr. Yasser El-Gammal
        Project Team Leader:       Ms. Samira Ahmed Hillis
        ICR Team Leader:           Ms. Samira Ahmed Hillis
        ICR Primary Author         Mr. Paul Geli




                                  iii
                                   WEST BANK AND GAZA
                        Third Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP III)



                                                          CONTENTS



   A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... v
   B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
   C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v
   D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
   E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. vi
   F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... vi
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... ix
   H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ ix
   I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 34
Annex 7. Summary of Recipient’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 49
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 50
Annex 10. Context at Appraisal ........................................................................................ 52
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 56




                                                                   iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Third Emergency
Country:                West Bank and Gaza      Project Name:             Services Support
                                                                          Project (ESSP III)
                                                                          TF-90212,TF-
Project ID:             P108373                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          94560,TF-98204
ICR Date:               06/24/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          PALESTINIAN
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          AUTHORITY
Original Total
                        USD 18.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 18.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 18.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Education and Higher
Education (MOEHE), Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:                             March 24, 2008
Appraisal:            11/05/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/13/2007     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2009        06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      32                   1
General education sector                                               15                  35
Health                                                                 50                  57
Other social services                                                   3                   7


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                      40                  35
Health system performance                                              40                  57
Social safety nets                                                     20                  8

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Ms. Inger Andersen                    Ms. Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Ms. Mariam J. Sherman                 Mr. A. David Craig
Sector Manager:            Mr. Yasser El-Gammal                  Mr. David Steel
Project Team Leader:       Ms. Samira Ahmed Hillis               Ms. Eileen Murray
ICR Team Leader:           Ms. Samira Ahmed Hillis
ICR Primary Author:        Mr. Paul Geli

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
According to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the PDO was to mitigate the deterioration
in the delivery of education, health, and social care services to the Palestinian population
in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority.




                                                vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
                 Education, health and social service facilities operate at the same or higher
Indicator 1 :
                 levels than baselines
                                                                                Schools operating:
                 Schools operating: 972                                         1,192
                                                                                Hospital
Value            Hospital occupancy:        Same or higher                      occupancy:
(quantitative or overall 76%                value than baseline NA              Shefa: 75%
qualitative)                                values                              Rafedia: 72.9%
                 MOSA training centers:                                         MOSA training
                 13 with 1,300 students                                         centers: 13 with
                                                                                1,600 students
Date achieved 09/30/2007                    06/30/2008                          03/31/2012
Comments
                 Targets met. Facilities continued to operate at about the same or higher levels as
(incl. %
                 the 2007 baselines for education, health, and social services.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
                Number of public primary schools operating and number of students
Indicator 1 :
                attending those schools, compared to a baseline from end September 2007.
                No. of schools: 972                                        No. of schools:
Value                                     Same or higher                   1,192
(quantitative                             values than        NA
or qualitative) No. of students: 345,250 baseline values                   No. of students :
                                                                           623,380
Date achieved            09/30/2007           06/30/2008                        03/31/2012
Comments
                Targets met. Actual numbers are 23% higher than baselines for the number of
(incl. %
                schools operating and 81% higher than baselines for the number of students.
achievement)
                Number of professors and students in the nine universities supported by the
Indicator 2 :
                project.
                Number of academic                                         No. of academic
Value           staff: 3,209              Same or higher                   staff: 3,311
(quantitative                             values than        NA
or qualitative) Number of students:       baseline values                  Number of
                123,429                                                    students: 136,070


                                                vii
Date achieved        06/30/2010              06/30/2010                        03/31/2012
Comments
              Targets met. Actual numbers are 3% higher than baselines for the number of
(incl. %
              academic staff and 10% higher than baselines for the number of students.
achievement)
              Utilization rates (overall, gynecology, and outpatients) in the Shefa and
Indicator 3 :
              Rafedia hospitals, compared to a baseline at the end of September 2007
              Overall occupancy:
                                                                          Overall occupancy:
                                                                          Shefa: 75%
              Shefa: 76%
                                                                          Rafedia: 72.90%
              Rafedia: 67%
                                                                          Gynecology
Value           Gynecology occupancy: Same or higher
                                                                          occupancy:
(quantitative                         values than           NA
                                                                          Shefa: 99.5%
or qualitative) Shefa: 78%            baseline values
                                                                          Rafedia: 97.83%
                Rafedia: 95%
                                                                           Outpatients (Nos):
                Outpatients (Nos):                                         Shefa: 14,779
                Shefa: 12,683                                              Rafedia: 4,452
                Rafedia: 3,243
Date achieved           09/30/2007             06/30/2008                       03/31/2012
Comments
                Targets met.
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of facilities (training centers, youth centers and disabled
Indicator 4 : rehabilitation centers) that are able to operate normally, compared to a
                baseline from mid-November 2007.
                                                                           13 training centers
                                                                           with 1600 students
                13 training centers with
                1300 students
                                                                           8 youth
                                                                           rehabilitation
Value           3 youth centers benefiting Same or higher
                                                                           centers benefiting
(quantitative   125 youths                 values than       NA
                                                                           413 youths
or qualitative)                            baseline values
                7 disabled rehabilitation
                                                                           7 disabled
                centers benefiting 800
                                                                           rehabilitation
                disabled people
                                                                           centers benefiting
                                                                           850 disabled people
Date achieved           11/15/2007             06/30/2008                       03/31/2012
Comments
                Targets met. There has been some increase in the number of beneficiaries of
(incl. %
                social services.
achievement)




                                             viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                  IP         Disbursements
       Archived
                                                             (USD millions)
  1    05/31/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory              1.99
  2    12/30/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory              5.56
  3    05/12/2009         Satisfactory        Satisfactory              6.60
  4    12/29/2009         Satisfactory        Satisfactory              9.32
  5    06/29/2010         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            10.54
  6    01/14/2011         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            14.55
  7    04/19/2011         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            15.48
  8    12/10/2011         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            17.66
  9    07/01/2012         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            17.98
 10    03/03/2013         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            18.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background

1.1.1 In early 2006, Israel decided to suspend the transfer of the clearance revenues that it was
collecting on behalf of the Palestinian Authority (PA). This led to a severe fiscal crisis that
undermined public institutions and the delivery of essential public services by the PA.
Monthly revenues and external financing over which the PA had full control fell from
US$135 million in 2005 to only US$15–20 million in 2006. The economic and social
implications of the crisis were evident in the deteriorating performance of the social sectors—
including health, education, and social services. Insufficient domestic revenues squeezed
operating budgets for the social sectors, leaving limited resources for these services, which
resulted in disruptions and decreases in service provision.

Bank and Donor Response to the Emergency

1.1.2 The Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP) was launched in 2002 to mitigate the
impacts of the economic crisis by financing non-salary recurrent expenditures of the PA’s
social sector ministries (i.e., health, education and higher education, and social affairs). The
ESSP approach was a means of rapidly channeling donor funds to priority social services in a
coordinated manner. In response to the fiscal crisis as well as the subsequent requests from
donors and the PA, the Bank re-launched the ESSP as a Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) in
2006, administered by the International Development Association (IDA) and financed by
donors. The ESSP MDTF was the social service provision “window? of the Temporary
International Mechanism (TIM) proposed by the European Commission (EC). The scope of
the ESSP MDTF was broadened to include operation and maintenance costs in power and
water/sanitation because of urgent needs in those sectors. Over the 2006–2011 period, eleven
donors (Australia, Austria, Belgium, France, Italy, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom, and the European Commission) contributed about US$88 million to the
ESSP MDTF.

1.1.3 The Third Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP III)—financed in January 2008
through a US$10 million grant from the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB)—was
closely linked to the Bank-administered ESSP MDTF. These two operations were part of the
PA’s emergency program for the social sectors, and they had the common objective of helping
to mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential public services in education, health,
and social services. These two operations also financed recurrent expenditures, had the same
fiduciary requirements, and had nearly the same components (though the ESSP III did not
finance public utilities and capacity building activities). The main difference was the funding
source. The ESSP III was financed by the TFGWB, whereas the ESSP MDTF was a Bank-
administered trust fund (TF) financed entirely by donors.


                                               1
Rationale for Bank Assistance

1.1.4 An Operational and Policy Services (OPCS) review of emergency operations
highlighted the ESSP model as a best practice instrument for addressing high priorities during
a time of crisis, which the Bank could use in countries with a similar context. The ESSP III,
financed by the TFGWB, was one of the instruments supporting the PA’s social sector
emergency program. Together with the donor-financed ESSP MDTF, the ESSP III helped
maintain essential social services during the protracted crisis that the West Bank and Gaza
(WBG) were experiencing. It complemented other Bank operations financed by the TFGWB
to assist poor and vulnerable population groups, such as the Bank’s Social Safety Net Reform
Project (SSNRP) and the Palestinian Non-governmental Organization (NGO) Project (PNGO
III). All of these operations gave the Bank a solid platform to maintain a policy dialogue in
the social sectors.

1.1.5 Detailed information on the context at appraisal is included in Annex 10.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 According to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TFGA) dated January 17, 2008, the
Project Development Objective (PDO) was “to mitigate the deterioration of the delivery of
education, health, and social care services to the Palestinian population in the parts of the
West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority.? The Emergency
Project Paper (EPP) dated November 26, 2007 includes a slightly different wording (i.e., “the
proposed project will help mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential public
services in education, health and social services?), but the substance of both wordings is the
same because they both refer to mitigating the deterioration of service delivery in the social
sectors.

1.2.2 The TFGA states that the PA shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the project and
prepare project reports on the basis of the indicators agreed upon with the World Bank. The
EPP and a Supplemental Letter to the TFGA included the PDO and intermediate outcome
indicators, which had baseline values as of September 2007. The indicators dealt with the
operating levels and use of education, health, and social services facilities, including: the
number of public primary schools operating, the number of students attending these schools,
the utilization rates of two hospitals, the number of social services facilities operating
normally (i.e., that are open for provision of services to the population), and the number of
social service beneficiaries. In 2010, an indicator was added for the number of professors and
students in the nine universities supported by the Project. All of these indicators, with their
baseline and end-of-project values, are shown in the Project Data Sheet. It is important to note
that the same indicators selected for the ESSP III were also monitored for the ESSP MDTF.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

1.3.1 The PDO was not revised.



                                               2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The EPP, dated November 26, 2007, for the ESSP III does not include a discussion of
the Project’s main beneficiaries. However, it was clear from the PDO and the implementing
ministries to be supported under the ESSP III that the whole Palestinian population in both the
West Bank and Gaza would benefit from the Project. The distribution of benefits between the
West Bank and Gaza would vary over time depending on the estimates of the implementing
ministries’ financial needs and the allocations of the original grant’s proceeds (of US$10
million) as well as those of the two additional grants (of US$5 million and US$3 million,
respectively).

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 The Project had three components for support to the Ministry of Education and Higher
Education (MOEHE), the Ministry of Health (MOH), and the Ministry of Social Affairs
(MOSA), and one component for project management and monitoring (PMM).

Component 1 - Part A (US$3 million): Education Services, covering: (i) the recurrent
expenditures 1 of MOEHE and school directorates and the costs of general examinations
(US$2 million); and (ii) the payment of salaries of non-civil servant teaching staff at higher
education institutions (US$1 million).

Component 2 - Part B (US$6.25 million): Health Services, covering: (i) non-medical recurrent
expenditures of MOH and health facilities (US$2.5 million); and (ii) the cost of contracts with
private institutions providing tertiary services that could not be provided by public facilities
(US$3.75 million).

Component 3 - Part C (US$0.5 million): Social Welfare Services, covering the recurrent
expenditures of MOSA and its shelters and rehabilitation and training centers.

Component 4 - Part D (US$0.25 million): Project Management and Monitoring, covering the
cost of project management staff, operating costs, audits, and short term consultancies.




1
  Although the project description in Schedule 1 of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement refers to the financing of
“recurrent expenditures,? in Schedule 2, the section on the withdrawal of grant proceeds mentions “operating
costs? and includes the following definition of operating costs: “the term ‘operating costs’ means the
expenditures incurred by the MOEHE, MOH, MOSA, and PCU in accordance with itemized Operating Budgets
approved by the Bank, related to (a) rent payments for offices and facilities; (b) water and electricity utilities; (c)
transportation, including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance; (d) communication, including
telephones, fax and mail; (e) consumables and other perishable items; (f) maintenance of equipment and
buildings; (g) heating fuel; (h) cleaning services; (i) advertisement costs solely related to procurement under the
Project; (j) commercial bank charges; and (k) per diem and transportation allowances for MOEHE, MOH,
MOSA, and PCU staff for activities directly related to the Project.?

                                                          3
1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1 Other significant changes included two additional financings, new allocations of grant
proceeds, and changes in the closing dates.

Additional Financing

1.7.2 The Original Trust Fund Grant Agreement, dated January 17, 2008 and which became
effective on March 24, 2008, was for US$10 million. There were two additional financings
(AF)—US$5 million in 2009 and US$3 million in 2010—which meant that through the ESSP
III, a total of US$18 million was made available by the TFGWB to the PA to provide the
Palestinian population with essential services.

1.7.3 On July 14, 2009, the Bank provided the first AF of US$5 million from the TFGWB.
This AF became effective on July 17, 2009 and closed as scheduled on December 31, 2010.
US$3.2 million was allocated to the operating costs of the three social sector ministries (i.e.,
MOEHE, MOH, and MOSA) and US$1.8 million was allocated to the salaries of non-civil
servant teaching staff of higher education institutions (MOEHE). This AF did not include any
amount for the cost of PMM or contracts with private health institutions which provided the
tertiary health care services that public facilities could not provide. This AF was processed in
a record two-month period as part of an additional financing package for US$21.5 million for
six Bank-financed projects (including the Electric Utility Management Project, Third
Emergency Services Support Project, Gaza Emergency Water Project, Emergency Municipal
Services Rehabilitation II Project, Palestinian NGO III Project, and Tertiary Education
Project) to provide an immediate Bank response to Gaza’s emergency needs following the
Government of Israel’s large scale military operation in Gaza between December 2008 and
January 2009.2 The six operations relied on different types of service providers—ranging from
sectoral ministries to public utilities, NGOs, and municipalities—which helped ensure that the
institutions in Gaza continued to function.

1.7.4 On November 11, 2010, the Bank provided the second AF of US$3 million from the
TFGWB. This additional grant became effective on December 1, 2010 and closed ahead of
schedule on June 30, 2012 (the original closing date was June 30, 2013). US$2.2 million was
allocated to cover the operating costs of the three social sector ministries (MOEHE, MOH,
and MOSA), US$0.65 million was allocated to the salaries of non-civil servant teaching staff
at higher education institutions (MOEHE), and US$0.15 million was allocated to PMM. As


2
 Between December 27, 2008 and January 18, 2009, Gaza was subjected to aerial and naval bombardment,
artillery shelling, and ground operations as part of a large scale military operation by the Government of Israel.
During this conflict, at least 1,314 Palestinians lost their lives, nearly 5,000 Palestinians were wounded, 15,000
homes were damaged or destroyed, and more than 100,000 people were displaced. Public infrastructure and
utilities, including water, sanitation, electricity, and transportation networks, were severely damaged.

                                                        4
was the case for the first AF, the second AF did not cover the cost of contracts with private
health institutions that provided tertiary services that public facilities could not provide.

Changes in Closing Dates

1.7.5 The closing date of the original grant for US$10 million was extended once by one year,
from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010. This extension was approved in September
2009 in order to allow the PA to disburse the ongoing contracts fully, especially the tertiary
health care contracts. In addition, the new closing date matched the closing date of the first
AF for US$5 million, which closed as scheduled on December 31, 2010. The grant for the
second AF for US$3 million was actually fully disbursed on June 30, 2012 (one year ahead of
schedule). The whole ESSP III (including the two AFs for US$5 million and US$3 million,
respectively) was fully disbursed on June 30, 2012, which was two and a half years after the
original closing date of December 31, 2009 for the original grant for US$10 million.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 In 2006, the Bank agreed to administer an MDTF using the ESSP model that would
provide financial assistance to Palestinians in the health, education, social welfare, and public
utilities sectors. The ESSP model had been an efficient and effective vehicle for responding to
emergency and crisis situations, in great part because it did not include any conditionality or
reform requirements. The Bank-administered ESSP MDTF became one of the main
instruments to finance the PA’s social sector emergency program. Due to the deteriorating
context, the early phase of the ESSP MDTF was plagued with severe implementation
bottlenecks. Therefore, in 2007, various options were considered to improve implementation
and provide additional financing.

2.1.2 Regarding implementation improvement, the Grant Agreement was amended to transfer
the responsibility for oversight and implementation (including all fiduciary aspects) of the
Project from the Office of the President to the PA’s Economic Affairs Department. In
addition, it was decided that, in the allocation of the grant proceeds, priority would be given to
the financing of quick-disbursing items, such as the financing of facility operating costs and
block transfers for university staff salaries.

2.1.3 Regarding the additional financings, the PA and the Bank decided that donors would be
encouraged to continue providing financing to the ESSP MDTF, and this would be done
through new Administration Agreements between donors and the PA as well as through
Amendments to the Grant Agreement for the ESSP MDTF. At the same time, the Bank agreed
to provide US$10 million to finance a third phase of the ESSP. These two operations (the
ESSP MDTF funded by donors and the ESSP III funded by the TFGWB) would have the
common objective of helping to mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential public
services in education, health, and social welfare.



                                                5
Assessment of Project Design

2.1.4 On November 7, 2007, the Project was evaluated by the Rapid Response Committee
Review Meeting, which confirmed that the operation should be processed using the
streamlined procedures of the Bank’s new Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies
(OP/BP 8.00) guidelines for processing emergency operations. A Bank mission to WBG
completed the preparation and appraisal of the Project in November 2007.

2.1.5 In 2007, the MOEHE issued a five-year sectoral plan, and the MOH was in the process
of preparing a first draft of a three-year health plan. The Bank had provided input and
comments concerning the preparation of these plans. The ESSP III design was consistent with
these plans, and was informed by the lessons learned from the current and previous phases of
the ESSP, which included the following:

   a) The main preliminary finding of the TIM interim evaluation underway at the time was
      that the ESSP concept was relevant and the overall approach remained valid. The
      project’s impact was difficult to measure, but considering that the counterfactual was
      the collapse of key services, it was likely that the Project was having a significant,
      positive impact on WBG.
   b) The emergency nature of the ESSP needs to be the main consideration and, therefore,
      the speed of delivering services takes precedence over anything else, including
      funding capacity building activities, which may not be relevant in the absence of well-
      functioning institutions.
   c) In view of the limited procurement capacity of line ministries (and especially the
      MOH in terms of administering large international drug and medical supply tenders),
      procurement must be based on the quickest and most efficient approach to bringing
      essential goods, works, and services to the distressed population. In addition, priority
      consideration should be given to emergency, high-impact, and quick-disbursing items,
      such as the financing of operating costs and block transfers for university staff salaries.
   d) Realistic implementation timeframes should be adopted to avoid raising expectations,
      because the realities on the ground are complex and sometimes beyond the PA’s and
      Bank’s control.
   e) The utilities’ needs could be best served under the upcoming Electricity and Water
      Sector Projects that are currently being appraised. Also, the ESSP, an emergency
      operation, is not the most appropriate instrument to finance civil works because the
      procurement process for civil works is lengthy.

2.1.6 Based on the above lessons and the assessment of the current situation, the main
characteristics of the project design were as follows:

Project coverage and ESSP budget. Like the ESSP MDTF, the ESSP III focused on financing
non-salary recurrent expenditures of social sector ministries; the only exception was the
financing of salaries for contractual (non-civil servant) university professors. The project
financing was, therefore, complementary to the financing provided by the European
Commission (EC), which covered recurrent salary expenditures. Furthermore, public utility
companies were not considered beneficiary entities under the ESSP III. Lastly, the budget was

                                               6
consistent with the PA’s proposed priorities and orientations, and in order to ensure that there
were no deviations from the budget, the Grant Agreement stipulated that the budget should be
acceptable at all times to the Bank and that any changes to it would require the Bank’s prior
approval.

Results framework. The Rapid Response Committee Review Meeting decided that the ESSP
III would monitor the same disbursement and output indicators as the previous ESSP phases,
but would also add quasi outcome indicators, using utilization rates for selected WBG health,
educational, and social service facilities supported by the Project. Baseline values were
determined and targets were set.

Procurement. Procurement was intended to be very limited in the ESSP III. Procurement,
according to the Bank guidelines, would be undertaken for consultant services. The
contracting of selected tertiary health services to private providers would follow a competitive
process based on the new set of Request for Proposals (RPF) and Forms of Agreement, which
were developed by the MOH with assistance from the Bank and approved by the Bank in
October 2007. Most of the essential operating expenditures of the line ministries resulted from
long-standing service delivery contracts (such as utilities, telecommunications, and fuel), for
which there was usually only a single source provider. Therefore, operating expenditures were
not referred to in Annex 5 of the EPP (on Procurement Arrangements) or in the procurement
provisions of the legal documents. These essential operating expenditures were identified in
the Grant Agreement section dealing with the disbursement category allocations.

Management structure. Line ministries managed program implementation, supported by a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The PCU was the first
line of contact with the Bank, and was responsible for the financial management (FM) aspects
of the program.

Disbursements. The TF disbursed against an annual PA recurrent expenditure program in
eligible sectors. This expenditure program, prepared by the PCU in consultation with the Bank
and the implementing entities, was based on estimates of the financial needs of these
implementing entities. Disbursements also covered project management and monitoring costs.
There were three designated accounts, and MOEHE and MOH managed their own designated
accounts. The PCU managed the designated account for MOSA and for PMM.

Reporting arrangements and supervision. The grant was subject to the same monitoring and
reporting requirements as those under the ongoing phase of the ESSP MDTF (i.e., quarterly
progress reports, quarterly spot check audits, quarterly un-audited interim financial reports,
and annual audit reports). An independent external audit firm was contracted to carry out
quarterly spot checks to verify the occurrence and completeness of expenses; this was in
addition to the annual independent audit of the project accounts.

Government Commitment

2.1.7 The Project was developed in response to the PA’s urgent request that the Bank establish
a mechanism for providing financial assistance to help the Palestinians handle the ongoing

                                               7
crisis. The PA, who was interested in ensuring that the social sectors (i.e., health, education,
and social assistance) continued to operate, was very committed to the Project’s objective, and
its ministries took an active part in project preparation.

Assessment of Risks

2.1.8 According to the EPP, the project risks were related to:

(a) The volatile political and security situation, which included intermittent conflict, border
closures, and restrictions on the movement of people and goods.
(b) Limited management capacity, which may have exacerbated the adverse effects of
intermittent conflict.
(c) Insufficient domestic fiscal resources and limited donor funds which fell far short of
meeting recurrent needs. In addition, difficulties in meeting the wage bill had resulted in
absenteeism and disruptive strikes in the civil service.
(d) Drug shortages. When drugs were unavailable, utilization of health facilities declined, and
recurrent funding for health facilities under the project had less of an impact.

2.1.9 The EPP acknowledged that the political and security situation remained an exogenous
factor, for which there was no mitigating measures under the Project, and that the fiscal
situation was likely to remain precarious for some time to come. To address the challenges of
institutional capacity, the Project was simplified and did not involve the procurement of goods
and instead only included the limited procurement of services. The Bank office in WBG
allocated significant staff time to the Project, supported by technical staff from headquarters,
to work with the line ministries on specific policy and management issues. Finally, the
monitoring system and periodic spot checks helped signal potential operational problems in
the Project’s implementation. Regarding drugs, the Bank continues to explore options with
MOH and donors to ensure that drugs are available on a timely basis.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 The implementation arrangements for the Project were generally similar to those being
followed under the previous two ESSPs and the ESSP MDTF. However, efforts were made to
simplify the processes.

2.2.2 The main factors beyond the Government’s or implementing agencies’ control that
influenced project implementation and ultimately the project outcomes can be summarized as
follows:

(a) The environment was one of intermittent conflict and continuous insecurity. Restrictions
on the movement of people and goods between the West Bank and Gaza because of the
closures imposed by Israel, as well as periodic work stoppages, contributed to project
implementation delays.




                                               8
(b) Due to Israel’s restrictions on movement between the West Bank and Gaza, PCU staff
based in Gaza worked under extremely difficult circumstances with limited fuel and severe
power outages.

2.2.3 The factor under Government control that influenced project implementation was the
limited budget management capacity within the line ministries. However, it was possible to
monitor closely and in real time the delivery of essential services and financing because there
were quarterly spot check audits.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design

2.3.1 As mentioned in Section 1.2, the EPP and a Supplemental Letter to the TFGA included
the PDO and intermediate outcome indicators, which had baseline values as of September
2007. These indicators dealt with the operating levels of education, health, and social services
facilities because these were the most important areas to monitor, especially since the ESSP
III aimed to mitigate the deterioration of the delivery of education, health, and social care
services to the population.

M&E implementation

2.3.2 During project implementation, the following original indicators were monitored: (i) the
number of public primary schools operating, (ii) the number of students attending these
schools, (iii) the utilization rates of two hospitals, (iv) the number of social services facilities
operating normally, and (v) the number of social services program beneficiaries. In 2010, two
indicators were added for the numbers of professors and students in the nine universities
supported by the Project. All of these indicators, with their baseline and end-of-project values
(which increased), are shown in the Project Data Sheet. The same indicators selected for the
ESSP III were also monitored for the ESSP MDTF.

M&E utilization

2.3.3 Since the Project aimed to either maintain or increase the baseline values, the Bank and
PA closely monitored key performance indicators, which all had baseline values. This close
monitoring made it much easier to continue mobilizing external and internal resources,
especially where there were serious fiscal constraints. The ESSP experience shows that even
in weak capacity environments, it is possible to have good M&E systems. It is a lesson that is
applicable to other fragile or low-capacity contexts and would benefit the larger Social
Protection community. However, it is not known whether the M&E data was used to inform
decision-making and resource allocation.




                                                 9
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement

2.4.1 Procurement was limited under the ESSP III, since it applied only to some consulting
services and the awarding of tertiary health care contracts.

2.4.2 Together with the ESSP MDTF, the ESSP III was able to develop and implement a
competitive and transparent process for awarding tertiary health care contracts, which required
prospective providers to submit proposals to be considered for the contracts. This differed
from the previous approach of awarding contracts on a direct contracting basis to private and
non-governmental hospitals. The new competitive process introduced definitions for the
minimum quality standards required for the services needed as well as established suitable
provisions for the monitoring and enforcement of minimum quality standards. There were
delays and implementation problems with the new contracting modalities (including
difficulties in forecasting the number of cases to be treated/financed as well as in handling the
bidding process) but, in the end, the competitive and transparent process was satisfactory.

Financial management and disbursements

2.4.3 The ESSP PCU was responsible for the overall financial management aspects of the
Project. An interesting aspect of the design for the original Grant and the first AF is that there
were three designated accounts (DA) for the Project: (i) Account A for MOEHE; (ii) Account
B for MOH; and (iii) Account C for Project Management and MOSA expenditures. To
facilitate the monitoring of the project-financed activities, each DA was maintained as a
separate identifiable account to be used exclusively for eligible project expenditures financed
under the Grant. Accounts A and B were managed by the relevant line ministry, and Account
C was managed by the PCU. A single DA was established for the second AF.

2.4.4 In addition to the usual progress reports, Financial Management Reports (FMRs), and
annual financial audits, the reporting and auditing requirements included quarterly spot check
reports. These spot check reports covered a review of expenses and all supporting documents
to verify the occurrence and completeness of the expenses. Thirteen spot check reports were
submitted for the project period (through December 31, 2012). One transaction review was
also carried out in May 2011 by financial management consultants.

2.4.5 The financial audit reports were submitted on time and were all unqualified (the final
audit report for 2012 dated January 13, 2013 was submitted to the Bank on March 7, 2013).
The ESSP PCU put in place an FM system (i.e., a computerized accounting system) to
monitor the disbursement process and to ensure the accuracy of transactions and promptness
of payments. The project design and implementation included special arrangements (including
spot checks) to control the financing of operating costs and the use of funds, particularly to
monitor the fuel consumption and to supervise the fuel distribution.




                                               10
Safeguards

2.4.6 The ESSP III did not finance capital investments. It was an emergency project that
financed only recurrent expenditures and did not, therefore, trigger any safeguards.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 The original grant and the two additional financing grants are fully disbursed. With the
closing of both the ESSP MDTF and the ESSP III, a financing gap has emerged. Emergency-
type budget support to help the PA provide basic social services will continue to be needed in
the short- and medium-term—even under an optimistic scenario of fiscal developments in
WBG. This is clearly the case because since the end of project funding, the provision of
services has deteriorated. The channeling of funds through the ESSPs was supposed to be
replaced by the PA allocating resources received from donors through general budget support.
It seems that adequate funding is not available for essential support to key services (including
tertiary health care and higher education services) and that substantial arrears are currently
accumulating. If part of the assistance provided by donors in the form of general budget
support is not used to finance non-salary recurrent expenditures, services to the Palestinian
population are bound to suffer. With this in mind, it is crucial for the PA to prioritize the key
social service delivery ministries by ensuring that some resources are allocated from the
budget support operation or other funding sources to meet the emergency needs, including
ones that can be expected to have a large impact on the general well-being of the population
and on people’s human capital development for future growth.

2.5.2 The deterioration in service delivery might suggest that when aiming to maintain a
certain level of social services, an instrument which earmarks funds specifically for these
purposes should be used to provide support. Further research should be dedicated to better
understanding this occurrence in order to identify concrete steps that can be taken to prevent a
total decline in social service provision.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: High Relevance

3.1.1 The objectives, design, and implementation of the Project are highly relevant to the
Bank assistance strategy and to the current WBG priorities. Since WBG is not a member
country of the Bank, there is no formal Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Instead, the Bank
relies on strategy notes to guide its work and keep the Executive Directors informed of WBG
activities. The latest Interim Strategy Note for the West Bank and Gaza for 2012–2014 was
endorsed by the Board on April 6, 2012. One of its pillars is to strengthen institutions of a
future state to efficiently manage public finances and ensure services to citizens. With respect
to WBG priorities, the ESSP III was certainly aligned with the PA’s strategy to help prevent a
collapse in social service delivery during the crisis.



                                               11
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory

3.2.1 The ESSP III is a pure emergency operation with a clear focus on the financing of
recurrent expenditures to enable education, health, and social service facilities to continue
operating. Although the original wording of the PDO indicators that was repeated in the ISRs
may have been confusing, 3 the intent was clearly that, in order to assess the project
achievements, one would measure the extent to which education, health, and social services
were operating at the same or higher levels than the September 2007 baseline figures.

3.2.2 The main project outcomes were to: (a) maintain essential operation of public
education, health, and social care facilities; and (b) underpin discussions on sector
development by maintaining a policy dialogue concerning the social sectors.

Achievement of targets

3.2.3 Targets have been fully met for the Project. The assistance provided through the ESSP
III prevented deterioration of education, health, and social services in WBG (see Data Sheet).
At the conclusion of the project, facilities continued to operate at the same or higher levels
than the 2007 baselines, as follows:

             a. The number of public primary schools operating in March 2012 (1,192) is 23
                percent higher than the 2007 baseline (972), and the number of students in
                March 2012 (623,380) is 81 percent higher than the 2007 baseline (345,250).
             b. In nine universities, the number of academic staff supported by the Project in
                March 2012 (3,311) is 3 percent higher than the 2010 baseline (3,209), and the
                number of students in March 2012 (136,070) is 10 percent higher than the 2010
                baseline (123,429).
             c. Regarding the utilization rates of the two hospitals, actual values for March
                2012 for overall occupancy nearly equal or exceed the 2007 baseline values
                (75 percent compared to 76 percent for Shefa, and 73 percent compared to 67
                percent for Rafedia). There have been noteworthy increases in gynecology
                occupancy as well (from 78 percent to 99.5 percent for Shefa and from 95
                percent to 98 percent for Rafedia). The number of outpatients also increased:
                from 3,243 to 4,452 (or by 37 percent) for the Rafedia hospital and from
                12,683 to 14,779 (or by 17 percent) for the Shefa hospital.
             d. Regarding the social services provided by MOSA facilities, there have also
                been increases in the number of beneficiaries in March 2012 compared to
                September 2007. There was (i) a modest 6 percent increase (from 800 to 850)
                in the number of disabled beneficiaries in 7 disabled rehabilitation centers; (ii)
                a noteworthy 23 percent increase (from 1,300 to 1,600) in the number of
                students in 13 training centers; and (iii) a very substantial 230 percent increase


3
  The wording is “Education, health and social service facilities operate at the same, higher or lower levels than
baselines,? which means that targets will always be met. However, all the ISRs made it clear that the targets were
that the end-of-project values should be the same or higher than the baseline values.

                                                       12
               (from 125 to 413) in the number of youths in 8 youth centers (compared to a
               baseline of only 3 youth centers).

Project Impact

3.2.4 The Project positively affected the operation of public education, health, and social care
facilities in WBG (see Annex 2 for a list of outputs by component). The ESSP III provided
non-salary budgetary support to key social sector ministries, which allowed them to continue
operating and ensured that essential services were constantly provided; this was accomplished
by bridging the shortfall in available budget financing. The main impacts are summarized
below.

3.2.5 For all sectors supported by the Project, the ESSP III, together with the ESSP MDTF,
covered a substantial percentage (about 70 percent) of education, health, and social service
operating costs, such as rent payments, water and electricity utilities, transportation costs,
fuel, communications, maintenance of equipment and buildings, and cleaning contracts.
About 59 percent of the ESSP III alone was used to finance operating costs. Operating costs
were important to achieving the PDO because the project impact for each sector would not
have been possible without the financing of these costs. Among these costs, the provision of
fuel was very important, particularly for Gaza hospitals and ambulances as well as for water
supply.

3.2.6 For the Health Sector (which received 57 percent of the ESSP III funds), the financing
of operating costs by the Project contributed to enabling about 4,000 doctors, over 5,000
nurses, 3,160 technical specialists, and 226 midwives to continue providing essential health
services. About 36 percent of the funds for the health sector financed the provision of
emergency treatment services by non-governmental entities that public facilities in the area
could not provide; this part of the program supported about 18,000 referrals annually to
specialized private and non-governmental hospitals.

3.2.7 For the Education Sector (which received 35 percent of the ESSP III funds), the
financing of operating costs by the Project helped to keep an increasing number of schools
operating. About 53% of the funds for this sector were used to finance the salaries of about
3,300 non-civil servant teaching staff working in nine universities supported by the Project.

3.2.8 For the Social Services Sector (which received about 7 percent of the total grant for the
ESSP III), the Project financed operating costs for 28 rehabilitation and vocational training
centers and shelters. Although the amount disbursed for social services under the ESSP III
was very modest, another Bank operation (the SSNRP) was also helping to finance MOSA’s
activities. However, the ESSP support did contribute to the provision of MOSA’s services to
the elderly, orphans, people with disabilities, and young people.

Other achievements

3.2.9 An important achievement is that the ESSP approach and implementation modalities are
now considered a Palestinian-administered instrument that can be scaled up or down to fund

                                              13
non-salary recurrent expenditures for social sector ministries. This instrument can be used to
ensure that key public services are not disrupted and that they benefit poorer segments of the
Palestinian population, particularly those who do not have money to seek private health care
or send their children to private schools.

3.2.10 The ESSP approach is a valid concept in a protracted crisis situation. An OPCS review
of emergency operations established the ESSP model as a “best practice? in the Bank for
similar country situations. The ESSP model addresses priorities that are important in a crisis,
such as continuity in the provision of essential social services for the poor and vulnerable
households.

3.2.11 The development and adoption of new contracting modalities for tertiary health care
providers with a competitive and transparent process coupled with the introduction and
enforcement of minimum quality standards is another achievement of the Project. However,
for future projects, it will be important to consider capacity issues and the feasibility of the
contracting mechanism in order to ensure that the contracting modalities can be maintained
after a project ends.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory

3.3.1 The ESSP’s efficiency is rated “Satisfactory.? Since the ESSP III did not finance capital
investments, an assessment of economic or financial return does not apply. There is not
enough information and data to model the effect on the poor and vulnerable of a more serious
deterioration of essential service provision. In addition, unit cost data or ratio-of-operating
costs on basic services are hard to compare across countries, especially since the situation in
the Palestinian Territories is unique because of the occupation and security issues. However,
regarding the effect on the poor and vulnerable, the ICR stresses that the ESSP approach
benefits poorer segments of the population, particularly those who do not have money to seek
private health care services or send their children to private schools. Although the program’s
aim was to mitigate the deterioration in service delivery, the project ended up helping many of
these services to operate at higher levels.

3.3.2 When the ESSP MDTF and the ESSP III were established, the economic and social
implications of the crisis in WBG were evident and a rapid decline was expected. There was a
noticeable deterioration in the performance of the social sectors (i.e., health, education, and
social services). For instance, a shortage of drugs and medical supplies threatened to
undermine the operational capacity of health facilities and hospitals, many services had been
discontinued (e.g., mobile health clinics in some areas), and only urgent surgeries were being
performed. The decline in economic and social conditions caused by the crisis resulted in a
deterioration of human development indicators. Therefore, the Project funded operating
expenditures for health facilities, schools, and social centers for the disabled, elderly and
youth. Overall, the project directly responded to the crisis situation, especially during the
2008–2009 hostilities in Gaza, by helping to ensure that the bulk of education, health, and
social welfare facilities could continue to provide their required services.



                                              14
3.3.3 With the ESSP III, the PA received good value for money; the costs involved in
achieving the PDO were reasonable in comparison with the benefits to the population.
Managing the project required only about one percent of the total disbursements to line
ministries. This 1% of project funding to manage the project is definitely low compared with
other emergency-type and service delivery projects. The Bank provided good implementation
support, and the amounts spent were also quite low, as indicated in Annex 4. However, the
ESSP III benefited from the resources of the ESSP MDTF that was running in tandem with
the ESSP III, and during most of the project implementation period, the Bank Human
Development team also supervised the SSNRP and the West Bank and Gaza Cash Transfer
Project. Together, the ESSP MDTF and the ESSP III were able to prevent the total collapse
of the public service delivery system in WBG.

3.3.4 The project design and implementation included special arrangements to control the use
of funds. The spot checks carried out by the external auditor provided assurances that funds
were spent for the purpose intended. In order to monitor the fuel consumption and to
supervise the fuel distribution, the PCU visited MOH hospitals when deliveries were made,
taking readings of the generators and noting the hospital’s capacity in order to monitor fuel
consumption. For distribution to the ambulances, the MOH transportation department gave
coupons to the ambulance drivers with their names and the vehicle number; also, lists of the
names and vehicle numbers were distributed to the fuel stations to ensure that fuel would be
given only to those vehicles. Each month, the PCU submitted a report to the Bank monitoring
fuel supplies in Gaza.

3.3.5 In addition, the Project facilitated some capacity building, particularly for financial
management and contracting for tertiary health care, and it introduced a management
information system that has contributed to improving the budget planning process.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1 The overall outcome rating is “Satisfactory.? The ESSP III’s financing was critical for
maintaining some health, education, and social services. Since the beginning of the Project,
implementation has been satisfactory. The PDO, which is to mitigate the deterioration of
service delivery to the Palestinian population in the parts of the WBG under the jurisdiction of
the PA, has been achieved. The ESSP III contributed to maintaining a minimum level of key
social services, especially in Gaza, which has been affected most by the prolonged crisis and
particularly by the Government of Israel’s large scale military operation in Gaza between
December 2008 and January 2009. The design of the ESSP III allowed for a faster
disbursement of aid than had been possible under previous ESSP phases because there was no
procurement of goods, works, or drugs. The Project was well-managed, with clearly assigned
roles for the MOF and the line ministries. Although close supervision and implementation
support provided by Bank staff based in the field contributed to the achievements of the
emergency operation, the success of the ESSP III is mostly due to the fact that it was aligned
with the PA’s strategy to help prevent a collapse in social service delivery.




                                              15
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 The restriction of movement within WBG enforced by the Government of Israel (GoI)
has continued to hinder economic growth in the Palestinian Territories, which has in turn
contributed to high unemployment levels, especially among youth. The overall unemployment
rate in WBG reached 22.9 percent in the last quarter of 2012. However, the overall figure for
WBG masks a wide regional divergence where unemployment in Gaza is nearly twice as high
as that in the West Bank. In the West Bank, unemployment was 18.3 percent (27.9 percent for
youth aged 15–29 in the West Bank). In Gaza, unemployment was around 32.2 percent (48.9
percent for youth in Gaza), and Gaza’s unemployment rate has continued to be among the
highest in the world.

3.5.2 With these unemployment levels, poverty has remained high in the Palestinian
territories. Almost 26 percent of Palestinians lived in poverty in 2011. Once again in Gaza,
the poverty rate was 39 percent, which is more than twice as high as that in the West Bank,
which has a poverty rate of 18 percent. This regional contrast was driven by the severe
economic shock that hit Gaza following the internal divide, which led to a dramatic poverty
increase in 2007, leaving one in two Gazans living below the poverty line.

3.5.3 Notably, social transfers such as the PA’s Cash Transfer Program have continued to play
a key role in reducing poverty levels, especially in Gaza. It has been calculated that in 2011, in
the absence of all social programs, the official poverty headcount rate would have been 11
percentage points higher. The ESSP III financing directly or indirectly benefitted many poor
people. With respect to education and health, project activities were very important for the
poorer segments of the Palestinian population who were unable to send their children to
private schools or seek private health care. The increases in gynecology occupancy rates (28
percent for Shefa and 3 percent for Rafedia) also indicate that the Project was important for
women.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.4 The Project was an emergency intervention with no institutional development ambitions
beyond the specific improvements that were necessary for successful project implementation.
Country-based Bank staff and consultants provided training to the counterpart staff on
financial management procedures. Improvements in the budget planning system and financial
management, together with the introduction of spot checks to control the financing of
operating costs and the use of funds, had an impact on the capacity of the implementing
agencies.

3.5.5 As noted in Section 3.2 under “Other Achievements,? an important institutional change
that occurred was the establishment and strengthening of an ESSP mechanism for service
delivery and emergency response in the social sectors that can be scaled up or down as
needed.



                                               16
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.6 See “Other Achievements? in Section 3.2 on achievement of PDO.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

4.1 The ICR rates the overall risk to development outcome—i.e., the risk that development
outcomes will not be maintained—as “High.? The ESSP III was entirely dependent on trust
fund contributions, and the benefits could not be sustained in the absence of such financing; in
fact, since the end of project funding, there has been deterioration in service provision. The
operation was not designed to create or develop sustainable systems, but aimed to allow for
the provision of some essential services in a period of crisis. Emergency-type budget support
to help the PA provide basic social services will continue to be needed in the short- and
medium-term, even under an optimistic scenario of fiscal development in WBG.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance

a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1 The Bank’s performance during preparation and appraisal is rated “Satisfactory.? The
ESSP III built on the implementation experience of the previous ESSPs, including the ESSP
MDTF. As discussed under Section 2 - “Key Factors Affecting Implementation and
Outcomes,? the project’s processes had been simplified, the project coverage was consistent
with the PA’s priorities and orientation, and the project focused on the financing of quickly
disbursing items, such as facility operating costs and the salaries of non-civil servant
university staff. The design included an M&E framework and key indicators, which was a
great improvement over the initial arrangements for the ESSP MDTF (actually, the Bank
decided to apply the same M&E framework and key indicators to the ESSP MDTF).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.2 The Bank’s supervision performance is rated “Satisfactory.? The challenge for the Bank
involved operating in an environment of intermittent conflict and continuous insecurity, with
restrictions on the movements of people and goods between the WBG because of the border
closures imposed by Israel. Implementation arrangements worked well despite all of the
external difficulties. The strong implementation support provided by the WBG field office
staff helped. In addition, the Bank Task Team responsible for supervision has a proven track

                                              17
record of success, the appropriate skills mix to manage projects, and a good balance between
headquarter and country office-based staff.

5.1.3 Bank management gave high priority to this project. For the processing of the grant,
implementation support, and supervision of the project, the Bank budget was US$262,450 for
the six Bank fiscal years 2008 to 2013 (see Annex 4 for more details). There has been
excellent continuity in staffing with the original task team members remaining involved in the
Project. In aide memoires and ISRs, the candor, degree of detail, and meticulous reporting of
project progress were of high quality.

5.1.4 The project experience confirms that, under an emergency situation, it is beneficial to
have the Bank Task Team based in the field. PA staff had easy access to the Bank team that
lives in WBG, which facilitated close monitoring of implementation progress and quick
responses to Government requests. Management decisions to provide additional financings in
2009 and 2010 were justified because this was an efficient way to scale-up the activities of a
successful project. Due to the short original project period, no formal mid-term review was
planned, and none was carried out despite the fact that the whole ESSP III operation closed 30
months later than originally planned. However, the reality is that the project was always
“under review.? Given the field presence, supervision took the form of a continuous dialogue
and coaching of the implementing agencies.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.5 Since the ratings for the quality at entry and the quality of supervision are both
“Satisfactory,? the rating for the overall Bank performance is also “Satisfactory.? The success
of the ESSP III is reflective of the close relations between the PA and the Bank. In 2011, the
Bank ESSP III team was the recipient of a Vice Presidency Unit Team Award for Middle East
and North Africa in recognition of the program impact, and the team’s ability to seek and
understand the client’s views and needs and to respond promptly to those needs, basically
putting the client first. The good quality at entry and the close supervision and implementation
support provided by Bank staff based in the field contributed to the success of this emergency
operation.

5.2 Borrower/Recipient Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.1 This section on recipient performance will first review the performance of the PA and
MOF (including the PCU) which had the overall responsibility for the project, and second the
performance of the line ministries (MOH, MOEHE, and MOSA).

(a) PA and MOF Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.2 The PA’s and MOF’s Performance is rated “Satisfactory.? During preparation and
appraisal, the PA was constructively engaged in dialogues with the Bank on ensuring effective


                                              18
implementation arrangements. The success of the ESSP III is primarily due to the fact that it
was aligned with the PA’s strategy to help prevent a collapse in social service delivery.

5.2.3 The PCU and MOF budget department managed the Project in an efficient and proactive
fashion. There were clearly assigned roles for the MOF/PCU and the line ministries. The PCU
had the overall responsibility for the Project.4 With Israel’s restrictions on movement within
WBG, PCU staff based in Gaza worked under extremely difficult circumstances with limited
fuel and severe power outages.

5.2.4 Steps were taken to enhance project management and the implementation process. These
included the use of a financial monitoring system to follow up on the disbursement process,
verify the accuracy of transactions, and ensure the promptness of payments. There was also a
contract monitoring system at the PCU and within the ministries to ensure that contracts were
signed promptly upon approval. In addition to the usual progress reports, FMRs, and annual
financial audits, the reporting and auditing requirements included quarterly spot check reports
that reviewed invoices and other supporting documents. The spot check audits were useful
because they enabled the Recipient to verify the occurrence and completeness of expenses
every quarter, without having to wait for the results of the annual financial audit.

(b) Line Ministries Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.5 The performance of the line ministries is rated “Satisfactory.? The line ministries
implemented the Project under difficult circumstances. They allocated resources and provided
appropriate justifications for expenses, and they continued to deliver the services in a manner
that ensured a minimum level of disruption despite the conflict situation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.6 Overall, recipient performance is rated “Satisfactory.? The Recipient implemented the
Project under difficult conditions and had to deal with extraordinary challenges associated
with the emergency situation. Based on the satisfactory progress of the Project, the Bank was
able to provide additional financing to scale up social service activities. The ESSP team has
played a significant role during the war in Gaza, particularly by providing fuel to the Shifa
Hospital as well as other main hospitals, which enabled them to continue operating.




4
 The PCU also had responsibility for day-to-day implementation and management of the ESSP MDTF. In
addition, it participates in all Bank-financed projects by attending agreement negotiations, reviewing the related
withdrawal applications, and preparing all the necessary processes for hiring the external auditors for each
project funded through IDA. It also provides financial, procurement, and management assistance to other PA
ministries.

                                                       19
6. Lessons Learned
6.1 A fast disbursing operation financing only recurrent expenditures without any
conditionality, reform requirements, or an explicit capacity building component is an
efficient and effective vehicle for responding to emergency and crisis situations. The
ESSP approach is a valid concept in a protracted crisis situation; the ESSP’s strength is that it
can be designed to provide fast disbursements to maintain essential services.

6.2 The success of the ESSP III is primarily due to the fact that it was aligned with the
PA’s strategy to help prevent a collapse in social service delivery. Other factors that
contributed to the project’s success were the introduction of a financial monitoring system, a
contract monitoring system, and quarterly spot check reports, as well as the strong
implementation support provided by the Bank.

6.3 Even in weak capacity environments, it is possible to have good M&E systems. In an
emergency project that aims to mitigate the deterioration of the delivery of education, health,
and social care services to the population, it is important to monitor closely the operating
levels of education, health, and social services facilities. Since the Project aimed to either
maintain or increase the baseline values, all key performance indicators had baseline values,
which were closely monitored by the Bank and PA.

6.4 When introducing reforms such as the contracting for tertiary services under an
emergency type operation, there is a need to assess capacity issues as well as the
feasibility of the contracting mechanism used. Under the Project, contracts with local
NGOs and private institutions providing tertiary health care services that could not be
provided by public facilities were awarded competitively, following requests for proposals.
However, there were deficiencies at the bidding stage where hospitals were asked to bid on
selected treatment procedures, separating diagnostic and treatment services. This situation
made it difficult for MOH to continue using the same contracting mechanism when dealing
with life threatening or emergency cases. Therefore, at the project’s end, MOH reverted to the
old mechanism of awarding contracts on a direct contracting basis.

6.5 Close supervision and flexibility to respond to urgent needs and changing
requirements through additional financings are important to ensure that the program
remains responsive to the emergency situation. The project experience confirms that in a
complex emergency situation, it is beneficial to have the Task Team based in the field. PA
staff had easy access to the Bank team, implementation issues were identified early on, and
the Bank was able to respond quickly to PA requests. Given the field presence, supervision
took the form of a continuous dialogue and coaching of the implementing agencies.

6.6 The Bank can mitigate risks for its programs by having the external auditor carry
out spot checks of expenses and all supporting documents every quarter. These spot
checks are useful for verifying the occurrence and completeness of the expenses and
confirming that grant funds are spent for the purpose intended without having to wait for the
annual audit.


                                               20
6.7 The ESSP approach of providing targeted emergency budget support is more
effective in ensuring that essential services continue to receive their share of scarce
resources when compared to the alternative approach of providing general budget
support. Although the channeling of funds through the ESSP was intended to be replaced by
the PA allocating resources received from donors through general budget support, it seems
that after the ESSP MDTF and ESSP III ended, many beneficiaries of those programs are no
longer receiving funds and are accumulating substantial arrears.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
None

(b) Co financiers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None




                                           21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

 Components                       Appraisal        Actual/Latest Estimate    Actual/Latest
                                  Estimate                   *               estimate as a
                                   (US$)                   (US$)             percentage of
                                                                              Appraisal
 Component 1 – Part A
 Education Services
 Operating Costs
 Original Grant                     2,000,000                    2,007,317     100.4%
 First AF                             300,000                      298,457      99.5%
 Second AF                            597,200                      609,295     102.0%
 Salaries
 Original Grant                     1,000,000                      909,387      90.9%
 First AF                           1,800,000                    1,804,059     100.2%
 Second AF                            650,000                      635,671      97.8%

 Sub-Total Component 1              6,347,200                    6,264,186      98.7%

 Component 2 – Part B
 Health Services
 Consultant Services
 Original Grant                     3,750,000                    3,709,746      98.9%
 First AF                             -                      -                    -
 Second AF                            -                      -                    -
 Operating Costs
 Original Grant                     2,500,000                    2,507,979     100.3%
 First AF                           2,500,000                    2,506,382     100.3%
 Second AF                          1,400,000                    1,458,683     104.2%

 Sub-Total Component 2            10,150,000                  10,182,790       100.3%

 Component 3 – Part C
 Social Welfare Services
 Operating Costs
 Original Grant                       500,000                     598,780      119.8%
 First AF                             400,000                     398,296       99.6%
 Second AF                            200,000                     188,200       94.1%

 Sub-Total Component 3             1,100,000                     1,185,276     107.8%




                                              22
   Component 4 – Part D
   Project Management and
   Monitoring (PMM)
   Consultant Services
   Original Grant                          220,000                     69,542         31.6%
   First AF                                      -                          -           -
   Second AF                               152,800                     99,175         64.9%

   Operating Costs
   Original Grant                           30,000                     12,260         40.9%
   First AF                                      -                -                     -
   Second AF                                     -                -                      -

   Sub-Total Component 4                   402,800                    180,977         44.9%

   Exchange Rate Losses                     -                         186,771           -

   Total Financing Required          18,000,000                   18,000,000          100.0%

(b) Financing

      Source of Funds         Type of Co-            Appraisal        Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                               financing             Estimate           Estimate        Appraisal
                                                      (US$)              (US$)
 Government                         N/A                0.00               0.00               0.00
 Trust Fund for Gaza and
 West Bank (TFGWB)                  N/A          18,000,000            18,000,000           100.0%

(c) Allocation of the Grant Proceeds by Component and by Category (in US$) – Actual

  Component/         Consultant           Operating          Salaries           TOTAL               %
    Category          Services             Costs
Education                -                  2,915,069            3,349,117       6,264,186           34.8
Health                 3,709,746            6,473,044               -           10,182,790           56.6
Social Welfare           -                  1,185,276               -            1,185,276            6.6
PMM                      168,717                12,260              -              180,977            1.0
Exchange Rate            -                    -                     -              186,771            1.0
Losses
TOTAL                   3,878,463          10,585,649            3,349,117      18,000,000          100.0




                                                23
    (d) Disbursements per Year and per Component/Category (in US$ Thousands)

Component/Year         2008        2009        2010           2011         2012        TOTAL

Component 1 –            2,529       2,191              299        1,245    -            6,264
Education
Operating Costs:                                                                         2,915
Original Grant           1,620           387        -          -            -            2,007
First AF                 -           -                  299    -            -              299
Second AF                -           -              -                609    -              609
Salaries:                                                                                3,349
Original Grant               909     -              -          -             -             909
First AF                 -           1,804          -          -            --           1,804
Second AF                -           -              -                636     -             636

Component 2              1,514       1,533          5,655          1,236         245    10,183
Health
Consultant                                                                               3,710
Services:
Original Grant           -               595        3,115              -    -             3,710
First AF                 -           -              -          -            -            -
Second AF                -           -              -          -            -            -
Operating Costs:                                                                          6,473
Original Grant           1,514           938           56      -            -             2,508
First AF                 -           -              2,484             22    -             2,506
Second AF                -           -              -              1,214         245      1,459

Component 3                   64         549            366          182          24     1,185
Social Welfare
Operating Costs:                                                                         1,185
Original Grant                64         411            124    -            -              599
First AF                 -               138            242           18    -              398
Second AF                -           -              -                164          24       188

Year                   2008        2009        2010           2011         2012




                                               24
   (d) Disbursements per Year and per Component/Category (in US$ Thousands) Continued

Component/Year         2008        2009         2010         2011           2012         TOTAL
Component 4                   5        30               24           56            66         181
PMM
Consultant                                                                                     169
Services:
Original Grant                5          30             12           23       -                 70
First AF                 -           -              -          -              -            -
Second AF                -           -              -                33            66           99
Operating Costs:                                                                                12
Original Grant           -           -                  12     -              -                 12
First AF                 -           -              -          -              -            -
Second AF                -           -              -          -              -            -

Exchange Rate
Losses                                                                                         187

GRAND TOTAL               4,112      4,303          6,344          2,719           335     *18,000

Year                   2008        2009         2010         2011           2012

Breakdown by Financing (original and AFs) & by Year
Original Grant           4,112     2,361        3,319                 23      -               9,815
First AF                -          1,942        3,025                 40             -        5,007
Second AF               -           -          -                   2,656           335        2,991
Total                    4,112     4,303        6,344              2,719           335     * 17,813

Breakdown by Component & by Year
Education             2,529     2,191                  299         1,245      -              6,264
Health                1,514     1,533                5,655         1,236           245      10,183
Social Welfare           64        549                 366           182            24       1,185
PMM                       5         30                  24            56            66         181
For. Exc. Losses     -           -                  -          -              -                187
Total                 4,112     4,303                6,344         2,719           335     *18,000

Year                   2008        2009         2010         2011           2012

   * The total is US$ 18,000,000 by adding the foreign exchange losses of US$186,771




                                               25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
For each component, this annex will present the actual disbursements in U.S. dollars, provide
some general information on the sector, and discuss the outputs for the various expenditure
categories. About 35 percent of the US$18 million went to education, about 56 percent went
to health, and about seven percent was spent for social welfare. One percent of the total was
used for project management and monitoring, and foreign exchange losses accounted for the
remaining one percent.

Component 1 - Part A – Education Services (MOEHE)

                   MOEHE                  Actual disbursements        Percentage
                                                (in US$)
          Operating Costs                      2,915,069                  47%
          Higher Education Salaries            3,349,117                  53%

          Total Education Services                6,264,186              100%

MOEHE

MOEHE administers a total of 1,833 schools and 18 MOE directorates (13 in the West Bank
and 5 in Gaza) serving about 800,000 students (50 percent of them are females). Of these,
2,654 students study in 17 vocational secondary schools also managed by MOE in 5
Palestinian cities and camps, namely Gaza, Beit Hanoun, Doura, Qalqilya, and Aroub. The
total number of MOEHE teachers is 38,134.

Operating Costs

The ESSP III and AFs provided an amount of US$2,915,069 to finance part of the incremental
operating expenses of MOEHE such as fuel for heating, utility bills, rent, maintenance, and
transportation, as follows:

                         Items                         Amount
                                                       (in US$)
                         Rent                               769,400
                         Communications                     101,443
                         Water and Electricity            2,007,383
                         Fuel                                36,283
                         Bank charges                           560
                         Total                            2,915,069


Higher Education (HE) Salaries

The number of academics at Palestinian universities supported through the ESSP is 3,311
teaching staff working in 9 universities (2 in Gaza and 7 in the West Bank). The average

                                             26
monthly salary bill for university academic staff is US$1.7 million for 8 months a year. An
amount of US$3.35 million was paid to university academic staff.

Component 2 - Part B – Health Services (MOH)

                     MOH                    Actual Disbursements         Percentage
                                                  (in US$)
          Consultant Services –
          Tertiary Health Care                     3,709,746                 36%
          Operating Costs                          6,473,044                 64%
          Total MOH                                10,182,790               100%

MOH runs 22 governmental hospitals (12 in West Bank and 10 in Gaza, with a total capacity
of 2,815 beds), in addition to 472 primary health care centers (416 in West Bank and 56 in
Gaza), as well as 146 laboratories (4 central laboratories, 19 hospital laboratories, and 123
laboratories in primary health care centers). The hospitals and centers serve 5 million
Palestinians (1.3 million in Gaza and 3.7 million in the West Bank) with an annual average
number of hospital admissions of 300,000. The total medical staff serving in MOH hospitals
or facilities is: 4,017 doctors, 5,065 nurses, 3,160 technicians, and 226 midwives. In four
governorates (Jericho, Nablus, Gaza Mid Zone, and Rafah), MOH is the only service
provider. MOH is also the sole service provider of secondary health care in the Salfit, Jericho,
Mid-Zone, and Rafah Governorates. Immunization is provided by MOH and UNRWA; NGOs
and private physicians do not regularly offer routine immunizations to children. MOH’s
recurrent budget was estimated at US$57.5 million. Actual disbursements for MOH under the
ESSP III and AFs were US$10.18 million, i.e., 18 percent of the MOH budget.

MOH Tertiary Health Care

The capacity of MOH hospitals is limited vis-à-vis the increasing population, especially in
light of the geopolitical situation in WBG where internal closures and checkpoints make
access within the West Bank very difficult for emergency cases such as birth deliveries. As a
result, non-governmental institutions are contracted by MOH to provide services, including
those related to heart diseases, nephrology, oncology, kidney diseases, birth deliveries, ocular
diseases, treatment for cancer patients, blood diseases, as well as radiology services, etc.
About 18,000 patients are treated annually in 42 non-governmental institutions located in the
West Bank, Gaza, and East Jerusalem.

The ESSP III and AFs provided US$3.71 million to finance ten tertiary healthcare contracts
with health institutions.

MOH Operating Costs

The ESSP III contributed US$6.47 million to cover part of the incremental operating expenses
of MOH, including rent, fuel, electricity and water, cleaning contracts, maintenance and
insurance, as follows:


                                              27
                          Item                          Amount
                                                        (in US$)
                          Rent                               146,558
                          Communication                      266,177
                          Water & Electricity              1,976,522
                          Maintenance & Insurance            211,039
                          Cleaning Contracts               1,926,267
                          Fuel                             1,945,558
                          Bank charges                           923
                          Total                            6,473,044


Fuel – The ESSP III financed fuel for MOH ambulances and medical services vehicles and
generators for hospitals and medical clinics. The total amount for fuel was US$1.95 million.
In order to monitor the fuel consumption and to supervise the fuel distribution, the PCU visits
MOH hospitals on a weekly and daily basis when deliveries are made; the PCU takes readings
of the generators and capacity in order to check consumption. For the ambulances, the MOH
transportation department gives coupons to the ambulance drivers with their names and the
vehicle number; also, lists of names and vehicle numbers are distributed to the fuel stations so
that they can check that fuel is given only to those cars. Each month, the PCU submitted a
report to the Bank monitoring fuel supplies in Gaza.

Component 3 - Part C – Social Welfare Services (MOSA)

                            MOSA                   Actual Disbursements
                                                         (in US$)

                 Operating Costs                          1,185,276

                 Total    Social      Welfare
                 Services                                 1,185,276

MOSA runs a total of 38 centers/shelters in the West Bank and Gaza (21 in West Bank and 17
in Gaza). These centers/shelters provide services, including overnight stays, meals and
vocational training for juveniles, the elderly, and persons with disabilities. Vocational
rehabilitation centers provide training in carpentry, blacksmith, sewing, tailoring, plumbing,
pottery, furniture upholstering and straightening, aluminum work, electricity, radio
maintenance, computer maintenance, and car maintenance. Training courses for women are
usually organized at MOSA’s women development centers in vocational fields such as
embroidery, food production, and cosmetology; these courses aim at empowering women and
helping them take part in supporting their households. MOSA has provided shelter and
rehabilitation and training services to 2,150 beneficiaries.




                                              28
Operating Costs

The ESSP III provided US$1.19 million to cover incremental operating expenses of MOSA’s
facilities, as follows:

                          Item                           Amount
                                                         (in US$)
                          Rent                                787,560
                          Electricity and Water               206,821
                          Communications                       36,535
                          Maintenance                          46,584
                          Fuel                                107,611
                          Bank charges                            165
                          Total                             1,185,276


Component 4 - Part D – Project Management and Monitoring

           Project Management and           Actual Disbursements          Percentage
                  Monitoring                      (in US$)

          Consultant Services                       168,717                   93%
          Operating Costs                            12,260                   7%
          Total PM                                  180,977                  100%

The ESSP III provided US$0.19 million to finance the Project Management and Monitoring
Component.

Consulting services included: (i) the cost of the financial audits (including spot check reports),
(ii) the recruitment of an international consultant to assist MOH in evaluating the new version
of the bidding documents for the tertiary health care contracts, and (iii) salaries of PCU staff.
Operating costs included rent and bank charges.

The ESSP PCU team consisted of a financial officer, a procurement officer, a disbursement
officer, and four accountants responsible for working with line ministries. The team was
selected on a sole source basis since it comprised the same staff members who had been
working on the previous phases of the ESSP and who were experienced and knowledgeable
about the program.




                                               29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
The ESSP III did not finance capital investments. It was an emergency operation that financed
recurrent expenditures and primarily operating costs as well as some consultant services and
the salaries of university academic staff who are not civil servants. Since the ESSP III did not
finance investments, an assessment of economic or financial returns does not apply. However,
although the program’s aim was to mitigate the deterioration in service delivery, the project
ended up helping many of these services to operate at higher levels. As discussed in Section
3.3, the ESSP III’s efficiency is satisfactory.




                                              30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes
(a) Task Team members

                                                                   Responsibility/
         Names                       Title             Unit
                                                                     Specialty
                            Grant Preparation/Appraisal
Eileen Murray              Lead Operations Officer       MNSHD   TTL
Samira Ahmed Hillis        Operations Officer            MNSHD   Operations
Ahmed Merzouk              Sr. Procurement Specialist    MNAPR   Procurement
Nicholas Andreas Leffler   Junior Professional Associate MNC02   Operations
                           Sr. Financial Management
Siaka Bakayoko                                           MNAFM   Finance
                           Specialist
Adriana Jaramillo          Sr. Education Specialist      MNSHE   Education
Firas Raad Zaid Al-Hussein Health Specialist             MNSHD   Health
                           Financial Management
Mohamed Yehia                                            MNAFM   Finance
                           Specialist
Maha Muhammad Bali         Program Assistant             MNC04   ACS
Suha Rabah                 Program Assistant             MNC04   ACS
Kirsten Burghardt Propost  Counsel                       LEGEM   Legal
Hyacinth Brown             Sr. Finance Officer           LOAFC   Finance
Faris Hadad-Zervos         Sr. Operations Officer        MNC04   Operations
Hege Hope Wade             Operations Officer            MNCo4   Operations
Afaf Khalil Abbasi         Procurement Specialist        MNAPR   Procurement
Frederick Kranz            Consultant                    MNAPR   Procurement
Hjalte Sederlof            Consultant                     SADU   Operations

                                  Supervision/ICR
Samira Ahmed Hillis      Senior Operations Officer   MNSSP        TTL
Afaf Khalil Abbasi       Procurement Specialist      MNAPR        Procurement
Surat F. Nsour           Operations Officer          MNSSP        Operations
                         Financial Management
Suhair Musa Saah                                     MNAFM        Finance
                         Specialist
                         Financial Management
Majd Laisoon                                         MNAFM        Finance
                         Analyst
Samir B. Sahhar          Consultant                  MNAFM        Finance
Laura McDonald           Consultant                  MNSHD        Operations
Lina Tutunji             Procurement Specialist      MNAPR        Procurement
Maha Muhammad Bali       Program Assistant           MNC04        ACS
Hjalte S.A. Sederlof     Consultant                  SADU         Operations
Adriana Jaramilo         Sr. Education Specialist    MNSHE        Education


                                        31
Ahmed Merzouk                Sr. Procurement Specialist      MNAPR    Procurement
Firas Raad Zaid Al-Hussein   Sr. Health Specialist           MNSHD    Health
Nicholas Andreas Leffler     Junior Professional Associate   MNC02    Operations
Lina Fathallah Rajoub        Consultant                      MNAPR    ET
Paul Geli                    Consultant                      MNSHD    ICR
Lillian Frost                Consultant                      MNSHD    ICR

(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Bank Fiscal Year                                            US$ Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
FY08                                          19.47                    112.34
FY09                                           6.13                     20.86
FY10                                           6.10                     31.05
FY11                                           8.30                     42.80
FY12                                           5.20                     24.61
FY13                                           4.65                     30.79
Total:                                        49.85                    262.45




                                             32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                              34
Annex 7. Summary of Recipient’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft
ICR
                         MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              EMERGENCY SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT - ESSPIII
                     (TF-90212, TF-94560 and TF-98204)
                                October 2012

PROJECT BACKGROUND
For the purpose of keeping the social ministries providing the Palestinian population in West
Bank and Gaza with essential services, the Bank launched the ESSP III , ESSP III AFI and
ESSP III AFII through signing three grant agreements between the PLO and International
Development Association in January 17, 2008, July 14, 2009 and November 11, 2010 with
total amount of US$ 18.0 million grant from the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank to
support part of the PA's emergency recurrent expenditure needs in the social sectors 2008-
2012. Including operating costs for the MOEHE, the MOH, and the MOSA and will focus on
recurrent expenditures in order to faster disbursements.

The Third Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP 3) is an integral part of the PA’s
emergency program in the social sectors. It has accompanied the Bank administered ESSP
Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF); These companion operations has helped to mitigate the
deterioration of the delivery of education, health and social care services to the Palestinian
population in parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian
Authority (PA).

The main concept behind launching ESSP-III was to ensure the continuation of flow of
essential services under the status quo, through helping the PNA in covering the non-salary
recurrent expenditures in the social sector; including health, education and higher education,
social services, by providing required funds and by its special design which has allowed faster
disbursement than has been possible under previous ESSP phases as there will not be
procurement of goods, works, or drugs.

The first phase of the Emergency Services Support Program (ESSP) was launched in 2002 to
mitigate the impacts of the economic crisis through financing of non-salary recurrent
expenditures of the ministries of health, education and higher education and social affairs, the
total budget was provided by World Bank and others donors through two phases of ESSP
around 176 million USD to finance non-salary recurrent expenditures of the Palestinian
Authority social sector ministries. Almost 100% of the planned budget for these ministries
could be reported covered if we exclude some uncovered components of the emergency
budget, such as the social safety net for hardship cases program at MOSA, and abroad tertiary
health care at MOH.



                                              35
Following the first phase of the ESSP and in response to fiscal crisis emerged from the
Palestinian legislative elections in January 2006, the World Bank and other donors has re-
lunched ESSP MDTF as a window of Temporary International Mechanism (PEGASE)
administrated by International Development Association, the grant agreement was signed
between Office of the President and International Development Association in September 18,
2006, the total amount of the grant is GBP 44,045,433 to finance non-salary recurrent
expenditures of the Palestinian Authority social sector ministries(MOH, MOEHE, and
MOSA) and the three utility sectors (Palestinian Water Authority, Palestinian Energy
Authority and Coastal Management Water Utility).

SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES
ESSP-III was launched to mitigate the deterioration of social, education, and health sector
services by financing the non-salary recurrent expenditures including tertiary health care
expenses, and university teaching staff salaries, thus, the main components under the ESSP-III
Trust Funds of the project consisted of providing fund to the social sector ministries which are
MOH, MOEHE, MOSA, to cover emergency expenditures in these sectors such as fuel
cleaning contract, water & electricity, rent, Communication , maintenance and transportation
and chemicals solid waste, water, waste water, electricity, and roads.

The project objectives were to provide non-salary budgetary support to key social sector
ministries with the aim of mitigating further deterioration of basic social services and the
continued rise in poverty rates brought about by Israeli’s continuous policy of withholding
PNA clearance revenues and Border’s closure and trade restrictions, especially in Gaza. This
was accomplished by bridging the shortfall in budget financing available to the ministries
particularly in the field of social sectors such as education, health, and welfare to enable them
to sustain their services and respond to the new emerging needs of the population. The project
had a strong development objective of keeping those institutions responsible for development
from collapsing through support to their non- recurrent costs budgets.

DESCRIPTION BY COMPONENT
ESSP-III included the following components; Education, Health and Social welfare.

I. Education Services
This component covered the following operating budget items of the MOEHE.

a) Recurrent Expenditure: This sub-component included expenditures such as:
   a) Rent payments of school buildings
   b) Transportation expenses, including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance
   c) water and electricity for schools, directorates and the Ministry's headquarters
   d) Communication costs, including telephones and mail
   e) Consumables
   f) Maintenance
   g) Office supplies
   h) Heating fuel


                                               36
b) Universities academic staff salaries.

II: Health Services
This component covered the following operating budget items of the MOH:

a) Non-medical Recurrent Expenditure: This sub-component included non-medical costs of
   operating and maintaining health facilities, including maintenance, communications, fuel,
   water and electricity utilities, rent for health facilities, cleaning services, transportation,
   hospital linens.

b) Treatment in private/Non-Governmental Clinics: This sub-component included contracts
   with private/non-governmental medical institutions for providing emergency services that
   are not available by public facilities in the area.

III: Social Assistance Services
This component covered the recurrent operating budget of MOSA and its shelters,
rehabilitation and training centers. These centers provide school dropouts with labor market
technical skills and rehabilitation and reintegration services to dysfunctional youth, the
elderly and the disabled.

a) Recurrent Expenditures: This sub-component financed expenditures such as: rent,
   transportation, fuel, vehicle rental, insurance, licensing and insurance, water and
   electricity utilities, and communication including telephones and mail, office supplies,
   maintenance of equipment and buildings, and heating fuel.

IV: Project Management and Capacity Building:
This component included the following:
a)   Project management and monitoring: This sub-component supported the project
     management structure as well as consultants contracts to support and monitor project
     implementation and also finance audits

b)   Equipment and furniture: This sub-component supported the project management
     through providing Computer & other office equipment as well as furniture and office
     supplies.

c)   Project Audit Cost.
        
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS and Achievement of targets
The particularity of the emergency nature of the project, plus the complicated circumstances
under which the ESSP-III has been functioning, implies less measurable performance
indicators per se to evaluate the achievements and outcomes brought about by the project
implementation, which could primarily be attributed to the specific character of such
outcomes and achievements, being more of an abstract-value oriented rather than a assessable
product.



                                               37
The following performance indicators and achievement of targets were however identified in
the Project Appraisal Document for monitoring of Project Outputs and based on the recent
data the facilities continued to operate at the same or higher levels than the baselines values
set at the beginning of the project, as follows:
1.MOH:
  Performance Indicator: Help mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential public
  health services through continuing to cover (ii) non-medical recurrent expenditures, such as
  costs of operating and maintaining health facilities including communication, fuel, water
  and electricity utilities, rent for health facilities, cleaning services and materials,
  transportations, uniforms and stationary; (ii) contracts with NGOs to provide unavailable
  health services

  Achievement of targets:
     Intermediate Outcomes             2007 baseline values           March 2012 values
     Utilization rates (out-           Shifa/Rafedia occupancy:       Occupancy: Shifa , Rafedia
     patient, emergency,                Gynecology 78% - 95%         Overall:    %75 ,
     obstetrics) in the hospitals of    Emergency p. 6,543– 2867     %72.90
     Shefa and Rafedia                  Outpatient 12, 683 – 3,243   Gynecology: %99.5 ,
     compared to a baseline end-                                      %97.83
     September, 2007                                                  Outpatient: 14,779, 4,452



2.MOEHE:
  Performance Indicator: Help mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential public
  education services through supporting (i) recurrent expenditures such as rent or school
  buildings, transportation (including fuel) and vehicle maintenance, water and electricity
  utilities for schools, communication, maintenance of equipment and buildings; (ii) support
  for higher education institutions.

  Achievement of targets:
     Intermediate Outcomes             Baseline values                March 2012 values
     Number of public primary          Number of Schools              Number of Schools
     schools operating and             operating: 1,159               operating: 1,192
     number of students                Number of students:            Number of students:623,380
     attending each school             621,909
     compared to a baseline set
     at September, 2007, per
     school

     Number of professors and          Professors 3,209               Professors 3,311
     students in the 8 universities    Students 123,429               Students 136,070
     supported by the project




                                                 38
3.MOSA:
  Performance Indicator: Help mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential
  public social services through covering (i) recurrent operating budget of MOSA and its
  shelters/rehabilitation and training centers.

  Achievement of targets:
     Intermediate Outcomes          Baseline values                 March 2012 values
     Number of facilities               13 training centers with    13 training centers with
     (training centers, women’s          1300 students                1,600 students.
     shelters, and juvenile             7 disabled                  8 youth rehabilitation
     homes) that are able to             rehabilitation centers         centers benefiting 413
     operate normally, and               benefiting 800 disabled        youths.
     occupancy rates, compared           people                      7 disabled rehabilitation
     to a baseline of mid-                                              centers benefiting 850
     November, 2007                                                     disabled people.


ESSP - III BUDGET
By end of October 2012, the total budget of ESSP - III project including the additional
Financing is totaled USD 18 million, of which the amount of USD 17,813,166 was disbursed
by line ministries and the amount of USD 186,834 was the foreign exchange. The average
monthly disbursement from the beginning to the deadline date of the project is USD 276,938
per month.

The original Trust Fund Grant Agreement ESSP - III signed in January 17, 2008, the with
amount of 10,000,000 USD between the Palestinian Liberation Organization (for the benefit
of the Palestinian Authority, as represented by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) (the Recipient)
and the World Bank to be administrated by International Developed Association "IDA"
(Administrator). ESSP III Trust Fund Grant Agreement has become effective as of March 24,
2008 and has closed on December 31, 2010.
The first Additional Financing for the Emergency Service Support Project Phase Three (ESSP
III) with amount of 5,000,000 USD was signed on July 14, 2009. This additional Financing
has become effective as of July 17, 2009 and has closed on December 31, 2010.
Following a year and three months after signing the first additional financing the International
Developed Association "IDA" has granted the Palestinian Authority (PA) an amount of
3,000,000 USD and on November 11, 2010 as second additional financing to enable the social
sector ministries (MOEHE, MOH, and MOSA) in providing their essential non salaries
recurrent expenditures (Incremental Operating Costs, Salaries of universities Staff) to the
Palestinian population in West Bank and Gaza.
This second additional Financing has become effective as of December 1, 2010 and has closed
on June 30, 2012.




                                              39
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overall management of the ESSP III is at the Ministry of Finance through a Project
Coordination Unit that was especially established for this project. The actual implementation
of the various project components was handled by both line ministries (MOEHE, MOH, and
MOSA) and PCU.

I. Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
The PCU is staffed with project coordinator, procurement officer, disbursement officers,
Financial Officer, two junior accountants. The PCU acts as a liaison between MOF and
the participating line ministries. It reported to the Head of the International Relations
and Projects Department, who was responsible for ensuring timely submission of project
monthly statements and quarterly reports.

Implementation arrangements between the recipient and implementing agencies:
While the physical implementation of the project components was the responsibility of the
line ministries concerned (MOEHE, MOH, MOSA and MOF), implementation according to
Bank rules and procedures was supervised and monitored on a daily basis by the Ministry of
Finance based on regular records and book keeping. The MOF provided on-the-job training
for the line ministries’ employees to improve their capacity and familiarity with the World
Bank’s procurement and disbursement procedures and regulations.

II. World Bank Involvement
Bank staff maintained close and continuous cooperation, especially staff in the regional office
that were available to provide support and advice around the clock, and even in holiday times.
The understanding of the Bank staff to the special nature of this project and of the
circumstances through which the Palestinian people and Authority were going, helped
simplify the design of the ESSP-III during the preparation phase of the project as it will not
involve procurement of goods and only limited procurement of services, and in many events
MOF got waivers from the Bank for various procurement processes. The World Bank raised
the authorized allocations and accelerates the replenishment process as a response to the
increased number of submitted WA and the delays of its delivery due to the closures.

III. Monitoring and Evaluation
Execution of the project was continuously monitored at different levels. Day to day and
regular monitoring was done by MOF, under the supervision of the International Relations
and Projects Department and through the Project Coordination Unit. MOF maintained policies
and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate the project on an ongoing basis.
MOF was responsible for the preparation of the summarized quarterly progress reports and
FMRs, which included a detailed breakdown of expenditures incurred under the Project
during the preceding period.

IV. Audit Arrangements:
The appointment of the auditor was under a competitive process from a short list of
qualified firms. The selection method criteria were Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS). The process was in accordance to the World Bank standard bidding

                                              40
documents. Terms of reference prepared by PCU and cleared by IDA, was used to
require the auditor to operate under international auditing standards on the project
financial statements (including an SOE statement) and a statement of Special Account.
“Talal Abu Ghazala& Co.? was chosen to be the external auditor for the ESSP III. The
audits were to be performed on a quarterly basis. The financial statements are audited
and presented to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. IDA has also
requested that the External Audits be supplemented with physical spot audits. Physical
Audits are provided quarterly in a separately documents.

The first contract with Talal Abu Ghazala& Co. for ESSP III was signed on December 2008.
Since the starting date of the contract, Talal Abu Ghazala& Co. submitted to MOF & IDA the
following reports:

ESSP3& ESSP3AFI:
                      1. Spot check report up to Dec 2008.
                      2. Financial Auditing report up to Dec 2008
                      3. Spot check report up to Mar 2009
                      4. Spot check report up to June 2009
                      5. Spot check report up to September 2009
                      6. Spot check report up to December 2009
                      7. Financial Auditing report up to Dec 2009
                      8. Spot check report up to Mar 2010
                      9. Spot check report up to June 2010
                      10. Spot check report up to September 2010
                      11. Spot check report up to December 2010
                      12. Financial Auditing report up to Dec 2010
                      13. Spot check report up to Mar 2011
                      14. ESSP3&AFI completion Financial Auditing report to the
                          end of May 2011.
ESSP3AFII:
                       15. ESSP3 AF2 Financial Auditing report up to Dec 2011
                       16. ESSP3 AF2 Spot check report up to Dec 2011
                       17. ESSP3 AF2 Spot check report up to Mar 2012
                       18. ESSP3 AF2 Spot check report up to June 2012
                       19. ESSP3 AF2 Spot check report up to December 2012
                       20. ESSP3 AF2 Financial Auditing report up to Dec 2012


In its reports, Talal Abu Ghazalla& Co stated that they conducted their audit in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing. In their opinion, the financial
statements presented by the project’s management present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of the ESSP and its cash receipts and expenditures and
cash flows, i.e. no material findings and the reports were all unqualified.

In addition to the external Audits, IDA conducted procurement and financial ex-post reviews.
While these reviews generally assessed the performance of the ministries as adequate and that,

                                             41
by and large, most transactions were done in accordance with the Bank’s procedures and
guidelines. These reviews were extremely helpful in terms of providing an opportunity for the
Bank to supplement technical assistance to the line ministries to improve their capacity in
handling financial and procurement transactions.

DIFFICULTIES AND OBSTACLES
The current Israel restrictions against movement between Gaza and West Bank has caused
many obstacles to the PCU Team in providing capacity building to the Beneficiary ministries
and in following up any raised issues pertain the delays in payments, which causes
discrepancies between the planned and actual disbursements These restrictions were one of
the biggest constraint on the project implementation, during the life of the project.

Moreover the current strict and siege on Gaza Strip and the absence of the official employees
at the Gaza Ministries; adds further obstacles and problems in the implementation process.
Since Nov. 2008, No fuel was allowed to enter Gaza strip from Israel accordingly the
quantities of fuel available in Gaza were very limited and were not enough to supply the
hospitals and clinics.

ESSP-PCU is based in Gaza which has been closed off since June 2007. ESSP PCU staff
have been working under extremely difficult circumstances and have been dealing with severe
power outages in addition to the Limited fuel quantities in Gaza caused a lot of obstacles to
both PCU and the Beneficiary ministries in terms of transportation and providing services.

Since the management of the Ministries of Health, Education and Higher Education, and
Social Affairs has been moved to West Bank this movement has imposed the PCU to deal
with new teams with limited experience in managing a World Bank projects. This has caused
an additional pressure on the PCU through providing assistance to the new teams as they
should be responsible for the day to day implementation and the management of the special
accounts for the respective components
To assist in overcoming some of the physical constraints faced due to closures, the ESSP-III
agreement has requested that each beneficiary ministry is responsible to manage its own
project special account which facilitate payment process for the suppliers and avoid any delay
in project implementation instead of being centralized at the Ministry of Finance.

ESSP III IMPACT
Despite the continued closures and curfews imposed on many areas in the Gaza Strip and
West Bank, the functional capacity and structure of ESSP III has been positively established
and developed vis-à-vis its outlined goals, and ESSP III has helped maintaining basic public
services related to education, health, and social affairs. The project managed to support
essential needs to line ministries as follows:

MOE: In order to help MOE to meet the demands of 1500 schools and education and 17
MOE directorate offices and to keep its operation going and to improve its capabilities,
the ESSP III has financed the following are:
 Incremental Operating Costs: Through ESSP all 1500 schools and 17 MOE
    directorate offices have been maintained by covering all recurrent expenditures such

                                             42
    as Rent, Fuel, General Maintenance, Fuel for Heating , Electricity and Water, and
    Communication with total cumulative amount of USD 2.92 million.
    Additionally an amount of USD 3.35 million was disbursed through the project to meet
    the needs of nine universities in both West Bank and Gaza Strip by funding their and
    salaries of around 2000 teaching staff of these universities.

MOH: In order to help MOH to meet the demands and to runs 22 governmental
Hospitals, 12 in West Bank and 10 in Gaza, with a total bed capacity of 2,815 beds. In
addition to 472 primary health care centers; 416 in West Bank and 56 in Gaza, as well as
146 laboratories. These hospitals and centers serve 5 million Palestinians; 1.3 million in
Gaza and 3.7 million in West Bank, with an annual average of hospital admission of
300,000. Total medical staff serving in MOH hospitals/facilities is 4,017 doctor, 5,065
nurse, and 3,160 technical employees.

The ESSP III Funding essential incremental operating expenses have helped the
ministry in the following areas:
 Treatment in Private /Non-Governmental Clinics: ESSP covered the tertiary health
   care for the period of 8 months with a total cost of 3.71 million USD, benefiting 10,264
   cases in the West Bank and 6,390 cases in Gaza. These cases were transferred to 5
   hospitals in Jerusalem, 8 in Gaza, 32 in the West Bank.
 Incremental Operating Costs: Through ESSP all health services in 120 laboratories and
   blood banks, 430 primary health care centers, 23 hospitals and 17 MOH directorate offices
   have been maintained by covering all recurrent expenditures such as Rent, Fuel,
   Electricity& Water, and Cleaning Contracts with total cumulative amount of USD 6.47
   million, USD 1.95 million of them has financed to cover the cost of fuel for MOH
   hospitals and ambulances in West Bank& Gaza.

MOSA: ESSP covered recurrent operating budget of MOSA directorates, shelters,
rehabilitation, and training centers, which provides services for thousands of needy
persons, with total value of USD 1.19 million.

LESSONS LEARNED

   Success of emergency projects is based on close supervision, and readiness to be flexible
    in adopting the project to domestic realities, in addition to the quick response from
    financer and implementing agency to the urgent needs and changed requirements through
    reallocations.
   The broad success of ESSP-III is primarily due to the fact that it is aligned with the PA’s
    strategy to help prevent a collapse in social service delivery.
   Given the nature of budgetary support operations and compared to other programs, the
    implementation rate of emergency projects is quicker; therefore the ESSP III design was
    simplified in terms of disbursement and procurement procedures.




                                              43
   The later simplification in the design of ESSP-III has allowed faster disbursement than has
    been possible under previous ESSP phases as there is not any procurement of
    goods, works, or drugs.
   Another positive lesson stems from the accessibility of the Bank’s task team which is
    resident in the WB&G country office. It also enabled close monitoring of and
    response to the ever-changing political and economic environment facing the
    government and affecting its priorities.
   Using three designated accounts for different components under each Trust Fund has
    caused some pressure on the financial management team at the PCU in terms of managing
    and tracking the cash balances for each DA in a daily basis.
   The second additional financing “AFII? is considering only one DA for the whole project.
    This has avoided any disbursement delays and has allowed the PCU to review all the
    transactions before being paid.

Financial Progress:

Summary:
Total allocated budget of ESSP III is USD 18 million, the total disbursements to the end of
October 2012 is USD 17.81 million with losses resulted from exchange rate in the amount of
USD 0.19 million as follows:




                                              44
  Recipient’s ICR (continued): Disbursements

                                                            A. Disbursements by Category per TF and Ministry



                           MOEHE                             MOH                             MOSA                       PCU                          Total Categories
                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
Description
                           ESSP3     ESSP3                  ESSP3       ESSP3                ESSP3    ESSP3             ESSP    ESSP      ESSP3          ESSP3                        Project
                ESSP3                           ESSP3                              ESSP3                       ESSP3                                                     ESSP3
                            AF1       AF2                    AF1         AF2                  AF1      AF2              3 AF2    3         AF1            AF2

                                                3,709,74                                                                99,17   3,779,
   Services                                        6                                                           69,542     5      289                     99,175                      3,878,463
                                                2,507,97                           598,78    398,29   188,20                    5,126,
Incremental    2,007,317   298,457   609,295       9       2,506,382   1,458,622     0         6        0      12,260     0      335     3,203,136      2,256,116       2,007,317   10,585,587
 University                1,804,0                                                                                              909,3
   Salaries    909,387       59      635,671                                                                                     87      1,804,059       635,671        909,387      3,349,117
  Available                2,102,5   1,244,96   6,217,72                           598,78    398,29   188,20            99,17   9,815,
    Fund       2,916,704     16         6          5       2,506,382   1,458,622     0         6        0      81,802     5      010     5,007,194      2,990,962       2,916,704   17,813,166
 Add Losses
 \Less Gains
of Exchange
        Rate                                                                                                                                                                          186,834


   Total                                                                                                                                                                            18,000,000




                                                                                            45
                                                            B. Disbursements by Ministry per Grant and Category 


                                      ESSP3                            ESSP3 AFI                            ESSP3 AF2                             Total Ministries
      Description                                                                                                                                                                  Total Project
                                                   U.
                         Services      ICO                  Services     ICO       U. Salaries   Services     ICO       U. Salaries   Services         ICO           U. Salaries
                                                 Salaries


MOEHE                                2,007,317   909,387                298,457    1,804,059                609,295      635,671                    2,915,069        3,349,117      3,878,463

MOH                      3,709,746   2,507,979                         2,506,382                            1,458,622                 3,709,746     6,472,983                      10,585,587

MOSA                                 598,780                            398,296                             188,200                                 1,185,276

PCU                       69,542      12,260                                                     99,175        0                      168,717         12,260                        3,349,117

   Total Disbursed       3,779,289   5,126,335   909,387       0       3,203,136   1,804,059     99,175     2,256,116    635,671      3,878,463     10,585,587       3,349,117     17,813,166


Add Losses \Less Gains
     of Exchange Rate                                                                                                                                                                186,834


         Total                                                                                                                                                                     18,000,000




                                                                                          46
      Disbursements by Items per Ministry and TF



                                             Incremental Operating Costs                                                           Services
                                                                                                         Total                                              Total                      Total
 Description                                                                                                                     Contracts                             U. Salaries
                          Water&                     Main.&                   Cleaning     Bank       Incremental                             Training&    Services                   Project
                 Rent                 Comm.                          Fuel                                           Tertiary       for
                           Elec.                    Insurance                 Contract    Charge                                              Conference
                                                                                                                                Consultants


                                                                                           MOEHE

ESSP III        769,400   1,193,948    7,340            -           36,283        -        345        2,007,317                      -            -           0         909,387      2,916,704


ESSP III AFI       -      298,243                                                          214         298,457                       -            -           0        1,804,059     2,102,516


ESSP III AFII      -      515,192     94,103            -              -          -         -          609,295          -            -            -           0         635,671      1,244,966


 Total MOH      769,400   2,007,383   101,442           0           36,283       0         560        2,915,069         0            0            0           0        3,349,117     6,264,185




                                                                                                MOH

ESSP III        12,891    937,651        -           68,785         47,887    1,440,205    560        2,507,979     3,709,746        -            -        3,709,746        -        6,217,725


ESSP III AFI    116,571   657,312     262,989        141,606       936,284    391,256      363        2,506,382         -            -            -           0             -        2,506,382


ESSP III AFII   17,096    381,559      3,188           648         961,386     94,744                 1,458,622         -            -            -           0             -        1,458,622

                                                                                                                                                                                     10,182,72
 Total MOH      146,558   1,976,522   266,177        211,039      1,945,558   1,926,205    923        6,472,983     3,709,746        0            0        3,709,746       0             9




                                                                                                 47
                                                 Incremental Operating Costs                                                                   Services
                                                                                                                    Total                                                  Total                       Total
 Description                                                                                                                                 Contracts                                U. Salaries
                             Water&                      Main.&                    Cleaning     Bank             Incremental                              Training&       Services                    Project
                  Rent                  Comm.                            Fuel                                                    Tertiary      for
                              Elec.                     Insurance                  Contract    Charge                                                     Conference
                                                                                                                                            Consultants


                                                                                                    MOSA

ESSP III        443,270      85,748          -                -         69,762           -           -            598,780              -         -            -              0               -       598,780


ESSP III AFI    222,106      99,203     33,147           22,992         20,683           -          165           398,296              -         -            -              0               -       398,296


ESSP III AFII   122,184      21,870      3,388           23,592         17,166           -           -            188,200              -         -            -              0               -       188,200


Total MOSA      787,560     206,822     36,535           46,584        107,611           0          165          1,185,276             0         0            0              0               0      1,185,276




                                                                                                         PCU

ESSP III        12,000        -          -                -             -            -        260               12,260             -        21,488        48,054        69,542           -           81,802


ESSP III AFII      -          -          -                -             -            -          -                  0               -        79,824        19,351        99,175           -           99,175


  Total PCU     12,000       0          0                 0             0           0         260               12,260            0         101,312       67,405       168,717           0           180,977




                1,715,5
  Gran Total      17      4,190,727   404,155         257,623       2,089,452    1,926,205    1,908            10,585,587      3,709,746    101,312       67,405       3,878,463     3,349,117      17,813,166




                                                                                                         48
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other
Partners/Stakeholders
None




                             49
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
1. Implementation Completion Report – No.: 32356 – for an Emergency Services
    Support Project – June 3, 2005.
2. Implementation Completion Report – No.: 32357 – for a Second Emergency Services
    Support Project – June 3, 2005.
3. Interim Evaluation of the Temporary International Mechanism (TIM). Draft Final
    report – Volume 1, Main report – European Union / Gruppo Soges S.p.A. – July
    2007.
4. Draft Concept Note (undated) for proposed Second Phase of ESSP MDTF.
5. WB&G – ESSP III – Rapid Response Committee Review Meeting – November 8,
    2007.
6. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations – ESSP III – November 12–13, 2007.
7. WB&G – Third Emergency Services Support Project (P108373) – Appraisal Mission
    – BTOR – November 18, 2007.
8. Emergency Project Paper for the Third Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP 3)
    – Report No. 41349-GZ – November 26, 2007.
9. Project Information Document (PID) – ESSP III - Report No.: AB3464 – November
    26, 2007.
10. Trust Fund Grant Agreement between the PLO and IDA for the Third Emergency
    Services Support Project – Grant Number TF090212-GZ – January 17, 2008.
11. Additional Instructions – Disbursements - re: ESSP III – Grant No.TF090212-GZ –
    January 17, 2008.
12. Subsidiary Agreement between the PLO and Palestinian Authority – January 17,
    2008.
13. Supplemental Letter (Performance Monitoring Indicators) to the Trust Fund Grant
    Agreement No. TF090212-GZ for ESSP III – January 17, 2008.
14. Project Paper – Proposed Additional Financing – April 6, 2009.
15. Trust Fund Grant Agreement between PLO and IDA Grant Number TF094560 GZ –
    Additional Financing for the Third Emergency Services Support Project – July 14,
    2009.
16. ESSP III – Project Paper for the Second Additional Financing – Report No.: 54789 –
    GZ – September 21, 2010.
17. ESSP III – Second Additional Financing – Agreed Minutes of Negotiations –
    September 15, 2010.
18. Trust Fund Grant Agreement for the Second Additional Financing – Grant No.:
    TF098204 – November 11, 2010.
19. Additional Instructions – Disbursement – TF098204 – November 11, 2010.
20. Supplemental Letter on Performance Monitoring Indicators – November 11, 2010.
21. Emergency Services Support Program – Evaluation Report – Undated


                                         50
22. ESSP – MDTF – TF 057315 – Progress Reports – Quarterly.
23. Aide memoires
24. Implementation Status and Results (ISRs)
25. Spot-Check Audit Reports – Quarterly
26. Implementation Completion Report – No.: ICR00002033 for the Emergency Services
    Support Project Multi-Donor Trust Fund (ESSP MDTF) – December 27, 2011.
27. Interim Strategy Note for the West Bank and Gaza 2012–2014 – Report No.: 66781-
    Gz – March 13, 2012.




                                        51
Annex 10. Context at Appraisal
Country and Sector Background

The Economy

10.1 More than five years after the outbreak of the second intifada in 2000, the West
Bank and Gaza (WBG) remained in a state of protracted economic crisis, as the volatile
political and security situation continued to block conditions for economic revival.
Intermittent conflict and Israeli security measures severely restricted movement of goods
and people between and within the Palestinian Territories, fragmenting the economy and
imposing significant transaction costs that reduced its growth potential.

10.2 The decision by Israel in early 2006, following the advent of the Hamas-led
Government, to suspend the transfer of clearance revenues that it collected on behalf of
the Palestinian Authority (PA) led to a severe fiscal crisis that undermined public
institutions and the delivery of essential public services. For instance, clearance revenues
usually account for approximately 60 percent of PA revenues and the flow of funds to the
PA dropped by about 80 percent in 2006. The resumption of clearance revenue transfers
in July 2007 reduced the fiscal burden faced by the PA, but did not restore fiscal
sustainability as the PA faced: (i) reconstruction needs in the public sector, (ii) the impact
of spending policies introduced under the Hamas Government that dramatically increased
the public sector wage bill, and (iii) the fiscal impact following the expulsion of Fatah
from Gaza that brought economic activity there to a virtual standstill. Consequently, the
Government’s capacity to provide basic services remained severely compromised.

10.3 Economic performance was poor. Real GDP was estimated to have fallen by 5 to 6
percent in 2006 and, at US$1,000, average per capita income was approximately 40
percent below its 1999 level. About a quarter of the Palestinian labor force was out of
work, and there was large-scale underemployment with significant regional differences—
the situation was particularly severe in Gaza, where the unemployment rate was 39
percent in 2006 compared to 28 percent in the West Bank the same year. The labor force
participation rate was 41 percent, indicating that a significant number of working age
individuals had altogether stopped looking for a job. Only increased donor support
prevented the economy and household incomes from falling even more rapidly.

10.4 With the uncertain security situation, intermittent conflict, border closures, and
movement restrictions, there was a substantial deterioration in economic and fiscal
conditions, which had a profound impact on the livelihoods of ordinary Palestinians. As a
result of declining incomes and precarious employment, the proportion of people living
below the poverty line by end-2006 was 66 percent. Again, the situation in Gaza was
worse, with over 75 percent of the population living below the poverty line, compared to
59 percent in the West Bank.




                                             52
The Social Sectors

10.5 The economic and social implications of the crisis were evident in the deteriorating
performance of the social sectors (i.e., health, education, and social services). Insufficient
domestic revenues squeezed operating budgets and caused disruptions and decreases in
service provision; limited mobility between the West Bank and Gaza reduced the scope
for allocating resources where they were most needed while also raising transactions
costs. Although the large wage bill reduced the resources available for operations and
maintenance, salary budgets were also insufficient, causing intermittent strikes and
absenteeism by civil servants, which further disrupted services. Donors played a key role
in helping maintain services, but assistance was insufficient to maintain an adequate level
of service delivery in the public sector. A sharp refocusing of both domestic and donor
resources on a select subset of essential social services was needed to avoid a collapse in
the public provision of services.

10.6 Health. With the sharp drop in domestic revenues, the health system service
standards had deteriorated and health indicators had worsened. Restrictions on movement
of goods and services had aggravated shortages of medical supplies and drugs, further
disrupting services; intermittent health worker strikes exacerbated the situation. With
public resources stretched, essential services had been lagging, and this was reflected in
key health and nutrition indicators. There was a reversal of trends in infant mortality in
2006, as infant mortality increased by 4.5 percent that year compared with 2004, from
24.2 deaths per thousand births in 2004 to 25.3 per thousand in 2006. Mortality rates
were noticeably higher in Gaza than in the West Bank. Although strong community and
family ties preempted acute household hunger, chronic malnutrition was rising, and
micronutrient deficiencies were an increasing concern. The Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and United Nations World Food Programme
(WFP) estimated that some 45 percent of the population was either vulnerable to
becoming, or already was, food insecure—that is, unable to access an essential food
package. The key challenge for the immediate future was to ensure that sufficient
resources were available to maintain public services at some minimum acceptable level,
while at the same time leveraging complementarities between public and private
provision.

10.7 Education. In the short term, the education sector faced problems similar to those in
the public health sector—a shortage of financial resources to keep the school system
operational and a large wage bill limiting resources for operating expenditures. With the
beginning of every new school year, the system faced growing demands on non-salary
operating resources, including the need to cope with new entrants into the system. The
PA runs 76 percent of all schools, accounting for 72 percent of total student enrollment.
Many schools ended the school year early due to funding shortages. In addition, the
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees in the Near East
(UNRWA) reported a substantial increase in the number of applications received for
teaching posts in the West Bank (5,000 in 2006/07 compared to 3,328 in 2005/06),
suggesting that teachers were looking for opportunities outside the PA. Again, donors



                                             53
played an important role as providers of resources for essential goods and services, and in
facilitating stronger interactions between public and private provision.

10.8 Social Welfare. Given the limited financial resources and the large social assistance
requirements, as a growing number of households and individuals fell below the poverty
line or became at risk, it was critical that available resources target those most in need.
This required priority-setting among ongoing, underfunded, or unfunded programs, and
focusing resources on a few high profile interventions, including cash payments to poor
households, shelters, and rehabilitation and training centers for youth, the handicapped,
the elderly and women’s development. These shelters and centers are run by the Ministry
of Social Affairs (MOSA) and provide vocational training, social support, meals, and
overnight residence to vulnerable individuals. As in the case of the public health and
education sectors, public resources for spending on services beyond salary payments
were severely constrained. Regardless, maintaining these programs, which cater to some
of the most vulnerable individuals and households, was an essential element in preserving
the social fabric in the West Bank and Gaza.

Bank and Donor Response to the Emergency

10.9 The Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP) was launched in 2002 to mitigate
the impacts of the economic crisis by financing non-salary recurrent expenditures of the
PA social sector ministries (i.e., health, education and higher education, and social
affairs), and providing financial support to municipalities. Between March 2002 and June
2005, the ESSP I and II financed a total of US$176 million from Bank and donor
resources. The ESSP approach was a means of rapidly channeling donor funds to priority
social services in a coordinated manner. In response to the recent fiscal crisis, the Bank
re-launched the ESSP as a Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF), administered by IDA but
with financing provided by donors. The ESSP MDTF was the social service provision
“window? of the Temporary International Mechanism proposed by the European
Commission (EC). The ESSP MDTF involved daily implementation by the line
ministries, with supervision, financial control, and disbursements by the President’s
Office (PO). The scope of the ESSP was broadened to include operation and maintenance
costs in power and water/sanitation. The Bank and the PO signed the Grant Agreement
for the ESSP MDTF in September 2006 to finance non-salary recurrent expenditures of
the PA social sector ministries (i.e., MOH, MOEHE, and MOSA) and the three sector
utilities (i.e., Palestinian Water Authority - PWA, Palestinian Energy Authority—
PENRA, and Coastal Management Water Utility—CMWU). Over the 2006–2011 period,
eleven donors (Australia, Austria, Belgium, France, Italy, Norway, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the EC) contributed about US$88 million to the
ESSP MDTF.

10.10 The Third Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP III), financed in January
2008 through a US$10 million grant from the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
(TFGWB), was closely linked to the Bank-administered ESSP MDTF. These two
operations were part of the PA’s emergency program in the social sectors, and they had
the common objective of helping to mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential

                                            54
public services in education, health, and social services. They both financed mainly non-
salary recurrent expenditures and had the same components and fiduciary requirements.
The main difference between the two operations was the funding source. The ESSP III
was financed by the TFGWB, whereas the ESSP MDTF was a Bank-administered TF
financed entirely by donors.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

10.11 While no formal Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) exists for WBG, the
Executive Directors in December 2003 approved the report “Trust Fund for Gaza and
West Bank: Status, Strategy and Request for Replenishment.? The document sets out the
Bank’s assistance strategy for the PA. The Bank monitors social and economic
developments in WBG, provides policy advice, finances development projects where
feasible, provides emergency assistance to mitigate the deterioration in the provision of
essential public services, and helps maintain Palestinian institutions. An update of the
document was approved by the Executive Directors in December 2006, reaffirming the
strategic directions of the 2003 document because these directions have given the Bank
the necessary flexibility to respond effectively to emerging challenges and opportunities
in WBG.

10.12 The Bank-financed ESSP III was one of the instruments financing the PA’s social
sector emergency program. It helped maintain essential social services during the
protracted crisis that WBG experienced. It complemented other Bank operations financed
through the TFGWB to assist poor and vulnerable population groups, such as the Bank’s
Social Safety Net Reform Project and the Third Palestinian Non-governmental
Organization Project.

10.13 An Operational and Policy Services review of emergency operations established
the ESSP model and adopted it as a best practice instrument in the Bank for similar
country situations. These operations address priorities that are particularly important in a
time of crisis, such as the continuity in the provision of essential social services for poor
and vulnerable populations, with an added value of safeguarding social cohesion. In
addition to funding recurrent emergency expenditures, this has given the Bank a solid
platform to maintain a policy dialogue in the social sectors.




                                             55
                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33512R1
                                                                                                                                                                To                         35°30'E
                                                                                                              35°00'E                                         Nazareth

               WEST BANK                                                                                                           To Haifa

               AND GAZA
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                        32°30'N                                                                                                                                   32°30'N
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                       Yamoun
                                                                                                                                                                    Jenin
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                    Ya'bad
                                                                                                                                 Kaffeen
                 RAILROAD                                                                                                                                      Qabatia

                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949                                                                                                     JENIN
                 NO-MAN’S LAND AREAS,
                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949                                                  To Netanya               TULKARM
                                                                                                                                      Anapta                                     Tubas
                                                                                                                        Tulkarm                                                          TUBAS
                 JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY                                                                                                                               Tammun
                 EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
                 THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980                                                                                                             Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                        (940 m)
                 GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                          Nablus
                                                                                                   Qalqilyah
                 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY                                                                               QALQILYAH                              NABLUS
                                                                                           To                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Tel Aviv                                                                                                                    Um Qais
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 SALFIT
                                              34°30'E                                                                                     Salfit   West




                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                               Jordan Rive
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                       To
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                      Ramla
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JORDAN
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
32°00'N
                                                                                       To
                                                                                    Tel Aviv
                                                                                                                                                   Bank                                                        To 32°00'N
                                                                                                                                                                 Tall Asur                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                                 (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                       RAMALLAH                                          JERICHO

                                                                                                                                                     Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Amman
                                                                                                                                                                                           Jericho
           Mediterranean
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                           Sea                                                                                                                                                                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM


                                                                                                       To                                           Bethlehem
                                                                                                     Ashdod
                                                                          ISRAEL
                                                                                                                                                      BETHLEHEM
                                                                To
                                                             Tel Aviv
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                               Ashqelon                                                                                   Dead
                              JABALYA
                                    Beit Lahia                                                                                        (1,020 m)                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                     Hebron
                           Gaza City
                                                 Jabalya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31°30'N
                      GAZA CITY                                                                                                   HEBRON
   Gaza Nusejrat
                                                           To                                                                       Yattah
DEIR EL BALAH                     El Bureij             Beersheba
           Deir el Balah                                                                                          Zohar

      KHAN
      YUNIS
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                      Khan                                                                                                                                               Zofar
                      Yunis                                                          To
                                                                                  Beersheba
              Rafah
                           RAFAH                                                                                                                                                                JORDAN
                Abu 'Awdah
   To           (105 m)
El Arish
                  To                          WEST BANK
                  Elat                        AND GAZA

 ARAB                                                                                                     0        5        10     15 Kilometers

REP. OF
EGYPT                                                                                                     0             5            10            15 Miles

31°00'N                                                                                                                                                                                                           31°00'N

                                              34°30'E                                                           35°00'E                                                                     35°30'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUNE 2007
