Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  16199-GUA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT No. 2169-GUA)
December 30, 1996
Public Sector Modernization
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Guyana Dollar (G$)
The Guyana dollar floated with the pound sterling from July 1972 to October 1975, when
the Government announced its linkage to the US dollar at G$2.55 - US$1.00. A new rate
of G$3.00 - US$ 1.00 was established on June 1, 1981. On January 11, 1984, it was
adjusted to G$3.75 - US$1.00. The average rates for the period 1984-89 are set out
below:
Annual Average
1984                    US$1.00 = G$  3.8         G$1.00 = US$0.261
1985                    US$1.00 = G$  4.2         G$1.00 = US$0.235
1986                    US$1.00 = G$  4.2         G$1.00 = US$0.235
1987                    US$1.00 = G$  9.7         G$1.00 = US$0.103
1988                    US$1.00 = G$ 10.0         G$1.00 = US$0.100
1989                    US$1.00 = G$ 27.2         G$1.00 = US$0.367
1990                    US$1.00 = G$ 39.5         G$1.00 = US$0.253
1991                    US$1.00=G$118.8           G$1.00=US$0.841
1992                    US$1.00 = G$125.0         G$1.00 = US$0.800
1993                    US$1.00 = G$126.7         G$1.00 = US$0.789
1994                    US$1.00 = G$138.3         G$1.00 = US$0.723
1995                    US$1.00 = G$142.0         G$1.00 = US$0.704
1996
January - July           US$ 1.00 = G$140.25      G$1.00 = US$0.713
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:-               Shahid Javed Burki
Director:                      Paul Isenman
Division Chief:                Krishna Challa
Responsible Staff:
Sr. Public Sector Mgmt Specialist:  Rita Parrilli
ITask Manager:                 Jit Gill



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BEEP          -      USAID's Building Equity and Economic Participation Project
BOG           -      Bank of Guyana
BOS           -      Bureau of Statistics
CARICOM       -      Caribbean Community
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CDB           -      Caribbean Development Bank
CFTC          -      Commonwealth Fund for Technical Corporation
DDSMS         -      UN Department for Development Support and Management Services (Statistics)
DIEC          -      Department of International Economic Cooperation
DMD           -      Debt Management Division
DSI           -      Department of Social Infrastructure
EC            -      European Community
EMD           -      Enterprise Monitoring Division
ERP           -      Economic Recovery Program
ESAF          -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FISBEC        -      Financial Sector Business Environment Credit
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
GOG           -      Government of Guyana
HIES          -      Household Income and Expenditure Survey
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA           -      International Development Association
IFI           -      International Financial Institution
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
LSMS          -      Living Standards Measurement Survey
MCA           -      Monitoring and Coordinating Agency
MCSD          -      Ministry of Culture and Social Development
MFI           -      Department of Multilateral Financial Institutions
MOF           -      Ministry of Finance
ODA           -      British Overseas Development Agency
OPS           -      UN Office for Project Services
PAP           -      Public Administration Project
PCS           -      Public Corporation Secretariat
PFP           -      Policy Framework Paper
PRKS          -      Personal Records Keeping System
PSDAC         -      Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit
PSIP          -      Public Sector Investment Program
PSM           -      Public Sector Management
PSR           -      Public Sector Review
SAC           -      Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR           -      Special Drawing Rights
SIMAP         -      Social Impact Amelioration Program
SOE           -      State-Owned Enterprise
SPS           -      State Planning Secretariat
TAC           -      Technical Assistance Credit
TOR           -      Terms of Reference
UK/ODA        -      United Kingdom Office of Development Assistance
UNDP          -      United Nations Development Program
UNIDO         -      United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UNVs          -      United Nations Volunteers
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
Iofriciai duties. Its contents may not otheruise be disclosed vithout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2169-GUA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PFEFACE .....................................................1i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................                                                         ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................1
A.  Introduction/Background  ......................................................1
B.  Statement/Evaluation  Objectives ....................................................2
C. Achievement of Objectives .....................................................3
D.  Major Factors affecting  the Project ...................................................4
E.  Project Sustainaility .....................................................5
F. IDA Performance ......................................................6
G. Borrower Performance .....................................................7
H. Assessment of Outcome .....................................................9
I. Future Operations ....................................................                                                        10
J. Key  Lessons Leamed/Reconfirmed .....................................................1.1
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .....................................................                                                14
Table  1:  Summary  of Assessment ....................................................                                           14
Table 2:  Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ....................................................                                      16
Table 3:  Project Timetable .....................................................                                                17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............... 18
Table  5:  Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ................................................ 19
Table 6:  Key  Indicators for Project Operation ....................................................                              20
Table  7:  Studies Included  in Project ....................................................                                     27
Table  8A:  Project Costs ....................................................                                                   28
Table  8B:  Project Financing  .....................................................                                              29
Table 9:  Economic Costs and  Benefits .....................................................                                     30
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................                                       31
Table  11:  Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements .                                           .................................. 33



Table  12:  Bank  Resources:  Staff Inputs ...............................................                                    34
Table  13:  Bank  Resources:  Missions ...............................................                                        35
APPENDIX A: AIDE MEMOIRE ................................................                                                     36
APPENDIX B: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE ...............................................                                                                   42
A. Introduction/Background ...............................................                                                    42
B. Project Objectives ...............................................                                                         42
C. Implementation ...............................................                                                             43
D. Assessment of Credit ...............................................                                                       44
APPENDIX C: DESCRIPTION OF SUBPROJECTS ........................................ 51
I. Improving the Incentive Framework ................................................                                         51
II. Public Sector Reform ................................................                                                     52
III. Improving  Public Sector Investment ...............................................                                      54
IV. Social Sector Reform ...............................................                                                      56
V. Improving ................................................                                                                 58
VI. Central Bank  Supervision ................................................                                                60
VII. Long  Term   Development Strategy ................................................                                       62
APPENDIX D: SAC/TAC MATRIX ...............................................                                                    63



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT 2169-GUA
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Assistance
Project in Guyana, for which Credit 2169-GUA in the amount of SDR 2.3 million
(equivalent to about US$3.0 million at the time of approval on June 28, 1990) was made
effective on August 29, 1990.
The credit was closed on the original closing date of June 30, 1996. As of October
31, 1996 the value of the loan was equivalent to US$3,308,895.00 million of which
US$2,859,283.51 equivalent had been disbursed.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/ICR
mission, which took place August 1 to 9, 1996. It is also based on material in the project
file and discussions with staff who participated in the development and supervision of the
project as well as discussions with UJNDP, the Government, and some TAC financed
consultants. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by submitting its
evaluation of the project's execution and achievements, which is included as Appendix B.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2169-GUA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    One of the direct consequences of the continuous negative real GDP growth
which characterized two decades of severe decline in Guyana's socio-economic situation
(in the 1 970s and 1 980s) was the sharp decline in living standards. This led to a large
scale migration of qualified and experienced personnel both from the public and private
sectors in search of better opportunities principally in Canada, the UK and US. The loss
of skilled and experienced personnel was particularly acute in the Central Government as
the financial position of the Government made it impossible to improve salary and other
benefits of civil servants. Senior positions had to be filled by junior personnel or had to
be left vacant, affecting the delivery of basic public services.
2.    The shortage of skilled personnel was particularly severe in the ministries and
agencies with responsibility for the management of the economy. At the time of the
launching of the ERP in 1989, GOG and the donor community had realized the paucity
of the national capacity to manage and carry out the reform program. Effective
implementation of the ERP and IDA's SAC, through which critical imports needed to
restore economic growth were financed, was essential. The Government, therefore,
sought and obtained TA to bring in outside skill to fill positions critical for the success of
the reform program and to strengthen core macroeconomic units. These entities were: the
Statistical Bureau, the Bank of Guyana (Central Bank), the Debt Management Division of
the Ministry of Finance, the Office of Coordinator to the ERP, the State Planning
Secretariat and the Public Corporation Secretariat.
Project Objectives
3.    The project's objective was to assist the Borrower to implement its medium-term
adjustment program, including the SAC, and improve macroeconomic management so
that the objectives of the adjustment program could be achieved. The TAC was intended
to assist in strengthening the public sector agencies responsible for implementing the
adjustment program by financing expert advice, staff training and equipment to improve
management and analytic capacity and strengthen the borrower's capacity to analyze the
social costs of adjustment and the efficiency of social sector programs. The institutional
strengthening activities were intended to lay the basis for transition to local management
at the project's end.



ill
Implementation Experience, Results, and Outcome
4.    Guyana has taken far reaching reforms bringing about a fundamental shif't in
economic policies towards a market oriented economy. Real growth averaged about 8
percent per year during 1991-94. The incentive framework for the private sector has
improved, while state intervention in agriculture, industr-y and commercial activities has
declined. Progress has been made in restructuring and reducing the size of the public
sector, including through privatization of SOEs. The SAC ICR notes that the social
impact amelioration program (SIMAP) mitigated the most adverse effects of the
adjustment.
5.    Sustainability of TAC funded activities is. however, largely uncertain. The project
substantially achieve its major development objective in the short term and successfully
supported measures required to secure release of the second and third tranches of the
SAC (Appendix C). These included: (i) completion of a study on consumption taxes to
address deficiencies in the application and administration of consumption taxes as part of
the trade policy provisions of the SAC; (ii) favorable Bank assessment of the
macroeconomic framework. TAC financed consultancy services assisted in coordinating
the adjustment program and improving GOG's analytical and management capacity at
that time; (iii) commencement of a program to eliminate over]apping functions and
identify non-critical vacancies in the public service (PRKS) as part of central government
reform; (iv) establishment of a rolling PSIP; and (v) improvement in targeting the poor
under SIMAP.
6.    In its final three years the TAC supported the institutionalization of many of those
measures. Two institutional development activities have been self-sustaining: the BOG
in banking supervision and computerization of the BOS to enable construction of national
accounts and the carrying out of basic surveys. Both agencies are semi-autonomous with
somewhat higher pay than the central civil service. Assistance to SIMAP and the PRKS
has been sustained through follow-on IDA and IDB projects.
7.    The PSIP assistance, which fell into disuse following the departure of the TAC
consultants and trained personnel, has been resuscitated through the return of the same
consultant under the auspices of USAID. TAC Procurement, aide coordination and
macro-economic, and public enterprise monitoring assistance was helpful at the time, but
was not sustained following the departure of the consultants. USAID and UNDP are
again supporting strengthening in these areas, except PE monitoring.
8.    The outcome of the TAC, therefore, is moderately satisfactory. The dearth of
professional and skilled personnel in the public sector has been identified as a major
constraint to Guyana's development efforts. A sustained effort is being made to
implement IDA's PAP, the main elements of which are: (i) reforming the public sector
salary and employment structure; (ii) public sector management strengthening; and (iii)
an improved recruitment program. Revenue increases from continuing growth and
persistence with rationalization of the public service are means which could ensure the



iv
maintenance of reasonable levels of salary. While important first steps have been taken
under the PAP to streamline the salary structure and improve the staffing of the public
services (paras. 41-44). without additional significant public sector reforms, the success
of other efforts at development will be compromised and the crisis of implementation will
make sustainable change difficult.
Lessons Learned/Reconfirmed
9.    "Substitution TA"', which fills gaps when local capabilities are insufficient, can be
an acceptable short term remiiedy tor a staffing crisis. flowever in order for substitution
I'A to become TA for institutional development, a combination of institutional factors
(adequate pay and employment policies) and qualities of TA personnel must be present.
With respect to the latter, consultanits tend to be most effective when they have had
actual hands-on work expcrience (as opposed to solely advisory or academic experience)
as well as talent as mentors. trainers and problem-solvers in difficult institutional
environments.
10.   'I'he greatest impediment to long-term institutional strengthening in Guyana is the
inability to attract and retain qualified Guyanese staff due to inadequate civil service
salaries. This was the single most serious obstacle to the successful outcome of TAC
financed activities. While non-monetary incentives are important, they are not sufficient
to retain public servants if public sector pay scales fall seriously short of private sector
comparators.
11.   Several counterparts should be assigned to each consultant when turn-over is high
to increase the prospects of at least one staying. This might be accomplished, even in
environments where it may be difficult to identify even one counterpart, by reviewing the
organizational structure and combining related work units to create a larger critical mass
and, thus, bigger pool from which counterparts may be drawn.
12.   When there is an absolute shortage of personnel to serve as counterparts to
internationals, local consultants or even UNVs may be engaged to carry out line
functions, work with international consultants, and transfer knowledge as counterparts
become available. Also, UJNVs tend to incur less resentment than international
consultants over issues of pay differences when salaries are extremely low.
13.   Counterparts should know from the outset that they are not merely assistants or
helpers to the international consultants, but rather that they have prospects (if
performance warrants) to assume the consultant's line responsibilities upon completion of
the consultant's assignment.
14.   In countries with weak project evaluation capacity, evaluation training should be
built into TACs, TAL. and PSMLs, including assistance in preparation of the
Government's portion of ICRs, to ensure that the lessons of experience -- successes and
weakness -- are understood and taken into account in future project design.



I



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction/Background
1.    The SDR 2.3 million credit (equivalent to about US$3.0 million at the time of
approval on June 28, 1990) assisted in the financing of studies and technical assistance
related to policy areas included in IDA's second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). By
1988 Guyana's economy had been in a state of decline for over a decade. The development
model of "co-operative socialism" pursued after independence in 1966 had led the state to
dominate the economy, through state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and direct control.
Traditional exports of bauxite, sugar and rice had fallen sharply, causing the real Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) to decline by about one-third. Repeated efforts to adjust the
economy during the 1 980s did not succeed. Guyana's overwhelming debt was in arrears
resulting in cutting off of assistance by international financial institutions (IFIs) and other
donors.
2.   In 1988, the Government launched comprehensive economic reforms under the
Economic Recovery Program (ERP). The ERP consisted of broad adjustment measures and
structural reforms to realign relative prices, dismantle state controls, and establish a market
oriented economy. The SAC was part of the donor community's support for the ERP
through which critical imports needed to restore economic growth were financed. The SAC
supported reforms in (i) improvement of the incentive framework through reforms in
domestic pricing, trade policies, and private investment procedures; (ii) improvement of
public sector finances through elimination oi' central government transfers to public
enterprises, streamlining the civil service, increasing revenue transferred by public
enterprises to the Central Government and divestment for selected public enterprises; (iii)
formulation of a realistic public sector investment program; (iv) better targeting of the poor in
social programs; and (v) commencement of a program to reform the public service by
eliminating overlapping functions and non-critical vacancies.
3.   Implementation of SAC measures was supported by the IDB, ODA, CDB, UNDP,
EC and by this Technical Assistance Credit (TAC). The Government and donors developed
a comprehensive set of technical assistance packages to improve public sector management
(PSM) since it was recognized that the quality of PSM would play a critical role in
determining the success of the adjustment program. PSM had deteriorated over the decade
prior to approval of the SAC resulting in deficiencies in qualified personnel and equipment.
Low public sector wages and a high rate of professional emigration from the country
contributed to the problem. Staff in place frequently lacked experience and relevant training.
Computer equipment and software, which could increase productivity of scarce professional
labor, was largely nonexistent.
4.    The shortage of professional and technical manpower impeded the operational as well
as the developmental activities of the public sector. Even basic information for
macroeconomic management crucial to the success of the ERP, such as the national



-2-
accounting data, was extremely weak, in large part owing to the lack of personnel to collect,
compile and analyze key economic data. The national statistical system fell casualty to the
adverse effects of the contraction in the economy with the departure of trained staff at all
levels to the point that, by the end of 1990, there had been an almost total collapse of the
statistical force, with the professional staff reduced to two persons. The Bureau of Statistics
stopped publication of its reports.
5.    Social and economic infrastructure also deteriorated due to the prolonged period of
under-investment. The commitment of the government to maintaining free public health and
education facilities was not matched by its ability to meet these commitments. Inadequate
allocations of basic materials and supplies was aggravated by an exodus of teachers and
health personnel, resulting in declining quality of service. Social data and indicators were
inadequate to facilitate appropriate social policy interventions. This was essential given the
need for sensitive and targeted attention to adversely affected groups whose condition might
have further deteriorated as a consequence of the structural adjustment element of the ERP.
6.    The lack of professional manpower also adversely affected the formulation of
effective economic policies and the development and monitoring of the PSIP. Guyana's ERP
would crucially depend upon developing a "critical mass" of higher level manpower through
increased incentives, training, and technical assistance, attracting Guyanese professionals
from abroad, albeit for short periods. IDA was to help address these issues through the TAC.
7.    The TAC was appraised in May 1989 together with the SAC and was approved on
June 28, 1990. The Development Credit Agreement was signed on July 13, 1990 and became
effective on August 29, 1990 with a closing date of June 30, 1996. The TAC was amended
once on June 26, 1992 to reflect the financing of two new activities: the Advisor on Banking
Supervision to the Bank of Guyana, which was important to the preparation of IDA's Private
Sector Development Adjustment Credit (PSDAC), and the establishment of a personnel
record-keeping system (PRKS) which facilitated compliance with SAC measures to eliminate
overlapping functions and non-critical vacancies.
B.   Statement/Evaluation Objectives
8.    The project's objective was to assist the Borrower to implement its medium-term
adjustment program and improve macroeconomic management so that the objectives of the
adjustment program could be achieved. The project was intended to assist in strengthening
the public sector agencies responsible for implementing the adjustment program by financing
expert advice, staff training and equipment to improve management and analytic capacity and
strengthen the borrower's capacity to analyze the social costs of adjustment and the
efficiency of social sector programs. The TAC did not aim to strengthen all functions of these
primary agencies, but rather to strengthen those units essential to implementing structural
adjustment. The institutional strengthening activities were intended to lay the basis for
transition to local management at the project's end.



-3-
9.    These limited objectives were appropriate given the absorptive capacity of the
government and the priority of the program of structural adjustment program. They were
clear and realistic, although some of the institutional strengthening activities assumed a faster
turn around than proved feasible in improving conditions of employment in the public sector,
and thus sustainability. Many of the project's objectives and activities were mutually
reinforcing, supported jointly with other donors, and directly underpinned policy measures
supported uLnder the SAC (Appendix C). They were essential for economic recovery and
continue to be important elements of the CAS and the Guyana Policy Framework Paper,
1996-98 presented to the Bank's Board of Directors in May 1996.
10.   There were no significant modifications to the project's objectives during
implementation. The two activities added under the 1992 project amendment were directly
related to the SAC or other aspects of the adjustment program. Because the hiring of a
relatively large number of consultants, purchase of related equipment and training were
demanding for the under-staffed project executing agency, the MOF's Monitoring and
Coordinating Agency (MCA), implementation and coordination assistance was provided by
UNDP.
C.   Achievement of Objectives
11.   The project substantially achieved it's major development objectives in the short term
and facilitated SAC tranche releases required to finance critical imports needed to help
restore economic growth. However, the extent to which the project has been able to build
sustainable domestic capacity is mixed. Achievement of long term institutional development
objectives for policy analysis and economic decision making, public sector investment
planning, public enterprise monitoring, and aide coordination is negligible, although other
donors continue to support most of these efforts (Appendix B). Assistance to the Bureau of
Statistics (BOS) and Bank of Guyana (BOG) have been sustained largely due to the relative
adequacy of salaries and training and promotion opportunities compared to other TAC
beneficiary agencies. Assistance for the Social Impact Amelioration Program (SIMAP) and
PRKS have been sustained through direct follow-on IDA and IDB projects.
12.   The project's immediate objective of assisting GOG implement its medium-term
adjustment program and comply with SAC conditionality were largely met per Appendix C.
The outcome of the longer-term institutional strengthening activities is mixed due mainly
to inadequate public sector salaries and conditions of service to attract staff to serve as
counterparts and to retain staff who served as counterparts or were trained under the TAC.
13.   The President's Report correctly pointed out the risk of the benefits of assistance not
being sustained after the project's completion due to staffing deficiencies. It was thought that
the risk would be reduced through training under the TAC to increase the analytic and
management skills of staff and, later, through pay and employment policy changes initiated
under the SAC and continued under IDA's Public Administration Project (PAP). These
changes have taken longer to realize than expected.



-4-
14.   Performance Indicators. The TAC's President's Report included a SAC/TAC matrix
with clear qualitative indications of the policy areas to be supported by the TAC prior to
Board presentation and second and third tranche release. This matrix is reprinted as Appendix
C along with the results and outcome of the related TAC assistance. Neither the President's
Report nor TAC supervision reports provided quantitative indicators for assessing
achievement of objectives, as is currently required.
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   GOG's commitment to policy changes related to the ERP and SAC enabled
substantial achievement of the TAC's SAC-related short term objectives. Achievement of
the longer-term institutional development objectives, however, was impeded mainly by
inadequate public sector salaries, and partially impeded by staffing and organizational
changes resulting from the change of government, and less than optimum management of
technical assistance.
16.   Salaries. The project was plagued from the start by a shortage of professional and
skilled personnel to serve as effective counterparts for advisors under the TAC due mainly to
inadequate levels of remuneration. An important objective under the TAC was that skills
provided by the long-term and short-term advisors were to be transmitted to Government
officials and thus provide the domestic capacity for continuity of these specialized and vital
skills beyond the life of the project. Almost all advisers financed under the TAC expressed
concern and frustration regarding the counterpart situation1. Recurrent problems included: (i)
absence of any counterparts; (ii) excessive delays in appointing and replacing counterpart
staff; and (iii) assignment of higher level staff to work with the consultants who, on account
of their work responsibilities, were unable to serve as full or even part-time counterparts. As
a consequence, the transfer of skills did not always take place upon completion of the
advisor's assignment.
17.   Change of Administration. With the arrival of the new Government in Guyana in
1992 came the restructuring of the central administration. As a consequence, the Public
Corporations Secretariat (PCS) was dissolved and the State Planning Secretariat (SPS)
became the State Planning Unit in the Ministry of Finance. One negative feature of this
restructuring has been the loss of trained staff in these agencies (e.g. Public Enterprise and
PSIP sub-projects) who left the public sector to take higher paying jobs in the private sector
or abroad. Similarly, the Project Executing Agency, the MCA, was dissolved and
responsibility for the TAC was placed with the MOF's under-staffed Project Cycle
Management Unit.
18.   Management of TA. Even given the problems described above, it may have been
possible for the borrower to have derived greater benefit from the TAC consultancies through
Report to Carl G. Greenidge, Minister of Finance by Alwyn B. Taylor, Macroeconomic Adviser and TAC
Chief Technical Adviser, The Problem of Counterparts, September 27, 1991.



-5-
better management of the technical assistance. Ways in which this might be achieved in
future TA projects are addressed in the Lessons Learned section of this ICR.
19.   UNDP. At the design stage it became clear that the MCA did not have the capacity to
implement the TAC and coordinate related assistance from other donors. While the
UNDP/OPS arrangement did not provide the expected substantive backstopping support
(paras. 33 and 34), the UNDP field office did provide essential administrative and logistical
support for the project activities, as well as bridge financing for SAC related technical
assistance required prior to TAC effectiveness (PEs and Aide Coordination).
20.   United Nations Volunteers (UNVs) played a valuable role in the BOS, BOG, and
Social Indicators components. They incurred less resentment over pay differences than
international consultants, brought to bear valuable technical knowledge to several
components, filled in as counterparts to internationals, and carried out line functions when
necessary. While this is far from an ideal solution, it proved to be an effective low cost way
of dealing with an absolute paucity of local talent.
E.   Project Sustainability
21.   Sustainability of TAC funded activities is largely uncertain. During the TAC's first
three years of operation it mainly supported measures required to secure release of the second
and third tranches of the SAC. These included: (i) completion of a study on consumption
lax  to address deficiencies in the application and administration of consumption taxes as
part of the trade policy provisions of the SAC; (ii) favorable Bank assessment of the
mroenicfrawk, TAC financed consultancy services assisted in coordinating the
adjustment program and improving GOG's analytical and management capacity at that time;
(iii) commencement of a program to eliminate overlapping functions and identify non-critical
vacancies in the public service (PER) as part of central government reform; (iv)
establishment of a rolling PSIP; and (v) improvement in targeting the poor under SIMAP.
22.  In its final three years it supported the institutionalization of those measures. The
SAC related TA successes were sustainable in the short-term, but only two TAC supported
longer term institutional development activities have been self-sustaining in the longer term:
assistance to the BOG in establishing banking supervision and computerization of the BQS
to enable construction of national accounts and the carrying out of basic surveys, such as
those for Household Income Expenditures (HIES), the Labor Force, and Living Standards
Measurement (LSMS). Both agencies are semi-autonomous with somewhat higher pay than
the central civil service. Assistance to SIMAP and the PRKS has been sustained through
follow-on IDA and IDB projects.
23.   The PSIP assistance, which fell into disuse following the departure of the TAC
consultants and trained personnel, has been resuscitated through the return of the same
consultant under the auspices of USAID. Procurement and aide coordination and macro-
economic assistance was helpful at the time, but was not sustained following the departure of
the consultants. USAID and UNDP are again supporting strengthening in these areas.



-6-
24.   Perhaps the least sustainable TAC activity was assistance in monitoring the financial
and operational performance of public enterprises. The main agency receiving that
assistance, the PCS, was disbanded with the change of government, its staff were dismissed,
and systems were not transferred to the MOF, where the function currently resides.
Strengthening capacity to monitor the remaining 20 SOEs does not appear to be an area of
Government priority in view of plans to privatize/liquidate most companies before the year
2000. Other TAC activities, such as external aide coordination assistance and macro-
economic analysis strengthening. were not sustained in part because consultants devoted
much time to carrying out line functions or filled line positions -- including Budget Director -
- for which counterparts were not available. That position is currently filled by an IDB
funded consultant.
25.   The most recent activity to be supported by the TAC, preparation of a National
Development Strategy. was completed in November 1996. Guyana has not had a
comprehensive policy framework to underpin policies and priorities. It is expected that much
of the strategy, which was developed in consultation with NGOs, universities, labor unions,
public and private sectors, and international organizations, will complement and reinforce
many completed TAC activities and PAP supported initiatives. This is likely to include
recommendations that growing government revenue2 be directed toward improving public
sector salaries (see also para. 44), wage decompression, improved performance evaluation
and merit based increases. Government has not yet sought funding for the implementation
phase, although assistance may be needed if the Strategy is to have an impact.
26.   TAC supervision missions were informed in 1994 that the assigned counterpart staff
to the PSIP and Public Enterprise Advisors had left to take on high paying jobs in the private
sector or abroad. The mission noted that the continuing counterpart problem had significant
implications for the sustainability of the technical assistance program. The SAC ICR noted
that unless Guyana's serious constraints in terms of human capital are overcome, Guyana
would continue to be a "gap-filling dependency" with little prospect of attaining self-
sustaining development. This issue is being addressed under the PAP where some progress
has been made (paras. 41-44). However, unless salaries are increased to levels at least
approaching those of the private sector, TAC follow-up assistance will continue to be
''substitution TA" and real institutional strengthening will not have been achieved.
F.    IDA Performance
27.   The overall IDA performance was satisfactory. Project components were appropriate
for removing binding constraints to the success of the ERP and SAC. The TA program was
appropriately identified, prepared, appraised and supervised in close collaboration with the
borrower, other donors, and the SAC. The project's objectives remained valid throughout
2The Guyana Policy Framework Paper, 1996-98 records that real GDP growth averaged nearly 8% per year
for 1990-94, inflation fell from 100% to 16% and international reserves increased. Additional revenue is
also expected from financial management reform and PAP support tax reform to increase the tax base.



-7-
implementation and continue to be so. The design was flexible enough to allow for inclusion
of three priority activities during implementation: banking supervision, PRKS, and
preparation of the National Development Strategy. Implementation was closely linked to
other projects in the IDA portfolio (PAP, SIMAP, PSDAC/FISBEC).
28.   Care was taken at the design stage to ensure that the project was not overly complex.
Only the most pressing SAC and ERP related needs not covered by other donors were
addressed. Also, expectations about the prospects for institutional development were
tempered by a realistic assessment of the absorptive capacity. It was understood that
"substitution" TA was essential in an environment where the public service was as debilitated
as Guyana's in the early 1990s. With 20/20 hindsight it can now be seen that it may have
been somewhat optimistic to assume that salary increases would make public sector pay
competitive prior to conclusion of the TAC. Lessons of operational experience with
TACs/TALs from the 1980s were taken into account: unallocated funds were kept to a
minimum and project activities were well-targeted toward the government's adjustment
program, thus avoiding the "Christmas tree" approach to TA design.
29.  IDA carried out nine supervision missions for a total of about 48 staff weeks.
Considerable technical support was given by IDA staff during supervision of the SAC and
TAC and contacts were intensive with TAC beneficiary agencies from Washington. Project
problems, especially counterparts, were discussed at every implementation review.
Implementation progress and problems were correctly identified and reported. The project,
however, might have benefited from (i) more frequent TAC supervision missions coinciding
with SAC missions (resources were available for only one supervision mission per year); (ii)
more guidance on the management of TA; (iii) and quantitative performance indicators.
With respect to the latter the SAC/TAC Matrix (Appendix C) shows the clarity of direction
of the project.
G.   Borrower Performance
30.   Borrower performance was satisfactory in respect of the SAC measures supported by
the TAC and deficient with respect to fulfillment of its long-term institutional strengthening
objectives in terms of provision of counterparts. The Government that initiated the ERP had
strong commitment to and ownership of the program. It fully participated in the preparation
and implementation. The weakness in MCA's implementation capacity was correctly
identified at an early stage and UNDP was engaged under OPS execution to compensate.
When the MCA was dissolved as a result of the 1992 government reorganization, the
successor project executing agency had difficulty in providing substantive follow-up.
31.   Compliance with loan covenants was generally satisfactory, except for provision
"promptly as needed, [of] adequate facilities and qualified staff in adequate numbers as
counterparts for the consultants to be employed under the project." The borrower was unable
to pay wages sufficient to attract and retain qualified counterparts, in part due to fiscal
constraints. The priority of this problem and the likely consequences in terms of
sustainability were repeatedly bought to the borrower's attention by Bank supervision



-8-
missions and by the consultants themselves from the inception of project activities. Special
audit arrangements had to be developed between IDA and UN/OPS since neither the existing
arrangements for UNDP CSAs nor for UN/OPS MSAs apply in situations where OPS acts as
executing agency for UNDP projects.
32.   Although the quality of the consultant services was generally high, maximum benefit
was not derived, even within the constraints of the counterpart problem, due to less than
adequate management of technical assistance. The nature of the problem and ways in which
this problem might be addressed are covered in the Lessons Learned section of this ICR. For
example, the organizational structure of the beneficiary agency might be reviewed and related
organizational units merged to take advantage of natural synergies and create a larger critical
pool of staff from which several counterparts (rather than just one) might have been drawn.
In addition, although consultants were paid reasonable market rates, many of the local staff
with whom they worked resented their fees. This morale problem was made more acute by
the fact that most of the consultants assumed line functions similar to those of the poorly paid
local staff. This problem might have been mitigated if counterparts could have been assured
that, if their performance warranted, the responsibilities of the consultants would have
diminished as responsibilities of local staff and prospects for promotion increased. It should
be noted, however, that UNVs were used effectively (per para. 20) and might have been used
more extensively together with local consultants as a transitional measure until local staff
could be hired.
33.   UNDP. At the TAC design stage, IDA and the borrower determined that the under-
staffed MCA would have difficulty in executing the project. It was decided, therefore, that
US$2.8 million of the (then) $3.0 million TAC would be implemented under a series of
seven TAC financed UNDP projects (the remaining funds were used for preparation of the
National Development Strategy). Five were executed by the UN/OPS at 11% overhead, one
by the UN Department for Development Support and Management Services (DDSMS) at
13%, and one by the Government at 3%. All seven projects received valuable logistical
support from the UNDP Field Office. A total of $285,000 in overhead was transferred to
UNDP.
34.   UN executing agencies normally take substantive and administrative responsibility
for the project output, monitoring, and evaluation under the modality of UN agency
execution. However, a terminal tri-partite review and evaluation was prepared only for the
DDSMS executed project. There is no record of substantive OPS intervention beyond what
would have normally been provided under a Management Services Agreement (MSAs),
which is a procurement agent type arrangement for which considerably less overhead is
usually charged. Supervision reports record instances of delays in procurement, due to
lengthy OPS procedures. OPS took no substantive responsibility for the output of the five
TAC financed projects it executed nor did the borrower receive value for money. MCA, and
later the Project Cycle Management Unit, were not in a position to compensate for this lack
of substantive involvement for which OPS had been engaged.
r



-9-
H.   Assessment of Outcome
35.   The project outcome is moderately satisfactory. The project satisfactorily achieved its
major SAC related objectives per Appendix C. Guyana has taken far reaching reforms
bringing about a fundamental shift in economic policies towards a market oriented economy.
Recovery has been accomplished, with real growth averaging about 8 percent per year during
1991-94. The incentive framework for the private sector has improved, while state
intervention in agriculture, industry and commercial activities has declined. Progress has
been made in restructuring and reducing the size of the public sector through tax reform,
strengthening expenditure controls and privatization of SOEs. The social impact
amelioration program (SIMAP) mitigated the most adverse effects of the adjustment.
36.   Supervision missions recorded impressive progress on the SAC related analytical
work carried out by most TAC funded individual consultants. The skills provided by these
advisers were vital since they substituted for skills not available locally. Many of the
recommendations and observations incorporated in the consultant's reports were used by the
Government in formulating major policy decisions in the area of Macroeconomic
Management, Public Sector Investment, Public Sector Reform (PRKS and strengthening
public enterprise performance); Incentive Framework (improving the consumption tax
structure); and Banking Supervision (establishing an operational banking supervision
function at the Central Bank). In addition, the TA to SIMAP and BOS in preparation and
implementation of the LSMS and the HIES yielded important data on the location and extent
of poverty in Guyana essential for and targeting of social programs. This information was
also important for the Bank's 1994 Poverty Study.3
37.   However, the outcome of TAC supported long-term institutional development efforts
is unsatisfactory, except for the PRKS and SIMAP which were follow-up directly by
additional assistance from other Bank operations, and assistance to the BOS and BOG, which
are autonomous bodies and benefit from higher pay than the central civil service. They were
able, therefore, to retain a greater number of counterparts and trainees. A PE Performance
Monitoring System was developed but never installed in successor units to the disbanded
PCS, and trained staff departed. A computerized data base on external financial inflows
(volume, type and conditionality of external resources) fell into disuse upon departure of the
consultants, as did the system of quarterly macroeconomic reports which provided decision-
makers with an assessment of progress under the ERP. As with most TAC assistance, the
principal macro-economic adviser provided valuable data and advice at the time on issues
that would have an adverse effect on the economy if not addressed, such as debt. But no
skills or knowledge was ultimately transferred either because no counterparts were assigned
or the counterparts left and systems developed were discontinued.
38.   Further, for all the strong policy progress made and recovery achieved so far,
Guyana's economic position remains precarious, given the: (i) heavy debt burden; (ii)
dilapidated economic and social infrastructure due to widespread decay; (iii) acute shortages
Guyana: Strategies for Reducing Poverty, Report No. 1286 1-GUA, May 6, 1994.
1



-10-
of skilled personnel in public service; and (iv) widespread poverty. While the Government
remains committed to deepen the reforms, it will need adequate strategies (e.g. the TAC
financed National Development Strategy) to deal with these issues or they will prevent
achievement of sustained growth.
I.    Future Operation
39.   The objectives of the adjustment program, which the TAC supported, remain highly
relevant, as set forth in the CAS and Government's Policy Framework Paper for Guyana
(March 1996). The TAC contributed to the formulation of several ongoing IDA operations:
The PRKS is being completed with assistance provided under the PAP (2480-GUA); the
SIMAP/Health Nutrition and Water Credit (2358-GUA) benefited from the TAC's SIMAP
design assistance; and IDB's proposed SIMAP project will also benefit from a second round
of the LSMS proposed for 1997, which will help better target social interventions. The
PSDAC (2746-GUA) and FISBEC (2669-GUA) are providing follow-up assistance to the
Consumption Tax Study to broaden the tax base and remove disincentives to long-term
investment in the economy. They also provide continuing support for banking supervision in
the BOG.
40.   USAID's BEEP project is reviving TAC work to strengthen the PSIP and MOF's
Macro-economic Division to undertake quantitative analysis of economic issues. IDA's IDF
Grant (No. 28581) for debt management is providing consultant services. These interventions
are essentially "substitution TA" given the continued lack of counterparts. A proposed ODA
grant will upgrade the computer equipment purchased in the early 1990's for the Statistics
Bureau. External Aid Coordination remains weak, but is being addressed in the context of
the latest (August 1996) CPPR, as is management of TA, for which an EDI seminar is under
consideration.
41.   The PAP is addressing the single most important issue affecting the sustainability of
the TAC -- pay and employment policies. Substantial advances have been made in reforming
the public service salary and employment structure. A new 14 band salary structure was
introduced in May 1994. Top band salary had increased by about 184% in real terms as of
January 1996. Eleven senior expatriate Guyanese have been recruited to key and critical
positions under the PAP's Recruitment Program and GOG intends to use the incentives under
the Program to fill about 90 key and critical positions at the middle level before the PAP's
close at the end of 1997.
42.  In December 1995 GOG announced guidelines for Public Service Wages Policy
which aims to bring public service pay levels to 10% of the market lower quartile, in the
medium-term, and to within the market median quartile in the long-term. The policy would
also introduce a performance evaluation system, regular salary reviews and an improved job
evaluation procedures. GOG is taking a variety of additional initiatives to improve the
staffing of the public service. These include: (i) giving salary supplements of 15% to 20% to
about 1,850 key and critical positions; (ii) converting certain agencies into semi-autonomous
agencies so that better remuneration could be given to their employees outside the confines of
-7-



-11-
the public service pay structure; and (iii) developing a new staff appraisal system and linking
annual appraisal to monetary and non-monetary rewards.
43.   These are important first steps in streamlining the salary structure and improving the
staffing of the public services. However, considering the poor initial conditions and the fiscal
constraints that limited the amount of salary increases granted, much remains to be done to
enable the GOG to attract and retain high quality skilled employees on a sustainable basis. In
the period 1993-1996 about 400 employees at the middle levels (14.5% of 1993 strength)
left. This is bound to have adversely affected GOG's institutional capacity. The number of
vacancies at the middle and higher levels continues to be high, about 45%. Thus, in spite of
the assistance provided by the PAP in streamlining the salary structure and improving in
salaries in absolute terms, the public sector is still not able to attract (high vacancy rates) or
retain (continued attrition, especially at the middle levels). Real salaries in the public sector
have fallen so low that only a three to fourfold increase would have an impact on recruitment
and retention.
44.   Since the lack of adequate human resources will continue to keep public sector
performance at a low level, a concrete strategy to reach the goals set by the Public Services
Wage Policy announced in December 1995 needs to be developed. GOG has to find
additional resources to raise pubic service salaries further. Several options were
recommended during the PAP Mid-term Review in August 1996, including moving forward
with the PAP's modernization of the revenue administration component to enable it to collect
high revenues, a part of which could be used to improve public service salaries. The National
Development Strategy is likely to provide other options, per para. 25.
J.    Key Lessons Learned/Reconfirmed
45.   The most pressing sustainability issue in Guyana, as in many countries, is attracting
and retaining qualified counterparts given the very low public salaries ((a) to (c) below).
Low salaries exacerbate a common TA problem of staff resentment arising from disparities
between public sector salaries and consultant fees (G) and (k)). Also, Guyana has one of the
weakest institutional structures in the western hemisphere. Different approaches to TA,
therefore, may need to be taken ((e) to (m) below). What matters most for TA to be
successful is the combination of institutional environment factors (a) - (c) and qualities of TA
personnel (d).
Salaries/Counterparts
(a)    The greatest impediment to long-term institutional strengthening in Guyana is
the inability to attract and retain qualified staff due to inadequate civil service
salaries. This was the single most serious obstacle to the successful outcome
of TAC financed activities. While non-monetary incentives are important,
including some mentioned below, they are not sufficient to retain public
servants if public sector pay scales fall seriously short of private sector
comparators.
1



-12-
(b)   If fiscal constraints imposed by the IMF impede increasing salaries and thus
jeopardize sustainability of Bank operations, this should be identified at the
design stage and taken up jointly by IDA and the borrower with the IMF.
(c)   The TAC beneficiary agencies that were most successful in retaining
counterparts were semi-autonomous government entities not subject to the
same severely inadequate pay as the central government (BOG).
Management of Technical Assistance
(d)   Consultants tend to be most effective when they have had actual hands-on
work experience (as opposed to solely advisory or academic experience) in
the field in which they are consulting (e.g. Banking Supervision Adviser).
They also need talent as mentors, trainers and problem-solvers in difficult
institutional environments. Better use might be made of Senior Executive
Service Corps type volunteers.
(e)    Several counterparts should be assigned to each consultant when turn-over is
high to increase the prospects of at least one staying. This might be
accomplished in environments where it may be difficult to identify even one
counterpart, by reviewing the organizational structure, and combining related
work units to create a larger critical mass and thus bigger pool from which
counterparts may be drawn.
(f)    Recognizing that international consultants are likely to be called upon to
assume line functions when the public service is severely depleted, the
consultant's TOR should ensure that their operational workload is diminished
over time as counterparts assume increasing responsibility.
(g)   Counterparts should know from the outset that they are not merely assistants
or helpers to the international consultants, but rather that they have prospects
(if performance warrants) to assume the consultant's line responsibilities upon
completion of the consultant's assignment.
(h)   The consultants should return for brief periods internittently following
completion of their assignment to see their work through and adjust, support,
and revise their recommendations.
(i)    When there is an absolute shortage of personnel to serve as counterparts to
internationals, local consultants or even UNVs may be engaged to carry out
line functions, work with international consultants, and transfer knowledge as
counterparts become available.
(j)    UNVs tend to incur less resentment than local or international consultants
over issues of pay differences when salaries are extremely low.



-13-
(k)   National and regional consultants may also be more acceptable than
internationals when resentment runs high over pay differences. International
consultants should be hired only as a last resort and for as short periods as
possible when resentments are strong.
(1)    High level public servants should not be appointed as counterparts if they do
not have time to work with the consultants.
(m)   The "top down" approach of some Bank financed consultancies may not
always be the most appropriate. In some cases interactive sessions, led by
skilled facilitators with staff at all levels, may be a more effective way of
revealing problems and possible solutions that may not be apparent to outside
consultants (e.g. computerization BOG).
Project Implementation/Administration
(n)   Implementation Timetables should take into account that even the most
dedicated and skilled consultants and counterparts may not enjoy the
confidence of new administrations and may be replaced resulting in
implementation delays and setbacks.
(o)   A strong Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is needed for continuity and
follow-up even when UTNDP provides implementation assistance.
(p)   OPS executed UNDP projects do not provide value for money in terms of
implementation assistance. Borrowers should seek out UNDP cost sharing
arrangements (CSAs) for which less overhead is charged and the role and
responsibilities of UNDP is clear.
Lessons for the Bank
(q)   Monitorable, time bound, qualitative and quantitative performance indicators
and decision points are useful from the outset to facilitate mid-course
corrections and project evaluation.
(r)   SACs and supporting TACs should be supervised simultaneously, where
possible, with a single aide memoire recording the findings and
recommendations. Similarly, ICRs for each should cross reference activities
supported by the other.
(s)   In countries with weak project evaluation capacity, evaluation training should
be built into TACs, TALs, and PSMLS, including assistance in preparation of
the Government's portion of ICRs, to ensure that the lessons of experience --
successes and weaknesses -- are understood and taken into account in future
project design.
--T



-14-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial        Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                                          2                 2                 2
Sector Policies                       2                2                  2
Financial Objectives                   2               2                 E3
Institutional Development                                                L                  1=1
Physical Objectives                   2                2                 2
Poverty Reduction                     2                2                 2
Gender Issues                           i               2                 2                 l
Other Social Objectives               2                 2                 2
Environmental Objectives              2                2                  a
Public Sector Management               n                                  2 C
Private Sector Development             a                2                 2                 E3
Other (specify)                       2                2                 2                  2
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
(/)                        (/)                         (/)
2                          2  



-15-
Highly
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory         Satisfactorv               Deficient
(1)                     (/)                        (/)
Identification                     LI
Preparation Assistance              E                                                 izzi
Appraisal                                                    E3
Supervision                        n                                                  III
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactory    Satisfactorv    Deficient
Preparation                                  II]
Implementation                                a              [j]
Covenant Compliance                          E                               E0
Operation (if applicable)                                    E3
Highly       Moderately                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
L (L)           (E ()                      
T ~                                         



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Guyana - T.A. Credit No. 2169
Loan/Credit Title                                                                                    Year of
Proceeding Operations                             Purpose                                           Approval       Status
2168-GUA  Second Structual      To create a viable and stable economic conditions conducive to restoring a  1990   Closed
Adjustment    higher and sustained rate of economic growth; improvement of the incentive        12/31/93
framework, public sec finances, and formulation of realistic pub sec inv prog.
Following Operations
2358-GUA  SIMAP/Health          Assist the gov. in cushioning the social costs of the adj. process through the  1992  Closing Date
Nutrition & Water    establishment of an effective mechanism aimed at addressing basic needs         6/30/97
of the population: in a decentralized manner, through groups, like NGOs.
2480-GUA  Public Administration    Facilitate adequate staffing of the public service, and eliminate staffing  1993  Closing Date
redundancies; and create conditions for accountability in financial and           12/31/97
personnel mgmt; and preparation of long term strategy and public sec reform.
2669-GUA  Financial Sector      To implement sustainable institution building mechanisms supporting the  1994   Closing Date
Business Environment  financial and private sector, and to facilitate the effective implementation of  6/30/98
policy measures supported by private sector development adjustment credit.
2746-GUA  Private Sector Dev    Improve the environment for the private sector and thereby            1995      Closing Date
Adjustment     stimulate economic growth.                                                        12/31/97



-17-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Guyana - T.A. Credit No. 2169
Steps in Project Cycle                         Date Planned             Date Actual/
latest est
Identification (Exec Project Summary)           n.a.              February 23, 1989
Preparation                                     n.a.              March 21, 1989
Appraisal Mission                          March 1989             May 8,1989
Negotiation                                April 1990             May 7,1990
Board Presentation                              n.a.              June 28, 1990
Signing                                         n.a.              July 13, 1990
Effectiveness                              August 1990            August 29, 1990
Project Completion                         December 1996          December 30, 1996
Loan Closing                               June 1996              June 30, 1996
n.a.: not available



-1
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
GUYANA - T.A. Credit No. 2169
FY                       91            92            93            94            95            96            97
Appraisal Estimate       1.2           2.5           2.8           2.9           3.0           3.0           3.0
(Cumulative)
Actual (Yearly)          0.9           0.0           1.4           0.0           0.4           0.1           0.0
Actual (Cumulative)      0.9           0.9           2.3           2.3           2.7           2.8           2.9
Actual as % of Est.     71%           34%           80%           78%           89%            93%           93%



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/ President's Report
Estimated       Actual
N/A
II. Modified Indicators (if applicable)
N/A
III. Other Indicators (if applicable)
See the SAC/TAC Matrix (Appendix C) and the Outcome sections of the Description of
Subprojects (Appendix B)



Page I of 7
-20-
Table 61
Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Implementation indicators in the SAR/President's  Estimated   Actual    Remarks
Report
1. Macro-Economic Framework:
a) Consultancy Services in the Government's structural 24 m/m         2 Consultants
adjustment programme                                                appointed
b) Consultancy Services to the Bank of Guyana   6 m/m
c) Computer equipment to the Bureau of Statistics
2. Incentive Framework:
a) Consultancy Services to the Monitoring &     6 m/m                 2 Consultants
Coordinating Agency                                                 appointed
3. Public Sector Reforn:
a) Technical Assistance to the Public Service                         CONSAD
management at the office of the President (PRKS)                    Cargentine Firm
Personnel Rec. Keep. Sys.                                           Local Finn
4. Public Sector Investment Programme
a) Consultancy services, equipment and supplies  36 rn/m              3 Consultants
including a vehicle and training to the State                       appointed
Planning Secretariat
b) Consultancy Services, equipment and supplies and   24 rn/m         3 Consultants issued
training to the Ministry of Finance, Bank of Guyana
and the Ministry of Trade and Tourism
5. Social Sector Programme:
a) Consultancy Services equipment, supplies and  12 m/m               2 Consultants
training to the State Planning Secretariat and the                  appointed
Ministry of Education, Culture and Social
Development to improve targeting to the poor of
SIMAP programmes
6. Public Enterprise Management & Monitoring Systems
'Prepared by the UNDP Office, Georgetown, Guyana.
lp



Page 2 of 7
-21-
Project                       Estimated   Actual         Remarks
Consultants:
GUY/89/003:
Macro-Economic & Financial Management
a) Procurement Adviser, Bank of Guyana (Crown                       Funded by WB
Agents) & MONITEC
b) Banking Supervisor, Bank of Guyana         12 m/m      36 m/m    Funded by WB
12/04/91   for 12 months
c) Adviser, Macro-Economic Trends, Ministry of    24 m/m  24 m/m    Funded by WB
Finance                                                14/03/92-  for 12 months
13/03/94
d) Public Enterprise Adviser                                        Funded in part by
WB
e) Public Enterprise Adviser                  12 m/m                Transferred to
GUY/89/006
GUY/89/006:
Public Enterprise Monitoring
a) Public Enterprise Adviser                  12 m/m      9 m/m     Resigned Post
Nov. '91-
21/08/92
b) Public Enterprise Adviser                  24 m/m      45 m/m    Extended with funds
18/12/90-  from the previous
17/12/93   Public Enterprise
Adviser
GUY/89/007:
Macro-Economic Management System
a) Adviser to Minister of Finance             24 m/m      24 m/m
28/06/91-
22/06/93
b) Adviser, Extemal Finance inflows           24 m/m      12 m/m    Was not renewed by
14/08/91-  GOG
12/08/92
c) Adviser, Consumption Tax                   6 m/m       12 m/m    Extended a request
GOG
Adviser, Consumption Tax (2)                0.5 m/m    0.5 m/m



Page 3 of 7
-22-
Project                    Estimated   Actual         Remarks
d) Document Management UNV Specialist-       24 m/m      24 m/m    Includes $30,020 &
Bank of Guyana                                        10/03/95-  $7,020 1996 & 1997
09/03/97   Projected
Expenditure
GUY/89/008:
PSIP
a) PSIP Adviser                              24 m/m      3 m/m      Adviser resigned
State Planning                                        12/04/91
Secretariat                                           17 m/m
Feb. '92
b) Adviser, Economic Cost Analysis           12 m/m      12 m/m
14/08/91-
12/08/92
c) BEEP (IGI)                                                      Adviser hired &
resigned 5 months
into 2nd year
GUY/89/009:
Construction Social Indicators
a) Social Indicator Systems                  6 m/m       6 m/m
Consultant (State Planning)                           07/02/92-
06/08/92
b) UNV PC Specialist                         24 m/m      12 m/m
16/10/93-
15/10/94
c) LSMS
GUY/90/00L
a) Bureau of Statistics
Equipment only
GUY/93/001:
Public Service Management
T7



Page 4 of 7
-23-
Project                        Estimated    Actual        Remarks
Consultants:
a) Systems Analyst Programmer       6 m/M      6 m/m       6 rn/m
June-Nov.
b) CONSAD
c) Strategic Info. Systems
d) Data Encoders
Equipments
GUY/89/006:   - PEMGT
a) PCs (2 in SPS and 1 in PCS) 2               3           3          All arrived
b) Generator                                   3           1          All arrived
c) Vehicle
GUY/89/007:   - Macro-Info & Management System
a) PCs (3 in MCA & 2 in MOF)                   5           5          All arrived
b) Fax Machines (1 in MCA & 1 in MOF)
c) Photocopiers (1 in MCA & 1 in MOF)
d) Vehicles (1 in MCA & 2 in MOF)              3           3
e) Typewriters (3 in MCA & 2 in MOF)           5
l.)Y/89/008:  - PSIP
a) PCs                                         2           2          All arrived
b) Photocopier                                 1           1          All arrived
c) Vehicles                                    1           1          All arrived
GUY/89/009L :   - Construction Social Data
a) PC                                          1           1          Arrived
b) Video Camera                                I           I
c) TV Monitor & VCR Colour                     1           1
d) Slide Projector- A Carousel loading         I
e) Tripod Projector                            1           1
f) PA System                                   1           1
g) 1 AST Premium Notebook Computer             1
GUY/90/00f1:  -BOS
a) PCs                                         17          17         All arrived
b) Laptop Computers                            3           2          1 Stolen



-24-                      Page 5 of 7
Project                       Estimated   Actual         Remark
c) Vehicles                                  5           5
d) Photocopier
e) Stencil Duplicator
f) Electronic Scanner
g) Generator
GUY/93/0011:  - PSM
Computer Equipment
Training:
a) Training Programme in Comm. Development -
Organised by SIMAP Agency
b) Training Course in Applied Econometrics,
Macro-Economic Theory & Macro-Economic
Modelling of Resource Availabilities
GUY/89/008 - June 2-30, 1993
GUY/89/003:
a) Rose Marie Alaso provided on the job training to
8 assigned consultants in all aspects of Banking
SPN
GULY/89/006
a) Ms. Evelyn Wayne
b) Mr. Keith N. Gittens
"Analysis & Negotiation of BOO and BOT
Projects: Alternative Strategies for Infrastructure
Development".
June 17-18, 1991 Washington DC.
c) Mr. Godfrey Frank
"Commercialization & Privatization of Public
Enterprises".
October 7-18, 1991 Surrey, UK.
GUY/89/008:
a) Mr. Samsundar Ketwaru
"Regional Development Planning".
April 1 - May 2, 1992 Nagoya, Japan.



Page 6 of 7
-25-
Project                       Estimated    Actual         Remarks
b) Ms. Donna Abrams
"Project Management/ Project Analysis: Arthur
D. Little Management Education Institute
May 26- August 7, 1992
c) Mr. Lennox Adams
"Restructuring Industrial Enterprises".
March 2-13, 1992 Washington, DC  USA
GUY/891009.  -Social Data
a) Dr. Lloyd Roopchand
24th Session of ECLA
Santiago, Chile April 8-15, 1992
b) The bank agreed to finance 3 W/shops
GUY/89/009- The LSMS Consultant conducted
Workshops for Living Std. Measurement
Survey (LSMS)
Enumerators & S/visors (55) Anthrometorists
Students from the G/town School of Nursing
(65) Data Entry Managers (3) & a Policy
Analysis (1)
GUY/90/001:  -BOS
a) Mr. L. Benjamin
Mr. Bristol
Mr. Manifold
'Workshop on Labour Force Statistics"
St. Lucia, Sept. 12-18, 1993
b) "Conference on Population
and Development for Latin America and the
Caribbean", Mexico, April-May 1993.
c) "Seminar on Statistics of
Tourism & National Incomes", OECS,
Antigua, 1993
d) Paul Austin attended IMF Course on
Balance of Payments Statistics, Washington,
1993
I



Page 7 of 7
-26-
Project                      Estimated   Actual         Remarks
e) Part-Time in-house training of 25 Junior Staff
in Mathematics, Statistics & Economics,
August 9, 1993- January 1994
f) The Chief Statistician attended training course at
the Bureau of Census,
Washington in 1991.
g) The Senior Statistician attended study tour in
National Accounts at Central Statistical Office.
Barbados in November, 1991.
h) Mrs. P. Roberts attended study tour in foreign
trade at Central Statistical Office, Trinidad &
Tobago, in 1992.
i) Mr. L. Benjamin attended study tour at Jamaica
Statistical Institute in November, 1992.
j) Mr. P. Austin attended study tour on Balance of
Payments at Central Bank of Trinidad & Tobago
in 1992.
k) Mr. L. Benjamin attended a workshop on
microcomputers at Bureau of Census,
Washington in 1992.
1) Mr. G. Persaud attended a workshop on computer
technology in Barbados in 1993.



-27-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study         at Appraisal/Redefined      Status         Impact of Study
l.Consumption Tax    Address deficiencies in   Completed      Substantial
the application and
administration of
consumption taxes with
a view to simplifying the
tax, reducing rates and
broadening the base by
improving compliance.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Guyana - T.A. Credit No. 2169
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual/Latest estimate (US$M)
Consultant Services            Local   Foreign      Total         Local   Foreign       Total
Costs    Costs                     Costs    Costs
Implementation Unit             0.00       0.50        0.50         n.a.       0.2 a/       0.2
Incentive Framework             0.01       0.09        0.10         n.a.       0.1          0.1
Public Sector Reform            0.02       0.60        0.62         n.a.       0.6         0.6
Public Sector Investment        0.05       0.75        0.80         n.a.       0.5         0.5
Social Sector Programs          0.01       0.18        0.19         n.a.       0.1          0.1
Macro-Economic Managemnt        0.06       0.41        0.46         n.a.       0.9         0.9
Sub-total                       0.15       2.53        2.67         n.a.       2.3         2.3
Training and Equipment          0.00       0.48        0.48         n.a.       0.5         0.5
Total                           0.15       3.00        3.15         n.a.        2.8         2.8
n.a.: Not available. Local costs actuals as services provided in kind from Government.
a/ Overhead paid to UNDP



Table 8B: Project Financing
Guyana - T.A. Credit No. 2169
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual/Latest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs                   Costs    Costs
IDA                                3.0       3.0                    2.8        2.8
Government              0.1 a/               0.1 a/      n.a. a/               n.a. a/
Total Project Costs     0.1        3.0        3.1        n.a.       2.8        2.8
a/ government services in kind
n.a.: not available
K.Wai
September 24, 1996



-30-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
For all projects, this table identifies the major costs and/or benefits that enter into
the calculation of a re-estimated net present value (or economic rate of return) or, where the
net present value (or economic rate of return) was not estimated, of cost-effectiveness in
achieving project objectives.
N/A



Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
GUYANA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT (CR 2169-GUA)
Comnments
Agreement   Section       Type of    Status   Original   Revised                              Description of Covenant
Covenant                Date       Date
Credit 2169-    3.01         13          C                            The Borrower shall carry out all studies included in the Project under terms of
GUA                                                                reference satisfactory to the Association, which, unless the borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, shall include the preparation of specific
l____________             ___________  ________ __________             programs  or plans of action to meet the objectives of the project. meet_the_objectives_of_the_project
3.01         13         C                             Promptly after the completion on each such study, the Borrower shall furnish
l___________                          ________ _________               to the Association a copy of its findings and recommendations.
3.01        13          C                            The Borrower shall afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
comment on such findings and recommendations and on any plans or programs
l_______                _______    ________             included  therein.
3.01         13         C                            Taking into account the Association's comments thereon, the Borrower shall
prepare programs or plans of action, satisfactory to the Association, to carry
out the recommendations of each of such studies.
3.01         5         CP                            The Borrower shall, through the Executing Entities provide, promptly as     Success of some TA was
needed, adequate facilities and qualified staff in adequate numbers as     compromised due to lack of
counterparts for the consultants to be employed under the Project.         counterparts.
3.02         9         CP                            The Borrower shall coordinate and monitor the progress of Project          None received in CY95/CY96
implementation and submit to the Bank (a) quarterly reports on such progress    Borrower ICR expected in
beginning three months after the effective date; and (b) annual Project    September, 1996.
evaluation reports not later than March 30 of each year.
3.03         5          C                            The procurement of goods and consultants' services required for the project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Credit Agreement.
3.04         5          C                            In the carrying out of the training programs included under the Project, the  Complied, but many trainees left
Borrower shall: (a) fumish to IDA for approval, the content of each of such  due to poor salaries.
programs as well as the schedule for its implementation; (b) select the
beneficiaries of such training programs; (c) not later than Sept. 30 of each year,
exchange views with IDA on the training programs to be carried out for the
following calendar year.
3.05         9          C                            The Borrower and IDA agree to undertake, at the request of either party, at a  Borrower has appointed staff and
date not later than the first anniversary of the Effective Date, and      has sought UINDP's assistance to
approximately every nine months thereafter, a review of the performance of the   undertake a final project review in
Borrower and each Executing Entity in respect of the execution of the project.   connection with the ICR
4.01         1         CD                            The Borrower shall fumish to IDA not later than six months after the end of  Special arrangements acceptable to
each fiscal year a certified copy of the audit report by said auditors.   the Bank have been reached with
UNDP to provide a letter annually
confirming that audits of the
l ___________             ._________                                  ______________________________________________________________________      project funds   have   been   carried   out.



Type of Covenant                                                           Sau
1: Accounting;                                                    -C       :Covenant Complied with.
2: Financial Performance/revenue generation;                       CD      :Complied with after delay
3: Flow Utilization of Project funds;                              NC      :Not complied with
4: Counterpart funding;                                            SOON   :Compliance expected in reasonably short time.
5: Management aspects of the project or executing agency;          CP      :Complied with partially.
6: Enviromental covenants;                                         NYD    :Not yet due.
7: Involutary resettlement;
8: Indigenous people;                                              Covenenat Effectivness
9: Monitoring, review, and reporting;
10: Project Implementation not covered by categories 1-9;          1. Is the Selection of covenants appropriate? Have any proved to be ineffective or superfluous?
I1: Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation;  Selection appropriate. No covenenat has proved to be ineffective or superfluous.
12: Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action;  2. Are there general problems or issues relating to compliance with covenants under the project?
13: Other                                                             No
Date: August 20,1996



-33-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title     I Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No known lack of compliance
1~~~~~~~~~



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SWS, Actual)
GUYANA T.A. Credit No. 2169
FY
Stage                               89       90       91       92      93      95      96      97      Total
Preparation                            32.7                                                             32.7
Appraisal                                       15.5                                                     15.5
Negotiations                                     9.2                                                      9.2
Supervision                                              12.6    12.0   11.2    2.9    3.3        7.8   49.8
Project Completion (PCR/ICR)                                                              0.1     2.9    3.0
TOTALS                               32.71    24.7    12.6    12.0   11.2    2.9        3.4   10.7  106.2
n.a.: final figures not available
1 These figures do not reflect the full supervision of the TAC, much of which was carried out in connection witht the SAC.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Guyana - T.A. Credit No. 2169
Performance Ratings
Stage of Project           Month/        No. of    Days in   Specialized staff    Impl.       Dev.
Cycle                   Year        Persons    Field   skills represented *    Status   Objectives  Types of Problems **
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal               May 1989             3         17        PF
Post Appraisal          Sept. 1989          n.a.       n.a.      PF
Supervision
Oct. 1990            2         8         PF                   1          1
Jan./Feb. 1991       1         5         PF                   1          1       B, D, E, J
III           June 1991             1         6         PF                   1          1       B, E, J
IV             Oct. 1991            1         5         PF                   1          2       B, E, J
V              May 1992             1         5         PF                   1          1       B,J J
VI             Nov.1992             1         5         PF                   1          1       B, J
VIl           Jan.1994              1         7         PF                  S           S       A. B, J
Vill          Jan. 1996             2         3         PF                  S           S       A. B, J
Completion              Aug. 1996            3          5        PF                   S          S        A. B, J
* PF: Public Finance Spec
** Types of Problems:
a/ compliance with legal covenants       e/ training progress                   i/ financial performance: not applicable
b/ project management performance       f/ tech. asst. progress                  j/ monitoring and evaluation
c/ availability of funds                 g/ studies progress
d/ procurement progress                  h/ environmental aspects: not applicable
October 23, 1996



APPENDIX A
-36-                       Page 1 of 6
AUGUST 7, 1996
AIDE MEMOIR
GUYANA: IDA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT (TAC) (2169-GU)
Introduction
1.    A World Bank Mission consisting of Mr. Jit Gill, Task Manager, Mrs. Rita Parrilli,
Senior Pubic Administration Specialist, and Kyaw Wai, Budget and Administration
Specialist, visited Georgetown, Guyana from August I to August 8, 1996 for the final
supervision of the TAC and discussion of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to
be prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank.
2.   The mission had fruitful discussions with the staff of the TAC beneficiary agencies
as well as donors involved in TAC implementation. The mission met with Mr. Tarachand
Balgobin, TAC Project Coordinator and Head of the Project Cycle Management Ministry
of Finance (MOF); Mr. Robin Sivanand, Permanent Secretary Ministry of Public Service
Management, Mr. Colby Frimpong, Chief of Party, Building Equity and Economic
Participation (BEEP) Project MOF; Miss Denise deSouza, Division Head, Enterprise
Monitoring and Private Sector Development MOF; Miss Deborah George, Macro-
Economic Planning (MOF); Mr. Donald Declou, Head Multilateral Funding (MOF);
Miss Carmencita Santos, Bank Supervision Advisor and Miss Wendy Hazel, Director
Information Services Bank of Guyana; Mr. Harrinarine Nowbat, Director and Mr.
Persaud, SIMAP; Mr. Lennox Benjamnin, Chief Statistician, Bureau of Statistics; Mr.
Andrea Tamagnini, Acting Resident Representative, Mr. Thomas Gittens, Senior National
Program Officer, Miss Patsy Ross, Operations Assistant, and Mr. Mohammed Kanneh,
Program Officer, UNDP; Mr. Charles Greenwood, IDB Representative; Mr. David John
Johnson, British High Commissioner; Mr. Ian Stuart, First Secretary, British High
Commission; Mr. Wendell Lawrence, Deputy Director, CDB; Mr. Edward Cummnings,
Project Officer, CDB; Mr. David Ross, First Secretary (Development) Canadian High
Commission; and Mr. Rayman Mohamed, Carter Center.
3.    The Mission wishes to thank the Government of Guyana, the TAC Project
Coordination Unit, and the UNDP for their kind cooperation.
4.    This Aide Memoir has been prepared in the field. It records the views of the
Ministry of Finance, the TAC beneficiary agencies, and IDA on the project design and
implementation. It will be attached in its final form to the ICR. Agreements reached
during the mission and reflected in this aide memoir are subject to confirmation by IDA
management.
5.    The Proiect. The US$3.0 million (equivalent in SDRs) TAC was approved June
28, 1990 and closed June 30, 1996. Due to exchange rate changes in favor of GOG, the
totAl current value of the credit is about US$3,360,000. Approximately US$2,816,000
(equivalent) has been disbursed to date. The undisbursed balance of approximately
1-~



APPENDIX A
-37-                        Page 2 of 6
US$545,000 will be canceled on October 31, 1996 if not drawn upon to pay final bills for
services rendered or equipment purchased prior to June 30, 1996.
6.    Proiect Objectives. The objectives of the project were to assist GOG in
implementing its medium-term adjustment program, improving its macroeconomic
management capacity and strengthening its capacity to analyze the social costs of
adjustment.
7.    Project Activities and Post-Project FOllow-UD. The TAC financed consultant
services (including UNVs), training and equipment:
(a)   Improving Macroeconomic Management - assistance in coordinating and
implementing the adjustment program, including capacity to monitor and
analyze macroeconomic data; assistance to the Statistical Bureau to
increase capacity to collect, process, and report macroeconomic data
(services of Alwyn Taylor, Desiree Field-Ridley, Samuel Bekele, Rose
Marie Olaso, Kathleen Gordon, Crown Agents, computer equipment for
the SB);
USAID's Building Equity and Economic Participation Project (BEEP) will
build on TAC assistance in strengthening the capacity of MOF's
Macroeconomic Management Division to conduct macroeconomic analysis
and planning;
The IMF is providing continuing support to the Banking Supervision
Department of the Bank of Guyana;
The BEEP and ODA will provide additional assistance to BS in the
construction of national accounts and other surveys.
(b)   Assistance in formulating and monitoring the PSIP and assuring its
consistency in terms of size and composition in relation to the
macroeconomic framework and objectives and available funding (services
of Colby Frimpong, Zenon Garcia);
The BEEP project and IDF grant will provide continued strengthening of
the PSIP.
(c)   Public Sector Reform - Strengthening the PCS and SPS to monitor
financial and operational perforrnance of public enterprises and assistance
to the Public Service Management Ministry in development of the PRKS
(Basil Hinds, V. Paramanathan, CONSAD (Argentina);
The PRKS has been implemented with assistance from ODA and IDA's
Public Administration Project (PAP).
l*



APPENDIX A
-38-                         Page 3 of 6
(d)   Improving the Incentive Framework through a study to identify deficiencies
in the application and administration of the consumption tax (Frederick
Crittle/Mark Gersovitz)
This work laid the foundation for subsequent measures (banking legislation
and regulation) supported under IDA's Private Sector Development
Adjustment Credit (PSDAC).
(e)    Social Sector Reform - improving targeting of the poor in the SIIMAP
(Katherine Anne Webb, Judy Baker)
Basic operating/appraisal manual developed by Webb in 1991 was revised
and updated under the IDB SIMAP project; LSMS to be updated in early-
1997 with IDA assistance; IDB's proposed second SIMAP project is likely
to use data from the updated LSMS as the basis for selecting projects.
(f)    Preparation of a long term development strategy (Carter Center)
The World Bank View of the Proiect Implementation
8.   - The project partly achieved the major objectives as set forth in the IDA Credit
Agreement. It is doubtful that the GOG could have fulfilled the SAC related measures
without the assistance provided under the TAC. The short-term SAC related assistance
(e.g., consumption tax work) was particularly effective. While some longer-term
institutional development assistance was sustained (e.g. Banking supervision), the
sustainability of other TAC related assistance (e.g. to Public Enterprise monitoring and
PSIP) suffered due to the departure from the public service of many counterparts and
trained staff.
9.    The review of implementation of TAC components with the MOF, TAC
beneficiary agencies and donors, reveals that the single most pervasive problem limiting
the productive use of TAC funds was inadequate public sector salaries to retain qualified
staff. Related to this was the use of consultants in line operating positions to compensate
for the lack of qualified technical staff either without having counterparts assigned or
without having clear instructions to turn over responsibilities to counterparts.
10.   Proiect Administration. It was recognized during the project design that GOG
needed technical support as well as assistance with the timely contracting and procurement
to support the adjustment program. Therefore, with the exception of the Carter Center
Contract ($200,000), the TAC was implemented through a series of 7 UNDP projects.
The UN Office for Project Services (OPS) served as executing agency for 5 of those 7
totaling $ 2,450,000 including 11% overhead. UN executing agencies normnally provide
technical backstopping and substantive supervision. Essential assistance was rendered in
identification of consultants, contract administration, and procurement. However,



APPENDIX A
-39-                        Page 4 of 4
substantive assistance was not forthcoming, nor, according to OPS, was it understood to
be their responsibility. In addition, OPS declined to provide final support for the
Government's ICR preparation in lieu of the usual final tripartite review and project
evaluation carried out under UNDP projects. The UNDP Field Office has, however,
offered such support.
11.   Some aspects of TAC implementation might have benefited from substantive
UNDP/OPS involvement and follow-up. IDA is of the view that, while the logistical and
administrative assistance of the UNDP Field Office was vital to the project
implementation, the GOG did not get value for money from this arrangement. It is
recommended that future project implementation assistance from UNDP be carried out
under "government executed" UNDP cost sharing arrangements for which the Bank and
UNDP have established clear guidelines and for which the overhead is significantly less.
This mode of collaboration has worked successfully in other countries.
The Ministry of Finance's View as Project Coordinator
12.   The Ministry of Finance expressed its satisfaction with the project's overall
implementation. It agrees that the TAC provided readily available funding for SAC
related measures, and other assistance related to the adjustment program. The MOF is
aware of obstacles to sustainability mentioned above. The Minister of Finance endorsed
the proposal discussed at the Country Project Performance Review (CPPR), which was
held concurrently with the TAC ICR mission, that the assistance of EDI be sought in
developing training on the Management of Technical Assistance to enhance benefits from
donor financed TA. The salary issue will not be resolved quickly, especially in light of
fiscal constraints, but it is being addressed under the Public Administration Project
supported by IDA.
Proiect ImDlementine Aeencies' View
13.   The mission was able to meet with all TAC beneficiary agencies or their successor
entities. In general, the beneficiary agencies expressed their satisfaction with assistance
provided under the TAC. In many cases, transfer of technology and know-how from the
consultants helped to strengthen local capacity during critical periods in the adjustment.
The sustainability in some cases is, however, questionable as noted above. Most agencies
expressed their satisfaction with the consultants' work. The satisfaction stemmed from:
(i) the quality of the services rendered; (ii) the transfer of knowledge, albeit temporary in
some cases; and (iii) the basis it formed for future activities. The section below on lessons
learned incorporated many to the insights of the MOF and TAC beneficiary agencies.
14.   Some Lessons Learned:
l*



APPENDIX A
-40-                        Page 5 of 6
(a)   Public sector salaries sufficient to attract and retain adequate staff is the
essential perquisite for sustainability of TA;
(b)   Non-monetary incentives can also contribute to an improved work
environment and thus sustainability:
(i)    delegation of authority;
(ii)  the prospect of gradual assumption of increasing levels of
responsibility from consultants serving in line positions;
(iii)   prospects for promotion for good performance, including assuming
the line function filled temporarily by the consultant;
(iv)   training on a regular basis to maintain skills; and
(v)   encouraging a work environment where information sharing and
backstopping for colleagues is the norm
(c)   Organizational structures of beneficiary agencies should be reviewed at the
design stage with a view to consolidating units, if needed, to create a
critical mass of staff and thus increase prospects for identifying more than
one counterpart (to increase prospects of at least some staying);
(d)   Additional UNVs and their bilateral equivalents sh,ould be used to continue
or complement work of the consultants and enhance sustainability.
PreDaration of the ImDlementation Comoletion Report (ICR)
15.   Additional copies of Bank Guidelines for the preparation of ICRs, disbursement
information, and sample ICRs from other countries were left with staff responsible for
ICR. The retrospective as well as prospective approach to the ICR were reviewed. The
mission and the MOF agreed to take the following steps in preparing the ICR:
(a)   The MOF has appointed two staff to complete the borrower's portion of
the ICR during the remainder of the month of August and send it to the
Bank in early September;
(b)   The MOF will seek UNDP's assistance for background information and
other support, as needed;
(c)   The Bank will prepare a draft ICR and send it to MOF by mid-September
for comment;



APPENDIX A
-41-                       Page 6 of 6
(d)   The final version of the ICR will be ready by end-September 1996
16.   Last Steps
(a)    GOG will submit by October 31, 1996 any final withdrawal requests for
expenditures incurred prior to June 30;
(b)   UNDP will reconcile its final expenditures against advances of about
US$2,655,185 and return to the credit account in Washington any
undisbursed balance or request a final TAC disbursement as the case may
be;
(c)    The project account closes on October 31, 1996.
-M-. 7arachand Balgobin                      / Mrs. RitaParlli
Division Head, Project Cycle Management       Pubic Admirnistration Specialist
Ministry of Finance                           World Bank
,i



-42-                      APPENDIX B
Page 1 of 9
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Introduction/Background
1.    This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is an evaluation of the Guyana
Technical Assistance Credit (TAC). The SDR 2.3 million credit, which was approved by
IDA on June 28, 1990, provided technical assistance to the Government to undertake
studies in support of meeting SAC conditionalities and also lay the basis for capacity
building and institutional strengthening of selected agencies and ministries within the
public sector.
2.   In order to reverse Guyana's economic decline and create the basis for sustained
economic growth and a viable external position, the Government of Guyana designed a
medium-term Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in June, 1988. This involved a
fundamental change of economic policy and shift towards a market-oriented economy.
The key elements of the ERP were the unification of the exchange rate system,
liberalization of the external trade, increase in the primary current account surplus of the
public sector, tightening of credit policy, pursuit of a flexible interest rate policy, and
major structural reforms, including the divestment of a number of public enterprises.
Also important in the viewpoint of restoring growth was the improvement in power
supply.
3.    Decades of long neglect of the economy and poor public sector wages, however,
had resulted in emigration of a large number of technical and professional staff to North
America and the Caribbean in search of better employment opportunities. Technical staff
in the public service at the time of the ERP, therefore, lacked experience and relevant
training to undertake analytical work; where technical skills were available, staff was
stretched very thinly. In addition, infonnation and capacity for policy formulation and
analysis were almost non-existent, there was little capacity for development and
implementation of the public sector investment program, and, by end 1990, the Statistics
Bureau had stopped the publication of statistical reports and computer equipment and
software were largely not available for key ministries and agencies.
B.   Project Objectives
4.    To alleviate this situation and also assist in implementing the SAC measures, the
Government and the donor community developed a comprehensive set of technical
assistance packages to improve public sector management. The TAC, which was
appraised in May 1989 and approved in June 1990, set out to (i) improve the incentive
framework by carrying out a study to identify the deficiencies in the application and
administration of consumption taxes; (ii) strengthening the capacities of PCS and SPS;
(iii) improve the public sector investment framework; (iv) improve the analytical capacity



-43-                       APPENDIX B
Page 2 of 9
of macroeconomic management; and (v) the capacity of analyzing the distributional
effects of the adjustment program and developing procedures for assessing the efficiency
of social sector projects. These activities were intended to lay the basis for transition to
local management at the end of the project.
C.    Implementation
5.    The following consultants were recruited under the TAC to assist in studies
critical to tranche disbursement under the SAC, and also to provide institutional
strengthening to several areas of the public service.
PROJECT SUB-COMPONENT               ASSIGNMENT    DURATION
Improving the Incentives Framework     2 Consultants       6 months
Consumption Tax Study                                      3 months
Public Sector Reform
(i) Public Enterprise Monitoring       3 Consultants      45 months
(ii) Personnel Management Record-                          9 months
Keeping System (PRKS)                                     12 months
Improving Public Sector Investment
PSIP                                   2 Consultants      17 months
12 months
External Aid Coordination
(i) External Financial In-flows        1 Consultant       12 months
(ii) Procurement Assistance            2 Firms
Social Sector Reform
Social Program                         3 Consultants       6 months
Social Indicators                                          6 months
LSMS                                                       6 weeks
Improving Macroeconomic Management
Macroeconomic Advisor
2 Consultants      24 months
Bureau of Statistics                                      24 months
3 UNVs             12 months
Central Bank Supervision               1 Consultant       24 months
Several other consultants were recruited by other agencies to help coordinate and
implement some TAC-supported interventions. In the Statistics Bureau, for example, the
CDB and UNDP/UN Statistics Department provided long-term technical assistance to
assist the construction of national accounts and national income estimates. Technical
assistance other than the TAC was also provided to enable the Bureau to resume
publication of quarterly reports, improve survey design and, implementation, and enhance
data processing.
T1



-44-                      APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 9
D.   Assessment of Credit
Overview
6.    The project had two main objectives. The short-term objective was to assist the
Government implement its medium-term adjustment program and comply with SAC
conditionality, while the longer-term objectives was to build and strengthen capacity in
public sector management. The short-term objectives were largely met as the
Government complied with all conditionalities envisaged in the SAC. As shown below,
attainment of the long-term objectives was mixed.
Improving the incentives framework
7.    The key element of this sub-component was the consumption tax study.
Implementation of the recommendations of this study led to the simplification of the tax
code, elimination of discretionary exemptions, and the adoption of a program to address
deficiencies in the administration of consumption taxes required prior to release of the
third tranche of the SAC. The progress made in this area formed the basis for policy
dialogue and follow-up of another intervention in fiscal reform under the IDA-funded
PSDAC.
Assessment
8.    Even so, little skills transfer took place in the capacity of the Public Service to
undertake fiscal analysis. This was so because the counterpart assigned to the consultants
was thinly stretched. The USAID-funded BEEP project is following up in developing an
investment guide and code so as to enhance the investment framework. The Government
will seek further assistance in the future to review its tax structure in order to provide an
enabling environment for the private sector development.
Public Sector Reform
9.    The purpose of this intervention was to generate more timely and better
monitoring and financial analysis and to assist in developing investment programs for
public corporations. Improvement in the performance of PEs was intended to reduce
transfers from the Central Government. In addition, systems were developed at PCS and
SPS to improve oversight, supervision and management. Also, a computerized
information system for measurement and assessment of performance of individual
enterprises and their impact on overall performance of the economy. Staff from SPS and
PCS were trained in financial analysis and forecasting techniques. Overseas training was
also provided to some staff of the SPS and PCS on public enterprise restructuring.
Assessment
10.  In spite of the longevity of this assignment, little or no progress was made in
capacity building. The computer information system designed to monitor and evaluate



-45-                       APPENDIX B
Page 4 of 9
performance of public enterprise never became operational as a result of (i) incomplete
and untimely data; (ii) the closure of PCS; and (iii) change in computer systems. In
addition, the training offered in financial ratio analysis and forecasting techniques were
not utilized in work of the Enterprise Monitoring Division. Also, the recommendations
provided in the study of the performance of the four poorly performing enterprises were
not implemented in part because it did not provide any new insights into how to turn
these public enterprises around.
11.   Several factors are responsible for the poor outcome of this activity. First,
counterpart staff did not stay long on the job and some staff were transferred to other
ministries/agencies in the public sector. Second, the change in Administration in 1992
also led to the dissolution of the PCS and the merger of SPS to the Ministry of Finance.
The dissolution of PCS resulted in the loss of trained staff who left the public sector to
take up higher-paying jobs in the private sector.
Personal Management Record Keeping System (PRKS)
12.   This activity, a requirement for third tranche disbursement under the SAC, was
expected to eliminate overlapping functions and identify non-critical vacancies in the
public service. The establishment of a PRKS and job classification system to achieve
transparency in evaluating, selecting, and monitoring the filling of public service post
was also a condition of negotiations of the Public Administration Project.
Assessment
13.   This sub-component of the project achieved most of its objectives. First, the
development of management information system was useful in storing and managing
basic data. Second, this intervention also assisted in developing an operational database
that includes all positions in the public service is in place.
14.   The key factor responsible for the relative success was the smooth coordination
between IDA and the UK/ODA in the various aspects of this sub-component. The ODA
carried out an institutional analysis of the Public Service Ministry (PSM) and provided
substantial technical assistance to strengthen MSD. This was followed up with more
support from IDA for the development of a computer-based personnel records system to
provide access to information.
15.   Despite the relative success, some problems remain. The PRKS is still not an
active personnel management system. As a result, the Government will seek additional
assistance to make the current system more functional. This will assist personnel units in
each ministry to efficiently carry out its personnel management functions. Further
strengthening of personnel infornation system is planned under the Public
Administration Project. The main personnel records system will be linked to line
ministries. Already ten additional computers and related equipment has been procured
for this purpose and staff from line ministries will be trained to utilize the equipment.



-46-                       APPENDIX B
Page 5 of 9
Improving Public Sector Investment
16.   Two consultants were recruited to strengthen the technical capacity of SPS in the
preparation of the PSIP. As a result of this intervention, a rolling four-year PSIP was put
in place, guidelines were developed and staff were trained in fulfillment of the SAC's
second and third tranche release conditionality. In addition, the size and composition of
the investment program was brought in line with economic priorities and available
financing. A quantitative basis for the establishment of selection criteria and guidelines
to improve the system for project formulation and appraisal were developed. Further, the
technical capacity to carry out economic evaluation and cost analysis of proposed
investment projects within the Project Cycle Unit at the State Planning Secretariat was
strengthened.
17.   In spite of the progress made in several areas, little institutional strengthening
remains, In part, this is attributable to the reorganization of the SPS and staff turnover
after the 1992 elections, and in other part, the demanding day-to-day work program of
staff minimized skills transfer. Through technical assistance from USAID and IDA, the
Government has initiated steps to strengthen the Project Cycle Division.
External Aid Coordination
18.   The objective of this component of the project was to assist the Government to
coordinate and facilitate the procurement and disbursement of external funds and to train
staff of multilateral financial institutions, the Bank of Guyana, and the Ministry of Trade,
'T'ourism and Industry (MTTI) in international procurement of goods and disbursement
procedures. Procurement assistance was also provided through Crown Agents and
MONITEC Consultants to assist the Government identify eligible imports and
documentation, and conduct procurement review to provide assistance for third tranche
disbursement.
Assessment
19.   The consultants developed a quarterly report to keep management abreast of
external financial inflow. A review of aid coordination and management system was also
undertaken. This resulted in the establishment of a database on the volume, type and
conditionality related to external resources. Nevertheless, these activities of the
consultant could not be sustained. The computerized database on external financial
inflows is no longer in use and donor coordination still remains a major problem. The
Government, in January, 1996, set up a coordinating committee in the Ministry of
Finance to coordinate donor efforts so as to avoid duplication in donor activities. This
committee will be strengthened to allow it to play a crucial role in coordinating donor
support during the implementation of the National Development Strategy.
20.   The procurement assistance was only short-term and the work in this area only
facilitated the tranche releases under SAC II. The Government is currently revamping the
procurement and tender process with assistance from USAID and UNDP. A consultant's



-47-                       APPENDIX B
Page 6 of 9
report on the review of the tender and procurement process has been completed and
Government is presently reviewing the recommendations of the report. It is expected that
once these reforms are completed, sufficient capacity would have been created for
improving procurement and tendering process.
Social Sector Reform
21.   Consultants were recruited to analyze the distributional effects of the
Government's adjustment program and were required to develop procedures to assess the
efficiency of social sector projects, including those of SIMAP. Under the services of
three consultancies, (i) an evaluator's manual was developed for SIMAP project officers
and training provided for project appraisal; (ii) manual of social indicators was developed
and on-the-job training conducted for central and line ministries in using the indicators to
conduct policy analysis, sectoral planning and project preparation; (iii) LSMS
questionnaire, detailed budget for survey and logistical arrangements and timetable for
implementation of field operations was developed for the Bureau of Statistics, and the
Ministries of Health and Education.
Assessment
22.   The work of the consultants resulted in the formulation of IDB (US$13.5 million)
and IDA (US$10.3 million) credits to SIMAP, a pre-test of the LSMS which yielded
important information on the location and extent of poverty in Guyana. In the case of
social indicators, no counterpart was assigned and many of the staff trained in
development and analysis of social indicators left SPS and the other agencies. As a
result, capacity-building process initiated could not be sustained. Nevertheless, the
manual and computer systems developed under the TAC have been updated.
Improving Macroeconomic Management
23.   Two advisors were recruited over a period of four years to provide analytical
support and management capacity, including training to staff of MCA. In the first
consultancy, a system was established to provide quarterly macroeconomic reports and
timely information, including progress of implementation of the ERP to decision makers.,
Studies were also carried out on some aspects of macroeconomic policy, including debL
issues, operation of cambios, and the impact of adjustment program on income. Due to
the seriousness of staffing at the Ministry, the second consultant undertook more line
assignments, including serving as Director in the Office of the Budget and Acting H lead
of the Department of International Economic Cooperation (DIEC ).
Assessment
24.   Although the assistance of the consultants helped in facilitating compliance with
second and third tranche disbursement, they were not sustainable. In part. this was the
result of the absence of staff to continue, for example, the publication of quarterly reports
and other analysis of macroeconomic issues pertinent to the Government and in other part



-48-                      APPENDIX B
Page 7 of 9
because of the fire fighting nature of the second consultant's assignment. In recognition
of improving the macro-analytical framework, the Government, through the assistance of
USAID and IMF, is putting in place a Policy Analysis Division to undertake the analysis
of policy issues and resume publication of quarterly economic review and monthly
economic bulletin.
The Bureau of Statistics
25.   Through the assistance of this TAC intervention, the Bureau of Statistics was
computerized. Long-term technical assistance provided by CBD, UNDP/UNV Statistics
Department enabled the Statistics Bureau to resume publication of quarterly reports and
facilitated marked improvement in survey design, and data processing. This intervention
also assisted the Bureau to improve its national income and balance of payments
accounting and laid the basis for developing capabilities to evaluate the impact of
economic reforms on standards of living.
Assessment
26.   Through TAC and other donor intervention, the Bureau of Statistics is again
functional. Over the last four years, its major accomplishments include Household
Income and Expenditure Survey and analysis, Living Standards Measurement Survey and
Labor Force Survey. Through the procurement of informatics, a large number of staff
have become computer literate. The procurement of vehicles through TAC assistance in
part continue to facilitate field work and in other part has markedly improved the capacity
of the Bureau to carry out surveys and data collection. The Bureau in 1997, will conduct
a Labour Force Survey and update the 1992 LSMS. Nonetheless, the capacity of BOS to
carry out analytic and forecasting remains weak. Staffing is still a problem. Power
outages also continue to hamper the activities of the Bureau. The Government will be
seeking additional assistance from donors to follow up on the work undertaken by the
TAC and UNDP consultants and also deal with some of the problems that are facing the
Bureau at present.
Central Bank Supervision
27.   The objective of this intervention was to strengthen and modernize the regulatory
and supervisory framework for commercial banks and other financial institutions in
Guyana. Sustainable systems and procedures were developed for on-site examination of
credit portfolios, off site performance and industry tracking sheets were established and
maintained regularly, laws and prudential regulations were reviewed and assistance was
given in the preparations of banking legislation.
28.   Among the major accomplishments of this intervention was the establishment of
the Department of Banking Supervision. This Department has 11 technical staff and 3
support staff. Over the last few years, it has implemented periodic inspections to enforce
compliance with banking regulations. Support is also being given to complete work on
on-site inspection training and guidelines for the implementation of the Financial
l



-49-                       APPENDIX B
Page 8 of 9
Institutions Act are being developed. Under the Financial Sector Business Environment
Credit (FISBEC), IDA will support the Bank of Guyana with computer and other
equipment so as to strengthen the Banking Supervision Department.
Computer Information System
29.   Needs assessment of management information system was undertaken for the
Bank of Guyana. However, the recommendations of developing a fully-integrated system
was not implemented. Follow-up to the consultancy report on MIS will be provided
under the IDA-funded FISBEC project. The UNDP is assisting the central bank to
develop computerized retrieval systems for its library.
Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future Assistance
30.   Although some sustainability in capacity building was built over the project life,
the difficulty in attracting and retaining professional technical staff was perhaps the most
serious constraint in capacity building. In part, this was due to low and inadequate civil
service remuneration. Given the tight budgetary constraints facing the Government over
the medium term, it does not appear that this situation could be overcome in the short
term. The Government is therefore considering granting contracts to technical and
professional staff at higher salaries so as to attract and retain technical personnel in the
civil service.
31.   Given the shortage of staff in the public service, the second serious obstacle to
capacity building was the notion of counterparts that became the main vehicle for skills
transfer. The volatility in the civil service and the frequency of emigration meant that the
model where a main counterpart was attached to work with consultants was not far
reaching. This is so, because whenever a counterpart staff left, the investment put in
training and skills transfer were lost. Perhaps, in the future, the model for technical
assistance should be first recruiting consultants for line positions and requiring them to
train all staff under their responsibility. Second, consultants at the end of their
assignment should have transferred to staff skills sufficient to allow them to generate
division/department output.
32.   Thirdly, oftentimes donor intervention lacked proper coordination and, in some
cases, became counter-productive in dealing with issues of sustainability. For example,
the inability to pay adequate salaries was, in part, the result of fiscal constraints imposed
on the Government by the IMF. Perhaps, in the future, the Bank and the IMF should
carefully review their programs and ensure that they are internally coherent and
consistent.
Government's View of the Project
This IDA intervention provided critical assistance necessary to implement measures
related to the SAC and provided expertise whose work in a number of areas laid the
ground work for capacity building and institutional strengthening. Nevertheless, in the



-50-                      APPENDIX B
Page 9 of 9
future, the Government, in consultation with the Bank, will seek assistance from EDI in
developing training programs on the Management of Technical Assistance so as to
enhance benefits from donor-financed technical assistance.
The project was executed largely by the UN Office for Project Services (OPS). Except
for the identification of consultants, contract administration, and procurement, OPS did
not provide the technical backstopping supervision, nor did it provide final support in the
preparation of the Government's ICR. The UNDP Field Office in Guyana, however, was
supportive. It provided logistic support to consultants, coordinated tripartite meetings,
and provided comments on technical reports.
December 9, 1996



-51-                      APPENDIX C
Page 1 of 12
GUYANA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT (TAC)
(CREDIT 2169-GUA)
DESCRIPTION OF SUBPROJECTS
I.   IMPROVING THE INCENTIVE FRAMEWORK
IDA CREDITAGREEMENTPARTA: Carrying out a study to identif the deficiencies
in the application and administration of consumption taxes and make recommendations
to address such deficiencies.
1.    Consumption Tax Study. With respect to trade policy the Program of Structural
Adjustment envisaged a reduction in the list of prohibited imports, changes in procedures
for issuing import licenses, and a study of trade taxes and ensuring agreement on a
program to rationalize trade taxes. The TAC provided a short-term consultants to work
with the Monitoring and Coordinating Agency (MCA) on a consumption tax study. They
reviewed both policy and administration and developed options for improving the
efficiency of the Consumption Tax. The Principal Consultant built up a data base on
trade and carried out a survey of sample manufacturers to look at the impact of the tax.
He examined the implications of simplifying the tax, reducing rates and broadening the
base. He concluded that maintenance of the status quo would mean the continued
multiple level consumption tax rate structure with its associated administrative
complexity, inherent distortion of production and consumption choices, and significant
inherent inducements to abuse the system. His findings revealed a high level of
corruption, tax evasion and lack of compliance with tax obligations.
2.    Outcome. Although his designated counterpart, the Assistant Comptroller of
Customs and Excise Department, was fully occupied with daily duties, and, therefore,
little skill transfer took place, his work contributed to the simplification of the tax code
and elimination of discretionary exemptions and the adoption of a program to address
deficiencies in the administration of consumption taxes required prior to release of the
third tranche of the SAC. This work also formed the basis for policy dialog, was used by
the borrower in budget speeches, and was consistent with later Bank work in
implementing a reform of the consumption tax (together with other indirect taxes, direct
corporate taxes, and tariffs) under the PSDAC. The Private Sector Development
Adjustment Credit (PSDAC) and Financial Sector and Business Environment Credit
(FISBEC) include follow-on assistance to support adoption of tax policy reforms that
broaden the tax base and remove disincentives to long-term investment in the economy.



-52-                       APPENDIX C
Page 2 of 12
II.   PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
IDA CREDITAGREEMEN5TPARTB. Strengthening the capacities of Public
Corporations Secretariat (PCS) and the Enterprise Monitoring Division (EMD) in the
State Planning Secretariat (SPS) to monitor the financial and operational performance of
public enterprises, including training of the staff of PCS and SPS.
3.    Public Enterprise Monitoring. The TAC assistance was intended to generate
more timely and better monitoring and analysis of the financial performance and
development and investment plans of public corporations with a view to reducing
transfers from the central government to PEs. A performance monitoring system along
the lines of those functioning in selected Asian countries was to have been introduced. A
TAC financed consultant (45 months) developed systems in PCS' and SPS to improve
government oversight, supervision and management of PEs. He developed a
computerized information system for measurement and assessment of performance of
individual enterprises and assessment of their impact on the overall performance of the
economy. His work was highly regarded by the government and extension to his contract
were requested even following the change of Administration in 1992.
4.     The consultant trained SPS and PCS staff in financial ratio analysis and
forecasting techniques and financial management and prepared several studies on public
enterprise finances aimed at improving efficiency. The TAC financed overseas training of
SPS and PCS staff in Commercialization and Privatization of PEs and Restructuring of
Industrial Enterprises in Washington and the UK.
5.    A second TAC financed Public Enterprise Advisor (9 months) to the PCS
completed in-depth analyses of the financial performance of four poorly performing
public corporations: the Guyana National Engineering Corporation (GUYNEC),
SANATA Textiles Limited, Guyana Airways Corporation, and Guyana Pharmaceutical
Corporation. Recommendations were formulated for their improvement or divestment.
Bank supervision reports record that the PCS was of the view that the consultant's
contribution provided no new findings and no action was taken based on his
recommendations. He developed a training program for PCS staff, including overseas
training in accounting, econometrics and financial modeling.
6.    Outcome. GUYNEC has been divested and SONATA closed. In 1992 the PCS
was dissolved. The computer information system created for the PCS to monitor and
evaluate performance of public enterprises was to be transferred to SPS. However, the
systems in the SPS and PCS never became operational due in part to the incomplete and
untimely data produced by the PEs to be fed into the system, partly to the closure of the
PCS, and partly to a change in computer systems.
PCS was later dissolved, some functions divided up among other agencies, and trained staff left or were
dismissed without handover of systems developed.



-53-                      APPENDIX C
Page 3 of 12
7.    A 1994 Bank supervision mission aide memoir further records that the assigned
counterpart staff to the PSIP and PE Advisors had all left to take on higher paying jobs in
the private sector or abroad. Current staff of the MOF's Enterprise Monitoring Division
are of the view that this TAC assistance may have been more valuable if more emphasis
had been placed on improving the quality, timeliness, and format of the data submitted by
the PEs themselves.
8.    The MOF continues to suffer from an inadequate PE monitoring system, lack of
timely and reliable data from PEs, and antiquated computer equipment. As a
consequence about 20 enterprises continue to be inadequately monitored (including
GUYSUCO) and policy decisions are made on a piecemeal and inconsistent basis.
However, since a significant portion of PEs have been divested or closed, and additional
divestments are slated before the year 2,000, follow-up assistance in this area does not
seem to be of priority to the government. The training financed under the TAC, while not
sustained, was useful at the time.
IDA CREDITAGREEMENT P.4RT G (added by amendment in June 1992): Development
of a computer based personnel records system that will provide rapid access to
information on individual staff at each of the Borrower 's ministries and other relevant
agencies and aggregate information on stafffor overall personnel management purposes.
9.    Commencement of work on a Personnel Management Record Keeping System
(PRKS) to eliminate overlapping functions and identify non-critical vacancies in the
public service was an action required prior to third tranche release of the SAC.
Establishment of a PRKS and job classification system to achieve transparency in
evaluating, selecting, and monitoring the filling of public service posts was also a
condition of negotiations of the Public Administration Project (PAP). The UK/ODA
carried out an institutional analysis of the Public Service Ministry (PSM) and provided
substantial technical assistance to strengthen the MSD. The TAC funded follow-up
support for the development of a computer based personnel records system to provide
rapid access to information on individual staff at each ministry and regional
administration and aggregate information on staff for overall management purposes,
including those related to salaries administration. The TAC financed an international
Argentine and local consultants to develop the system, ensure effective transfer from
manual to computerized methods, and advise on the selection and assist with the
procurement and installation of suitable software and hardware. A UN ASSOCIATE
EXPERT (Systems Analyst) was recruited in January 1993 for one year to help
implement the basic personnel records keeping system, its maintenance and data entry
and processing.
10.   Outcome. The SAC and PAP conditionality was fulfilled. An ODA
commissioned review of the PRKS indicated that the first phase of the development of
the system (under the TAC) was useful in gathering the required manual data and creating



-54-                       APPENDIX C
Page 4 of 12
a basic system. The six TAC financed PCs and fileserver and software are in place in the
Public Service Management Ministry in the Office of the President. Despite initial
2
difficulties , an operational database was set up providing information used in the salary
restructuring exercise. The database that includes all positions in the public service, the
particulars of the incumbents and details of their salaries and allowances. This is a major
advance from the situation existing before the project when reliable establishment and
wages information was not available to GOG. The system is now being installed in 27
locations. The PRKS is, however, still not an active personnel management system. It is
necessary to build additional functionality in the system so that it can assist persoinnel
units in each ministry in actually carrying out personnel management functions, such a
issuing appointment letters, keeping record of leave and transfers, matching employee
skills to job requirements to fill vacancies, analyzing skills gaps and organizing staff
training, etc. The next phase under the PAP will link the system to line ministries and
departments and introduce personnel information into the system to make it operational.
The PAP financed equipment (40 additional computers and related equipment) has
arrived and is awaiting installation. The same local consultant who trained Ministry of
Public Service staff under the TAC has been retained to train line ministry staff under the
PAP.
-II.   IMPROVING PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT
IDA CREDITAGREEMENTPART C. Services of consultants to assist SPS in
formulating and monitoring the PSIP and assuring its consistency in terms of size and
composition in relation to the Borrower 's macroeconomic framework and objectives and
available funding, including training of the staff of SPS in, inter-alia, project evaluation
and management and resource management.
11.   PSIP. The TAC provided funding for an Economic Advisor to the SPS (17
months) and experienced Project Cost Analyst (12 months) and short term training of
staff in project evaluation and resource management and computing equipment. The
objective of the Economic Advisor's assignment was to strengthen the technical capacity
of SPS (now the Planning Unit in MOF) in the preparation of the PSIP, including
preparation of guidelines on project preparation for SPS and line ministry staff and
training of staff to evaluate and monitor projects included in the PSIP.
12.   Training. Coordination was established with SIMAP (see below) to host a series
of community training workshops to assist community leaders define useful and well
organized projects. The PSIP Advisor carried out a six week training program which
included computer training in econometrics, applied macroeconomic theory, and
2 Some members of the Argentine firm were not fluent enough in English to communicate sufficiently.
UNDP procedures to pay the consultants were confusing and time consuming for the PS, Ministry of
Public Service



-55-                      APPENDIX C
Page 5 of 12
computer modeling of the Guyanese economy which benefited twenty five participants
form SPS, the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Guyana, the Statistics Bureau, the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health.
13.   Outcome. A rolling four-year PSIP was put into place, guidelines were
developed and staff were trained in fulfillment of the SAC's second and third tranche
release conditionality. The ability of the Government to bring the size and composition of
the PSIP in line with economic priorities and projected domestic and foreign funding
availability was also improved. A quantitative basis for the establishment of selection
criteria for investment projects was developed and guidelines to improve the system for
project formulation and appraisal were developed. The Project Cost Analyst strengthened
technical capacity within the Project Cycle Unit in the SPS to carry out economic
evaluation and cost analysis of proposed investment projects. The work undertaken by the
consultants was of considerable help in the preparation of the Bank's Public Sector
Review.
14.   Although counterparts were assigned to the consultants, one Bank supervision
mission was informed that counterparts were not able to spend adequate time working
with the consultants due to the demanding daily responsibilities imposed on them. In
addition, trained staff were dismissed or move during the SPS reorganization. The
principal PSIP consultant, however, recently returned under the USAID funded Building
Equity and Economic Participation Project (BEEP). The systems developed under the
TAC have been resuscitated and new staff have been trained in the project cycle through
evaluation. An IDF grant is providing additional institutional support.
IDA CREDITAGREEMENT PART C: Services of consultants to assist Division of
Multilateral Financial Institutions of the MOF (DMFI), the Bank of Guyana and Ministry
of Trade and Tourism (MOTT), in coordinating andfacilitating the procurement and
disbursement of externalfunds, including training of the staff of DMFI, the Bank of
Guyana, and MOTT, in inter-alia, international procurement of goods and disbursement
procedures.
15.   External Aid Coordination. SAC actions prior to Board Presentation included
improvement of external aid coordination though the services of an Advisor to the MOF
to maintain continuous contact with donors and facilitate procurement and disbursement
of funds provided by bilateral and multilateral donors. The Advisor on External Financial
In-flows (12 months) provided advice to government agencies on draw down procedures
for several lines of credit: the Canadian Industrial Line of Credit, the Italian Rice Grant
Aid, the Italian Commodity Grant, the US PL-480, the Indian Industrial Development
Line of Credit and the SAC. He established a quarterly report to keep management
abreast of external financial inflow developments and considered his main output to be
facilitating the procurement and disbursement of funds.



-56-                      APPENDIX C
Page 6 of 12
16.   The Advisor also carried out a review of the aide coordination and management
system with the aim of identifying constraints and proposing solutions. He recommended
an integrated system of aid coordination management and established a database on the
volume, type and conditionality related to external resources. He monitored the use of
aide and examined causes of delays in disbursements and proposed actions to accelerate
them. His objective was to facilitate inflows of external capital to provide support to the
balance of payments and the PSIP.
17.   Outcome. The computerized database on external financial inflows that he
established fell into disuse upon his departure. Donor coordination remains an issue taken
up at the 8/96 CPPR where agreement was reached to improve coordination though semi-
annual donor meetings to discuss implementation questions and problem areas. The
Project Cycle Management Division in MOF is to coordinate donors and the next meeting
planned for January 1997.
18.   Procurement Assistance. Two procurement agents/firms were financed under the
TAC to serve as procurement advisors to the Bank of Guyana for drawdown of the first
and second tranches of the SAC. The objective of the first agent was to identify eligible
imports supported by the necessary documentation included in the statements of
expenditure prepared with the assistance of the agent (invoices, shipping documents, and
evidence of payment to support disbursement). The second agent conducted a
procurement review to provide assistance related to release of the third tranche of the
SAC, mainly focusing on the Guyana Manufacturing and Industrial Development Agency
(GUYMINE).
19.   Training. The consultant organized in-house training for the MFI on
macroeconomics and policy tools, management of aid mobilization, loan administration
procedures and credit negotiations.
20.   Outcome. The work of the two procurement agents was short-term and
successful. The USAID/BEEP project together with UNDP is currently providing
assistance to strengthen the Central Tenders Board and simplify and accelerate
procurement including completion of a new tendering law and publication of regulations.
IV. SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM
CREDITAGREEMENTPARTD. Services of consultants to assist Department of Social
Infrastructure (DSI) in the SPS and Ministry of Culture and Social Development (MCSD)
in analyzing the distributional effects of the Borrower's adjustment program and
developing procedures and assessing the efficiency of social sector projects, including
those of the Social Impact Amelioration Program (SIMAP) in correctly identifying target
population.



-57-                      APPENDIX C
Page 7 of 12
21.   The TAC financed three consultancies under this component. The Social
Programme Consultant (6 months) developed the Evaluator's Manual to be used by
SIMAP Project Officers for technical appraisal of projects. It included eligibility
conditions, technical evaluation procedures, evaluation criteria, and report formats. The
manual was based in part on the successful experience of the Bolivian Emergency Social
Fund. The consultant also trained staff in appraisal, and developed promotional activities
with potential user organizations including NGOs, private sector and local organizations
across the country to generate support and project proposals. She also developed a
community participation methodology and a financial/accounting system.
22.   Outcome. This work contributed to the formulation of a $13.5 million IDB loan
to SIMAP (mainly for schools, roads, agriculture, irrigation) and a $10.3 million IDA
Credit which focuses on water and sanitation, drainage, nutrition and rehabilitation of
health centers. The Manual and computer systems developed by the TAC consultant have
been updated under both operations.
23.   A Consultant in Social Indicators (6 months) worked in the Social
Planning/Manpower Development section of SPS together with a UNV (10/93 - 10/94) in
developing a "Manual of Social Indicators" and conducted on-the-job training for central
and line ministry social planners in the use of the indicators for policy analysis, sectorial
planning and project preparation with a view to creating capacity to continue production
of social indicators after the conclusion of the TA. Areas of focus included education,
health, water supply and sanitation.
24.   Outcome. No counterpart was assigned and many of those trained in
development and analysis of social indicators left the SPS and other agencies. UNDP
referred this lack of follow-up to the Chief Planning Officer but no action was taken.
25.   A short-term Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS) Specialist (6
weeks intermittently) worked primarily with the Bureau of Statistics as well as with
SIMAP, Health and Education in development of: (i) the LSMS questionnaire; (ii)
detailed budget for survey implementation by the BOS; and (iii) logistical arrangements
and timetable for implementation of field operations (including anthrometric component),
data processing and training (with the BOS). IDA itself finance the consultant's time for
training and managing the survey. The consultant conducted workshops for enumerators
and supervisors, anthropometrists (65 students format he Georgetown School of
Nursing), and data entry managers. A policy analyst form the University of Guyana was
also trained. The LSMS pre-test was conducted in tandem with the UNDP/CDB assisted
Household Income and Expenditure Survey (HIES).
26.   Outcome. The TAC financed pre-test of the LSMS was later implemented under
the IDA's SIMAP Credit. It yielded important information on the location and extent of
poverty in Guyana. It was used by the IDB to construct a poverty map. An update of the
LSMS is planned for 1997 with direct assistance from the Bank and other donors. It will
provide essential information to a proposed $17.0 million IDB SIMAP II project. It was



-58-                      APPENDIX C
Page 8 of 12
noted, however, that the Institute of Development Studies (IDS) of the University of
Guyana prepared work similar to the LSMS which produced different (higher)
projections on the poverty levels in Guyana. IDA considered the IDS work to have had
methodological blows. Initially, there was a tendency to use the IDS data, particularly in
dealings with donors.
V.  IMPROVING MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
CREDITAGREEMENTPARTE. Services of consultants to assist the Monitoring and
Coordination Agency in the MOF (MCA) in coordinating and implementing the
Borrower's adjustment program and improving its analytical and management capacity,
including training of the staff of MCA.
27.   The Macroeconomic Advisor (24 months) established a system of quarterly
macroeconomic reports to provide up-to-date information, including assessment of the
progress of implementation of the ERP, to decision makers. He also carried out studies
on various aspects of macroeconomic policy such as on the debt problem, the operation
of cambios, and the impact of the adjustment program on income.
28.   While he successfully brought to the attention of the Minister issues which could
have an adverse impact on the economy if not addressed, such as external financial flows
(1992) and the problem of the lack of counterparts for TAC consultants, the system he
developed was not continued after his assignment was completed.
29.   A second Macroeconomic Adviser (24 months), who was to have succeeded the
first Macroeconomic Adviser, noted in her final report that the major part of her time
dealing with issues on which the Minister required assistance. "In fact, the last item in
my TOR - executing special projects as agreed between the Minister and the Adviser --
was invoked more than any other". The MOF was seriously under-staffed , especially
with respect to technical staff, and the Adviser served as Acting Coordinator of the
Budget Division for most of her two year contract under the TAC, and later acted as Head
of the Department of International Economic Cooperation (DIEC) and served as Chief
Adviser to the MOF inter-alia on debt negotiations.
30.   Outcome. The assistance of the first Macro Economic Advisor was useful at the
time particularly in facilitating compliance with second and third tranche SAC
conditionality of a favorable Bank assessment of the macroeconomic framework. He
assisted the Government in meeting macroeconomic targets under the ERP and the SAC.
In doing this the consultant succeeded in getting the Statistics Bureau and Central Bank
to use for the first time common statistical formats in areas such as debt. The quarterly
system of macroeconomic reports was however, discontinued following the departure of
the consultant. An ongoing $400,000 IDF Grant (No. 28581) is providing consultant
services to assist with debt negotiations with creditors and work on set up a long-term
debt management program for Guyana. The Grant will also finance computers and
-T



-59-                      APPENDIX C
Page 9 of 12
accessories for the MOF's Debt Management Division. USAID's current BEEP project
aims to: (i) Design and install an MIS for the MOF for data management and analysis; (ii)
Develop a fully functioning Macroeconomic Division, and train staff to undertake
quantitative analysis of economic issues; and (iii) Identify, recruit, and train counterparts
for the Macroeconomic Division and train them to replace the long term TA.
31.   The second Macroeconomic adviser carried out much needed "fire fighting" and
liasing with IMF and IDA. Given Guyana's institutional weakness, her services for
"special assignments" were valuable for the Government and donors. Her work was
understood to be substitution TA.
32.   The Public Enterprise Consultant also developed a macroeconomic model of
the Guyanese economy used by planners at SPS (Macroeconomic Policy Division) to
evaluate how various economic policies, reforms, and development initiatives affect the
performance of PEs and the economy. This work is being continued by USAID's BEEP
Project.
33.   Training. SPS and PCS staff were trained in: (i) financial ratio analysis,
forecasting techniques and financial management; and (ii) sector analysis, identification
and appraisal of projects, the carrying out of macroeconomic policy analysis and
forecasting and cost benefit analysis. Mr. Hinds also taught a three week course in
macroeconomics. In addition, staff of the Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy Division
in MOF attended the IMF course in Techniques of Financial Analysis and Programming.
USAID's BEEP project is providing follow-up assistance in developing a capacity for
macro-economic analysis with the return of the consultant originally financed under the
TAC.
34.   The Bureau of Statistics was computerized for the first time under the TAC.
Parallel assistance was provided by the CDB and UNDP/UN Statistics Department in the
form of long-term consultants to assist in the construction of national accounts and
national income estimates to enable the Bureau to resume publication of quarterly reports
and other information, and in survey design, implementation, and data processing. This
assistance enabled the preparation of current macroeconomic data essential to
macroeconomic management and, thus important to the success of the Government's
structural adjustment program. It also developed statistical capabilities sufficient to assess
the results and evaluate the impact and consequences of implementing the ERP on the
standard of living. Seventeen computers, five vehicles, a scanner, and a generator were
purchased with TAC funds. In addition, three UNVs supported the institutional
strengthening (Balance of Payments,Current Enterprise Statistics, and Data Processing).
An Associate UN Expert in Data Processing financed by the Netherlands also supported
the operation. Due to lack of counterparts at the time of implementation, most UNVs
were engaged directly in line activities.
35.   Outcome. The project succeeded in making functional the BOS which had been
defunct. The BOS was transformed from a manual to a computerized office, in large part



-60-                      APPENDIX C
Page 10 of 12
through the micro computers, office equipment, and vehicles (critical to the HIES)
procured under the TAC. A large number of staff are now computer literate and have
enlarged their skills. In a relatively short time the combined efforts of the CDB, UNDP
and TAC overcame a two decade lapse and through the carrying out and analysis of the
results of a Household Income and Expenditure Survey (HIES), Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS) and Labor Force Survey in 1993. These were essential
inputs to the Bank's Poverty Seminar and Poverty Report in 1994. As of December 1994
the BOS had 10 senior staff and a total of 65 staff out of an approved number of 120.
36.   Most of the staff trained under the TAC have remained on board due to the
somewhat better pay available at the BOS compared to the regular civil service. Younger
staff continue to be attracted by prospects for training, including in-house short term
training sponsored by USAID (computer and survey related) and UNDP (national
accounts). BOS facilities, however, continue to be dilapidated, the analytic and
forecasting capacity remains weak and the generator purchased with TAC funds has been
lent for an extended period to the election commission resulting in about 10 hours per
week of "down time" in the Bureau. These problems will be addressed under a proposed
ODA $2.0 million grant likely to be approved before end CY96. A Labor Force Survey of
about 8200 households is likely to be carried out during the first half of 1997 together
with an LSMS update which will underpin the poverty focus of the Bank's CEM, if it is
carried out on time.
VI. CENTRAL BANK SUPERVISION
IDA CREDITAGREEMENTPARTF (added by amendment in June 1992): Strengthening
and modernizing the regulatory and supervisory frameworkfor commercial banks and
other financial institutions in Guyana.
37.   An Adviser to the Central Bank in Banking Supervision (24 months) also
filled a line function -- Head of the Bank Supervision Department. She was successful,
nevertheless, in establishing sustainable systems and procedures for on-site examination
of credit portfolios and recommended a framework and system for off site monitoring,
supervision and financial analysis of the quality of credit portfolios of commercial banks.
Performance tracking sheets and industry tracking sheets have been established and are
being maintained regularly. She also reviewed laws and prudential regulations and
assisted in the preparation of amendments to banking legislation and recommended
measures to implement regulations. She advised on the organization of a Banking
Supervision Department and the need for additional TA. The contract of the consultant
was originally financed by UNDP and subsequently financed by the IMF. One year of
her services were added to the loan (February 1992-February 1994) to ensure continuity
in the strengthening and modernizing of the regulatory and supervisory framework for
commercial banks and other financial institutions within the context of the Government's
move toward a more market-based financial system.



-61-                      APPENDIX C
Page 11 of 12
38.   Outcome. The consultant succeeded in establishing a Department of Banking
Supervision where none existed previously. The Department now has 11 technical staff
and 3 support staff. The Banking Supervision Department has implemented periodic
inspections which will help cement the institutional mechanisms required to monitor
future compliance once the Financial Institutions Act (FIA) regulations are implemented.
The consultant championed the promotion of staff already within the organization,
including those who had received training abroad under the TAC at FDIC and the
Examiner Training School of the Federal Reserve System. Her work on banking
legislation contributed to compliance with the Private Sector Development Adjustment
Credit's (PSDAC) measures on promulgation of the Financial Institutions Act which took
effect in May 1995. A successor Consultant financed by the IMF is completing work
begun on on-site inspection training (credit evaluation, qualitative appraisal of loan
portfolios) and on developing guidelines for implementing the regulations of the
Financial Institutions Act. A counterpart has been assigned to work with the consultant.
The Financial Sector Business Environment Credit (FISBEC) is to finance computer and
other equipment to further strengthen the Banking Supervision Department. Both the
PSDAC and the FISBEC aim to improve the regulation and supervision of the financial
system and restructure key financial institutions and the FISBEC includes funding to
support preparation of laws governing bank supervision and regulation.
39.   A Computer Information Systems Consultant to the Bank of Guyana (6
months) was to have: (a) assessed the overall computerization requirements of the BOG;
(b) advised on the optimal configuration of the computer facilities with a view to
ensuring linkages between the main frame and personal computers and (c) advised on the
appropriate equipment and systems and future computerization program and training.
She recommended development of a fully integrated information system and produced
recommendations on architectures for applications and technology, policies and outlined
critical success factors and action items.
40.   Outcome. The usefulness of the consultant's work was limited by the lack of an
identified source of funding for the computer equipment. Little of her work was put into
effect. The Head of BOG's Information Services Dept. was not aware that TAC funds
could have been accessed for the purchase of the needed equipment. Lack of a viable
Project Implementation Unit and/or a clear agreement for UNDP to serve that function
resulted in this type of confusion and delay. Funding for equipment is now available
under the FISBAC; and the TAC financed consultancy is being followed by a UNV
Specialist in Document Management (October 1995 - June 1996 and continuing under
UNDP for an additional 12 months) with considerable experience in developing
computerized retrieval systems for libraries. He is building a computerized data base to
enable immediate retrieval of active files. A counterpart is being recruited to work with
him and his contract will continue through mid-1997 under a UNDP project.



-62-                      APPENDIX C
Page 12 of 12
VII.  LONG-TERM DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
41.   Guyana has not had a comprehensive development strategy underpin policies and
priorities and as a basis for negotiating with donors. The GOG, with the Carter Center
(June 1995 - June 1996) financed under the TAC as facilitators, are providing the
background work for a national development strategy. A participatory approach was used
to coordinate with public and private sectors, international agencies, NGOs, universities,
labor unions and other interested groups to sound out their assessments of constraints to
Guyana's development and their opinions on overcoming them. Time series data are
being put together by the BOS and the Debt Management Department of the MOF (both
of which received assistance under the TAC). The Strategy, which was nearing
completion at the time of the final TAC supervision mission in August 1996, is expected
to make a clear statement about the respective roles of the private and public sectors. It
will contain 42 chapters, including recommendations on issues addressed in the TAC
such as: (i) macro-economic policy, including chapters on fiscal policy and the public
sector, and providing projections over the next 10 years on money supply, balance of
payments, etc.; (ii) the social sectors; (iii) the productive sectors, including chapters on
labor and employment policies; (iv) infrastructure; (v) summary chapters on policy
changes, legislation and the investment program needed to put into effect the
recommendations.
42.   Outcome. It is now expected that final work on the strategy will be completed
by end- 1996 in time for the 1997 budget preparation. However, the 42 chapters may
need to be synthesized and prioritized further before they can be useful as a government
policy document that is implementable. In addition, the document will be distributed for
public discussion before finalization. The public sector modernization chapter of the
report includes recommendations consistent with the PAP: improving public sector
salaries, wage decompression, improved performance evaluations and merit based
increases. Finally, implementation of the strategy will require staff not currently
available in most sectors. The extent of commitment of the present government,
including to salary increases which seems to be the linchpin in attracting and retaining
qualified staff, is uncertain.



GUYANA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT (TAC) (2169-GUA)
SAC1/TAC MATRIX2
SAC             Actions Taken   Actions to be Taken   Actions to be    Implementation of SAC Assisted by     TAC Assistance/Outcome
Policy Areas       Prior to Board     Prior to Second    Taken Prior to                TAC
Presentation     Tranche Release    Third Tranche
Release
A. Macroeconomic
Framework
Guyana continue to face  (a) Favorable Bank (a) Favorable Bank   (a) Favorable    (a) Consultancy services (24 M/M),  The Consultants helped develop a
major macroeconomic   assessment of the   assessment of the  Bank assessment equipment and supplies including a   quarterly system of
imbalances. These stem  macroeconomic    macroeconomic      of the           vehicle, and training to improve the  macroeconomic reports, provided
largely from an       framework          framework including  macroeconomic   Monitoring and Coordinating Agency's  valuable advice in various aspects
inappropriate mix of    competitiveness.   international    framework,       (MOF) capacity to monitor and analyze  of macroeconomic policy. The
exchange rate fiscal,                   competitiveness.     including       macroeconomic data and prepare reports assistance was useful at the time
monetary and wage                                           international    on progress in the Government        but lack of counterparts inhibited
policies.                                                    competitiveness. structural adjustment program.      transfer of skills. The system of
macroeconomic reports developed
by the consultants was
discontinued following the
departure of the consultant.
b) Computer equipment to the Statistical The combined TAC, UNDP and
Bureau to increase capacity to collect,   CDB assistance computerized the
process, and report macroeconomic data  SB for the first time, made it
essential for monitoring and analyzing   functional and enabled completion
the Government's structural adjustment  of current macroeconomic data
program.                             essential to the SAC. Assistance
mostly sustained. Proposed ODA
assistance will further strengthen
national accounts and analytical
capability.
>
(D m
Structural Adjustment Credit (2168-GUA).
2 This Matrix is taken from the TAC President's Report (P-5127-GUY) of March 23, 1990.                                                      o>



SAC            Actions Taken   Actions to be Taken   Actions to be    Implementation of SAC Assisted by   TAC Assistance/Outcome
Policy Areas      Prior to Board     Prior to Second    Taken Prior to               TAC
Presentation    Tranche Release   Third Tranche
Release
(c) Consultancy services (6 M/M) to    Assistance successfully completed.
Bank of Guyana to provide a qualified
procurement agent to ensure compliance
with Bank Group guidelines and
preparation of needed documentation for
draw down of the SAC.
B. Incentive Framework  1. Domestic                                        N/A
Pricing
2. Trade Policy                                      N/A
3. Other Incentives                 (a) Complete a   (a) Consultancy services (6M/M) to the  Study satisfactorily completed and
std  o         Monitoring and Coordinating Agency to  SAC conditionality met.
Consumption    identify deficiencies in the application    PSDAC/FISBEC include follow-
taxes in       and administration of consumption taxes  up assistance to broaden tax base
accordance with  identified in such study including  and remove disincentives to long
terms of        provision of a vehicle             term investment in the economy.
reference
satisfactory to
the Association,
and adopt a
program
satisfactory to
the IDA to
address
deficiencies in
the application
and
administration of
consumption
taxes identified
in such study.                                                                     ow e
 X
Ofr



SAC             Actions Taken   Actions to be Taken   Actions to be    Implementation of SAC Assisted by      TAC Assistance/Outcome
Policy Areas       Prior to Board     Prior to Second    Taken Prior to                  TAC
Presentation     Tranche Release    Third Tranche
Release
C. Public Sector       1. Central                            (a) Begin        (a)Technical assistance to the Public  Program satisfactorily initiated.
Reform                 Government                            implementing a   Service Management Ministry in the    SAC conditionality met. Follow-
program         Office of the President in the        on PAP assistance is completing
Guyana's economic                                            satisfactory to    preparatory activities relating to the  training and system and
problems also stem                                           the Association,  development of Phase I of the Personnel equipment installation throughout
largely from an over-                                        to eliminate any  Records Keeping Systems (PRKS). This central government.
extended and inefficient                                     overlapping      activity is contributing to the creation of
public sector responsible                                    functions and    a unified and computerized PRKS within
for a significant                                            noncritical      the pubic service as a precondition for
deterioration of public                                      vacancies        the implementation of the next phase
finances.                                                    identified in the  (Reform of Public Service Salary and
management      Employment Structure) of the Public
audits.         Administration Reform Project (PAP)
financed by IDA. The purpose of
establishing PRKS and a job
classification system is to achieve a
transparent system for evaluating,
selecting, and monitoring the filling of
public service posts.
The Central            (a) Agreement on  (a) End all central                                                       UNDP Consultant assistance,
Government deficit     ending all Central  government current                                                      financed retroactively under the
stood at an unsustainable Government    transfers to public                                                        TAC, facilitated compliance with
level of 27% of GDP in  transfers to public  enterprises from the                                                  actions required prior to Board
1988. This is         enterprises from    1990 budget onwards                                                      presentation.
attributable partly to ... the 1990 budget    except for the                                                       TAC Assistance to strengthen the
current transfer to    onwards, except   Guyana Electricity                                                        capacity of the PCS and SPS to
public enterprises.    for the Guyana    Corporation and for                                                       develop systems to monitor the
Electricity       maintenance                                                               financial and operational
Corporation and    expenditures of                                                          performance of public enterprises
for maintenance    public enterprises to                                                    was related to but not directly on
expenditures of    be fully divested.                                                       the critical path of the SAC's
public enterprises                                                                          second tranche release. The
to be fully      (b) PCS: Put into                                                          assistance was completed but not    w 3
divested.         effect an action                                                          sustained.                        o x



SAC            Actions Taken   Actions to be Taken   Actions to be    Implementation of SAC Assisted by    TAC Assistance/Outcome
Policy Areas       Prior to Board    Prior to Second    Taken Prior to                TAC
Presentation     Tranche Release   Third Tranche
Release
(b) PCS: Agree on program and
a corporate      schedule for carrying
strategy for the    out the corporate
PCS group with a  strategy for the PCS
view to          group.
determining which
enterprises should  (c) Operating
be kept within the  procedures and
Government's     auditing systems
control to meet    satisfactory to IDA
strategic/social    to be established to
objectives and   monitor the financial
which should be    performance of
offered for joint   GUYMINE,
ventures or for    GUYSUCO, PCS,
outright sale to the and transfers of                                                                                        0'
private sector.    targeted amounts
from these
enterprises to the
Central Government.
D. Public Sector
Investment Program
(PSIP)
The long period of    (a) Agreement on  (a) Review rolling    (a) Review of    (a) Consultancy services (36 M/M),  SAC conditionality met. A rolling
economic decline and    Institutional   PSIP satisfactory to  rolling PSIP  equipment and supplies including a  four-year PSIP was put into place
consequently inadequate  arrangements   IDA                 satisfactory to   vehicle, and training to the State  and guidelines prepared and
asset maintenance has   principally the                     IDA             Planning Secretariat to improve PSIP    training carried out in project
resulted in poor      staffing in the                                       formulation and monitoring.         formulation, selection, appraisal,  
condition in the      staffing in the                                                                           monitoring and evaluation.
infrastructure services.  State Planning                                                                        Assistance not sustained due to  zD
Therefore, the major    Secretariat --for                                                                       departure of trained staff
focus of the PSIP will   providing                                                                              following change of              0 x
a'



SAC             Actions Taken   Actions to be Taken   Actions to be    Implementation of SAC Assisted by     TAC Assistance/Outcome
Policy Areas       Prior to Board     Prior to Second    Taken Prior to                TAC
Presentation     Tranche Release    Third Tranche
Release
be the rehabilitation of   guidelines on                                                                          government/public sector
basic infrastructure that  project preparation                                                                    reorganization. USAID assistance
is critical for supporting  to line ministries                                                                    currently resuscitating TAC
the program's objectives and government                                                                           financed work.
of increasing exports    agencies and for
and private investment.  evaluation and
The most urgent tasks is monitoring of
to restore electricity  projects.
supply to required
levels.               (b) Improvement
of external aid                                       (b) Consultancy services (24 M/M),   UNDP Consultant assistance,
coordination                                          equipment and supplies and training to  finance retroactively under the
through the                                           the Ministry of Finance, Bank of     TAC, facilitated compliance with
services of and                                       Guyana and the Ministry of Trade and   actions required prior to Board
advisor to the                                        Tourism (MDIT) to facilitate         presentation.                      O
Ministry of                                           procurement procedures and
Finance to                                            disbursement of external aid.        The advisor to the MOF in
maintain                                                                                   External Financial Inflows was
continuous contact                                                                         retained. The computerized data
with donors and to                                                                         base on external financial inflows
facilitate                                                                                 established by the Advisor fell into
procurement and                                                                            disuse upon his departure. (Aid
disbursement of                                                                            coordination continues to be a
funds provided by                                                                          significant problem and was
bilateral and                                                                              addressed in a recent Bank
multilateral                                                                               CPPR).
donors.
Economic decline has   (a) SIMAP                                             (a) Consultancy services (12M/M),    SIMAP mitigated the most
led to substantial                                                           equipment, supplies and training to the   adverse effective of the
reductions in living                                                         State Planning Secretariat and the   adjustment. TAC financed
standards and the                                                            Ministry of Culture and Social       consultants analyzed the          (D
provision of social                                                          Development (MCSD) to improve        distributional effects of the     v
services. Although                                                           targeting to the poor of SIMAP       adjustment program, developed     o
successful                                                                   programs.                            procedures for assessing social



SAC             Actions Taken   Actions to be Taken   Actions to be    Implementation of SAC Assisted by     TAC Assistance/Outcome
Policy Areas       Prior to Board     Prior to Second    Taken Prior to                 TAC
Presentation     Tranche Release    Third Tranche
Release
implementation of the                                                                                             sector projects, including those of
adjustment program                                                                                                SIMAP, and developed objective
should help reverse this                                                                                          means to identify the target
decline in the long run,                                                                                          population (LSMS). A follow-up
some aspects of the                                                                                               IDB/SIMAP operation is likely to
program could impose                                                                                              use the results of a second round
additional stress on                                                                                              of the LSMS (1997) in its project
certain segments of the                                                                                           selection criteria.
population. In order to
protect groups which
are particularly
vulnerable during the
adjustment process, and
engender public support
for the program, a
social amelioration
program (SIMAP) has
been developed.
">
0 x



I



4






I MA T N  :N 
i., e  : U! , J E t   N I , .  I : I 9 .3



