Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                          CREDIT NUMBER 2169-0 GUA
                   Development Credit Agreement
               (Third Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                              GUYANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 13, 1990
                                          CREDIT NUMBER 2169-0 GUA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1990, between GUYANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
Page  2
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,  the
several  terms  defined in the  General  Conditions have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CDB" means the Caribbean Development Bank;
      (b)   "DMFI" means the Division of Multilateral Financial
Institutions in the MOF;
      (c)   "DSI" means the Department of Social Infrastructure in
the SPS;
      (d)   "Executing Entities" means MOF, MOTT, MCA, SB, Bank of
Guyana, PCS and SPS;
      (e)   "MCA" means the Monitoring and Coordinating Agency in
the MOF;
      (f)   "MCSD" means the Ministry of Culture and Social
Development of the Borrower;
      (g)   "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
      (h)   "MOTT" means the Ministry of Trade and Tourism of the
Borrower;
      (i)   "PCS" means the Public Corporations Secretariat of the
Borrower;
      (j )  "PSIP" means the Public Sector Investment Program of
the Borrower;
      (k)   "SB" means the Statistical Bureau of the Borrower;
      (l)   "SIMAP" means the Social Impact Amelioration Program
of the Borrower;
      (m)   "SPS" means the State Planning Secretariat of the
Borrower; and
      (n)   "Second Structural Adjustment Development Credit
Agreement" or "SAC" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Association for Credit 2168-0 GUA
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit), as such agreement may be
amended from time to time.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement,  an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 2,300,000).
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or,  if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in Scheduie
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,  1996,  or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
Page  3
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of l%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by,  or in the territory of,  the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of l%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07.  (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing on September 15,  2000 and ending on March 15,  2030.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March
15, 2010 shall be one percent (l%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by then of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice
the amount of each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower,  the Association may revise such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in
the amounts of such installments,  the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided
that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph  (b)  above,  the Association determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry out the Project, under
the general coordination of MCA through the Executing Entities
listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement,  with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
management,  administrative and financial practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall: (i) carry out all studies included
in the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, which, unless the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise  agree,  shall  include the preparation of specific
programs or plans of action to meet the objectives of the Project;
(ii) promptly after the completion of each such study, furnish to
the Association a copy of its findings and recommendations; (iii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment on such
findings and recommendations and on any plans or programs included
therein;  (iv)  taking into account the Association's comments
thereon, prepare programs or plans of action, satisfactory to the
Association,  to carry out the recommendations of each of such
studies; and (v) carry out such programs or plans in a manner and
according to a timetable satisfactory to the Association.
      (c)   Without limitation to the provisions of this Section,
the Borrower shall, through the Executing Entities:  (i) provide,
promptly as needed,  adequate facilities and qualified staff in
adequate numbers as counterparts for the consultants  to be
employed under  the  Project;  and  (ii)  make  arrangements,
satisfactory to the Association, to provide an adequate follow-up
to the recommendations of such consultants.
      (d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the  Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, through MCA, coordinate
and monitor  the progress  of Project implementation and,  without
limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, submit to the Bank: (a) quarterly reports on
such progress beginning three months after the Effective Date; and
(b) annual Project evaluation reports no later than March 30 of
each year for the preceding calendar year, such reports to be of
such scope and detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.03.  (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to  the Association,  with an agent or
agents acceptable to the Association, for handling: (i) the
procurement of goods to be financed with the proceeds of the
credits provided under the SAC and this Agreement;  and (ii)  the
contracting of consultants to be employed under the Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise  its  rights under the
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (b)  of this
Section, in such a manner so as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate or waive such
Page  5
contractual arrangements or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.04. In the carrying out of the training programs
included under the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   furnish to the Association for approval, the content
of each of such programs  as well  as  the  schedule  for  its
implementation;
      (b)   select the beneficiaries of such training programs in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association; and
      (c)   not later than September 30 of each year, exchange
views with the Association on the training programs to be carried
out in the following calendar year.
      Section 3.05. (a) without limitation to the provisions of
the General Conditions and of Section 3.02 of this Agreement,  the
Borrower and the Association agree to undertake, at the request of
either party, at a date not later than the first anniversary of
the  Effective  Date,  and approximately every nine months
thereafter, a review of the performance of the Borrower and each
Executing Entity in respect of the execution of the Project,
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
      (b)   During each such review, the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall exchange views on whether there are any shortfalls in
respect of such performance and which remedial actions may be
required to overcome such shortfalls, if any.
      (c)   The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, in
terms satisfactory to the Association, any remedial action that
may have been determined by the Association, as necessary or
appropriate during the exchange of views referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices  the operations,
resources and expenditures  in respect of the Project of the
Executing Entities and other departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a)  of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited,  in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied,  by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than six
                  months after the end of each such year, a
                  certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors,  of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records,  accounts
                  and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                  from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
Page  6
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                  the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,  receipts
                  and other documents)  evidencing such
                  expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                  by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01 Pursuant to Section 6.02  (h)  of the General
Conditions,  the following additional event is specified, namely
that the Borrower shall have failed to make payment of principal,
interest, service charge or any other amount due to CDB, or the
Association as assignee thereof, under a loan or credit from CDB,
the proceeds of which were originally provided to CDB by the
Association or the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development.
      Section 5.02 Pursuant to Section 7.01  (d)  of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Second Structural Adjustment Development
Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled,  other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date October 15, 1990 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance  is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  7
      For the Borrower:
            The Ministry of Finance
            Main and Urquhart Streets
            Georgetown
            Guyana
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                  3038
                  Guyana
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  INDEVAS                          197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA)
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                    82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia
United States  of America,  as of the day and year first above
written.
                        GUYANA
                        By /s/ Cedric H. Grant
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants'               2,040,000        100&
     service and
     training
(2) Goods                        260,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
Page  8
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
                               ---------
     TOTAL                     2,300,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:                    I
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures  in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of payments  made  for
expenditures:
      (a)   prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals,  in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 115,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1989; and
      (b)   of vehicles under Parts A,  C and E of the Project,
respectively,  unless consultants in numbers acceptable to the
Association, shall have been employed to assist the Borrower in
the execution of such Part of the Project.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
implementing its medium-term adjustment program,  improving its
macroeconomic management capacity and strengthening the Borrower's
capacity to analyze  the social costs of adjustment and the
efficiency of social sector programs.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Improving the Incentive Framework
1.    Carrying out of a study to identify the deficiencies in the
application and administration of consumption taxes  and make
recommendations to address such deficiencies.
2.    Acquisition and utilization of a vehicle.
Part B:     Public Sector Reform
1.    Strengthening the capacities of PCS and SPS to monitor the
financial and operational performance of public enterprises,
including training of the staff of PCS and SPS.
2.    Acquisition and utilization of equipment and supplies,
including computers and software, for this part of the Project.
Part C:     Improving Public Sector Investment
1.    Services of consultants to assist SPS in formulating and
monitoring the PSIP and assuring its consistency in terms of size
and composition in relation to the Borrower's macroeconomic
framework and objectives and available funding, including training
of the staff of SPS  in,  inter alia,  project evaluation and
Page  9
management and resource management.
2.    Services of consultants to assist DMFI, the Bank of Guyana
and MOTT,  in coordinating and facilitating the procurement and
disbursement of external funds, including training of the staff of
DMFI, the Bank of Guyana and MOTT, in,  inter alia, international
procurement of goods and disbursement procedures.
3.    Acquisition and utilization of a vehicle,  equipment and
supplies, including computers and software, for purposes of this
part of the Project.
Part D:     Social Sector Reform
1.    Services of consultants to assist DSI and MCSD in analyzing
the distributional effects of the Borrower's adjustment program
and developing procedures for assessing the efficiency of social
sector projects,  including those of the SIMAP in correctly
identifying target population.
2.    Training of the staff of DSI and MCSD.
3.    Acquisition and utilization of equipment and supplies,
including computers and software, for purposes of this part of the
Project.
Part E:     Improving Macroeconomic Management
1.    Services of consultants to assist MCA in coordinating and
implementing the Borrower's adjustment program and improving its
analytical and management capacity,  including training of the
staff of MCA.
2.    Acquisition and utilization of a vehicle,  equipment and
supplies, including computers and software, to assist MCA in its
functions and to assist SB in macroeconomic data processing.
                            *  *  *  *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1995.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
                  Entities Executing the Project
Part of the Project                       Executing Entity
Part A                                    MOF/MCA
Part B                                    SPS/PCS
Part C                                    MOF/MOTT/SPS/
                                          BAND OF GUYANA/DMFI
Part D                                    SPS/MCSD
Part E.1                                  MOF/MCA
Part E.2                                  MCA/SB/SPS
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
Page  10
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits n published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited International Bidding:
      Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less,
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures  on the basis  of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers eligibLe under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    Shopping:
      Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000
per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list
of at least three suppliers eligibLe under the Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   with respect to each contract to be awarded under Part
A and the first two contracts to be awarded under Part B.l,  the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply; and
      (B)   with respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    The figure of 15%  is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
Satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by Uorld Bank Borrowers and by the Uorld Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall not later than three months after the
Effective Date:
            (i)   employ a macroeconomic consultant acceptable to
                  the Association and place purchase orders  in
                  terms satisfactory to the Association, for the
                  equipment required to carry out Part E.1 of the
                  Project;
            (ii)  employ qualified consultants acceptable to the
                  Association in adequate numbers,  for purposes
                  of Part B.l of the Project;
            (iii) employ qualified consultants acceptable  to the
                  Association in adequate numbers,  for purposes
Page  11
                  of Parts C.l and C.2 of the Project; and
            (iv)  place purchase orders in terms satisfactory to
                  the Association, for purposes of Parts B.2 and
                  C.3 of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall not later than six months after the
Effective Date:  (i)  employ consultants  satisfactory to  the
Association in adequate numbers, for purposes of Part A.l of the
Project; and (ii) take delivery of the equipment required for Part
E.2 of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall employ consultants satisfactory to the
Association in adequate numbers,  not later than twelve months
after the Effective Date for purposes of Part D of the Project.
4.    The Borrower shall complete the study included under Part A
of the Project, not later than twelve months after the Effective
Date.
5.    The Borrower shall complete the studies included under Part
D of the Project within twelve months from the date of employment
of the consultants referred to in paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
6.   The Borrower shall complete the activities included under
Part B.l, Parts C.l and C.2 and Part D.2 of the Project within
three years  from the  date of employment of the consultants
referred to in paragraphs 1 (ii), 1 (iii) and 3 of this Schedule,
respectively.
