Docawt of
The World Bank
FOR OFmCAL USE ONLY
LA). Z30i4'MC
lePut Ni. P-3647-PAK
REPORT ANDEM1011
oF TE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNA3IONAL BASEK FOR   STRUCT AND DEEL
TO TME
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSND LOAN
IN AN ANUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$51.5 MI.LIOK
TO THE
ISLMIC REUBLIC OF PAKXSTAN
FOR A
PETROLEM EXPLORATION PROJECT
September 15, 1983
lhh  hwmwb a iuzdule ildIWlem andmay be mud by uepluie -emly Is the puzfuue of
dm&sIh   dM   lbeowmb my met d huwhe be dhdd.uiwiheet Wei Book ahwIlzIm.



CURRENCY EQuIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1 - Rs 12.50
Rs 1 - llS$ 0.080
FiEscal Year
Government of Palistan and OGDC
July 1 - June 30
ACR S AND AUREVIATIONS
ADB       Asian Development Baik
CID       Canadian International Development
Agency
DGER      Directorate General of Energy
-     Reorces
EEC       European Economic Cat:nty
GOP       Government of Pakistan
LPG       gLiqtfied Petrolemu  Gas
NGL       Natural Gas Liquids
OGDC      Oil and Gas Development Corporation
POL       Paistan O1lfields TLImted
FF1.      Pakistan Petroleu Liufted
SGIC      Sui Gas Transmission Company
SNGPL     Sli Norter Gas Pipelnes Limited
USAID    Ilnited States Agency for International
Development
wAPDA     Water and Power Development Autbority



FO0 OMCIL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
PETROLEI  EXPLORATION PROJECr
Loan and Project SuE
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistau
Beneficiary:            Oil and Gas Development Corporation of Pakistan (OGDC)
Amount:                 US$51.5 million equivalent (including capitalized
front-end fee).
Terms:                  Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:       The Government would pass the proceeds of the loan to
OGDC as an exploration grant.
Project Description:   The proposed project, which would support the
Government's efforts to increase petroleum
expl-ation, consists of (i) drilling of six
explotatory wells on gas prospects; (ii) a program of
regional seismic surveys and basin studies designed
' J identify new oil and gas prospects; and (iii)
promotion of potentially oil-prone areas to the
international oil industry. The project faces the
normal risks associated with any petroleum explora-
tion project. Appropriate measures to reduce these
risks have been incorporated in the proposed project.
IThis docnment hs a restied distribuion and my be uned by  iis only in the performance of
thew official dues Its coatents may not otherise be dscd  hout World Bank authoriza



Estimated Costs
Local      Foreign       Total
-US$ million-
Exploration Drilling                           21.6          26.6       48.2
Regional Seismic Program                       10.7          11.9       22.6
Exploration Promotion                           0.2           1.0        1.2
Total Base Cost                            32.5         39.5        72.0
Physical Contingencies                          7.5           9.8       17.3
Price Contingencies                             7.6          10.1       17.7
Total Project Cost                         47.6         59.4       107.0
Front-End Fee                                   _             0.1        0.1
Total Financing Required                       47.6          59.5      107.1
Duties and Taxes                                0.8            -         0.8
Net Financing Required                         46.8          59.5      106.3
Financing Plan
Local      Foreign       Total
-USs million
IBRD                                             -51.5                  51.5
Bilateral Credits                                -            8.0        8.0
GOP                                            47.6                     47.6
Total                                          47.6          59.5      107.1
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
IBRD FT  1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual                                             22.5   16.3   11.3    1.4
Cumulative                                         22.5   38.8   50.1   51.5
Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Appraisal Report:    None
Map:                  IBRD 17072R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of US$51.5 million to
help finance a Petroleum Exploration Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The Government intends co-financing $8 million of the project costs
from bilateral credits. The proceeds of the loan would be provided to the
Oil and Gas Development Corporation of Pakistan (OGDC) as a grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments and
Prospects" (No. 4215-PAK, dated February 11, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 11, 1983.
3.      The past five years have witnessed a significant economic recovery in
Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY82 GDP growth averaged over 6Z p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging about 2.8Z
p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by
10% p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 3.8% p.a. and in
industry by 9.3% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with the economic
stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when tlhe growth of GDP averaged only
3-4Z and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather and higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the
Middle East. Various policy changes introduced by the Government have also
contributed significantly to the recovery.
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention bas been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
Pr-sident's Report P-3597-PAK (Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Project)
dated May 24, 1983.



-2-
crops have been raised so tbit they are now closer to world prices. At the
same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy (which has
been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the development
budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for other priority
agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices Commission has
been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes in crop support
and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
6.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water
delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better
scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the
private sector, for example, through the promotion of private tubewell
development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesticides,
seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm power-have also
been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an early stage and a
breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet
to take place.
7.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricul-
tural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; con-
stitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against further
arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector
have been widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise
and import duty concessions, concessionary credit and income tax provisions,
and direct cash rebates have been granted to encourage private investment and
exports. These have been supplemented by a partial liberalization of imports
which has improved the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning
procedure has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in
private sector confidence and to a sharp increase in private investment,
mainly in small and medium-scale projects.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been com-
pleted of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. These
measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled
technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer



-3-
subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity utilization sub-
stantially in the public sector.
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past five years and
the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes and
reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. The budgetary
situation improved significantly during FY80 through FY82. Government
revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% ir FY79, rose by an
average of 18% p.a. during the next three years as a result of the continued
growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases and intensified efforts to
improve tax collections. Although political developments outside Pakistan's
borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on
total spending: the growth of public expenditures was limited to 13% p.a.
The expansion of development and administrative expenditures were restrained,
while subsidies were reduced by more than 25Z. These restraints on
expenditures, continued revenue growth and some improvement in surpluses
generated by public sector agencies helped to increase the availability of
non-inflationary domestic resources. During FY80 through FY82, the overall
budget deficit averaged 5.7Z of GNP and the bank-financed budget deficit 1.7%
of GNP; both figures are well below those of the late 1970s. The
Government's conservative fiscal and monetary policies have succeeded in
dampening the rate of inflation despite external pressures and substantial
increases in the prices of some consumer goods because of reductions in
subsidies; prices rose by about 10% in FY82 (compared with 13% in FY81) and
have been rising at an annual rate of around 5% in recent months.
10.     Pakistan's export performance improved considerably between FY77 and
FY81. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, also greatly assisted the external
position. These increases, however, were partly offset by an increase in the
value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants, fertilizer, edible
oil and capital goods. The current account deficit was US$991 million or
3.3% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77
in current prices.
11.      A number of developments contributed favorably to Pakistan's ability
to finance the FY81 current account deficit. These included the conclusion
of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF in November 1980; a
positive response from aid donors to the country's improved economic perfor-
mance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows; and an agreement
with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of debt
service payments on official concessional debt falling due over an 18-month
period beginning mid-January 1981. As a consequence of improved performance
on both current account and capital account, foreign exchange reserves
increased from US$748 million to US$1,039 million during the year; the latter
was the equivalent of about two months' worth of import of goods and
services.



-4-
12.     The balance of payments deteriorated somewbat during FY82.  The
principal reasons were a 17% decline in the value of exports coupled with
relatively slow growth of migrant remittances (6X). For Pakistan's major
exports, rice and cotton, the combination of deteriorating world economic
conditions plus output expansion in other countries led to a decline in both
unit values and volumes. For manufactured exports, the slowdown in the world
economy, together with a deterioration in Pakistan's competitiveness result-
ing from the linkage of the rupee to the US dollar up to January 19S2 (the
currency is now being managed with reference to a weighted basket of
currencies), led to a decline in value as compared with the previous year.
Because of the decline in world petroleum prices and import substitution in
some key sectors (most particularly, fertilizers), the volume of imports of
essential raw materials and capital goods could still grow sufficiently to
provide for a real GDP expansion of 62 while the total value or imports
expanded by only 2%. Owing to the above factors, Pakistan's current account
deficit rose from US$991 million in FY81 to US$1,530 million in FY82 (the
latter being equivalent to 4.7% of GNP). Net inflows of official assistance,
private capital and IMF resources were not sufficient to cover the increased
deficit and there was a drawdown of about US$200 million in reserves. At the
end of FY82, reserves were US$840 million, the equivalent of about 1.5 months
of imports.
13.-    The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent welcome
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its
recently improved economic performance over the present decade and bring
about a modest improvement in the living standards of its population. These
issues include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in
agriculture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the
need to improve performance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying
behind continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social
service expenditures; and the problems of resource mobilization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite recent
improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental factors continue
to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied
by the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output
growth has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available
inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still
exists for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears
essential to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and
programs which would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The
importance of increasing farm productivity is recognized in the Government
and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless,
support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water management and



-5-.
other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to be intensified,
while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary
adjustments in output and consumer prices.
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain below the levels
attained in the 1960.. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
*        for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets. Although there have been some recent improvements in the
output and profitability of public enterprises, these improvements need to be
carried further through appropriate reforms to remove distortions in pricing
and improve performance criteria and Incentives to managers. To assist the
recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased momentum in the
industrial sector will require an adequate supply of local and foreign
financing, both for investments and current inputs, and the more rapid provi-
sion of necessary utilities and other infrastructure requirements. At the
same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive system
supports those industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage.
Analysis is in progress to determine levels of effective protection in order
to provide the basis for formulating an appropriate industrial development
strategy for the 1980s.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector
has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign
private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological
and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the
development of existing fields has been slow and Pakistan's considerable
potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be realized. The Government
has begun to implement a number of reforms relating to such matters as energy
planning, pricing and organization in order to accelerate progress.
17. While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid grrjwth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously hand-
icapped the cou,Ltry's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the
socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines in
fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved
health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that
population growth rates can be much reduced.- Expenditures on social services



-6-
have been low and undue emphasi.s has been given to higher education and urban
health facilities. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this
problem; a new and more promising population program is in the initial stages
of implementation, and several special programs to improve basic health and
education facilities were introduced in the FY83 budget, especially for rural
areas.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive and
the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will have
to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external resource
constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments, a fundamen-
tal improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the economy,
particularly in public savings. At 12% of GNP, national savings are substan-
tially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but are still low for a
country at Pakistan's per capita income levul and stage of development. The
continuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending,
improve the performance of the public sector and encourage private investment
will help to reduce present imbalances between investment and savings flows.
At the same time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining
private consumption through further appropriate price adjustments and selec-
tive duty increases on non-essential imports. Continued restraints on spend-
ing and measures to further improve revenues through improvements in tax
administration and tax and rate increases (for example, property taxes,
domestic water rates and irrigation water charges) are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to surtain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries.  In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector. Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels
and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to face
a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in demand
management and in planning, incentives and government programs in
agriculture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more con-
ducive to rapid ecoromic growth and better international trade performance,
and have establisheu an improved framework within which further reforms can
be effectively pursued. The recent government policy initiatives, which have
been formulated in close consultation with the Bank and Fund, have improved
Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing and for a blend of Bank
and IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of calendar 1981, Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which US$4.6 bil-
lion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.2 billion



-7-
to OPEC and US$1.9 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1981, the Bank Group's share in Paklstan'.
external public indebtedness was 13.8% and in external debt service was
13.3X. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service raLio (debt service divided by exports of
goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 12X in FY82,
should rise slowly during the 1980., even assuming substantial commercial
borrowing, reaching 15% in FY85 and remaining in the 15-16% range through
FY90.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.5 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for agriculture,
31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for
education. Lending for public utility services has included loans and
credits for railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways,
telecommunications and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; aid
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and
waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, live-
stock development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending
is to assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of avail-
able land and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding
investments, as recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the
Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven LoanslCredits amounting to US$270 mil-
lion for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC),



-B-
and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), total-
ing US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also included assistance
to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for small-scale industry. An of
September 30, 1982, IFC had made investments in 16 Pakistan enterprises for a
total of US$183.1 million, of which US$176.7 million was by way of loans and
US$11.4 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II).
About US$58.4 million of these investments remained outstanding. The
enterprises assisted by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper
products, two each in textiles, food and food processing, and petrochemicals,
and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers, plastics, and wood processing.
IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and cammunications has
shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the
institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachl Port
Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and federal
and provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has
assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and
Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects
respectively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under the
Indus Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has financed a petroleum
development project and begun to play an important role in strengthening the
public Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assisting in
the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources and in establishing a policy and institutional framework for
increased private investment in the sector. A second water supply project in
Lahore is currently under implementation. Five credits for education, total-
ing US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and
higher technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents.
28.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan's
development through program assistance. A first structural adjustment lend-
ing operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directorp in June 1982.
This SAL program consists of a number of significant refoi-.a in government
development planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy
and industrial sectors.
29.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of March 31, 1983. Credit and loan disbursements have been generally
satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due to
protracted government procedures for project approval, which have now been
streamlined, and to slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid
turnover of managerial and technical staff, iti part due to migration to the



-9-
Middle East, aad budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some
proiects.
30.    A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
power generation, industrial financing, oil and gas development, irrigation
and agriculture. Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints
for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance
agricultural and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign
exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases is
iustified.
31.    In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assis-
tance within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTMR AND PETROLEUM SUB-SECTOR
A. Energy Sector
Background
32.    Over the past decade Pakistan has been active in developing its
indigenous energy resources, particularly natural gas and hydro-electricity,
and thereby limiting oil imports. Despi,e these efforts the country remains
heavily dependent on imported oil to meet its primary energy needs. In
1980/81 oil imports totalled US$1.6 billion, equivalent to 26Z of total
imports. In its dialogue with GOP, the Bank has stressed the critical impor-
tance of accelerating the exploration for, and development of, domestic
energy resources to substitute for imported oil and the need to encourage
greater private sector participation in the implementation and financing of
energy investments. The Government recognizes the urgency of these measures
and has instituted a range of policy reforms which should result in a con-
siderable improvement in the energy situation over the medium term. These
reforms are reflected in the understandings reached between the Bank and GOP
under the first Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (SAL I), as well as
during the preparation of the proposed project.
Pakistan's Energy Supply and Consumption
33.     In 1981/82, commercial energy consumption in Pakistan was 13.7 mil-
lion tons of oil equivalent (TOE), having increased at over 7Z p.a. during
the previous decade. Industry and transportation were the major energy
consumers representing 31Z and 21Z, respectively, of total energy use. The
transport sector accounted for over 60% of petroleum products consumption,
while rural households consumed almost 90% of total kerosene consumption.



-10-
During the decade ending 1981182 the share of domestically produced gas and
hydel in total energy supply increased from 46Z to 58% and the share of oil
(90% of which is imported) dropped from 45% to 37Z. Despite this, net oil
imports increased from 3 million TOE in 1971/72 to over 4 million TOE iu
1981/82.
The Energy Resource Base
34.     Natural Gas. Pakistan has substantial proven gas reserves, recently
estimated at 12.9 trillion cubic feet (TCF). Production in 1981/82 was 32.3
billion cubic feet (BCF) which accounted for 42% of commercial energy supply.
Gas in Pakistan is a low cost source of energy and rapid growth in production
over the past decade (averaging 9Z p.a.) has rade an important contribution
to limiting oil imports. However, in recent years production has failed to
keep pace with demand and Pakistan is experiencing increasing gas shortages,
particularly in the winter months. The Government is conscious of the situa-
tion and has evolved, with the assistance of consultants financed by the
Bank, a medium-term gas development plan. The plan, vhich will increase
production by over 30% by 1986, will involve investments in field development
and transmission exceeding $730 million. Over 70% of the field development
costs will be financed by private investors including IEFC, which is support-
ing a project with PPL to develop the Sui field. Despite these investments,
gas demand is expected to exceed supply by a wide margin for the foreseeable
future unless major new gas discoveries are made.
35.    Oil. Known domestic oil reserves are modest, with recoverable reser-
ves estimated at about 90-100 million barrels. In 1981182, production was
about 10,800 barrels per day (BD), primarily from the Neyal and Toot fields
in the northern Potwar basin. In the next few years production from existing
fields is not expected to increase significantly. A large exploration effort
is required over the next 10 years to assess the oil potential of Pakistan
more thoroughly. Recent attempts to promote increased oil exploration by
private companies, despite sound policies, have met only limited success.
The Government and the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC), the
national oil company, have decided to launch a new exploration promotion
program, with the assistance of the Bank, to stimulate increased interest by
private petroleum companies.
36.    Electric Power. Power demand grew at about 9% p.a. in the decade to
1981/82 and is expected to increase at ibout 10Z p.a. over the next ten
years.  Investments in the power sector in the Sixth Five Year Plan (FY84-88)
are projected to exceed US$8 billion or 80% of the total allocation to the
energy sector. Installed hydel generating capacity is expected to increase
from about 1,900 MW in 1981/82 to about 3,100 NW by 1987/88 while thermal
capacity over the same period is expected to increase from about 2,100 MW
to about 5,500 MW. Thermal generation until recently was based almost
exclusively on gas-fired plants, but with increasing gas shortages most of
the new thermal plants are to use more expensive fuel oil and/or coal.



-11-
37.     Col and Nuclear. Total recoverablp reserves of coal are estimated
at 640 midllioa tons, of which only 20Z are proven. Most of the proven coal
reserves are of poor quality, and their economic potential is uncertain.
Coal production of 1.65 million tons p.a. (90X of vhich is used for brick
making) supplied only 5.4% of commercial energy in FY82. The share of coal
in domestic commercial energy supply has declined continuously over the past
20 years because of an abundance of inexpensive natural gas. In view of the
emerging gas shortages, GOP is now placing greater emphasis on the explora-
tion and development of domestic coal. An IDA Credit in support of a Coal
Engineering Project was recently approved. Pakistan has one operational
nuclear power generation station (137 14W) which provided 0.3Z of commercial
energy supplies in FY82; a second 900 MW unit is planned to be commissioned
in the early 1990s.
Institutional Framework
38.    Operational responsibilities for the various energy sub-sectors in
Pakistan are divided among several public and private entities. Oil and gas
exploration and development is carried out by OGDC and a number of interna-
tional oil companies under joint venture concession agreements with OGDC
and/or GOP. Two predominantly private companies, Pakistan Petroleum Ltd.
(PPL) and Pakistan Oilfields Limited (POL), account for most domestic oil and
gas production; POL produces oil from Meyal and PPL gas from Sui. There are
three oil refineries in Pakistan, two privately owned and one in the public
sector. Two of the three oil distribution and marketing companies are also
state-owned. Natural gas purification, transmission and distribution are
largely in the public sector; the Sui Gas Transmission Company (SGTC)
purifies Sui gas and transmits it to the south of the country while Sui
Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd. (SNGPL) transmits and distributes gas in the
north. Responsibility for power generation and distribution principally lies
with two autonomous government organizations. Coal exploration and develop-
ment are undertaken mainly through leases granted to private mining concerns
and by a public sector mining agency.
39.     The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources is responsible for
planning and policy making for oil, gas and coal. All matters relating to
power generation and distribution are regulated by the Ministry of Water and
Power. The role of coordine,ting energy planning is assigned to the Ministry
of Planning and Development. Overall authority for national energy policy
formulation and coordination is entrusted to the National Energy Policy
Committee (NEPC), co-chaired by the Ministers of Finance and Petroleum.
Energy pricing decisions are normally approved by the Ministry of Finance;
however, major decisions are referred to the Economic Coordination Committee
(ECC) of the Federal Cabinet.
Energy Strategy
40.     Over the past decade Pakistan's energy strategy relied heavily on the
rapid growth of domestic hydel and natural gas production to contain oil



-12-
imports. Very low gas prices encouraged substitution for alternative fuels
but deterred exploration for nev gas reserves, the development of other
energy sources and energy conservation.
41.     With the emergence of gas shortages and higher imported oil costs,
GOP has recognized the need for new policy initiatives to improve the domes-
tic energy balance. To achieve the needed improvements GOP has identifiled
the following key objectives:
(i) energy management and conservation programs to reduce the growth
in demand through price and non-price policy instruments;
(ii)  accelerated development of proven oil and gas fields and inten-
sified exploration for additional domestic energy reserves
including oil, gas and coal; and
(iii)  increased participation of private companies in financing and
implementation of energy investments.
42.    As described in more detail below, several important policy measures
designed to achieve these objectives bave already been taken. A gas develop-
ment plan has been approved and supporting measures have been initiated to
ensure its successful implementation. The exploration for and development of
domestic coal resources is being given higher priority. Measures to
accelerate petroleum exploration and development have been taken. Consumer
as well as producer pricing policies bave been adjusted. A national energy
plan now under preparation with the assistance of consultants is to serve as
the focus for coordinating energy policy and planning in the future.
B. Petroleum Sub-Sector
Background
43.    Pakistan is a small oil producer with production currently averaging
about 12,000 BD, representing less than 102 of domestic oil requirements.
Oil was first discovered in 1915 in the shallow Xhaur field in the northern
Potwar basin by POL. Prior to World War II several other small fields in the
same area were brought into production but are now largely depleted.
44.     Pakistan is a major gas producer with production in 1982 of 323
billion cubic feet (BCF), equivalent to about 50 million barrels of oil per
annum.  Gas was first discovered in the 1950s at Sui in Baluchistan by Burmah
Oil.



-13-
Petroleum Production and Reserves
45.    Proven remaining reserves of crude oil and condensate are estimated
to be about 90-100 miLlion barrels. Individual fields are small, with
original reserves ranging from a high of 50 million barrels to only a few
million barrels. The majority of the fields are located in the Potwar basin
where the reservoirs are deep and of poor quality and drilling conditions are
difficult. The largest field is Meyal with remaining reserves of 28 million
barrels followed by Toot with 14 million barrels. The Meyal field now
produces about 5,500 BD, down significantly from recent years due to reser-
voir problems. The Toot field, operated by OGDC, now produces about 2,600
BD. The Khaskeli field, discovered in 1981, produces about 4,000 BD but will
have a short life since total reserves are only 10 million barrels.
46.    Total origincl proven gas reserves in Pakistan are estimated at 16.4
trillion cubic feet tTCF), and remaining proven reserves are 12.9 TCF. Sui
is the largest field, with remaining reserves of 8 TCF accounting for 622 of
the country total. The second largest field, Mari, is estimated to contain
remaining reserves of 4 TCF. These two fields combined account for over 90%
of total proven reserves in Pakistan. During the 1950s, several smaller
fields containing mostly poor-quality gas were discovered, none of which are
presently producing. The Government intends carrying out a study to estab-
lish the feasibility of using this gas for such purposes as power generation.
More recently, OGDC made one significant gas discovery at Pirkoh in 1977 and
also discovered the Dhodak gas-condensate field in 1976. Field locations are
indicated on the attached map (IBRD No. 17072R).
Petroleum Prospects
47.     Pakistan has good prospects for the discovery of additional
bydrocarbons, particularly natural gas. The geology is conducive to the
generation and accumulation of hydrocarbons with suitable source rocks,
reservoir rocks and traps throughout the country. More than a dozen
prominent structures in the gas prone foothills belt are untested and six
one-well gas discoveries have not been fully evaluated. The probability of
discovering additional gas reserves is high.
48.     Oil prospects in Pakistan are more elusive.  The majority of known
oil fields are in the Potwar basin which, because of the small field size and
high cost of development, is of little interest to international oil
companies. Outside the Potwar basin the geologic evidence suggests that oil
as well as gas should be generated. The recent discovery of the small
Khaskeli field by U$nion Texas was important because it confirmed that oil
generation did take place in the south. However, the search for oil will
req ire considerable additional seismic work and drilling to evaluate the
potential properly. The Government plans to undertake a new exploration
promotion program, with assistance from the Bank, designed to encourage
increased exploration by international oil companies.



-14-
49.     In the absence of new oil discoveries  domestic oil production over
the next decade is not expected to increase. Although accelerated develop-
ment of proven fields may increase production somewhat over the next few
years, the production decline from these fields in the late 1980s is expected
to be rapid. Even if the Dhodak gas-condensate field is developed soon and
condensate production reaches the expected 5,000-7,000 BD, Pakistan's total
oil production in 1989190 is expected to be no higher than at present.
50.     A recent gas supply and demand study prepared for GOP with Bank
assistance indicated that- in the absence of major discoveries, gas demand
would exceed supply by a wide margin for the foreseeable future. On the
basis of planned investments to increase production of proven fields, the
reserves to production ratio in the 1990s will be reduced below 15 years,
which is very low for Pakistan with its heavy dependence on gas. The supply-
demand gap can be narrowed through the development of poor-quality gas reser-
ves and better management of gas demand: however, major new gas discoveries
are needed if the gap is to be eliminated and the reserves to production
ratio kept at a reasonable level.
Role of Public and Private Sectors
51.     The pace of petroleum exploration in Pakistan has generally been
modest. Private oil companies have viewed the Potwar fields as too small and
costly to warrant further exploration, and south of the Potwar the basins
were judged gas-prone in a country where, following the discovery of the
large Sui and Mari fields, there was surplus gas. In the early sixties,
following the withdrawal of most foreign oil companies, GOP established OGDC
to continue exploration with Soviet technical assistance. Drilling initially
focussed on the oil-bearing Potwar basin, resulting in the discovery of Toot.
Although OGDC's progress in drilling wells was slow, it met with some
success, discovering Dhodak and Pirkoh as well as developing Toot.
52.     Following the 1974 oil price increases, the Gcvernment sought to
accelerate exploration by inviting foreign oil company participation on a
joint venture basis. This new policy (described below) was successful in
stimulating increased exploration activity. The Government strategy has been
to focus OGDC activity on the gas-prone areas and the Potwar basin, of mini-
mal interest to foreign oil companies, while making other areas readily
available to foreign oil companies on reasonable tenms.
53.     Over the next five years required investments in oil and gas are
estimated at about $2.2 billion including about $400 million for exploration.
Approximately 50Z of the total expenditures would be by private companies and
the remainder will be carried out by OGDC and the gas transmission companies.
54.     Private Sector.  In 1976 GOP revised the terms on which new foreign
and domestic private oil companies could participate in petroleum exploration
and development. An attractive package of incentives and assurances was
designed for new exploration license holders. The basic framework provides



-15-
for investors to participate as joint venture partners with OGDC and/or GOP,
who contribute a small portion of exploration costs (usually 2.5% to 102)
with an option to increase their participation (usually up to 50Z) following
commercial discovery. In the most recent agreements, there is also provision
for a negotiable percentage of additional equity to be transferred to the
State once an agreed risk-adjusted return on investment has been achieved.
55.     The non-financial contract terms provide the investor with assurances
concerning, inter alia, rights to export oil, foreign exchange
convertibility, control of operations and dispute settlement procedures. The
financial terms stipulate that crude oil be sold at world prices with a
discount (usually 10-15%) on domestic sales. A 12.5% royalty and income tax
apply, but there is a limit on total payments to the State of 55X of net
income. To ensure flexibility of terms, the work commitments, domestic
market discount and participation percentages are negotiated on a case-by-
case basis.
56.     The new policy, initiated in 1976, was successful in attracting about
a dozen foreign oil companies. To encourage foreign investment the Bank has
issued three "letters of co-operation" to oil companies designed to ensure
Bank presence in the event of a commercial discovery and thereby limit
"political risk". Although exploration activity did increase, the only
success to date has been the Khaskeli discovery by Union Texas. At present,
only four of the new entrants have active work programs, while the remainder
are either inactive or have relinquished their licenses.
57.     Over the past 18 months the Government and OGDC have made further
attempts to stimulate greater private participation. Eleven blocks under
license to OGDC were offered to private oil companies on attractive terms.
To maintain maximum flexibility, work programs and financial terms were left
open and companies were invited to submit proposals. Unfortunately, in the
current depressed exploration environment the industry response was
disappointing. Three blocks are expected to be awarded to the Kuwait
Petroleum Corporation but no proposals were received for the remaining eight
blocks.
58.     Despite sound Government policies, the prospects for private explora-
tion over the next few years are not good. The industry perception of
Pakistan as "gas prone" remains very strong despite the Khaskeli discovery.
Foreign oil companies are not interested in exploration for gas because of
the unique marketing, institutional and financial problems associated with
it. If private exploration is to increase over the next few years, active
promotion efforts by the Government and OGDC designed to identify and market
new oil-prospective areas will be required.
59.     Public Sector.  The Government intends that OGDC will continue to
play an important role in the petroleum sub-sector, particularly since
private exploration activity is unlikely to increase significantly in the
near future. In the past OGDC's effectiveness was constrained by over-



-16-
commitment of technical and manpower resources to too many activities,
resulting in a slow pace of exploration activity and long delays in develop-
ing its few known discoveries.  Recently, however, decisions have been made
to focus OGDC resources on a more limited number of high priority objectives.
Development activity by OGDC will be confined to Toot and Pirkoh; the Dhodak
discovery is to be developed by a private operator under contract to OGDC.
In addition, OGDC will implement a limited exploration program focussing on
gas prone areas and small structures in the Potwar basin, with all remaining
areas open to foreign oil companies under joint venture agreements.
60.     At the same time, increased efforts are being made to strengthen the
management and technical capacity of OGDC as well as to improve its financial
position and develop its access to commercial sources of financing. These
objectives, which are central to the proposed project, are discussed below.
Oil and Gas Pricing
61.     The main pricing issues confronting the Government in 1981 were very
low gas consumer prices which encouraged excessive growth in demand, and low
producer prices for oil and gas from producing fields which delayed develop-
ment of proven fields and deterred exploration for new reserves. Over the
past two years, significant progress has been made towards rationalizing the
level and structure of oil and gas prices.
62.     Most petroleum products are covered by Government price controls at
ex-refinery and consumer levels.   The average consumer price for oil
products is above the import price, with local gasoline prices significantly
higher than import parity (US$1.80 per gallon) and kerosene prices lower
(US$0.83 per gallon).
63.     As noted above, producer prices for newly discovered oil by oil
companies operating under joint venture agreements are set equal to world
prices with a negotiable, usually 10-15Z domestic market discount. Producer
prices for oil from existing producing fields are set on a tost-plus basis
and are much lower. For Meyal, the main producing oil field, the producer
price until 1981 was fixed at Rs 44/Bbl (i.e., about US$3.50/Bbl). At such a
price POL had neither the incentive to drill new wells nor the cash flow to
finance them. In late 1981 the Government agreed to a price of US$10 per
barrel for new wells. While the substantial increase was a welcome indica-
tion of flexibility on producer pricing, the Bank has stressed the
desirability of moving towards a more market oriented approach away from
cost-plus pricing which involves continued price renegotiations with delays
in investment.
64.     In 1981, the average gas consumer price was US$1.10/MCF which was
about 25% of the fuel oil equivalent price. Since then, the average price
has been increased by over 80% in three steps to a current level of
US$2.00/MCF which is about 50% of fuel oil parity. The Government inteuds
progressively to adjust gas consumer prices with a view to increasing the



-17-
average price to no less than two-thirds of fuel oil parity (about
U3$2.60OMCF at current prices) by 1988.
65.    Historically, gas producer prices have been set on a cost plus
guaranteed rate of return basis.  In 1981 the Sui price was US$0.07/MCF. In
1982, in response to the need to finance major new field compression
facilities, a revised formula was agreed under which the Sui price was set at
about US$0.33/MCF in 1982 and is expected to increase to about US$0.84/MCF by
1984. While the revised price has secured the needed investments at Sui, it
does not provide incentives to minimize costs or optimize the rate of
production.
66.    The Government has adopted a new price formula applicable to all new
gas supplies, including gas discovered by companies operating under joint
venture agreements. The new formula will establish a "base price" at the
level, based on expected costs, required to generate an agreed discounted
cash flow rate of return; this base price will be indexed to movements in
international oil prices. The new formula will encourage cost efficiency,
provide greater incentives to increase production and provide a link to
international energy prices. The acceptability of the formula to investors
will depend on flexibility by the Government with respect to both the rate of
return and ths costs which can be included in determining the base price.
Role of the Bank
67.    The Toot Oil and Gas Project (Cr. 867-PAK), approved in December
1978, was the first Bank Group lending operation to OGDC. The US$30 million
IDA Credit and parallel EEC Special Action Credit of $12 million were fully
disbursed in 1982; assistance for the project has also been provided by the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). The project was designed
to increase Toot oil production and to strengthen the implementation capacity
of OGDC. Despite drilling difficulties and lower-than-expected recoveries,
incremental production from the project now represents more than 75Z of total
field production and the economic rate of return of the project is high.
After initial implementation difficulties, the past 18 months have seen a
sharp improvement in OGDC's performance, with reduced drilling time and three
consecutive successful well completions.
68.    The objective of the Bank in the petroleum sub-sector is to assist
OGDC and GOP in developing and implementing a sound petroleum exploration and
development strategy; to continue supporting institution building measures
already achieved by OGDC; and to facilitate the flow of private capital. In
the course of initial discussions on the possible scope for Bank assistance,
it emerged that GOP did not have a clear petroleum sector strategy and that a
number of policy reforms were required. A reasonable framework for private
sector exploration was in place but was marred by lack of access to inactive
acreage held by OGDC. The development of proven oil and gas fields operated
in the private sector was being delayed partly because of low oil and gas
producer prices. At the same time, OGDC was- over-extended, resulting in



-18-
large areas under license to the corporation remaining unexplored and in
delays in developing discoveries such as Pirkoh and Dhodak. Perhaps most
importantly, the extent of emerging gas shortages war not fully appreclated
within GOP, with the result that inadequate attention was being given to
maximizing the exploration for and development of gas.
69.     Over a period of more than two years, in the context of discussions
on structural adjustment lending and specific project operations, the Bank
has carried on a detailed dialogue with GOP and OGDC on the development of an
appropriate energy sector strategy. GOP has taken a number of important
decisions over this period which have strengthened its strategy considerably
and will facilitate a more active role by the private sector. The adoption
of a more flexible approach to oil and gas producer pricing has resulted in
agreement with domestic private companies (PPL and POL) to accelerate invest-
ment at Sui, Meyal and Khandkhot. The intention of GOP to increase gas
consumer prices to not less than two-thirds of fuel oil parity by 1988 is an
important step towards rationalizing domestic energy prices and will con-
tribute significantly to mobilizing budgetary resources. The decision to
involve private oil companies more actively in the sector is being imple-
mented through the soliciting of proposals to develop the Dhodak field and
through the recent offering of 11 blocks under license to OGDC to private oil
companies. Despite these efforts, however, GOP has been unable to attract
foreign oil company interest in gas exploration and the response to the
recent offering of exploration acreage has been disappointing. At the same
time, while important steps have been implemented to strengthen OGDC, further
measures are necessary to establish it as a technically and financially
strong organization with access to commercial financing.
70.     The proposed project will support the revised Government energy
strategy and continue the important institution building efforts initiated
under the first Toot project. More specifically the proposed project will
assist OGDC in preparing a new exploration promotion program to stimulate
greater interest by private oil companies in exploration in Pakistan as well
as in continuing exploration in gas prone areas of no interest to private oil
companies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
71.     The proposed project was prepared by OGDC with assistance from con-
sultants and Bank staff. It was appraised in January 1983. Negotiations
took place in Washington from May 10 to May 13, 1983; the delegation from
Pakistan was led by Mr. Mukhtar Hasood, Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum and
Natural Resources. No separate appraisal report has been prepared for the
proposed exploration loan. Supplementary project data are contained in Annex
III.



-19-
Project Objectives
72.     The proposed project has two main objectives:  (i) to accelerate the
exploration of natural gas in Pakistan; and (ii) to enhance the chances of
joint-venture exploration by both foreign and domestic private oil companies.
Despite good prospects for new gas discoveries, a well developed gas market
and infrastructure, and severe emerging gas shortages, foreign oil companies
have shown no interest in gas exploration in Pakistan. OGDC's exploration in
the next few years will therefore focus on gas prone areas and the small oil
fields in the Potwar basin of no interest to foreign oil companies. At the
same time, vigorous promotion of the oil potential of Pakistan will be
required if the participation of foreign oil companies is to be maintained or
increased over the next few years.
Project Description
73.     The three principal elements of the proposed project are:  (i) the
drilling by OGDC of about six exploratory wells on gas prospects; (ii)
regional seismic profiles totaling about 3,000 kms to identify new explora-
tion targets; and (iii) regional basin studies designed to identify petroleum
prospects followed by promotion of these prospects to the international oil
industry.
74.    More than a dozen untested petroleum prospects have been identified
by OGDC, and further prospects are expected to be identified as the seismic
program proceeds. Two firm gas well locations, Loti and Afiband (IBRD Map
No. 17072R), have been selected and the remainder would be selected as
exploration proceeds. If the earlier wells prove to be discoveries, sub-
sequent wells may be appralsal/delineation wells to ensure rapid follow-up.
75.     Because of the need to remain flexible to permit selection of well
locations on the basis of new geological information to be obtained from
future exploration, (i) OGDC and the Bank would undertake a joint semi-
annual review of OGDC's exploration program and priorities as well as
progress in project implementation; (ii) OGDC would submit the proposed
location, depth and drilling program (including casing, cementing, coring,
logging and testing) for Bank-financed wells to the Bank for approval; and
(iii) Bank-financed wells would not be abandoned until the Bank has had an
opportunity to comment (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
76.     To facilitate the promotion of Pakistan's petroleum prospects and
investment by the international petroleum industry, the proposed project
would include both regional basin studies and a program of re-ional seismic
surveys. The basin studies would be designed to provide a basis for predict-
ing and evaluating oil and gas "plays," i.e., prospective geological areas.
The project would include the acquisition of about 3,000 km of largely
regional reconnaissance seismic profiles as well as the purchase of new, more
sophisticated computer processing equipment suited to the needs of OGDC.



-20-
77.     A central objective of the exploration program would be to increase
private sector investment to complement OGDC's efforts. Following the recent
unsuccessful offering of acreage, and given the depressed exploration
environment worldwide, an immediate further attempt to promote investment is
not warranted. However, OGDC and GOP intend to develop and implement a
detailed plan for a promotional campaign designed to attract private sector
exploration based on preliminary results of the proposed basin studies by
July 31, 1984 (Section 3.04(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). They
have also indicated that they would consider proposals by private oil com-
panies to carry out exploration on any open areas prior to that date. If
during project implementation a private oil company is granted a license to
carry out exploration within any area selected for exploration under the
project, GOP would reallocate the unused proceeds of the loan to carry out a
substitute program satisfactory to the Bank with comparable objectives (Sec-
tion 3.04(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
78.     The General Manager of Exploration of OGDC would manage the explora-
tion program, with assistance from seven senior technical personnel. This
team, to be advised on an us-required basis by an experienced exploration
consulting firm, would be responsible for: selecting new locations and
formulating the drilling program for exploratory wells; design and implemen-
tation of the regional seismic program; and implementation of the basin
studies and promotion efforts.
79.     Exploration consultants would be provided to assist OGDC in com-
prehensive exploration studies and promotion of the petroleum potential. The
consultants would provide services over a three-year period and would super-
vise and carry out parts of the regional basin studies which are to form the
basis of renewed promotion efforts. They would also advise OGDC in the
implementation and interpretation of the exploration activities of the
project; and assist OGDC in the formulation and implementation of its promo-
tional campaign. OGDC would employ by December 31, 1983, qualified consult-
ants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to carry out these
tasks (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). Terms of reference for
the consultants were agreed with OGDC at negotiatiovc.
80.     The driliSng of three of the exploration wells would be undertaken by
OGDC Drilling Department.  Qualified expatriate drilling services contractors
would manage OGDC rigs and would supply the skilled personnel needed for
drilling operations. International drilling contractors wi!th their own rigs
would drill the three remaining wells as well as perform special operations
such as well logging, testing, cementing, perforating and rubular goods
inspection.
81.     The seismic program would be undertaken by two OGDC crews over a
three-year period. OGDC's data processing unit would process the seismic
data, and the exploration project management team would supervise the seismic



-21-
program. OGDC, with the assistance of local contractors, would install
necessary surface facilities and prepare well locations.
Project Costs and Financing
82.     The project, which would be implemented over a period of about three
years, is estimated to cost US$107.1 million equivalent, including the capi-
talized front-end fee, duty and taxes. The foreign exchange component of the
project is estimated at US$59.5 million, or 56% of the total cost.
83.     The drilling and equipment costs are based on detailed lists of
materials and services prepared by OGDC from recent experience; a physical
contingency of 30% has been applied to the base cost of well drilling and
completion and 10% on all other cost items. These rates are based on recent
experience in similar areas. Costs have been calculated in 1983 prices, with
price contingencies on foreign costs of 7.5% for 1984 and 7.0% per annum
thereafter and 8% per annum an local costs. The expected average cost per
man-month for the various foreign engineering and consultancy services
required (24 man-months) is US$18,500 including foreign travel and
subsistence.
84.     The proposed Bank loan of US$51.5 million would cover about 48% of
the total net project cost and about 87% of the foreign exchange cost; it
represents less than 10% of OGDC's total investment program for the period
FY83-86.
85.     The foreign exchange costs of oil field services, oil field and
geophysical equipment and materials, engineering and consultancy for the
project estimated at US$51.5 million would be financed from the proceeds of
the Bank loan. A contribution by OGDC corresponding to the costs assigned to
the use of OGDC's rigs is estimated at US$1.8 million equivalent, this con-
tribution is not included in the cost estimates for the purpose of the
proposed project, as no cash expenditures are involved. In addition,
materials and equipment, mostly tubular goods such as casing, amounting in
value to $8 million would be co-financed by the Government using bilaterial
lines of credit. The proposed Bank loan wvuld be made to GOP who would
provide the loan proceeds to OGDC as an exploration grant.
Procurement and Disbursements
86.     Procurement of items proposed for Bank financing would be through
international competitive bidding (ICB) according to Bank guidelines, with
the exception of up to US$2.0 million of goods and services which would be
procured through limited international tendering because of the highly-
specialized nature of the items and the small number of available suppliers.
Specialized consulting services estimated to cost US$0.5 million would be
obtained in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



-22-
87.     Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made for the front-end
fee and against 100% of foreign expenditures for (a) oil field services,
engineering and consultants, (b) equipment, materials and spare parts; and
(c) seismic data processing system. For locally manufactured equipment,
disbursements would be made against 100% of the ex-factory cost.
Disbursements against all items would be fully documented. The proposed loan
is expected to be fully disbursed by the end of FY87.
Oil and Gas Development Corporation
88.     Management and Organization.  OGDC's management is vested in a Board
of five directors appointed by the Government, including a Chairman who is
Chief Executive. OGDC employs about 3,500 staff, including 600 skilled
workers. Over the last 10 years it has suffered from a number of managerial
and financial weaknesses which have hampered its efficiency. Under the first
Toot Project GOP undertook a comprehensive management study of OGDC with
assistance of consultants financed by the U.K. The main recommendations of
the study were the need to simplify the management structure, increase sub-
stantially the delegation of authority to operational units and strengthen
the financial and control systems. The Bank was directly involved with
OGDC/GOP in the review of the findings of the study. As a result of this
review, the Government has initiated measures to reform managerial deficien-
cies in OGDC and is following up on suggestions for streamlining OGDC's
financial systems. Greater autonomy has been delegated to OGDC's field
operations at Toot; a separate holding company has been established for the
development of the Pirkoh field; and initial steps have been taken to adjust
compensation levels to retain and attract technical personnel. In additio2,
a specific financial management action program to continue improvements ir
the accounting, management information and materials control functions has
been agreed with the Bank and implementation of the program has started
(Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement). The proposed project provides
for continuing support to the program.
89.     Financial Position.  OGDC's activities have so far been financed
almost exclusively from GOP budget transfers, with a negligible contribution
from internal cash generation. In part this resulted from large exploration
and development expenditures which have not yet been matched by corresponding
increases in production. OGDC's present financial position is therefore
weak. Production is low and prices, which are set by the Government, have
been inadequate to cover costs. The Government has agreed to various actions
which will correct this situation.
90.     Until recently the Toot oil price was Rs 44 per barrel (US$3.50) and
for associated gas Rs 2 per MCF (US$0.16).  In April 1983, GOP increased the
Toot oil price to the same level as Meyal oil (US$10 per barrel) for all
wells drilled since the award of the higher price to new wells at Meyal,
i.e., December 1981, which accounts for about 75Z of current production.  The
Government is now negotiating a further price increase for Meyal oil and is
expected to maintain parity between Mayal oil prices and Toot oil prices,



-23-
which would involve a further increase in the price of Toot oil. GOP has
also agreed that OGDC will be permitted to retain its earnings until it is
able to meet its operating costs and debt service related to development
operations, and contribute a reasonable share of its exploration and develop-
ment requirements from internal cash generation (Section 3.07 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
91.    For newly-discovered oil, private oil companies operating under joint
venture concession agreements are paid the world market price less a domestic
market discount. GOP has agreed that, for oil fields discovered as a result
cf the proposed project, the oil price would be set at the world market price
less an appropriate domestic market discount (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement), the same principle now applied to private oil companies in
Pakistan. Adoption of this principle is an important step away from the
previous cost-plus approach and holds promise, in the event of discovery, of
medium term financial viability for OGDC.
92.    For newly-discovered gas, under GOP's new producar pricing formula,
private oil companies are to be paid a "base price" set to earn a negotiated
real discounted cash flow rate of return and the base price would be indexed
to changes in world oil prices. GOP has agreed that, for gas fields dis-
covered as a result of the proposed project, the gas price paid to OGDC would
be established according to this same price formula (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
93.    The pricing strategy outlined above is aimed at making each of OGDC's
development projects profitable so that, when a sufficient production level
is reached, it should achieve an acceptable position on its revenue account
and meet a portion of its ongoing exploration and development expenditures
from internal cash generation. Over time it should move to a position where
it can substantially reduce its present reliance on budget transfers and
gradually increase its access to commercial borrowing.
Project Benefits and Risks
94.    There is no doubt that Pakistan has a number of undrilled gas
prospects. The proposed project would be an initial step in reviving gas
exploration which virtually ceased in the fifties. As with most exploration
projects, not enough is known at this stage to quantify the economic
benefits. The justification for this component rests on a qualitative
assessment of three types of risks: geological, technical and economic.
95.    The geological risk is that no significant reserves of gas would be
found. This risk is lower than exploration in non-producing areas since all
exploratory wells would be drilled on confirmed structures near established
reservoirs and would have as their targets geologc formations known to be
productive in adjacent areas. G.od source and reservoir rocks are abundant
and (except at Afiband where terrain makes it impossible) sub-surface struc-
ture would be delineated prior to drilling through detailed seismic programs.



-24-
The geologic risk would be minimized through flexible design of the drilling
program so that additional well locations are selected only after reviewing
the most current exploration results.
96.    The technical risk is that the project may not be completed effi-
ciently due to difficulty in drilling and testing the wells. The risk is
not high since no abnormal formation pressure or lost circulation zones have
been encountered in wells near the proposed locations. Experienced contract
drilling crews would operate the rigs, and the exploration consultants would
be available to advise on the design and implementation of drilliug progrms-.
A substantial coQtingency has been included in drilling costs to provide for
unexpected drilling problems or delays.
97.    The economic r_sk is that discoveries would be too small or too low
quality to justify development. In the area to be explored, terrain is rough
and access difficult, reservoir quality and formation pressures are often
below average, and low BTU gas bas been encountered. For the Loti prospect,
because the Pirkoh pipeline passes close by, the minimum economic reserve
size is only 100 BCF compared to "expected" (i.e., probability weighted)
reserves of 1,400 BCF. The expected net present value of Loti is positive
even with a 90% dry hole risk. For Afiband, because of costlier access and
the need for a long pipeline, the minimm economic reserve size is about 400
BCF, although this would be reduced significantly if jointly developed with
the adjacent Dhodak and Rhodo discoveries. This compares with "expected"
reservas of 900 BCE. For both prospects the probability of encountering
reserves greater than the minimum economic size is high and the risks are
considered acceptable. A similar analysis of future potential locations
would be undertaken to minimize the risks and to maximize the total benefits
of the exploration program.
PART V - LEGAL   TAND A ORITY
98.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Oil and Gas
Devel.- znt Corporation (OGDC) and the Report of the Comuittee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of he
project are listed in Schedule III of Annex III. Approval by ECNEC of the
PC-1 documents for the project would be an additional condition of
effectiveness.
99.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



-25-
PART VI - lU;CI
100.   I recouwend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clau en
President
Attacbments
September 15, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-26-
ANNEX I
TX".634                                                Page  1
- lowT lup  lubl
mucmsmSQ. M.)                     -                                    Cfiny)
TOThL           8w.9                              806? U     R mW   15                  HZ01.62803N
AC3WiLIU'~AL    249.9            1960 lb   10 tb IBM= lb            ASM & FAWIF         *      PACIC
GIW PSI C A  MSS)                  70.0      130.0    300.0             261.4                  390.1
UERGP COmsUMlO. M cAVr
(         or 0    L  ElwrvAW)    132.4     190.6    209.2              448.7                 701.7
ND VTrL s      s
POPMATItO. K(D-M  CZUNSD) 4581.0    609.0  8213.0
0L3* POPUIAXIMN PCP8r 0r 20AL) 22.1         24.9      23.2             17.3                   32.4
POPnAUN PROJECStM
POPUIAXIOS IN  *  2000 CtIULIS)                    134.S
STAT7O0A*T POPULATI0  CZ [L2.O1)                   300                  .
TEAS sTATIIAT POPLIIO  IS MACM                   2125.
POPULATION UICSmn
PE SQ. XD.                    57.0       75.2      ".2              158.1                 235.9
PER SQ. X. AGICULTURAL TAMD   200.4      2489    31.9                355.9                1748.0
POPUIATIO  AG STCNZ (NCEN)
0-14 us.                       43.8       46.3      4.5               36.8                  39.9
15-64 uS.                       51.6       50.5     50.7              59.7                   56.
65 TS. AND ARM                   4.4        3.2       2.6              3.5                    3.3
PO TiIon GmRurs RA= (PUCm)
TOTAL                           2.3        2.3       3.1               2.0                   2.3
URBAN                           4.6        4.0       4.3              3.3                    3.9
CdUDE SM  WUE (Pt 10158)    51.3            47.4      43.6             29.3                   31.8
CR UE WA73 R7E CPU11  0U )    24.3          19.9      16.0             11.0                    9.5
GlCRSS REPSONUCTIO   A            3.7        3.5      3.0               2.0                    2.0
PARILY PLA3nZS
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL CUOUSAS)       -.      1909.1   2005.0c.
nEtS (P        or XAMo ItUM)   .-           .-       6.07e           19.3                   36.3
PdOW AND  1 1Rrl
IDEZ. OF 0WD HODDIrI
PER CAPrT  (19694-71-10)       89.0      102.0    101.0             106.1                  113.6
PM CAPITA SUPL Or
CALORIE CPEaCENr or
REQuIRINENIS)                87.6        97.1    9a-aid             97.3                 106.4
HOPKIrS (GRAMS PER NLT)        5S.1       59.8      62Q.             56.9                   54.4
OF WRICA ANImAL AND IUlSE    23.3        20.1     19.971?           20.0                  13.9
CHILD (AM 1-4)  NTALUY WM        25.4       21.5      17.6             10.9                    6.7
EALIS
L SEPECrAN  AT 31B1R (TCARS)   43.3         46.Z     49.8              57.3                   59.8
DNFANZ NDOMLIT MUt  (PU
TNISAND)                        16.5       143.0    125.5              89.1                   63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE 1A4711 (mCr OF
POPULATnON)
TOrAL                            ..       21.0      29.0             32.9                   32.0
*x                               ..       77.0      60.0             70.7                   51.9
RURAL.                           ..        4.0      17.0             22.2                   20.5
ACCESS 'M ECIEIA DISPOSAL (PRCENT
OF LoPWAMON)
TrAL                             ..        3.0       6.0            1l.1                    37.7
au"                                       12.0      21.0             72.7                   65.7
URAl.                            ..         ..        ..              4.7                   24.0
POPULATION PESI PISICIAN       5396.8     4299.Vf 3775.11. f         3297.8                 04.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PScW   18961.8    1     0   9O030.3           4929.3                 4829.4
POPLATION PER WSPITAL nE
TOM                          1794.5     I80.1   103 4J. f           1100.4                1067.5
Ulrs"                         506.6      648.1    n2.W7.f           301.3                  651.6
RDUL                             ..    12478.5  11870.1I..f        5815.7                 2597.6
Ar0015ONS 0PER soXTAL BED          ..         ..       ..                ..                  27.0
NOUSIUC
VERACE SIZE OF IOUSKoLD
TorAL                           5.4        5.3
URBAN                           5.6        5.5
RAL                             5.4        5.2
AVERAGE SLUM OF P2RSO1  M ROOM
TOTAL                           3.1        2.8        .
URBAN                           3.1        2.
RURAL                           3.1        2.8
ACSS To ELECUIaT? CPERCENT
OF ThIELLINCS)
TOTAL                            ..       17.9        .
ma                               ''       54.4        '
RUAL                             ..        4.94,



-27-
ANNEX I
Page 2
34=
-- P    383 DM 335=
PaZZITAl             3auzwuuu GlRQU5iuu
mm   near    x       M zGN
1360 lb   170 r /b 3IUM           AMS PA*C            AM *AC
EDCA
MU-        3U0 2 RAZS
IRM         TO= bon            30.0         4.0     56.0              97.4               6.a
nu11               44.0        a.C a     1.0             101.0              33.I
Fm01Z              13.0       24.0      31.0              67.3                2.1
SzCOKA:  TOTL                  11.0        14.0     16.0              53.0               37.6
Rs        o        1n.0       22.0      24.0              63.6              41.1
1501Z               3.0        6.0       6.0              41.3              34.1
VcAmO. mOL. cZor SDCu.o   1.50                3        1.4               1.7              20.6
13144                          39.6       41.5      40.1              37.7              35.5
sEcanW                         24.0        19.6     18.7              20.2              25.0
AW.T LTZRAC*  R=  (13KC37        15.0/1     20.7/i   24.0               52.1              73.1
coauDSW
iM       cas U mSD
IOIUUAZZ0                       1.5        2.6       2.3/e             1.5               9.8
u IDO cg m    130 94*8
IOIUIA?U                        6.0       17.1      65.3              35.4             118.5
TV    zE3 IX m IOI
POMAu                            ..        3-6       9.4               3.2              37.6
IYAPC ("D= =CU
IsTnzsr) cIzoJLMOs PL
130a9   POPULTION                13.2          .      13.7              16.4              53.7
C1Xl AUWAL ATS33NAM MR CAPrrA 0.8            3.014    2.4               3.6                2.8
LASO
YtL.*    FUS  CnUloDs)  1447.7    17364.1 2Z717.1
1EALK (CPUCUT                   8.6        9.3      10.2              Z9.5              33.6
AGRICULTURE (13413?            61.0       59.0      57.0              70.0              52.2
mUSS? CIUCEx)                  1l.0       1N.0      20.0              15.0              17.S
PAJ2MXCPATIWO RATE C1ERCUT)
ToTAL.                           31.5       28.7      27.7              40.0              38.5
At.                              55.2       50.4      47.2              51.8              50.5
FEPALZ                            5.7        5.5      5.9              23.8               26.6
E:OfIC DEPINDRC  RATIO              1.5        1.7      1                 1.0                1.1
uX,Cg DISTRINUTIOf
PZaCEAI Of FEIvAIT O01
REZIlED sr
37X3G5  PER CN O0 943LDS   20.3/k        17.8
UST 20 132013r or 350    45.37i           41.8
LOW.S 20 InGcr or 500529011    6.4W7       8.0
LOUiS? 40 PzCEIT 0o    D lsz1301s  17.571  20.2
PzmE37 TARcET GRTS
ISTINAD  B lUTE PERT7C10N
tDEL CUSS PER CAPXTA)
UDIAS..                                   6I.O/   176.0             133.8             194.7
RURAL  ..  47.071  122.0           111.5              155.1
ESTINATED RELATVE POVET 13
XLVEL CUSS PE CAPITA)
123341                           ..       34.0/1   88.0                ..              17.2
RURAL                            ,,       22.M7!   5S.0                ,,              164.9
eTESTDmED POPULATIOELOW ABSOLUTE
101VER  INCOME LEVEL (PRCET)
UInEM                            ..       42.0,1   32.0               43.3              24.4
RURAL                            ..       43.01   23.0                 1.7              41.1
lot avalable
Not applcaba.
In  She group averages for each indieator are popo2ation-einhted arltluetic _m . Corzage of comtris
mong the indicatora depends on availability of data and to not gaifors.
/b  Uhim  otherln moted. data for 1960 refer to any yer between 1359 and 1961; for 1970. betwen 1969
and 19n; ead for Most RecestE-ci-E. betwen  1973 and 1980.
2c  1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; If Registered. not all practicing Ia tbe contrr..   1973;
Zb1 19iO  It 1972; a 1961 /Ik 1938.
may. 1932



-28-                                                                      ARME I
Page 3
vwmm
_.  _,                            memam_  Wo-
_stimily taumabla harass. at aba lah_it  iiia.distiatim  m  muapt asathp illha m- TI  Ia %lat- t-                        - d    m  __ _a    r ca _ e
thai.. ala isastibaa.d.a t smlLdaOimiatempndS pow abtmtaala. maMcmi. dltl aavma haMsM. mmmio.l..s ecme fotn
ml ismma   sa- as (1  ml   a asmy psp at ba .hJat --,W. a.t  2 a -    m  pr Sil bLbea sfn       tmt amsf  as ab.- abs  km,tppa
ts  ml l .atm      ls..   1. absa r.Es.ma ira- isitfts -ba nm     -a 2palata sit%W. aritiMi    "mm. tar may -M4aa lb  .bs     ma me
a ansVS-     a  slas*.  tam  m       m     a    asim        .   e               t                                 s
LWI C        e      iims ml            m  -  sa"          ; o sa.s.2faslals 'mmS                                                             be"- aa.  i.sa   s.!-pgsais  tt
?aal-  a- s ttm    mm apswsiaiag1. a mm d - lsa Commar. W  lE data..        -"&abs. ato      4151. am   ti tasma atisa p... a bsspla boat.
ow rtit cwm     Ciw t -p  _i" a s            -sma:r _Is            -            dia m_     -   _ ialai."I  hastla. ba-. ma. %..Us
talatI.   by mam sa msma    -tb  as Wwii SL islas OLitAi  basla; 1910.             amd miSs.! cmmtat  wet Puimmatip atata by a Ibyaim  (bat by a
.a lUu  a.i I-                                                                                :         s 1. _sa. .   *rb alw a.9 m  _.
isi  l thd  a- lislas ram at asilai la.iaIms  Vat atatia-
amw y        rs         lm  -   l msa        s-at t      ilD mw _ml                  ti_a f         abm h      la  imiM  _  fim i _   _j1p* rn.l _ .p_LWW.
m it,, psaml-. _st-a  _S  ml lydsa .mis.1 -l ptbaas.I slt                            sr        itals.  ata a. wsin   hitala m_ mural         ta
U")ta  is -.ktrm   a eas c    .a0sdas  P- ra: 11. I1De. *l 19                      tsts- ra. S.Islld isastaLa ma Siaded mlp mis.o_ tot".
daa                                                                              AiWsS pw a   a-IsL  t  - T_a tal          f O. t e _t    sbma    W iis.  st                       -
has Uiltata dialisi y "A          me  bds..
PoPIHurt. AN VITAL lrTxaimc
Tatal p"a      . Imm, _id-T       ) -  At a  Idy .; 1__. 33. ad lao                l_
_t                                                                                                   l s             rn       - _ _alt at.  l M  t r ML-
_ P. PASs_a  c a   me tatal -  mcs. a_ sIl   M taet psPaLaCSim                     a _ .. W."   a         at  pra  aR. i.Swala %        l
ilItMa   datallm  si at   mamm say a-ti   rsaSrabliay at data,                    ml  ll  m. .ala  & Isara  W. 14mw  W- a. my    be 2Ia." is
-man      t     Mod.sl   INS. 1910.  IW lu  dta.          _l a                                     c W ta ta   p_pm
Fa-.lasimm. praia.aiaa. -s-                                                                    at _5.mm ma-am - _  e. l ass -                     * m-
Plasiati  Is - asr       - Caras la-latlat prajattia   mam basd - ISMa  tpam    am   ssl  ta.m  sin~ftai MaWoai inmmom it
tat1K psatiCm  , M   ( ma             ui  -ays m  laitili tt       l      Y      lIsga. 1ssgMtIlp.         i1n1                       -I ,.
iasl. L t-i         IE. asMt        I-siws a,t 77.3 7ma. Th paa                C:                                    S.tiM d   ab  i   i  _d  a mmtmA
ml tsalti   aiim.   a =      ai. p     ..                   _a -a                             r     a
_.~ c. -C"                                 _      _      _*_J                    _dip    _m   C fmm  ,-cmbwm_ _f-CL
rq _          - I. a _tts-Y papaLats tbmis _rmb   .m,                                        .a. ml I... - has. atat_. mi.    t a!sn.
abs br a   ism  WAaL t. tbh  ds  vs.... ml ala... abs  h tm.        5.-                    a l            taa  f  mya la    a   - t          a.arcti m
mis. cmt-st.  This 1s athiasa  asy alte  hKZ7U  ra   datUm- t                    primN, dmImi-ap                 -Ualaia;saTy INatl" thils  *W S-U
lb -am-P-mC lewal af mt ma m      aisra  maCm. %bs   wb M-rmts.                  Yms 1st aiatra  far dltts.   Iautbs IC frimay edatim   tar
._r 'mm aa     ita-it -MT  .    . .stns-_ID_y VapSiats. "M m                    C5iS Sb Ds.1ss.55i             eti m ma a- mc_n zoo _arme
Cstaa a  lbs bSi  t  ,b vasistad ab ... ariati  .r ab Paltts                      m   m, a-is mau, balm a  b can  Uatil askal me-
Is ilb  "M  2000. _l    ma.a dm1.  C  lat          r      r_pl-                S*t..    m  Ii - rao.ms ml t" n). - cpmma *M sibmae            sa
mat la-i                         d  7mmtim  taii-O                                               at-lass. sar 01  ys. at aSpIi V p _ _ 11mmt,
a"M sI&l ha raasi                                                                     y of 12 Ws 17 is..atm a asssaSshs.s              am m  maiivF
* Ed-pmm Paala-is-m .rs   hlmasa IID0 b. ) t                           at i         -t   aq            s       - ,  __
a.!as:19 W  1930 -l 2979 dma                                              latiak  Pabta. a       ra       . S   a paga   W1b aPsa    imldw-
ar.._        ta   In  - Catd a. _b    ta  srlsLtr-a. i-m                    a-s, W at, dpaa. _asm y lstuttm.
Lm 11W. _ 1     191 s                                a-..                    Pai            .sa    -  M  -. ml ...       - TM" _s a  ... al  iS
has"mlara  Alp Saisarar (amam  - Chl2dam 0-14 ym.)d. mahlas-mwa (1-                prima mml- aasda  Lasal ilSiim by m a  at t, v        a in 2m,
tm I lG. 117        l. d                                                        At                    s       Ltt       .6.t. tabl __ Ws   l arimad
Fa salrsa talzc Es.  *_raa  - tars _-1 mulpst  as.a  sa    -                      as   amtsaa  aa    al  aaal. _p   S _m   ml a_U.
7m PPSaLWAtI   a. 11W0-S. last-iS. ml 1754
Is                 ar -Cm..                   prasib  ta t a         p-
s   is. 1930-40. 110-I _9 f 2C-   40.                                                  C. Ca-s   cd P                            _   - _-U- m -
C   . sa. 5C. a_Osd) - As           . bL     ma d-     C _d-7                       .wi  la _         e           a     s a- 
fsplatim: lup. 1v. ml                    1 data.                              stlm              (y r- tU                       - 1- _
.spalstl; 1110.19                                                           brm a i   asraL pallc FM t_aas SI fPS Iatim' ma c             ams-s _
tram isradataa. s. - &-.     sa0 atdrml am           - ill bm is              Lis-"  -.sI-a. is ra.Satsiaa         Y- ml i p.   m  6..agitrsia  S  -ad.
ba mini rarsdml- pa-4if  1      mariasta-ImmO am   ataP-Afstl   Ims,        mao mam isatt   s.I.  ractastm%W--  past as ma W  ha aOsaalm, aims
alil, ra..; .aasly  a-r-.sam   mdi..m is 150. 192. ml Is.                   mac. amaias balabd lis-ssia.
rat                               h.--aWaldsts  ma   masa   .ta-.L tasU1 plasa ..prasam.   sa-sYa ful, m   t-paalToa moaladam mi a I          asis.
Pinup Vim!.. -Sass.X i{_ss_ma at asartad mas  - Psaraw--     at asr                is mmiaa md is y_n.  s- sMia mt, at TV  m  ma to attath.
a.f *t Dhlds.ls  _a 19-sis.)11.~ _ta.ata  d.lm  t.                         _    sas     Cl_;Irm   a   bamdaalst) -                  _l am    1.
all  D mariad   is sam a _r pam.                                                 aslatlas at i.ily     al -tarast ..._as.. ittii as. .."W _dr-
-we          1. mmm,m IF X.Wp i                                                          dadr         l wois  ama irl. mea. _t  avor isada
lads. at imi praEaraiaa ma Car. (1965-71-IN)   Is_at  r rafts _ml                Ctin is!  s-a   d.    at. "  tsa               -        I       at
frdmls at all tas _mdajs  Prdtaa tslas  _in  ml 11mithaasi  alsm   a.   mai.ausasi it_s-i  a 
F s ANDaad.pmbai-ii,.  ass.  rip   m. s-.   mm                                     m  intlw mif r     pa.  mMumt mm  smm   
a,m    aaa)  aims   rhtia t a__; _8y  is_ -_  _ s.                           I.  _ 1 _
*t       amss _ra    p              -d _   l _ b aSs  ts111 f141. 1920. -  lWu i.  l      Parts  sm                      mi          ma.Im,ci
a          i      bts   r     at s         _       -      d t                    ad at  _                  bat  tadi           s -t  at
*U -W) uc  S-  Ml   4 c-"  --tl                    1 f. Xtt _f   * _
m  *-    imiishl apwi-        &r . i     2utr rI     . Ima_ . las                -c asAta     IW. 191  ml 11W data
-sars.i  tb-sa is Ctek. ia  appllss   lai- mimi C."d. asada.                !.g     ].~       - Pa-" labs  ma. as faltatag  at taaL lab, lmass.
satisa mad iS fti  Irml l                   A. ilatriAtim.Eal-                             7ft~  _ n.- lab  _ast I. f       . ar.      (mis_ m_t
imam-  "alatad by Ma b.- as plyallsaal  mad -ta  mii   U wl.hIts as tartasw at  cata  labs. ast; lE. 1920 -A lu  is..
-s  bt asilmajts  tara ta  ta-s           e    _f b_y _atus, bad,I=iP.. ma                    . abs  la-t. Is s". amatirai. _a_ tEamia
mmadlatrlbatla  at pattm.ml .11*.  WD ps-tm tar mats aC                        ml -&-t"..tt. mrs. ml .5 as P--aKtp  at tat. labs tars.;
i._    Id Slaa  195). 1910 -a 1977 data                                           1
P    ft. -prly _t 1 t". (W. _         )E P- r et-    a_1at                                                                         - _s.   SW
p apLSt r         i                                     ba.  s-                t.r                   t as  sm   -                  bs. tat ,a                                  L
-*D das at 40 iG ma at att  irsai  tC    ml 20   m _t- mIIm                         0. 1w 90. m  190 dmes  7ha  m_a ba.-sd as Vale f.c_itlei  amm
PafaS. at 113h Wf  ma- a U ha mimi fatais.  M.- am-                               afltt  . matra   _-. t1ab _ppsm    -m  la.  i tia f             A 
mias past. a aa a  ta abs ma. _  am  by 1  is. abs 1Th&"                       isamIct _aml- y ftis_ - NM.t Cpafalam mi. 13  "    ml
_uId IPOsUa D111.4). 1W9  ml 1917 daa                                            a  bs wta   lab  tart.
Wareasta aStisM""l ir.mm  m   sa  Paafta  suply at Imi is-
.d_ sI  .rmIm. ipla _. is            par ds; 1_16-4. 191   l 1977 d_at-    U_           w
chIld (.i- 1-h) isath Eats tsar am-d) - A.sl isaCba "a timami is                 P =rataSatpia=    1mm (bath is  -ha -l khim) - isism1-  by rWhim
apr  Ssp1-4 7ass  Wa ahUim 1. aSia MP mm.  I.m    alpa    a                         at.   rlabsa      wv atsa. parmmat 20 3am-m. ml~f P-as-* 40 fsm
Iris. data darisad Iri.   abas lug. 19210 ml two da..                            a     .*r _ t   -l_.
Lil dIsa   -7 at Stea (M-) - &-Mr -o-. a   ss at  l.r               ha           'A. f_l-iat m1mas. a.   a _ppait. 1mamas  F faa r ss 
at huShd 1m. iS ml4  i.. data.m  a_    ha a t_ arta  Sa                                                         mmidaata
latastlt ibatlit fisa. _m  amD) - is    aia  titsS sd-  pm                       Etatddbit  _aty Xms  ss  (Im   -m)-ab m  sr_i _
r. sit. m    a  (amas. a as.PIaaia) -                                           ma.am.m   arl-bn  srtmVIally -adaqast a 4t ri-. s. ilL -sa.as  0waqairam, is -M
aba                   ss,-FM   a      l rc Fba la mss.  *. J7ts                  stDadbls.
mUK" a-ply 0imj    cata  sa,ts   a a. W Aa.d bat mamainsatsd                   taftmla   s_ati. Pec. t_cZ-              ma     t) - _Mc  ad rV  -
dmai ab as h_         pratattd ha       . ariap.       8a7 aLa) as.lrW W. UT                                                             m  aC-ts
Ps.-mtm- aE thai sWwm=1a  wpslsmc .    - aci   a    a pabii                      psmi 1mm   t bsaNtry.  isb   Ia.r la _ia.s.d Itsmm  _ara gm
ftamLa a. apmmc la dm  ma.a1im 90 mmta- Irs. is  -W m .                          Ua." _sa  ajma W ta       i   a    at UCm  In Cb    C
-Is  _tm. *-li isl  1-1 l a            t-    a. i-rs St ml is id- Z" -m          m- ss.al-a            atfiit. MM    I
_ m-  a. Emst EaPaslhpra  at matts) - to              .     . m l  E rsara_P b -m
_mPr *r Pa_i  t(as. mr. ml               m      by m      di _    as-
pa9 *st    -a C  tat  w a-tt    a-psIstim.s- OE mea dispasal my Imlads
_l milassim  ml rtaSma  ia _.b *-  Slix commummo.. a- i      m
ml mataw  by mts..sts.  a  m ad f     ms a by a--  C t   gains m  ai -e                                                                  -_
is. MataliatmS _
_   _      _         w _mas._ata    m.          r __!mas.m
_-    _ m         _a  _lrdi_-r  Icm._



-29-
ANNe I
Page 4
ECO?JONIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTU CZ, constant prices)
USS billion    r                1969170-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP at Market Prices            31.68     100.0                     3.5              6.3           5.0
Gross Domestic Investment        5.14       16.2                   -5.5              5.4           11.9
Gross National Saving            3.70       11.7                   -2.1              8.2           8.0
Current Account Balance         -1.53      -4.8
Resource Gap                    -3.48     -11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 /a
Value Added         Labor Force       V.A. Per Worker
058 million    2    USS million    7    USS million    r
Agriculture                     7.825       29        13.5      51         580       58
Industry                        6.827      26          5.2      20       1,313      131
Services                       12.053      45         7.0       29       1,526      152
Total/Average                26.705     100         26.6     100       1.004      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                            Central Governiant
(Rs billion)           2 of GDP              (Rs Fillionl            Z of GDP
1981/82      1981182   1977 78-L81-32       1981/82      1981t82   1977/78-1981/32
Current Recepts                  51.2          15.9          1S.8              39.0         12.1            12.4
Current Expenditures              44.4         13.8          14.1              34.1         10.6            10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit           6.8          2.1            1.7               4.9          1.5             1.8
Capital Expendtures              27.0          8.4            9.3              21.2          6.6             7.4
External Assistance (net)         6.3           2.0           2.8               6.3          2.0             2.8
NiONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981182 b/
Money and Quasi Money                      33.1      41.6     51.7     63.7     76.S    90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)          17.5    22.7      29.5     34.3    43.1      48.1     54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)       19.7     23.1     30.1     35.7     42.7    50.6      58.7     70.7
Money and Quasi Money as X CDP              29.5     31.5     34.6     36.7    39.0    38.3       37.0      35.5
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70-100)       211.3    229.4    255.3    271.4    289.7    316.7    358.R    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                       Z3.6      8.6     11.3      6.3      6.7      9.3      13.3     11.1
Bank Credit to Piblic Sector (net)         21.2      29.4     18.8     16.6     25.6     11.6     12.5      10.7



-30-
_  EX I
Paige 5
BALANCE OF PAVNETS
CUSS . llS0)                                MUCAN ISe EXPORTS (AVERACING 1978/79-199118Z)
1976177  1977173  1978179  1979180  13OJ/81  a  1981/B2                                 OSS milLion         2
Exports of Goods. NFS            1.404    1,651    2,107    2,0S%    1,661        2.966        K   Cotton                    260.5         11.5
TIoprts of Goods. IS            2.B77    3.297   4b485    5 207       6 U6        6.611       Cotton TYrn                    131.3          8.1
Cotton Cloth                  230.4         10.2
Resource Cap (deficit - -)      -1.673   -1,646  -2,378  -2.754   -3,005         -3.47        Riee                          382.7         17.4
All Other Comditles         1196.9          52.9
interest Payment.                 -172     -183     -261     -285      -357        -453          Total                     2,261.8        100.0
Workers' Remittances               578    1,166    1,395    1,762    2,097        Z,Z25
Other Factor Payments (net)         15       62      134       151      274         345                EXTUE L  ET,  CEGl  31. 1981
Ner Transfers                                     ..       ..         ..
USS mlion
Balance on Carn-sw A :it        -1.052    -601   -1.110  -1.140        -991      -t,530
Public nebt, Including Cuaranteed       R.R13.9
Direct Foreign invest_ nt                                                                     Non-_guaranteed Private Debt /e
Set MLT Borrowint
Disbursements                    961      841      813    1,134       956       1,102         Total Outstanding and MDiburaed        8.313.4
Amortization                   -175      -122     -235     -310      -516        -492
DEBT SERWICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 /f
Sub-Total                        786      719      578      324       460         610                                               Percentage
Transact ion  wtth tIF/b            64       41      -14        78      315         358
Publilc Debte IncludEng CGaranteed        12.Z
Otier Iterm n.e.i. /c               26      163      238      600       527         V64       Won-aranteed Prlvate Debt
Increase tn leserveq  (-)          198     -322      308     -362      -291         198         Total                                    12.2
Cross Reseive. (year end)Jd        372      694      336       724   1,039          341        1Bi1/I1A LEtI C (DECEM   19R1) (US$ eillion)
IBRD    IDA
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                  1.6      1.7      1.8       1.R      1.3         l.R       Outstanding and Disbursed            310.1  906.3
Undtsbursed                          32.1   505.3
OutstadLng, Inctluding Undisbursed 342.2 r.646.1
Fuel and Related paterials
Petroleum LIports                  413      497      539    1,237    1,602        1.613
Petroleum Exports                   27       63       61       178      160        1[5
Rate of Exchange
ThDough May 11, 1972    may 11. 1972-Feb. 15. 1973    Feb. 1S. 1973-Jan. 7. 1982    Janaty 8-At. 31. 1932 Average
IUS  - Rs 4.7619            US$ - Rs 11.00                  U1S$ - is 9.90                    USS - Ru 11.46
Rai - USS0.2100             Rsl - USSO.0009                 Rel - USPO.101n                   Rs  - 0.087
/s Government estimate.
*__._-.__  v  ___ r  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6



-31.-
ANNlEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKLSTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31k 1983)
(USS illion)
Loan/                                                    (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                 Undis-
e               Number      Year    Purpose                               Bank   TW       IDA    bursed
Eighty-eight loans and credits futly disbursed /a    686.7  32.0    851.3/e
620       1976   Seed Project                                             23.0    6.2
630       1976   Second Lahore Water Supply              -                26.6    3.3
648       1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Rhairpur)        -                14.0    6.7
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Development            -      10.0     -        8.1
1372)     1977   Railways                                35.0            -        0.4
684 )     1977   Railways                                -                25.0    0.2
678       1977   Third Education                                          15.0    5.8
751       1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development          -                 3.0    1.2
754       1978   Salinity Control S Reclamation          -               70.0   68.6
755       1978   Hazara Forestry                         -                 1.7    1.4
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.              -                12.5    6.9
867       1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development              -                30.0    0.2
877        1979   Salinity Control & Reel. (Mardan)    -                 60.0   57.9
892       1979   Primary Education                       -                10.0    7.6
922       1979   Sind Agricultural lxtension             -                 9.0    9.0
957       1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP IV)   -                   30.0    3.7
968       1980   Third WAPDA Power                       -               45.0   30.5
974       1980   Third Hip,hway                          -                50.0   35.8
1019      1980   PICIC Industrial Developaent            -               40.0   10.1
1109/d    1981   Vocational Training                     -               25.0   24.6
1113ld    1981   Suall Industries                        -               30.0   29.2
115711    1981   Grain Storage                           -               32.0   31.7
115871    1981   Agricultural Research                                   24.0   24.0
11637     1981   On-Farm Water Management                -               41.0   36.2
1186/d    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP 1I)        -               30.0   27.5
2122      1982   Fourth Telecomunication                 40.0            -       40.0
2166      1982   Structural Adjustment                   60.0            -        2.1
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5               -       37.7
1239/b /d 193?   'rrEgntLon Systems Rehabtlitation    -                  40.0   40.0
124377 T1 1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.         -               14.0   14.0
1256/d    1982   Technical Assistance                    -                7.0    6.4
127871    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                -               50.0   49.9
221B7T;    1983   Refinery Engineering Project           12.0            -       12.0
Total                                                   872.2  42.0  1,609.1  638.7
of which has heen repaid                              461.8   0.6      32.8
Total now outstanding                                   410.4  41.4  1,576.3
Amolnt sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                       -       -       -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDATc                        410.4 Y11 1.576.    3
Total undishursed                                        92.3   8.1    538.3  638.7
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credtts whnlly or partly foe
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b  got yet effective.
/c  Prior to exchange adjustment.
7d  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenislutent denominated in SPRs.  The
principal is shown in USS equivalent at the time of negotiation.
Disbursed amounts are computed at the market rate on dates of
disbursements.
/e  By using the market rate ost dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-?kX (botht fully disblrsed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                              Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor               Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.        Products               0.63     --       0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75     -        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing              -      0.52       0.52
.975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980     Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       19.58    0.84      20.42
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.       Fertilizers            1.00    2.92      3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.           Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63      6.23
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.38      2.78
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.        Petrochemicals       29.00    1.82      30.82
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78     --       1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle 'Board       2.70     -        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17      3.32
1982     Asbestos              Cement                4.05     -         4.05
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                 Petrochemicals        88.65    1.55     90.20
Total Gross Commitments                   171.76   11.38    183.14
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              123.72    1.02    124.74
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          48.04   10.36     58.40
Undisbursed (including participants)    103.43    0.34    103.77



-33-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
r
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
30 months
(b) Agency wbich prepared project:
oil and Gas Development Corporation
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date of first
Bank mission to consider project:
may 1980
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:
January 22, 1983
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:
May 13, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
                            February 1, 1984
Section II:     Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



-34-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(i) If during project implementation a private oil company
proposes to carry out exploration within the project
area, the proceeds of the loan which would otherwise
have been spent in that area may be applied to a satis-
factory substitute program with comparable objectives
(paragraph 77).
(ii) The prices for oil discovered as a result of the project
shall be set at the world market price less an
appropriate domestic market discount (paragraph 91).
(iii) The prices for gas discovered as a result of the project
shall be established in accordance with a base price
formula satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 92).
l



-wW0  /NW   TOOT FIELD-CROSS SECTION. A-A   SE  70
+== _ _J50 _ _ -                                          -, 8 ,!.   
/71,,      2     ,bOt 71277          -6T- AA'SE1  0
)            ~~~* T-7    ,        /X/          J                                                             - 
9 D  HPrinciple ProductiveReservor s 
-34-~~~~~~.
* Produoied Well Locotion                 aul,ALiaes              _                  i C                       s
ot root t Abandone  i  Wl                 a 
ISLAMIC~~~T- REP                                                            tJt'^2f
2|~~~~~~~71 T07- F                                                                               noIo@df Za^o 
*| Prioe  Wel Loortinn                                                                                                           kyae
-2b   |            (                                             OBe~~~~~~~~~~K lat *.  N.  ZO GDChh 
PA0KFI RAN     N                                                  61S.
00Ts FIELD-STRUCTURE  oen U O RI            FIELD5: TOP rJUb crRAL  'I 
*   ~       Ngtae                         Z' Producing WelFul  ie
*   -- Abno Edxistuing WelCnor  Pfitrospects.l.) hPooe  Wl                                                        
~~~~~~~~~~AAKA  COAST RANtrEctionD69    Noioa   Hopderood
-2zB                       Selected Mojor Towns                                       \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HA SlOPaErso
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ---.~ PrNIONio  BoudXiesS
Drillin HoAND   GA
_   e                    ,                    ,                     ,                     , _I
PropseLL WexplLoration  Kienilrometers OILFIEDS
r-,  (excluding OGOC) ~~~~~~~~  ProducingGO
PIPELINES:  OGDC    Undeveloped ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~PR K
EKissing  ~ ~        Prospects with Proposed V,~~Kll      S e ac
UndeMIContuto REatPalCpi.
-2?         OFelctdIRAN                                                owJaILAITEo 
Provincial Boundarias ~ ~ ~
-*  -   International Boundaries~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
60.  6?                 64                   66                    63.~~~~~~~~~~AZ



IBRD 17072R
A7      rw   TOOT FIELD-CROSS SECTION, A-A   SE  270                                              7,..J  JUNE 1983
= /S~7                                                          -34'       )    Peshawaf_dJOrA1MAJ  *--- .              34 
X e-Xs1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'                                                                              36ALX
-I-Il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               * a,D1'Y                   Sooh
t-~ ~~~~~O,/oe Cotc ho bee t                                                           ..)/It ISLAMA__
El]Principlo Product,ive Reservoirs     3Poshawa                                               34T Ml  %.
Note,O No lla, Tomot" to baee extablished            MEh..         -    ..,
,                     pr to |.                 P    N            J    LAMBAD
30                                      V.                   Rf                  fwtR (  _ | 9 I.
JURASSIC                       \A                                                       S godo4             -   a'
Sp,                                                             Sol"sm  Sv,      
r                   ~~~~~~~~~~OhI0AK    P              J            A 8.
Fr  .At i  0r  kSOur,'                  0   w
64'                     $Quetta MAZAkrff         q-
%%N raAl M  j  L   ,                          '    N        D     I    Afa
REENI-ANr                           0       '4
I~~ ~                                       / A _   HA   tP 
%  PIP ~KOH    IPO
gOD       ,, Jacabc fad                 \           *.is I lapa                     2Snoearr*
4 |0 .  -  'sarcs ahebt fe
OILat F Dta                    DC    
Producing                  M                                                      htbonut Finunce Co/po,AZAR4
cENvrRAL OA                                 !         1I    N                                         D     I    A
Bela               I0Nawobshah
undeveloped ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ S                   \ N     Dtwrtmoyo n
CoAsr RANCo                             /O:
-~j...~0GDC   Hydefabod
/  THAR SLOPE
IrmsirAff                 . -u~~~~~s nMa has been prepared by/
Selec tedAS Mjhe oW  BaTows shif exc0k 3D                      o 2
GAS                                                                  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r- fth convenhene of fth
..vicJes and is excirie  to, 'e
Abandoned                                                                                  usd  -.   xtesshw
an iff isea do not aiity. an go
GAS FIELDS:         A  raob ian                                                            part of Teftld ank aniMe
Producing                                                                                  ingerr,arona Fifnane Corpoatin.
any judgmen an the keWa sftuls
undeveloped                                                                                at any temtdouy or anV
ProsPects with Proposed Well  S e a                                 ar~~~~~~~~~~~~Ndorsement or acceptance of
Prospects with Proposed Well  S e ~~~~~~~~~~~~                      such bourndwees
Notional Capital
Selected Major Towns                                               ILOMAETERS 0       tOO        200        300        400 227
!%-ovincial Boundaries                                                                                       I
"..ternational Boundaries                                             MILES 0       50 1a0 150                 200
64.                  6B6                    6\   70,                                  7,2                   74



