OFFICIAL
UMENTS        LOAN NUMBER 2351 PAK
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF>'AKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                       3O      , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2351 PAK
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated Jv4A,        30   , 1983, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Oil and Gas
Development Corporation (hereinafter called OGDC) with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to OGDC the proceeds of the Loan as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and OGDC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments  of   the  Bank   being  hereinafter   called  the   General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and OGDC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the


﻿-2-
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement; and
(b)  "Ordinance" means the Oil and Gas Development Corpora-
tion Ordinance, 1961 (Ordinance No. XXXVII of 1961 dated Septem-
ber 20, 1961) as may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-one million five hundred thousand dollars ($51,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agcee,
procurement of the goo,   and works required for the Project and
to be financed out of :- proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred twenty-eight thousand four hundred
twenty-nine dollars ($128,429).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of


﻿-3-
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means    the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"   means:  (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿Section 2.10. The Chairman of OGDC or his nominee is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of th-
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall cause OGDC to perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of OGDC
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable OGDC to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purpose of carrying out the
Project, make available to OGDC the proceeds of the Loan under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available to OGDC, on
a timely basis, a sum equivalent to $10,000,000 in suitable
foreign currency for the purchase of tubular materials required
for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall engage consultants to
prepare by June 30, 1984, in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter submit to the Bank, a
feasibility study for the development of poor-quality gas fields.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) in consultation with the Bank, develop by July 31,
1984 a plan for a promotional campaign to increase private sector
investment in the exploration of oil and gas;
(b) thereafter implement or cause to be implemented said
plan; and
(c) if during the implementation of the Project, a private
oil company is granted a license to carry out exploration within


﻿-5-
any area selected for exploration under the Project, utilize the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to carry out such exploration for
a substitute exploration program satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the oil prices
for oil discovered as a result of the Project shall be equal to
that of Saudi market crude less a domestic market discount to be
determined at the time of commercial discovery. Such discount
shall be no greater than that applied to private companies
operating in the same geological zone or, in the absence of such
cases, in an area nearest to the areas of such commercial dis-
covery by OGDC.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the gas prices
for gas discovered as a result of the Project shall be estab-
lished in accordance with a base price formula satisfactory to
the Bank, such base price to be adjusted to reflect changes in
world oil prices.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall not cause OGDC to transfer
any of its earnings from operations to the Borrower unless OGDC
has met its operating costs, debt service requirements and a rea-
sonable portion of its development and exploration expenditures
from internally generated funds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member  To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be


﻿-6-
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the accoutnLt or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
the State Bank of Pakistan or any institution performing the
functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or
similar functions, for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) OGDC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that OGDC will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Ordinance shall have been -amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of OGDC to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of OGDC or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice shall have been given by the Bank to the Bor-
rower and OGDC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
i 01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within  the   meaning  of  Section   12.01  (c)  of  the   General
Conditions: the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council shall have approved the PC-1 document with respect to the
Project.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by OGDC, and is legally binding
upon the Bank and OGDC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The da%te 4    A    1 '   ?  Iq &q, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Governrnt
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Dpiision
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECONOMIC                          EC DIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Was'lngton, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
B y (5)6~                ~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /g/   A)~a                       t
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Oil field services,       22,600,000        100% of foreign
engineering and                            expenditures
consultants
(2) Equipment,                20,900,000        100% of foreign
materials and                              expenditures and
spare parts                                100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost)
(3) Seismic data               2,900,000        100% of foreign
processing system                          expenditures
(4) Fee                          128,429        Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                4,971,571
TOTAL               51,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 11 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdr-wals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if. the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank
are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have be2n made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Petroleum Exploration
Drilling of six exploratory wells to test structures for
hydrocarbon deposits.
Part B:   Basin and Seismic Studies
1.   Basin studies to identify petroleum prospects.
2.   Regional seismic studies to record about 3,000 km of seismic
profiles to identify new exploration targets.
Part C:   Exploration Promotion Program
Program to promote exploration by the international oil
industry.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1986.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1989
through   March 1, 2003                    $1,715,000
On   September 1, 2003                           $1,765,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 30       day of O    (P198                                           I
FOR SECRETARY


