Document of
The World Bank
Report No.12814-CHA.
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 18, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1994)
Currency Name   =   Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit   =   Yuan (Y)
1 Yuan   =   100 fen
Y 1.00   =   US$0.12
US$1.00   =   Y 8.5
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CAS       -         Chinese Academy of Sciences
DFI       -         Direct Foreign Investment
ERC       -         Engineering Research Center
GATT      -         General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GCC       -         Golden China Corporation
GOC       -         Government of China
ICB       -         International Competitive Bidding
IPR       -         Intellectual Property Rights
ISO       -         International Standards Organization
LCB       -         Local Competitive Bidding
LIB       -         Limited International Bidding
LLC       -         Limited Liability Corporation
MOF       -         Ministry of Finance
MOFTEC  -           Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation
NIM       -         National Institute of Metrology
OED       -         Operations Evaluation Department
PC        -         Productivity Centers
PCR       -         Project Completion Report
PO        -         Project Office
R&D       -         Research and Development
SA        -         Special Account
SBTS      -         State Bureau of Technology and Standards
SOE       -         Statement of Expenditures
SPC       -         State Planning Commission
SSTC      -         State Science and Technology Commission
TD        -         Technology Development
TDS       -         Technology Diffusion Stations
TSC       -         Technology Service Center
UCC       -         United Copyright Convention
WIPO      -         World Intellectual Property Organization
WTO       -         World Trade Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



CHINA
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       People's Republic of China
Executing
Afency:         State Planning Commission (SPC)
Beneficiaries:    Participating Engineering Research Centers (ERCs), National Institute of Metrology
(NIM), and a Productivity Center.
Loan Amount:   US$200 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayment in 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
Onlending
Terms:          For the investment component, the Government will pass on US$194.3 million of the
loan proceeds through SPC to eligible sub-borrowers in the form of sub-loans, with
the Golden China Corporation acting on its behalf as a financial agent. For most
ERCs, sixty per-cent of the proceeds of each sub-loan will become equity investments
at the time of conversion of the ERCs into LLCs. The balance will bear the same
interest rate as the Bank loan, and have a maturity of up to 20 years inclusive of up
to five years of grace. For ERCs that have already been constituted as corporations
by the time of loan effectiveness, the entire sub-loans will have a maturity of up to
20 years inclusive of up to five years of grace. The loans will be provided in foreign
currency and the exchange rate risk will be borne by the ERCs.
Project
Description:    The objective of the project is to support the Government's continuing reforms in
technology policy and institutions so as to promote the development of clean,
productivity-enhancing technologies in China's industries. The project is designed
to accelerate diffusion and adaptation of technologies in China and abroad through the
deepening of technology markets and through institutional initiatives. The project will
consist of two components. The first component is designed to assist in transforming
part of the research and development (R&D) establishment into market-responsive
technology development corporations. This component would hive off the most
dynamic technology development and service-oriented elements of existing research
institutions to create -- through a competitive selection process -- new, market-
oriented entities, called Engineering Research Centers (ERCs).
The second component comprises complementary investments in improving
technology public services, including: ti) the modernization of the National Institute
of Metrology and (ii) a technical assistance program for a Productivity Center as well
as for several training activities.
Beneflts:       The project will play a significant role in the development and  adaptation of
technology to Chinese conditions, and in the broad diffusion of productivity-
enhancing and environmentally sustainable technologies. The project will support a
new institutional initiative designed to increase the productivity of R&D assets and
their effective deployment, linking the R&D systems with foreign as well as domestic
sources of know-how and with the emerging market for technology. Strengthening



of technology-related public services will improve the quality and performance of
Chinese products and services. During project preparation, the technology policy
framework was reviewed and found supportive of the project objectives.
Risks:          Because of the uncertainty of results associated with the process of technology
development, investments in technology development corporations necessarily entail
high risk. To minimize this risk, the project establishes clear market incentives for
the ERCs, their management and owners; the ERCs will be subject to hard budget
constraints, and will not receive operating subsidies. This risk has also been
minimized through the preparation and review of feasibility studies for each ERC,
with special emphasis on the projected market demand, access to domestic and
foreign sources of technology and managerial competence. The Bank will give final
approval of all ERC investment proposals. A further risk is that the ERCs would
compete with potential private investments. This risk has been offset by investing in
areas warranting public sector involvement in R&D, and by ensuring that future entry
into those areas is unrestricted, either through new private entry or import
competition.
Estimated Cost:                                  Local       Foreign        Total
... .. (US$ million).
Investment           196.0        194.3        390.3
Public Services        6.0          5.7          11.7
Total                202.0        200.0        402.0
Financing Plan:
Governmrent            6.0         --             6.0
Project Sponsors     196.0         --           196.0
IBRD                   --         200.0        200.0
Total                202.0        200.0        402.0
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY    1996   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001   2002
....... . . US$ million .
Annual      6.0   13.9  56.0  56.0   50.0  12.0    6.1
Cumulative   6.0   19.9  75.9 131.9  181.9 193.9  200.0
Rate of return:            All ERC subprojects will be required to demonstrate an economic rate
of return of at least 12%.
Poverty Categorv:          Not applicable



CHINA
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1. INTRODUCTION   ...............................................                                                           1
2. TECHNOLOGY POLICY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ............                                                                  2
A.  Historical Evolution of the Policy Environment ..........................                                         2
B.  Access to Foreign Technology   ....................................    2
C.  Reform  of the R&D  Institutional Regime  ..............................    4
D.  Legal Framework for Technology Development  .........................    6
E.  Assimilation and Diffusion of Technology   .............................                                          8
F.  Future Reform  Agenda  .........................................                                                  9
G.  Government Strategy   .........................................                                                 10
3. BANK  ROLE AND  LENDING  STRATEGY    ............                                 .................                     12
A.  Rationale for Bank Assistance in Industrial Technology  ....................                                    12
B. Industrial Technology Development in Bank Lending   .....................                                        12
C.  Technology Development in Industrial Sector Lending in China   ..............                                   13
D. Government Ownership and Commitment to the Project  ...................                                          14
4. THE PROJECT                           .................................................    15
A. Project Objectives  ...........................................                                                  15
B. Project Description   ..........................................                                                 15
C.  Engineering Research Centers -- Investment Component  ...................                                       15
D.  Technology Public Services Component  .............................                                             19
E.  Project Costs  ..............................................                                                   20
F.  Project Financing ............................................                                                  22
G.  Environmental Aspects  ........................................                                                 23
5.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   ................                                .....................                        24
A. Management  ..............................................                                                       24
B. Implementation Schedule  .......................................                                                 24
C.  Procurement   ..............................................                                                    24
D.  Disbursement ..............................................                                                     26
E.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  ...............................                                           27
F. Accounts and Audit  ..........................................                                                   27
6.  IMPLEMENTING  AGENCIES  ................                                ......................                        28
A. The State Planning Commission   ..................................                                               28
B. The Project Office (PO) of the SPC   ................................                                            28
C.  Golden China Corporation  ......................................                                                28
7.  BENEFITS AND  RISKS   ......                   ..............                   ......................                30
A.  Project Benefits   ............................................                                                 30
B. Project Risks  ..............................................                                                    30
8.  AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION  .....................                                                        31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission undertaken in December 1993. The report was prepared by: W.
Vergara with the assistance of: C. Dahlman, D. Mozes, N. Hadjitarkhani, S. Trindade, G. Heaton, C. Frischtak, T. Uchida, 0.
Sananikone, N. Lu, and A. Brown. The peer reviewers are H. Beemer (EA2HR), K. Siraj (ASTTP), Z. Khan (EA21E) and F.
Najmabadi (OED). The Division Chief is R. Newfarmer and the Department Director is N. Hope.



- iv -
FIGURE: The Pace of Reform of Technology Policy in China ....................... 3
ANNEXES . ............................................. 32
2.1        Statistics Related to General Technology Policy Environment .33
2.2        Sources of Science & Technology Financing .36
2.3       Information on ERCs Already in Operation and Not Part of the
Proposed Project .38
2.4   Statement on Technology Policy .40
3.1       State Council Regulations on Deepening Science and Technology System Reform . .. 47
3.2        SPC Statement on the Technology Development Project .50
3.3        Survey of Industrial Technology Development Operations
Funded by the Bank .58
4.1        Criteria for Technical and Financial Funding of ERCs .64
4.2        Outline for ERC Feasibility Studies                                          65
4.3        Panel of Experts for ERC Proposal Reviews .67
4.4        Terms of Reference for Training Activities .68
4.5        Description of the Proposed Productivity Center .75
4.6   Description of ERC Proposals .78
4.7    Example of Proposed ERC Financial Plan .173
4.8   Summary Table of ERC Proposals .194
4.9        Procedures for Appraisal and Approval of ERCs .203
5.1  Implementation Schedule .204
5.2  Disbursement Schedule .205
6.1       Organization of the PO and Charter of Gold China Corporation .206
7.1    Documents in the Project Files .212
7.2       Outline of Contents of Quarterly Progress Report .216
7.3  Supervision Plan .217



- 1 -
CHINA
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1        Industry is a leading sector in China, accounting for 48% of the country's gross domestic
product, employing 17% of the labor force, and producing 80% of total exports. Over the past ten years,
the gross value of industrial output has increased rapidly, averaging 12.6% per year. In 1994, industrial
output continued to grow at an average annual rate of nearly 14%. Most of this growth has been fueled
by investment in fixed capital and increased use of natural resources. While gains in productivity have
made some contribution to growth, productivity growth in state-owned enterprises (SOEs) -- which form
the backbone of China's industrial sector -- has been relatively slow. As a result, the fast pace of
industrialization required a greater savings rate than would have otherwise been necessary to achieve the
same rate of growth. Greater use of capital and natural resources has also placed demands on a limited
resource base that are unsustainable in the long term. On a per capita basis, arable land in China is one
third of the corresponding world average, renewable water resources one fourth of the world average,
and fossil fuel reserves one half. With a population projected to reach 1.2 billion during 1994, resource-
intensive growth would place additional pressures on the country's ability to achieve economic progress.
To maintain growth on a sustainable basis, China is now refocusing its industrial strategy on
improvements in productivity, husbandry of its natural resources, and sound environmental management.
1.2        Technology innovation is a key contributor to productivity growth, and to sustainable
expansion in national income and wealth. Prior to 1980, three problems prevented rapid technology
innovation in China. On the demand side, enterprises were not subject to market forces, did not enjoy
decision-making autonomy, and had no incentive to adopt new technology. On the supply side, the
command economy invested heavily in university and research laboratories, but their results were not
oriented to commercial purposes. Finally, some aspects of the policy framework constrained absorption
of technology from abroad, offered little protection to owners and investors in technology, and provided
few incentives for the diffusion of technology.
1.3        During the 1980s, progressive reforms in enterprise governance increased the demand for
technology. Price liberalization increased competition and put pressure on firms to become more
efficient. Adoption of the New Operating Mechanism for state enterprises (1992) empowered firms to
make their own business decisions; this autonomy, coupled with the reduction in subsidies as financial
sector reform proceeds, provides strong incentives for firms to adopt modem technologies.
Simultaneously, reforms in the overall policy framework removed impediments to technology acquisition
from abroad and improved incentives for the diffusion of technology.



-2 -
2. TECHNOLOGY POLICY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
A. Historical Evolution of the Policy Environment
2.1        Between 1950 and 1980, the institutional structure for science and technology (S&T)
development in China was patterned after the Soviet model, characterized by heavy state control, lack
of competition and inflexibility. Research activities were conducted mainly in centralized, academically-
oriented institutions in isolation from the productive sector. Research priorities were determined by
central planners, rather than being based on market and economic needs. Funding allocations had, for
the most part, little to do with effectiveness and market relevance of the proposed developments. The
system stifled innovation and creativity. Since knowledge was regarded as a "free" good, researchers
had few incentives to engage in innovative research.
2.2        Although significant technological achievements were made, these frequently failed to
translate into more efficient production methods and better products for the vast majority of industrial
enterprises. Mechanisms to diffuse technological information from research institutes to production units
were inadequate. It is estimated that less than 10 percent of R&D results were put into production in the
1970s. The free flow of information critical to scientific and technological development was hampered
by government control as well as by an underdeveloped printed and electronic media. Likewise,
researchers had limited institutional mobility.
2.3        In the late 1970s, an examination of the state of the economy, and in particular of the
industrial sector, led the Government to conclude that the country was in need of major overhauls to
upgrade technology. This conclusion was prompted by dissatisfaction with low levels of productivity,
inefficient use of resources, inadequate product quality and poor environmental performance. Since then,
the policy and regulatory framework for the S&T system has been progressively reformed by: (i)
liberalizing access to foreign technology; (ii) reforming the domestic R&D institutional network to be
more responsive to market signals; (iii) developing the legal and regulatory framework for technology
development (TD); and (iv) promoting diffusion and assimilation of technology into the economy. These
reforms are briefly described below.
2.4         The pace of reform toward an S&T system that relies on competitive forces (from both
domestic and foreign sources), that is based on international norms and that is more decentralized, has
quickened in recent years (Figure 1). These reforms are briefly described below. The result is that,
today, China's S&T system is vastly improved from what prevailed a decade earlier. Still, further S&T
policy improvements are necessary, and the authorities have set out a blueprint for future S&T system
reform.
B. Access to Foreign Technologv
2.5        Access to advanced foreign technology and know-how has been a critical element of China's
Open Door policy (opening of the economy). Its objectives were to help China meet its goal of economic
modernization and achieve a high level of sustained growth. Toward this end, in the early 1980s, a
massive program was initiated to acquire technology from abroad (mostly capital goods), primarily
through direct foreign investment (DFI), technology imports, licensing, and overseas studies.
2.6        China's main objective in attracting DFI was not only to increase capital investment, but
more importantly to gain greater access to advanced technology, modern management skills, and
international marketing channels. To attract foreign investment, a basic framework of laws and
regulations providing incentives and protection for foreign investors was enacted from 1979 through
1982. The result was a dramatic increase in DFI inflows into China: annual foreign direct investment
rose from US$1.7 billion in 1980 to US$25 billion in 1993 (US Department of Commerce, 1994).
Although DFI has made important contributions to China's economic development, it has not led to the



transfer of modern technologies to the extent originally expected by the Government. The bulk of DFI
has come from neighboring Hong Kong and Taiwan, and remains concentrated in labor-intensive
assembly operations for export markets. Until recently, DFI from developed countries in technology-
intensive industries had been relatively limited, due to foreign investors' concerns about access to local
raw materials and inputs, lack of adequate intellectual property rights legislation, shortage of skilled
technical workers, and limited infrastructure. Technology transfer has been also limited by inadequate
investment in building capabilities for technology adaptation.
The Pace of Reform of Technology Policy in China
Arbitraton
mechanisms &
Reform of      technology
Administratve      contracts
Autonomy &              Revision of
Financial             Trademark
Responsibility           Law
Contra tCentral Govt                     Fair
ResConsibility   support to R&D             Competition
System      system falls to 45%         Law
of total budget
1970                       78           82    84           88 89 90 91 92 93 94
R&D system        GidlnsolPaiis                        Certification   T      New
nds        ~~~~~~Gtiderines of  Intellectual    system for   CopyngM law    Cornipany
depends  mlbrm process     ~~~~Property Rights  sytmqualityfo Coyitlw La
GOCs budget          eneTreaty                         standas
Corference         Patent Law         IPR Court established
Accession to Berne Convention
Revision of Patent Law
Regutation of International Copynght Treaties
Member of WIPO
Figure 1
2.7          Imports of Technology. The opening of the Chinese economy has transformed China's trade
relations and led to rapid increases in the volumes of imports and exports. After agriculture, trade is the
area where reforms have been most successfully introduced and contributed significantly to industrial
progress. If, as expected, China becomes a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), the
ensuing open trade regime promises to play an even larger role as a source of technology transfer.
Technology imports are currently regulated by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation
(MOFTEC) for some transactions. However, there are no restrictions on actual remittances or qualitative
restrictions on the import of technology.
2.8          One of the distinguishing features of China's foreign trade over the past decade has been
massive imports of machinery and equipment, particularly of entire production lines. In the late 1980s,
complete sets of equipment were the most frequent form of technology imports, accounting for more than
87 percent of the total value of technology imports in 1989. In 1991, China imported US$3.4 billion
worth of technology. Of this, 74 percent consisted of complete sets of equipment; 14 percent were
technology licenses; and 9.6 percent were key pieces of process hardware, with consulting and technical
services accounting for the balance (Annex 2.1, Table 1). In recent years, however, the Government



-4 -
has realized that it needs to refocus its attention on improving the effectiveness of technology transfer.
A significant share of the imported machinery had gone under-utilized due to the shortage of skilled
operating personnel, lack of spare parts or maintenance procedures, and inadequate integration of new
equipment into the production structure of enterprises. Although China continues to rely on equipment
imports as the primary vehicle for technology modernization, its approach to technology transfer is
evolving toward a focus on technology acquisition, complemented by efforts at diffusing and assimilating
technology. This is being achieved by reforming the management of the science and technology system,
emphasizing training of technical personnel, and developing a domestic technology market.
2.9        Overseas Studies and Exchanges. In the early days of China's economic modernization,
access to foreign scientific and educational institutions (particularly those of the industrialized West)
became an important shortcut for acquiring technological knowledge. During the 1980s, the Government
aimed to send as many students and scholars to foreign universities and research institutions as Chinese
funding and foreign scholarships would allow. It has since tried to attract these students home by offering
various incentives such as high salaries, improved working conditions, and other preferential treatment
but limited ability to deliver on these promises in the past has deterred many Chinese overseas students
from returning.
C. Reform of the R&D Institutional Regime
2.10       The organizational structure of S&T in China includes R&D organizations, education and
training institutions and service organizations, such as the standards and norms institutes (see Annex 2.2,
Table 3). S&T organizations may be subordinate to governmental organizations such as those directly
responsible to the State Council, various line ministries or the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), as
well as institutions of higher education. Alternatively they may be subordinate to institutions at the
provincial or municipal level. Some are responsible to nonprofit groups such as professional societies
or social welfare organizations, and a substantial amount of R&D is carried out by the military. An
increasing number of S&T organizations have affiliated commercial units which manufacture or sell
products directly or indirectly related to their focus of research.
2.11       Major responsibility for policy formulation rests with the State Science and Technology
Commission (SSTC) established in 1958. SSTC comprises about twelve departments and employs nearly
400 staff at the central level. In addition to planning and policy formulation, the SSTC and its local
government counterparts provide certification of technical personnel, assess research achievements and
promote technology information exchanges domestically and internationally. SSTC has also launched
development programs in priority areas including high technology (for example the TORCH program to
support small high-tech firms) and the application of S&T to rural development through the SPARK
program, as well as collaborated with SPC and CAS in the strengthening of R&D infrastructure,
programs and human resources in designated laboratories.
2.12       To provide a better linkage between the supply and demand for technology, the Government
undertook in the mid-1980s major efforts to transform the highly centralized and isolated R&D system
into one that is linked to the economy and serves the needs of the productive sector more effectively.
The first step was taken in 1978, with the "Draft Outline Program  for National Scientific and
Technological Development (1978-85)" by SSTC.  The main purpose of the draft was to reassure the
S&T community of the priority accorded to science and technology. That same year, SSTC called for
a National Science Conference to discuss the scope of reform, which gathered approximately 6,000
scientists, technicians, and administrators. In 1985, the Government released its "Resolution on the
Reform of the Science and Technology System", which signalled the beginning of an explicit attempt at
integrating the S&T system into economic development. This was followed in 1986 by a White Paper
establishing, the role of science and technology in the context of the Seventh Five-Year Plan.
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - -   -  - - - - -



2.13       The first objective of the reform was to improve management of the R&D system. The
Government sought to further rationalize R&D efforts by establishing the National Research Center for
Scientific and Technological Development under joint control of SSTC and the State Planning
Commission (SPC) to coordinate planning and priority-setting for science and technology development.
In addition, a measure of transparency was brought into the system through peer review of proposed
projects and institutional performance. The second objective was to integrate the S&T system into the
economy by introducing flexible operational mechanisms designed to support the new orientation toward
a market-led economy, with the hope that these mechanisms would stimulate productivity, increase
efficiency of use of natural resources and improve product quality. Toward that end, the Government
granted R&D institutes greater administrative autonomy and financial responsibility but, at the same time,
forced them to respond to the needs of the market by cutting direct budget support. Hence, R&D
institutes were required to supplement state funding with contract work for enterprises. This signaled a
fundamental change from the concept of scientific and technological knowledge as a free good to a
productive commodity, tradable in the market. As a result, China's S&T financing in recent years has
come increasingly from non-state sources. In 1991, for example, only 33 percent of China's S&T budget
was supported by central government grants (down from 45 percent in 1988 and nearly 100 percent in
the early 1970s), while 38 percent came from industrial enterprises and 16 percent from short term loans.
In 1989, some 706 R&D institutes out of an estimated total of nearly 5,000 institutes reportedly had
contract research arrangements with large- or medium-sized enterprises. Some institutes have become
shareholders of joint ventures and yet others have taken the lead to form high technology enterprises.
2.14        Recent reform efforts have focused further on the creation of an incentive regime for
researchers, emphasizing market-based incentives, innovation and mobility. The contract responsibility
system (enacted in 1982) enabled researchers to enter into contractual arrangements with enterprises,
providing greater material incentives and improving the mechanisms to support mobility of scientific and
technical personnel. The Government has tried to reinforce the incentive regime through salary increases
and promotions on the basis of performance, as well as regular awards to researchers, to encourage
innovative and high payoff projects. A growing number of research institutions and individual scientists,
engineers, and technicians, have entered into contracts with industrial enterprises. The result has been
a dramatic expansion of domestic trade in technology development. In 1991, over 200,000 technology
contracts valued at RMB 9.4 billion were signed, an increase of 30 percent (in value) from 1988. Of
these, 63 percent consisted of R&D services, 15 percent development contracts, 12.5 percent consulting
services, and 9.5 percent technology transfer (Annex 2.2, Tables 1, 2, and 3). China's technology trade
has been characterized by the proliferation of organizations aimed at managing the commercialization and
industrialization of R&D results. In 1991 alone, 989 technology market management organizations and
1,019 agencies for technology contract approval had been established. By the end of 1991, about 21,000
technology trade associations employing some 531,000 workers had been set up.
2.15       General administrative reform introduced in 1992 accelerated the final phase of separation
of R&D institutions and staff, among other service institutions, from their parent governmental bodies
to become autonomous cost centers responsible for their own financing and business decisions, and facing
increasingly hard budget constraints. While still dependant for income in many cases on negotiated
service contracts with their former parents, these nascent forerunners of so-called Engineering Research
Centers (ERCs) have been propelled into the market and must seek business opportunities competitively
on the basis of market prices at the margin where it counts. ERCs were conceptualized in 1987 and the
first experiments began in 1988 to develop a sound organizational basis for technology transfer services
to industry based on market principles (Annex 2.3). Initial results provided the basis to strengthen and
develop the ERC concept broadly and assist a large scale pilot program of suitable, potential ERCs to
become fully independent, competitive entities. This initiative has given rise to the proposed project
described in Chapter 4. In parallel, while still under reform, the necessary legal and commercial
environment has been evolving to permit an increasingly open market for R&D services to flourish.



-6 -
D. Legal Framework for Technologv Development
2.16        Technology development is affected by a country's laws, legal system and institutions. The
interaction between law and technology manifests itself most clearly in three principal areas: (i) policies
intended to affect new technology directly, such as intellectual property rights, laws pertaining to
technology-based contracts, and regulations on new products and processes; (ii) policies that set the
incentive system within which technology is developed, such as taxation, rules governing investment,
contract and enterprise law, etc; and (iii) the efficiency and predictability of legal enforcement structures.
2.17       In recent years, as an essential component of the reform of the S&T system, China has made
important strides in promulgating laws and regulations consistent with sound international practices. It
has also made efforts to strengthen the professional capabilities of entities charged with administering the
legislation, and improved access to information on the legal framework for intellectual property rights,
both at home and abroad. Any discussion of the legal framework for technology development must begin
with the Science and Technology Law, passed in 1993. While general in its provisions, the Law
evidences the national commitment to technology development and provides for local measures to promote
it. The Law also regulates the existing structure of research institutes. Key elements of the legal
structure for technology development are described below.
2.18        The Patent Law (enacted in 1984, revised in 1992) exemplifies ongoing efforts to construct
a legal system conducive to efficient technology development. With the recent revisions of the patent law
and its regulations, there is now in place a body of legal and administrative enactments generally in line
with international standards. The main purpose for enacting a patent law was to provide patent protection
for new technology in order to facilitate the transfer of patented technology to Chinese enterprises. The
revised law has been strengthened through: (i) extension of the patent term to 20 years, consistent with
international practice; (ii) expansion of patentable subject matter; (iii) improvements in the rights of
patentees by severely limiting compulsory licensing; and (iv) revamping of patent examination procedures,
making them more expedient and regulating the revocation process. However, several important issues
remain to be addressed: (a) the need for an effective mechanism to provide for specialized and consistent
resolution of disputes; and (b) development of a system for dealing with the assignment of rights and
obligations of employers and employee inventors. A dedicated court system that consolidates patent and
intellectual property adjudication, as exemplified by the Beijing Municipal Courts, is a step in improving
the effectiveness of the enforcement system.
2.19        Reflecting the emerging awareness of intellectual property rights in China, patent
applications have increased over the past several years. Between 1985 and 1991, more than 217,000
patent applications were received, of which 84 percent went to domestic recipients. There are three types
of patents: inventions, utility models, and industrial designs. The Patent Office is trying to increase
awareness about patents and intellectual property rights in general by holding patent knowledge contests
and providing training courses.
2.20        A Copyright Law was enacted in 1990 and became effective in 1991. The law specifies
substantive areas of protection and procedures and grants authority to the State Council to promulgate
implementing regulations, in particular for computer software. These regulations are now in effect.
However, even after enactment of the law, the copyright situation did not conform to international
practices. To address these deficiencies, China has acceded to the Berne and Geneva Conventions on
protection of artistic and literary works and phonograms, and, in September 1992, the State Council
implemented the substantive provisions of both conventions. Regulations have also been enacted to
protect computer software, and programs are being considered to give literary works copyright protection
for 25 years plus one-time renewal. Judicial standards for enforcement are being developed, and the
concept of fair use is now accepted.  The registration of copyrights is now in conformity with
international norms. In conjunction with China's accession to the Berne Convention and the Universal



- 7 -
Copyright Convention (UCC) in 1992, the Chinese Government issued regulations on the Implementation
of International Copyright Treaties. This set of regulations provided that where Chinese Law was
inconsistent with the treaties, the latter would prevail.
2.21       The current Trademark statute was enacted in 1982 and was revised in 1992. By then,
about 360,000 trademarks were valid, of which 15 percent had been registered by foreigners.
Trademarks are protected for ten years and are renewable indefinitely. The trademark law was modeled
after that of Japan and the United States, with the specific purpose of bringing Chinese parties into
consistency with international trademark conventions. China is a member of the World Intellectual
Property Organization (WIPO) and of the Paris and Vienna Conventions governing trademarks, industrial
property, products and services. The basic principles in the trademark law are in conformity with
international practice. The main issue in the trademark area is enforcement. China has recently (July
1, 1993) amended the trademark law to provide considerably stronger penalties.
2.22       The major improvement introduced was the extension of exclusive trademark rights to
services; previously, only products could be covered. What this means is that service industries, such
as advertising, insurance, banking or transportation, can now register their trademarks. The new law is
also more specific about requiring prosecution of infringers, in cases where the violation falls under
criminal law. Criminal law penalties for counterfeiting have been raised from three to seven years.
However, some experts are concerned that the law does not go as far as expected in certain areas, for
example, in recognizing the rights of any company to obtain any trademark provided it files first, in
China. This is clearly of concern to foreign companies.
2.23       Trade Secrets and Fair Competition are essential elements in intellectual property rights
in industrial countries, broadly defined as "elements of commercial value, uncovered with effort, kept
secret, used in trade and of indefinite duration." The mechanisms for trade secrets protection are
confidentiality agreements with employees and between companies, as well as court enforcement.
Although the concept of trade secrets is known in Chinese law, its development and codification are not
advanced. Basic but limited protection for trade secrets is provided for in the anti-unfair competition law
enacted in 1993. This law sets the framework for fair competition among enterprises.
2.24       The basic concept of technology contracts is common in developing nations but unfamiliar
in many industrial countries. Technology contract laws are widely used in developing countries as
vehicles to promote technology development and regulate domestic, as well as international technology
transfer. However, they tend to lose much of their importance over time as developing countries become
integrated into the international economic system. The legal system affecting technology contracts in
China is a complex and cumbersome structure that integrates elements of the contract and property laws
and establishes a two-tier system for domestic and foreign transactions. Domestic technology contracts
and foreign technology contracts each have a separate legal basis and administrative structure. Regarding
domestic technology contracts, the Technology Contract Law regulates transactions and establishes rules
for ownership and rights and responsibilities of inventors. Foreign technology contracts fall under the
Foreign Economic Contract Law and the Regulations for the Administration of Technology Import
Contracts. The contract law unification, now under discussion in China, could lead to a common system
applicable to both types of contracts, and would represent an important step in efforts to increase
transparency and effectiveness of the legal framework. There seems to be support for this reform, whose
implementation is expected in the next two years.
2.25       Rules and incentives for technology-based investments have also been streamlined to
recognize the role of technology in industrialization. In this context, the newly enacted Company Law
allows intangible property, such as patents and know-how, to be accepted as capital contributions. This
change has a potentially large impact in technology transactions and should foster the trade in technology
between domestic partners and with overseas partners.



- 8 -
2.26       The enactment of the first nationwide company law provides a legal basis for more
autonomous forms of technology development entities as well as for different parties to become
shareholders in limited liability or shareholding technology companies. Corporate bonds and share
trading are among the forms of investment in such companies that are permitted under the new
legislation. Securities and banking laws to govern share and bond markets, as well as lending by
financial institutions, are also under preparation.
2.27       Taxation. The Chinese income tax structure is generous in the exemption of income from
technology contracts. A structural aspect that will bear on the establishment of new technology-based
ventures is the tax treatment of capital gains vs. dividends. Dividends are not subject to taxation, which
tends to favor distribution of profits to shareholders, whereas capital gains resulting from reinvestment
of retained earnings are currently taxed as regular income. The fact that capital gains are fully taxed
should be re-examined by Chinese authorities.
E. Assimilation and Diffusion of Technology
2.28       The Government's initial focus on technology development and acquisition, particularly
through basic research, DFI and technology imports, meant that diffusion and dissemination of technology
were not given the attention they deserved. A critical gap became evident, when massive imports of
machinery were not matched by parallel efforts at developing indigenous capability to use the imported
technology efficiently or to adapt it to local conditions. Consequently, the Government has started a
program of technology diffusion and assimilation. As part of this effort, the Government, through the
State Trade and Economic Commission (STEC) and provincial governments, has established Technology
Diffusion Stations (TDS). This program is under implementation with 53 TDS already in operation or
at the planning stage. The main focus of TDS is to promote the dissemination of information on domestic
technology innovations at the level of large- and medium-scale enterprises. Technical dissemination
centers also encourage cooperation among research institutes, universities and enterprises, to develop
technology, and sponsor technology fairs and awards for technology innovations. About half of the
operational budget for TDS comes from fees and the balance from government support. Productivity
Centers also have been set up through the sponsorship of the SSTC. The objective is to promote
measures at the enterprise level that would enable productivity gains, such as improved materials
handling, better communication and information systems, and more efficient management techniques.
Ten such centers were established in 1992.
2.29       The diffusion of technology to rural areas where 75 percent of China's population still lives
in villages and small towns, many of which, especially in coastal provinces, are the site of small- to
medium-scale Township and Village Enterprises (TVE) now responsible for some 33 percent of China's
total industrial output. The Government is therefore also actively engaged in developing and diffusing
appropriate technologies in the countryside. The aim is not only to support the development of local
economies but also to create a more balanced development between urban and rural areas. The best
known example of these efforts is the SPARK program, which was launched by the SSTC in 1985 to
upgrade the technical and managerial level of non-state enterprises in rural areas. The SPARK program
is being assisted by the Bank in Jiangsu Province and Shanghai (Ln. 3274/Cr. 2186). However, the
transfer of technology from R&D institutes to the productive sector is still inadequate in either rural or
urban areas. Technology assets in the R&D system remain under-utilized, and their more effective use
could bring major gains to industries in energy and materials efficiency, operational safety and
environmental performance.
2.30       Norms and Standards. Conformity with national and international standards is a basic
requirement of industrial technology development.  Standards and measurements enable domestic
industries to compete on an equal basis with overseas manufacturers. In China, the National Institute of
Metrology (NIM) of the State Bureau of Technical Supervision (SBTS) has responsibility for maintaining
an accurate standard measurement base, for developing quality and safety standards for industrial



-9-
products, and for calibrating measurement instruments at provincial standards institutes, universities, and
research institutes of sectoral ministries and enterprises. NIM consists of about 68 laboratories in 12
fields. About two-thirds of its revenues come from the state, and the remaining one-third from service
fees. In recent years, NIM has played a more active role in providing services to industry because it can
now contract with enterprises directly and freely.  NIM  also plays an important role in quality
improvement of industrial products. SBTS has started a certification system of voluntary standards for
products which were introduced in 1989. Initially, all standards were compulsory; today, only 40 percent
of standards are compulsory. NIM has also assisted in the diffusion and adoption of ISO 9000 series,
which are internationally recognized quality standards. NIM is also participating in the consultations
regarding eventual adoption of ISO 14000 series, which deal with environmental standards. The main
weaknesses of NIM are associated with the lack of modem measurement equipment in areas of critical
importance for the industrial sector. The Government is committed to modernization of norms and
standards as a tool to facilitate the introduction of new products and services as well as to improve the
quality of industrial products.
2.31        Gap Between R&D and Industry. Despite these Government-sponsored initiatives, there
remain important gaps in the range of services that research institutes can provide to industry. Given
their traditional separation from the productive sector, many R&D institutes can only implement the
results of their research at the laboratory level. They do not have the facilities to carry out work needed
to scale up the results to a pilot plant size, or to test at a semi-commercial level developments in
manufacturing processes.  Similarly, few enterprises in China possess the capacity to carry out
engineering development due to lack of personnel, facilities, or experience. As a result, technology
diffusion remains limited, with most industrial technology either inadequate or under-utilized.
F. Future Reform Agenda
2.32        As the discussion above indicates, over the past decade, the Government has undertaken
significant reforms in the areas of: (i) creating a more competitive S&T system, including greater
domestic competition and openness to foreign technology; (ii) rationalizing the R&D institutional regime;
(iii) strengthening the legal framework; and (iv) providing mechanisms for greater assimilation and
diffusion of technology. Taken together these reforms have created an environment conducive to effective
development and diffusion of technology.
2.33        However, the authorities have articulated the need for additional progress in several key
areas. To signal its intention to address the issues identified above, the Chinese Government has issued
a Policy Statement (Annex 2.4) and continues to pursue the restructuring of the S&T system through the
proposed establishment of independent, market-oriented ERCs from existing R&D assets. In summary,
the Policy Statement indicates the intention of the Government to continue the process of reform through
further efforts to: (i) continue to improve the intellectual property rights system; (ii) continue reform of
the legal system governing contracts, particularly contract law regimes pertaining to technology transfer;
and (iii) undertake administrative reforms, to remove multiple approval systems and continue movement
toward policy guidance rather than administrative approval in the regimes of technology imports and, in
general, in the mechanisms for technology transfer.
2.34        Other longer-term goals addressed in the Policy Statement, which are part of China's
broader economic reform but also facilitate technology diffusion, include: (i) continue the tax reform
process to promote the development of conditions that will enable the emergence of venture capital in
China; (ii) deepen capital markets, including facilitating the flow of capital; and (iii) undertake various
reforms intended to develop a social security system, and thus also facilitate mobility of technical
personnel. The Policy Statement provides a general statement of objectives and measures, and lays the
basis for a framework for continued dialogue with the Bank.



- 10 -
2.35       The remaining challenges for the Government can be summarized as follows:
(a)   Intellectual propertv riehts enforcement. The key concern is how effectively intellectual
property legislation is and will be enforced. The key tasks ahead involve raising awareness
of intellectual property rights, among users and providers of technology, fostering the
further professionalization of enforcement personnel, and ensuring that these rights are
adequately pursued. A nationwide professional court system is needed, exemplified by the
recently created Intellectual Property Courts dedicated to enforcing the IPR regime.
Education and dissemination seem to be key to improved enforcement in the short run.
(b)   The complexitv of the system of technology contracts. As noted in para. 2.24, there are
several overlapping types of contracts (economic, technology, and foreign technology
contracts), each with a different and complex legal and administrative systems of approval
and incentives. These should be unified in the medium term. The Government is in the
process of reviewing the relevant legislation to simplify the approval requirements.
(c)   Taxing technology companies and capital gains. Taxing capital gains as regular income may
create a bias against reinvesting earnings in general, and certainly inhibits the development
of venture capital financing for high-technology start-up companies. Given the potential for
high-technology spin-offs from universities and research institutes, and market failures in
the availability of finance, it would be necessary to re-examine the fiscal and regulatory
regime for venture capital financing, with a view to developing this source of finance for
technology projects. Revisions to the tax code are being examined in the context of the
current tax reform.
(d)  Improving the mobility of scientific and technical personnel. A large percentage of S&T
personnel in China is employed in state-owned R&D institutes rather than in the productive
sector. While S&T personnel in Government-owned research institutes have been allowed
to contract out to economic entities, their physical mobility remains limited because
housing, health insurance, education benefits and pensions are tied to the place of
employment. Housing assignments keyed to work units are the most obvious and largest
deterrent to changing jobs. Pension rights and the lack of "movable" pensions present
another impediment. These issues are being addressed in the context of enterprise and legal
reform frameworks, and their resolution in favor of increased mobility of S&T personnel
would have a positive impact on China's technology development efforts.
G. Government Strategy
2.36       While the recent development of a technology market is a positive sign of the new linkages
between the supply and demand for technology, there is concern about the effectiveness of the
mechanisms for transferring R&D results to the productive sector.  Research institutes have been
encouraged to link up with industry. However, the large majority still do not have the necessary facilities
and experienced personnel to undertake applied development and engineering work that can be put to use
in production units. The R&D system has lacked both the resources and incentives to set up pilot projects
or prototypes or to conduct the detailed engineering necessary to adapt foreign technology to specific local
conditions. Consequently, although the regulatory and incentive regimes have changed, the transfer of
new technology to the productive sector has not occurred at the desired pace.
2.37       In this context, the Government's strategy involves three elements. The first is promotion
of a more efficient use of existing technology assets by restructuring R&D institutions into more
commercially-oriented entities. With the introduction and dissemination of new and/or improved
technologies, Chinese enterprises would be able to expand the range of goods and services being produced
more efficiently and cheaply, leading to improvements in productivity and efficiency in the industrial



- 11 -
sector and raising the competitiveness of Chinese firms. The second is promotion of the development
and diffusion of environmentally-sound technologies and cleaner means of production, which would
contribute to the more efficient use of natural resources and to improved environmental performance by
the industrial sector. The third is support to the general process of market-oriented industrialization by
financing the development and marketing of productivity-enhancing technologies to industry.  The
proposed project facilitates the implementation of this strategy.



- 12 -
3. BANK ROLE AND LENDING STRATEGY
A. Rationale for Bank Assistance in Industrial Technology
3.1         The proposed project addresses some of the institutional needs of S&T development,
complementing the very dynamic S&T policy environment now prevailing in China. As such, the project
responds to the Government's strategy for economic development as outlined in the State Council
Resolutions on Technology issued in 1988 (Annex 3.1), and summarized in the document addressed to
the World Bank by the State Planning Commission (SPC) in 1992 regarding the rationale for the project
and the Policy Summary prepared in August 1993 (Annex 3.2). The Government's economic strategy
calls for the "use of science and technology to promote economic development" and to "integrate
technology development efforts with the productive sectors". More recently, the landmark 1993 Third
Plenary Session of the 14th Central Committee of the Communist Party endorsed the continuation of the
market-oriented reform of the science, technology and educational systems in its "Decision of the SPC
Central Committee on some issues concerning the establishment of a socialist market economic system."
The project would support these objectives by providing technical assistance, financing market-oriented,
internationally tested mechanisms for efficient development and transfer of technology to industry and,
throughout the project period, continuing a policy dialogue on outstanding S&T issues.
3.2        The project also supports the Bank's efforts to promote efficient industrial growth in China,
which to date have focused on enterprise and financial sector reforms. These reforms are creating strong
pressures for firms to reduce costs, and make efficient use of energy and materials. Such pressures in
turn constitute a driving force for productivity improvements and better environmental performance. The
Bank has supported the Government's enterprise reform strategy with policy-focused dialogue, built on
a program of economic sector work and lending. In the industrial sector, the Bank has made 14 loans
supporting the restructuring of selected industries and adoption of appropriate modern technologies.
Complementing these activities, the Bank has worked with the Government on its program for
development of related markets, notably finance and technology. The proposed project grew out of these
efforts and supports the current reform of the S&T system with the aim of developing technology
markets.
B. Industrial Technologv Development in Bank Lending
3.3        During the last 20 years, the Bank has been involved in technology development operations
worldwide. The first project financed by the Bank on industrial technology development was presented
to the Board in 1975 on behalf of the Government of Israel. Since then, eleven industrial technology
development operations have been approved by the Board, with a total investment of US$2.2 billion, out
of which the Bank directly financed US$0.7 billion (Annex 3.3). The projects approved have sought to:
(i) develop the institutional infrastructure for technology development, including training; (ii) finance
technology development institutions; (iii) finance information services, including the organization of data
bases, information networks, and access to patents and other sources of technology information and know-
how; (iv) support the development of patent services and of intellectual property regimes; and (v) support
the development of risk capital tools and financial mechanisms for the acquisition of technology products
and services.
3.4        Out of the eleven projects, four have been completed. A review of Bank lending in
Industrial Technology Development has also been recently completed by the Operations and Evaluation
Department (OED, 1993). The objective of the review was to assess the impact of Bank lending for TD
on the industrial sector of borrowing countries. The study concentrated on the experience of projects in
six countries: Korea, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Spain and Hungary. A review of the PCRs and the OED
report offers the following conclusions: (i) the impact of a technology project on TD hinges on the
existence of a clearly defined and articulated strategy, where TD is seen as part of the overall process
of industrialization; (ii) the framework of incentives is a crucial determinant of success. In addition to



- 13 -
a sound macroeconomic environment, trade, industrial and technology policies play a decisive role in TD;
(iii) the strengthening of industrial technology capabilities may need interventions to promote local
research and development activities. Exposure to international competition may not by itself be sufficient;
(iv) involvement in technology development projects has resulted not merely in the development of
institutions and financing mechanisms, but more importantly, in the reform of technology policy; (v)
successful development of institutions and mechanisms has critically hinged on the creation of solid
management, with administrative and monitoring capabilities built in as an integral part of the technology
functions. Thus, institutions supported or set up for technology development should have clear economic
and comnmercial criteria against which their success or failure can be properly judged; (vi) the Bank's
role has been critical when the success of the project depends on a sustained commitment in areas where
financial returns are difficult to quantify or limited in the short term, and where business failures are a
necessary part of the innovation process; and (vii) technology policy as it relates to industry has a major
role in determining competitiveness and productivity and therefore cannot be seen in isolation from
macro-economic, trade, industrial and regulatory policies. The OED report endorses the need to promote
and encourage the strengthening of technology development capabilities as a condition for industrialization
in developing countries. The design of the project has taken these lessons into consideration. Specifically,
the project has been designed in the context of an overall strategy, as expressed in the official policy
statement. It concentrates on bolstering local capabilities and on the development of market-oriented
technology transfer institutions in the context of an improving policy and regulatory framework.
C. Technology Development in Industrial Sector Lending in China
3.5        During the last decade, the Bank has approved US$1.3 billion in projects with technology
components in China. These projects have sought to modernize industrial sub-sectors, promote the
adoption of appropriate technology in rural enterprises, and assist in the strengthening of higher education
and the development of human resources. Within the industrial sector, the Bank's efforts on technology
modernization have included support for rural technology developments (the Spark program, Ln.
3274/Cr. 2186), industrial diversification and modernization (for example, the Gansu Provincial
Development, Cr. 1793, Tianjin Light Industry, Ln. 3022, Tianjin Industry II, Ln. 3572, Projects) and
technology modernization in small and medium scale industry.
3.6              Within the education sector, the Bank has sought to support the strengthening of
higher education and research in the fields of science and engineering (University Development I and II),
expand and upgrade the technical educational system (Vocational and Technical Education), and reform
the management of science and technology programs through the Key Studies project. The proposed
project benefits in particular from some of the initiatives sponsored under the Key Studies project,
including among others the development of well endowed Research Institutions with an outreach capacity
toward the industrial sector, some of which have become sponsors for several of the proposed ERCs.
Further, the satisfactory SPC role in the Key Studies project makes its involvement in the proposed
project appropriate and desirable.  In this context, the proposed project is an extension of and a
complement to some of the efforts sponsored by the Bank in the education sector.
3.7        The implementation of most Bank-financed industrial projects in China, including those with
significant technology components, proceeded generally on schedule until the initiation of the economic
austerity program in 1989, when local funding shortages resulted in implementation delays in several
projects. For the last two years, however, project implementation has been expedited, and commitments
and disbursements have improved. Most industrial projects under implementation are now generally
satisfactory. The few with significant implementation difficulties are being addressed through intensive
supervision and, when required, restructuring.



- 14 -
D. Government Ownership and Commitment to the Project
3.8        The Government has continually promoted the proposed project and its institutional
dimensions. It first approached the Bank in 1990 with a preliminary project concept, while it enacted
many important reforms that have moved the policy regime toward greater openness and competitiveness.
With its own resources, the Government has launched early versions of the institutional structure to be
supported under the project, and has tried to introduce market mechanisms into the S&T system by
steadily reducing subsidies to selected R&D institutes. The Bank's project involvement began in 1992,
and the ensuing dialogue has led to changes in the incentives facing institutions that have helped to
introduce further market forces into technology diffusion. Finally, the Government has already requested
a follow-up project, tentatively based solely on environmental technologies, though the Bank and the
Government have agreed to assess progress under the proposed project before committing to anything
further.



- 15 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.1         The objective of the proposed project is to support the Government's continuing reforms
in technology policy and institutions so as to promote the development and/or adaptation of clean,
productivity-enhancing technologies in China's industries. The project is designed to accelerate diffusion
and adaptation of technologies in China and abroad through the deepening of technology markets and
through institutional initiatives. Its institutional reforms are designed to speed diffusion by making
China's R&D assets more market-responsive through the transformation of a segment of university
laboratories and research institutes into market-oriented technology development corporations.
Furthermore, to support ongoing market-based policy reforms, the project will strengthen public services,
such as those for norms and standards, necessary for technology development. In the course of project
implementation, it is intended that continuation of our dialogue with the Government will support its
progress in further reforming the S&T policy environment (para. 2.33).
B. Project Description
4.2         The project will: (i) support an institutional initiative to restructure the R&D establishment
through the reorganization of some of its assets into market-responsive corporations, whose purpose is
to identify, adapt or develop international and domestic technology to meet the needs of Chinese
industries; and (ii) support the strengthening of technology-related public services, including those for
norms and standards, information dissemination about worldwide technologies, and human resource
development in administration and enforcement of technology regulations. The loan would finance
primarily the foreign exchange costs of process lines and production equipment, testing equipment and
instruments, and computers, as well as related licenses and intellectual property rights, expert services,
materials and other consumables, spare parts and maintenance that would be required to conduct the
business of the ERCs and NIM.
C. Engineering Research Centers -- Investment Component
4.3        The first component will assist in restructuring part of China's large R&D establishment into
market-responsive corporations. It is intended to attract the most dynamic and service-oriented elements
of the existing research institutions to create, on the basis of a competitive process, corporations called
Engineering Research Centers (ERCs). The ERCs would be market-oriented independent limited
liability companies (LLCs) under Chinese law, with the objective of adapting, developing and diffusing
technologies, in particular those that have positive environmental impacts. The ERCs will produce under
contract equipment and systems designs, prototypes and customized products and services that adapt
foreign and domestic technology to local inputs, scales of production, and other market conditions.
Domestic and foreign enterprises, as well as management and staff, will be allowed to participate in the
ownership of the ERCs. At their creation, the ERCs will be supported with equity and loan finance from
the Government and other sources, but government support would be limited to this front-end investment.
The ERCs would be subject to market forces and operate within the provisions of the anti-unfair
competition law (para. 2.23). The Bank will finance US$194.3 million equivalent of the Government's
contribution in the ERCs (US$177 million equivalent in fixed assets and US$17.3 million in technical
assistance).
4.4         The ERC program is a pilot effort to support different types of partnerships across a wide
range of sectors between R&D institutes, industrial enterprises, and foreign firms. Based on this
experiment, the sponsors plan to learn from the success and failure of different types of ERCs to further
expand the reform program of cutting direct state support to the research infrastructure and increasing
its reliance on the market.



- 16 -
Rationale for Public Sector Support
4.5          Since the project is designed to redefine the role of the public sector in technology and
widen the scope for market forces in technology development, funding of ERC investments under the
project will be restricted to those that warrant public investment and cannot otherwise be supplied by the
market. ' Investment would therefore be limited to ERCs developing technologies that: (i) would address
environmental externalities, for example, by increasing energy efficiency, reducing waste and pollution,
and lowering material consumption (e.g., the Clean Coal Combustion ERC, described in Annex 4.6);
and (ii) have substantial productivity impact that downstream users are unable to develop on an individual
basis because of the economies of scale and high risks involved (e.g., the Performnance Alloys ERC,
described in Annex 4.6). This arrangement is intended to offset the high transaction costs of coordination
and information that cooperation among producers would entail. Applying these public investment
criteria ensures that investments under the project will not preempt the emerging non-state sector, but
rather complement them and indeed spur new investments.
Incentives and Business Organization of the ERCs
4.6          To ensure market-responsiveness, the incentives and business structure of the ERCs will
reflect commercial purposes. They will be subject to market competition, compelled to make a profit and
allowed to reinvest earnings, enjoy the financial and decision-making autonomy granted other enterprises,
and face a hard budget constraint.
4.7          Corporatization of the ERCs. The ERCs to be supported under the project will be market-
oriented, for-profit technology development corporations. They will be constituted as limited liability
corporations, with clear ownership (established through shares), assets and liabilities. Besides the sponsor
organization, the shareholders of the ERCs may include all other qualified sponsors eligible under the
existing laws. The shareholder interest in the ERCs will be proportionate to their share of the total equity.
The State Assets Management Bureau (SAMB) will represent the Government in the governance of the
ERCs. Corporatizing the ERCs will take time because of the limited experience with the Company Law
passed in 1994. The Government has proposed to manage all ERCs as if they were LLCs from the
moment they are constituted; and, to actually incorporate all ERCs gradually, within a period of up to
five years from the time the program is approved. As part of the ERC appraisal process, each ERC will
include a plan of conversion to an LLC within five years, which would be approved by the Bank;
thereafter, the ERCs would be required to implement the approved conversion plan under the sub-loan
contract with the GCC.  Assurances to this effect were obtained from  the Government during
negotiations. It is anticipated that over 75% of the ERCs (by number and value of investment) will be
corporatized by the third year of operation of the project.
4.8          No subsidies. The government support will be limited to initial investment in the form of
convertible loans, and no subsidies will be provided after establishment of the ERCs. Thus the ERCs
will, from the start, operate under a hard-budget constraint with clear ownership, assets and liabilities,
income and profit and loss statements. During the interim period before the ERCs are constituted as
LLCs, the ERCs will be independent legal persons in the form of State Owned Enterprises. After initial
establishment of an ERC, no subsidies will be provided.
I In modern market economies, public sector support for technology development is justified when the
production and diffusion of technology is characterized by: (i) social benefits that justify pooling of risks
that individuaL producers couLd not otherwise take; (ii) the inability of producers to fully appropriate returns
from R&D investments, even in the presence of a strong inteLlectual property regime; and (iii) increasing
returns to scale associated with R&D, engineering, drafting of norms and standards, and other technological
activities. Items (i) and (ii) are cases of externalities; item (iii) is a form of market imperfection
associated with high transaction costs or coordination. Taken together, these factors would, in the absence
of a public sector role even in a modern market economy, Lead to systematic under-investment in technology
development and diffusion.



- 17 -
4.9        Free Entry. ERC markets will enjoy no market protections, nor will potential competitors
be prevented from entering the market. ERCs have been very forthcoming in establishing collaborative
arrangements with foreign partners. Several proposals already approved have documented collaborative
strategies through a variety of arrangements, depending on the products to be developed and the markets
to be reached.
4.10       Exit and Bankruptcy. Once established, ERCs would be entirely responsible for their own
development and survival in the marketplace. No restrictions will be placed on the emergence of
competitors. All ERC activities would be remunerated on a competitive basis through the sale of
services. There is a risk that some ERCs will fail due to the experimental nature of the program and/or
market changes. For that reason, the institutional set-up being proposed is deliberately flexible and
provides clear exit mechanisms for ERCs. The ERCS that fail are expected to be sold to other new
competitors or downstream customers to become their in-house R&D facilities, or go bankrupt, in which
case their assets would be sold to interested buyers.
Subproiect Selection Process
4.11       The ERC selection process has proceeded as follows: (i) the SPC has advertised in the
national media an invitation to R&D institutions, universities and enterprises which may want to sponsor
an ERC; (ii) the SPC has organized a two-tiered ERC Evaluation Commnittee to review the ERC
feasibility studies submitted; the Committee is made up of academicians, senior industrial experts,
researchers and scientists (Annex 4.3). It reviews all proposals and ranks them according to their merits,
following the established selection criteria, including the public investment criteria; (iii) the best proposals
are submitted to the Bank for review and, if warranted, final approval; (iv) the proposal is then submitted
to the financing agent through the Implementing Agency (para. 6.2) for funding. All ERC proposals
submitted to the Bank have been approved by the Committee and include a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed, proposed terms and conditions of the subloan, including an amortization
schedule, and a plan for conversion of the ERC to an LLC within five years. The Bank has already
endorsed 46 ERC proposals, representing about 95 % of the proposed Bank loan, and review of additional
proposals is proceeding. A summary table of all proposals already approved is included in Annex 4.8.
Details of procedures for appraisal and approval of the ERCs are shown in Annex 4.9. The remainder
will be approved on a timely basis. At negotiations. assurances were obtained that ERCs would be
selected in accordance with technical and financial criteria accentable to the Bank and that all ERC
proposals would be submitted to the Bank for final approval.
Feasibility Studies
4.12       The ERC feasibility studies contain information on: (i) public investment rationale for the
establishment of the ERC; (ii) an analysis of the market for the services to be provided, including an
assessment of competition from other providers and demand from prospective users; (iii) a description
of the mechanisms and tools to be used in the dissemination of the developments and services to be
provided by the ERCs; (iv) a discussion of intended cooperation with foreign and domestic suppliers of
technology; (v) organization and management structure; (vi) a cost and financing plan; (vii)
implementation schedule; (viii) list of equipment and facilities to be financed; (ix) a corporate and project
financial analysis; and (x) an assessment of risk and benefits. Criteria for subproject selection are given
in Annex 4.1, and the outline of required feasibility studies is described in Annex 4.2.
4.13       Analysis of Markets for Services Proposed. The proposals already approved have specified
the markets for the products and services to be offered. The documentation includes market assessments,
agreements for purchase of future services, and proposals for collaborative developments with domestic
and foreign partners. For example, in the case of the ERC for distillation technology (Annex 4.6), a
business plan has been prepared which provides a solid assessment of the distillation market, an
evaluation that is quite satisfactory. There are about 8,000 or so petroleum chemical factories in China.



- 18 -
Small and medium-sized companies comprise 90% of the 35,000 operating distillation facilities, and are
responsible for higher levels of energy consumption and lower levels of separation efficiency of these
plants, with an increase in distillation yields carrying significant cost reduction to producers. It is
estimated that about 50-60% of energy loss is due to technical failures and the rest to management
problems. The proponents have outlined a time-table to capture 30% of this market by the year 2000.
The detailed analysis of demand strongly suggests that the proposed ERC will be able to successfully
implement its marketing goals and overall strategy.
4.14       Diffusion Strategies. In terms of diffusion strategies, different channels and tools have been
proposed or already developed by the proponents of ERCs. The objective of these mechanisms and tools
is to reach the largest number of potential users of the developments or services to be provided. For
example, the proposal for laser technology (Annex 4.6) foresees the setting up of three special
departments for applications demonstration, consulting services, and marketing. They will continually
train their employees and clients as well as strengthen ties with professional associations and professional
groups. The ERC for manufacturing automation technologies proposes a diffusion strategy based on: (i)
transferring technologies to the associated producers, which will manufacture ERC designed products and
sell them to end-users; (ii) selecting typical clients to serve as demonstration units; (iii) establishing agents
in major markets to disseminate automation technologies and products; (iv) utilizing trade organizations
and professional associations to disseminate the technologies developed or adapted by the ERC; (v)
organizing client meetings and seminars to disseminate and demonstrate technologies and products; and
(vi) providing training and exchanges of personnel.
4.15       Arrangements for Foreign Collaboration. Proposals already approved have documented
collaborative strategies through a variety of arrangements, depending on the products to be developed and
the markets to be reached. Many of these arrangements are firm while others need yet to be confirmed
as the ERCs are in a process of approval and many collaborating arrangements are contingent on the
approval of the specific ERC. For example, the proponents for the ERC on distillation technology have
a strategy for foreign collaboration that has been carefully outlined with foreign companies according to
existing technological gaps. The distillation ERC as in the case of many other proposed ERCs will piggy-
back off not only its sponsor's long-standing relationship with foreign entities but also its industrial
customers. This ERC has been engaged in on-going talks regarding specific joint ventures with foreign
companies in Switzerland and Japan. Once the ERC is established, a detailed collaboration agreement
can be concluded, as most companies obviously will not enter into a joint venture with an entity yet to
be officially established. The ERC will match foreign collaborators with new technology to the
appropriate domestic users in need of that technology and assist in its transfer and adoption. The plan
is to purchase know-how and licenses, high-tech instruments and devices; to invite foreign partners for
joint R&D; to exchange information and personnel; and to establish joint ventures. Concerning personnel
exchanges, arrangements have also been discussed with potential partners in the U.S. and Britain. This
ERC is in the process of finalizing several of these arrangements, some of which are contingent on
approval of the ERC under the project.
4.16       Organization and Management Structure. The ERCs will be agents of technology transfer
and development rather than manufacturing enterprises. However, they may fall into two categories.
First, most ERCs are expected to develop into independent technology corporations, not engaging in
manufacturing; this is the intended goal of the program. However, when appropriate, ERCs may yield
spin-off or start up manufacturing or service companies to commercialize developments originally pursued
by themselves or in collaboration with other parties. Second, some ERCs may develop into technology
corporations, with R&D and manufacturing activities. In terms of management, the ERCs are intended
to be close to the market and to sources of knowledge, domestic and foreign. These features require that
ERCs adopt a management and operational structure which facilitates intimate interaction with markets
and builds competence to develop the products and services that respond to industry needs. Modern
management approaches, such as cluster management, will be utilized to blend market awareness with
capacity to deliver technology. Staff in the ERC from different disciplines would work together, handling



- 19 -
administrative functions, developing their own expertise, oriented to meet the needs of customers and to
facilitate decision-making. Management training will be pursued vigorously and on an on-going basis,
to improve the probability of success of the ERCs. All the ERC proposals reflect a strong commitment
to training and human resource development indicating that they are fully aware of the importance of
training to attain their goals.
4.17       Implementation Plan and List of Equipment and Facilities to be Procured. Each feasibility
study includes a five-year implementation plan and provides a detailed list of facilities, equipment and
consulting services to be procured under the project.
4.18       Financial Analysis and Assessment of Risks and Benefits. A financial analysis of the ERCs
has been conducted, by each proponent, for all proposals received by the Bank. A sample financial
analysis has been included as Annex 4.7. The financial analysis methodology was developed with
assistance from the Bank during project preparation. An assessment of risks and benefits has also been
conducted by each proponent, identifying the risks faced in the implementation of the proposals and the
actions that will be taken to minimize these risks.
D. Technologv Public Services Component
4.19       The second project component comprises complementary investments in improving
technology public services, through:
(a)  the modernization of the NIM (US$5 million from the loan proceeds). This component
would finance: (a) the upgrading of measurement and testing equipment for the maintenance
and improvement of primary standards; and (b) the training and consulting services required
to identify and address demand for emerging services in the area of measurement standards
and quality control, resulting from the rapid pace of industrialization in the country;
(b)   a technical assistance program (US$0.7 million from the loan proceeds). Under this
program, financing will be provided for: (a) supporting technology diffusion, including
productivity centers, and a series of training activities related to technology diffusion and
technology transfer; and (b) funding of several training activities.
4.20       The strengthening of the NIM is intended to result in the modernization of norms and
standards to facilitate the introduction of new products and services and thus is an important element of
the technology development activities sponsored by the Government. Improved metrology services should
also result in better quality of industrial products.
4.21       The technical assistance activities are intended to support a pilot program of complementary
investments in technology transfer and dissemination mechanisms. The proposal for funding of the
metrology activities has been prepared by the NIM and has been reviewed by a Panel of Experts
organized by the Government and the Bank. A copy of the proposal has been filed in the project files
(Document I). The Technical Assistance component will consist of:
(a)   Support to the program of Productivity Centers (PC). The project will also support the
program of activities to diffuse productivity-enhancing innovations at productivity centers.
The funds would be utilized to finance activities geared to disseminate those improvements
and techniques aimed at improving productivity in industrial operations, as well as for the
design and establishment of data banks on technology innovations. The cost of information
material, handbooks, seminars, and news releases would also be eligible for financing.
About US$200,000 from the loan proceeds would be allocated to this activity. The
productivity centers will complement the activities of ERCs involved in productivity
enhancing technologies by disseminating the results of those activities in industrial



- 20 -
enterprises. The center receiving the assistance has been selected on a competitive basis.
A description of the proposal for the funding of a productivity center is included in Annex
4.5; and
(b)   Training. Funding would be earmarked to finance training activities for personnel from
enterprises, producers and users of technology products, and government officials. Eligible
expenditures would include: (a) study, research, and/or training on issues of critical
importance for the development of ERCs, such as, the constitution, operation, and
management of Limited Liability Corporations (LLCs) and the protection of intellectual
property; (b) organization of seminars and training courses to train management personnel
on the operation of market-oriented technology-based enterprises; (c) training in areas of
direct relevance for the operation of the Golden China Corporation (GCC, see para. 6.2)
which will be responsible for project management and may eventually evolve into a
technology-financing institution; (d) consulting services and study tours in financing and
management of technology enterprises. About US$500,000 from the loan proceeds would
be allocated to this activity. A general framework for the project training programs and
technical assistance is summarized in Annex 4.4. Detailed programs will be designed in
the course of project implementation when the actual needs of the still nascent ERCs can
be defined. In addition to these activities, the ERCs are expected to invest up to US$17.3
million equivalent of their budgets in services, including training and technical assistance
services.
E. Proiect Costs
4.22        The estimated project cost is US$402.0 million equivalent, including physical and price
contingencies. Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs account for about US$200.0 million equivalent
or about 50% of the total cost. The project costs are expressed in August 1994 prices, based on a sample
of 46 feasibility studies for the ERCs (para. 4.10) and the proposal for the NIM, and therefore subject
to revision pending completion of the feasibility reports presently under preparation. Project costs by
component are presented in Table 4.1.



- 21 -
Table 4.1: Project Costs a/
Project                Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total       Foreltn
Component            ____u__
Investment                ------Rmb million-----       ------ US$ million ----
Equipment              544.9  1220.6    1765.5       64.1      143.6    207.7
Facilities             315.3      --       315.4     37.1       --       37.1
Technical               37.4   138.6       175.9      4.4       16.3     20.7
Assistance
Existing               233.7      --       233.7     27.5       --       27.5
Assets
Base Costs            1131.3  1359.2    2490.5    133.1        159.9    293.0       54.6
Contingencies
Physical               160.7   180.2      340.9      18.9      21.2      40.1
Price                   56.1    71.4      127.5       6.6       8.4      15.0
Installed             1348.1  1610.8    2958.9    158.6        189.5    348.1       54.2
Costs
Working                222.7      0.9      223.6     26.2        0.1     26.3
Capital
Pre-operation           38.2    20.4        58.7      4.5        2.4      6.9
Financing Requirements   1609.0  1632.0    3241.1    189.3       192.0    381.3       50.1
for 46 ERCs b/
Others                    57.0    19.6        76.5      6.7        2.3       9.0
Total Investment        1666.0  1651.6    3317.6    196.0        194.3    390.3       49.7
Public Services
NIM                     42.5    42.5        85.0      5.0        5.0      10.0
PC                       4.2      1.7        5.9      0.5        0.2      0.7
Training                 4.2      4.3        8.5      0.5        0.5       1.0
Subtotal                  51.0    48.5        99.5      6.0        5.7      11.7      4817
TOTAL                   1717.0  1700.0    3417.0    202.0        200.0    402.0       5 A
a) Excludes taxes and duties estimated at US$68.4 million; b) Investment component reflects data for 46 ERCs officially
appraised by the Bank. Additional proposals have been received by the Bank and are being reviewed.
4.23       The total cost of the investment component is estimated at US$390.3 million equivalent,
corresponding to the total cost of equipment, facilities, and technical assistance for ERCs, including
physical and price contingencies. Base costs were estimated from detailed lists of projected equipment
and associated requirements derived from the above-mentioned available feasibility studies using unit
prices of similar imported or locally available items. Technical assistance, training and expert services
costs are based on previous experience. Physical contingencies have been estimated at between 10% and
15% of the base costs depending on the type of equipment, and are judged adequate for scientific and
engineering research hardware. Price contingencies for costs expressed in local currency have been



- 22 -
estimated according to the following projected local inflation rates: 9% in 1995, 8% in 1996, 7.2% in
1997, 6.5% in 1988-1999, and 6% per year thereafter. The price contingencies for costs expressed in
US dollars equivalent are calculated at the anticipated international price escalation of 2.5 % per year from
1994 onward.
F. Project Financing
4.24       The proposed Bank loan for US$200 million equivalent would finance 50% of the project
costs. The GCC under contract with the SPC will act as the financial agent in the intermediation of the
Bank loan and the matching funds provided by the Government. The overall financing plan for the
project is presented in Table 4.2.
4.25       Investment Component. Financing of the investment component will be made through a
US$390.3 million equivalent allocation to cover the costs of equipment, facilities, and technical assistance
at the ERCs. Half of the costs will be covered from the proceeds of the Bank loan, the balance will be
provided in the form of facilities, existing equipment, domestic loans and cash provided as equity
investment by the sponsoring institutions. The sponsoring institutions include existing research and
development institutes, design institutes and enterprises. The costs of operating the ERCs will be met
through the sale of services, license and contract fees to clients of the ERCs. Bank funds will mainly
finance the procurement of imported equipment. Local equipment, working capital, and facilities will
be financed through equity and other loans secured by the sponsoring institutions.
Table 4.2 Project Financing Plan
(in US$ million)
Component          IBRD          Sponsors       GOC           Total
Investment (ERCs)  194.3          196.0         --           390.3
Public Service
NIM                 5.0           --            5.0          10.0
T.A.                0.7           --            1.0           1.7
TOTAL             200.0         196.0           6.0         402.0
4.26       Public Services Component. Financing of the public services component will be made
through a US$11.7 million equivalent allocation. Ten million dollars equivalent will be earmarked to
finance the modernization of the NIM, with half of the costs covered from the proceeds of the Bank loan
and the balance provided as a budgetary allocation from the Government. Financing of the other
technical assistance activities will be made through a US$1.7 million equivalent allocation. These funds
will be provided as follows: (i) US$5.7 million equivalent will be covered from the proceeds of the Bank
loan, administered by SPC; (ii) the balance will be provided as a budgetary allocation by the Government.



- 23 -
On-lending Terms and Conditions
4.27       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the proposed Bank loan would be on-lent
as follows:
(a)   For the investment component, the Government will pass on US$194.3 million of the loan
proceeds through SPC, which will act as the implementation agency, to eligible sub-
borrowers in the form of sub-loans. The Golden China Corporation (GCC) will act on its
behalf as a financial agent. For most ERCs, sixty per-cent of the proceeds of each sub-loan
will become equity investments at the time of conversion of the ERCs into LLCs. The
balance will bear the same interest rate as the Bank loan, and have a maturity of up to 20
years inclusive of up to five years of grace. For ERCs that have already been constituted
as corporations by the time of loan effectiveness, the entire sub-loans will have a maturity
of up to 20 years inclusive of up to five years of grace. The loans will be provided in
foreign currency and the exchange rate risk will be borne by the ERCs. The Government
will be responsible for the credit risk. The administration costs incurred by SPC will be
covered through a service fee of 0.85% of the loan amount, charged to the beneficiaries of
the sub-loans (para. 6.7).
(b)   For the public services component, the Government will pass on US$5 million of the loan
proceeds to NIM; US$0.1 million to Golden China Corporation for financing of its training
activities; and through SPC, US$0.6 million to the beneficiaries of the technical assistance
component.
G. Environmental Aspects
4.28       Most ERCs will be engaged in technology developments with positive environmental
impacts. For example, two ERCs will be working in the area of clean coal combustion, cooperating with
foreign suppliers to adapt internationally available know-how to the particular technical conditions
prevailing in China. Low-grade coal combustion technology is the norm throughout the country, and
China suffers from serious environmental problems such as air pollution and acid rain. The Government
has attributed great importance to the development and diffusion of clean coal combustion technology,
in view of China's high rates of economic growth and growing pressures on energy supply and the
environment. The ERCs working on clean coal combustion would supply technologies that increase
energy efficiency, reduce waste and pollution, and improve coal consumption. Seventeen ERCs approved
by the Bank have been the subject of a thorough environmental impact assessment which identified
potential negative environmental impacts and proposed action plans to ameliorate these impacts. The
sponsors have already incorporated these suggestions into revised proposals. A copy of the environmental
impact assessment has been filed as Document III in the project files.



- 24 -
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Management
5.1        The State Planning Commission (SPC) will be responsible for overall management and
implementation of the project, providing monitoring, coordination and financial services for project
activities (see paras. 6.2-6.7). The SPC has organized a Project Office (PO) which will be directly
responsible for implementation of the project. The PO will contract with specialized agencies the
financial and procurement services as required.
5.2        For the investment component, the PO will coordinate the activities of the beneficiary
ERCs. The PO will contract with Golden China Corporation (GCC, para 6.3) the financial appraisal,
disbursement and collection services for the ERC sub-loans. Likewise, the PO will contract project
procurement services through GCC to be undertaken in accordance with the arrangements shown and
procedures described below (Table 5.1). Each ERC will be responsible for timely and efficient
implementation of the ERC investment and will coordinate with the PO for all activities that are commnon
to other ERCs.
5.3        ERCs will be responsible for preparing detailed procurement plans in consultation with the
PO, including equipment lists and technical specifications, in accordance with their respective feasibility
studies. The procurement agent will provide bid documentation, supervision of the bidding process,
evaluation and execution services, including obtention of clearances from the Bank. ERCs will submit
their procurement requirements together with a list of potential suppliers to PO which will arrange
through the procurement agent for the packaging, as appropriate, of groups of compatible items for
competitive bidding purposes. Packaging for the first ERC proposals has already been completed, was
discussed with the Bank during project appraisal and at negotiations and constitutes the basis for the costs
shown in Table 4.1.
5.4         The SPC through the PO will also coordinate activities under the technology public services
component, which will support the modernization of NIM and the implementation of other technical
assistance activities, including training under the project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the GOC that training would be carried out in accordance with a training program acceptable to the
Bank, and any studies would be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and timing acceptable
to the Bank.
B. Implementation Schedule
5.5         The project will be implemented over a period of six years. Project completion is expected
by December 31, 2000 with loan closing by June 30, 2001. Sub-loans to the ERCs are expected to be
committed in three years and disbursed in six years. An implementation schedule is given in Annex 5.1.
C. Procurement
5.6        Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.1.
5.7         Eguipment and Materials. Contracts exceeding a value of US$250,000 for equipment
destined for both NIM and ERCs will be procured under international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures. The Bank's standard bidding documents would be used. For all ICB contracts for equipment
and materials, domestic manufacturers will be given a margin of 15 % of the cif price of imported goods,
or the prevailing customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower, for purposes of bid evaluation.
Most pieces of equipment fall into the following categories: (i) analytical instruments for physics,
chemistry and biology; (ii) measurement and testing equipment; (iii) laser and electronics equipment; (iv)
computers and software; (v) communication equipment; and (vi) process reactors and ancillaries.



- 25 -
Table 5.1: Anticipated Procurement Methods
(US$ million) a/
Procurement Method
ICB           LCB         OTHER c/   NBF                  TOTAL
ERC Investments
Equipment                148.3          23.0             5.7          37.0           214.0
(148.3)        (23.0)           (5.7)          --           (177.0)
Civil Works                 -             -               -          106.0           106.0
Tech.   b/                  -             -             12.3          33.0            45.3
Services                    -             -            (12.3)          --            (12.3)
Consultant                  -             -              5.0          20.0            25.0
Services &                  -             -             (5.0)           -              (5.0)
Training
Subtotal                 148.3          23.0            23.0         196.0           390.3
(148.3)        (23.0)          (23.0)                       (194.3)
Public Services
Equipment                  3.7            1.0             -             3.4            8.1
(3.7)         (1.0)            -                            (4.7)
Tech.   b/                  -             -              0.5            2.6             3.1
Services                    -             -             (0.5)                          (0.5)
Consultant                  -             -              0.5            -              0.5
Services &                  -             -             (0.5)           -              (0.5)
Training
Subtotal                   3.7            1.0             1.0           6.0           11.7
(3.7)         (1.0)           (1.0)                         (5.7)
TOTAL                        152.0           24.0           24.0         202.0           402.0
(152.0)        (24.0)          (24.0)                       (200.0)
EJ      Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank. Anticipated procurement methods are based or
a sample of 46 ERCs.
b/     Includes specialized software, patents, licenses.
Odter procurement includes LIB, local shopping, direct contracting, and consultant services
NF:   Not Bank Financed.
5.8          Contracts valued between US$50,000 to US$250,000, and up to an aggregate amount of
US$24.0 million will be procured under established local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which
are acceptable to the Bank. Contracts below US$50,000, up to an aggregate value of US$14.0 million,
will be procured under local shopping by obtaining quotations from at least three qualified suppliers. The



- 26 -
nature of the activities to be financed under the investment component requires that allowances be made
for limited international bidding (LIB) and direct contracting of technical services. Typical items to be
procured under these arrangements include: patents, licenses, know-how, basic engineering packages,
proprietary software and hardware. An estimated total of US$9 million equivalent will be used for
procurement of proprietary items. Employment of consultants will follow the "Guidelines for Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."
5.9         The threshold for prior review for contracts for consultants would be US$100,000 equivalent
for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individual contracts. The threshold for prior review for goods
and services would be US$250,000 equivalent. An estimated 80% of the Bank-financed contract value
for goods and services would be subject to prior review.
5.10       Civil Works. Civil works under the project to expand ERC facilities would be financed
locally by each beneficiary.
D. Disbursement
5.11       Disbursements will be made on the basis of the percentages shown in Table 5.2. An
estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 5.2.
Table 5.2: Allocation and Disbursement of the Loan
(US$ million)
Categorv                             Amount                     % ExpRenditures
to be financed
1. Part A (Investment
Component)
a. Goods                           177.0                      100F/100LE/75L
b. Technical Services               12.3                      100F/100LE/75L
c. Consultant Services               5.0                      100
and Training
2. Part B (Public Services)
a. Goods                             4.7                      100F/100LE/75L
b. Technical Services                0.5                      100F/100LE/75L
c. Consultant Services               0.5                      100
and Training
TOTAL                            200.0
F means foreign expenditures; LE refers to Local ex-factory and L refers to items procured LocaLLy.
5.12       Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) for: (i) contracts
for equipment costing less than US$250,000 equivalent; (ii) contracts for consulting services costing less
than US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals; and (iii) training.
Supporting documents for disbursements based on SOEs would be kept by PO for review by external
auditors and Bank supervision missions. Disbursements for all other expenditures would be based on full



- 27 -
documentation. To facilitate timely payment of project expenditures, a dollar-denominated Special
Account (SA) for the loan amounting to US$10.0 million equivalent (calculated as the IBRD share of the
estimated four month average of expenditures), will be established in an interest eaming account.
Applications for replenishment to the SA will be submitted to the Bank on a monthly basis or whenever
50% of the initial deposit has been utilized.
5.13       Retroactive financing of up to US$5.0 million is recommended to cover eligible expenditures
incurred after March 31, 1994, but prior to loan signing. This provision is important to maintain the
momentum already gathered in the constitution of the ERCs and other project activities.
E. Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting
5.14       Success of the ERCs will ultimately be measured by their ability to remain in the market
and be profitable, which in turn will measure the effective delivery of services to end users (new ideas,
products and processes).  For each ERC, key performance indicators to be assessed during
implementation would include: financial and economic rate of return, number of contracts signed with
end users, number of start-up and spin-off companies in related technologies, environmental impact of
new technologies successfully diffused, ability to involve partners from abroad, success of diffusion
activities, productivity growth in industrial users of ERC services, and training of staff. The project's
overall success will be judged by the survivability ratio of the ERCs in the commercial market at the end
of the project period, and their effectiveness in adapting and diffusing technology. Performance of ERCs
and the program at large will be closely monitored by the Government and the Bank through supervision
activities. A schedule of proposed Bank supervision is given in Annex 7.3. In addition, a mid-term
review will be conducted to assess project progress and make mid-term corrections as necessary.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government will undertake a review of the
progress of and prospects for implementation of the proiect with the Bank no later than December 30.
1997.
5.15       A project monitoring and supervision system will be introduced in the ERCs to enable them
to track their progress according to targets set in their Financial Plans (Annex 4.7). These Plans have
been formulated specifying outputs and implementation milestones, which are reflected in the performance
indicators. Data from each ERC will be collected by the PO, which will maintain close contact with all
ERCs to facilitate communications and prompt response to any eventualities.
5.16       Given the novelty of the actions sponsored, it is important to obtain early evaluation of
critical aspects of the project in order to adjust implementation and assist successful completion. Areas
of concern are progress in the selection of ERCs, the establishment of ownership and management
arrangements, and progress in the actual set up of the ERCs. To address these issues, semi-annual
reports will be prepared by the PO and submitted to the Bank for information. Compliance with
eligibility criteria will be the responsibility of the PO, and the Bank will, during the course of supervision
activities, review the application of criteria. A project completion report will also be prepared by the PO
within four months of loan closing.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.17       The PO will keep detailed accounts for the project. These accounts will be audited annually
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank in conformity with the Bank's requirements, within six
months of the close of the Government's fiscal year. Audited SOEs and Statements for the Special
Account will also be submitted within six months of the close of each fiscal year. During negotiations.
assurances were obtained from the Government on the annual audit of project accounts by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank. The State Auditing Bureau is an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank.



- 28 -
6. IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. The State Planning Commission
6.1        The SPC, the government's chief planning agency and responsible to develop the interface
between the Government's technology policy and its overall economic strategy, conceptualized and
designed the ERC program and submitted the project proposal to the Bank. In consultation with the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), it later issued the strategic objectives and management modalities of the
project (Document V in project files). It also coordinated project preparation activities, organized review
committees for selection of ERC proposals, and prepared the Policy Statement. The SPC through the
PO will have overall responsibility for implementation of the project.
B. The Proiect Office (PO) of the SPC
6.2        The PO is a recently established office at the SPC. The PO consists of two teams, headed
by experienced personnel, one in the areas of financial management, technical assistance and training;
the second in procurement. Each team is made up of experienced personnel with appropriate skills. The
PO will have 12 permanent staff, some of whom have already been involved in procurement,
disbursement and monitoring activities under other Bank-supported projects in China. Details of the
organizational structure of the PO and its functions are included in Annex 6.1.   At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that in carrying out its implementation responsibilities, PO will be assisted by
Golden China Corporation acting under contract as a financial agent.
C. Golden China Corporation
6.3        The Golden China Corporation (GCC) is a recently established company owned by the
Government. It will be controlled SPC. A draft charter for the GCC has been reviewed and commented
on by the Bank, and suggestions for its revision have been made which have been incorporated into the
charter. Details of the current charter and functions of the GCC are included in Annex 6.1.
6.4        GCC's agreed responsibilities under the project are as follows:
(a)   disbursement, collection, and repayment of the Bank loan funds;
(b)   procurement of goods and services through a contract with a specialized agency;
(c)  implementation of the technical assistance program;
(d)   application withdrawals through the MOF; and
(e)   assisting the auditing bureau to audit the project.
6.5        The GCC will act as a financing agent under the project and will take no credit risks.
Under the current climate of change in the financial framework in China, SPC and the Bank have agreed
that it is better for the project to use a financial agent rather than a risk-taking financial intermediary.
This decision was taken after a long consultation process in China and in the Bank which concluded that
because the beneficiaries have been pre-identified through the ERC selection process, the intermnediary
could not be asked to assume the credit risk. In addition, the newly formed GCC could not be expected
to have the necessary expertise to evaluate the ERCs. Existing government-owned financial institutions
also do not have this expertise. It was also decided that developing the necessary appraisal skills for
financial intermediation -- and in the highest-risk end of the commercial market -- would add to the
complexity of the project and increase its risks. The GCC will, however, be involved in the financial
appraisals of ERCs in a supporting capacity, but will not be responsible for their selection.



- 29 -
6.6        The experience gained by GCC as a financial agent may create a capability worth
preserving. Therefore, in the long run, and depending on the successful development of its tasks, SPC
and the Bank have agreed that it may be beneficial for the GCC to eventually evolve into a financial
intermediary. Some of the activities envisioned under the technical assistance component address this
issue. However, eventual evolution of the GCC into a financial intermediary is beyond the scope of the
proposed project.
6.7        Assurances were obtained at negotiations from the borrower that it would enter into a
financial agency agreement with GCC under which GCC would be responsible for facilitating sub-loans.
and sub-loan disbursement and repayment. The signing of the financial agent agreement is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan.



- 30 -
7. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
7.1        The project will support the ongoing process of reform in the technology policy framework
and the development of technology markets. It will help finance a new institutional initiative designed
to increase the productivity of R&D assets and their effective deployment, linking the R&D systems with
foreign as well as domestic sources of know-how and with the emerging market for technology.
Additionally, the strengthening of technology-related public services under the project will help improve
the quality and lower the cost of Chinese products and services. The project will thus play a significant
role in the development and adaptation of technology to Chinese conditions, and in the diffusion of
cleaner technologies. Subprojects to be funded under the project are expected to have rates of return of
at least 12%.
7.2        Technology innovations and diffusion in the economy will result in improvements in the
productivity and efficiency of the industrial sector, and in improved environmental performance.
Ultimately, the project is expected to contribute to the sustainability of the process of industrialization.
By providing technical support for training and for the development of consulting services, the project
is expected to contribute to the acquisition of skills required for the marketing of technology products and
management of technology-based companies, as well as other skills required in a transition to a market-
based environment for technology development.
B. Proiect Risks
7.3        Technical. Because of the uncertainty of results associated with the process of technology
development, investments in technology development corporations necessarily entail high risk. To
minimize this risk the project establishes clear market incentives for the ERCs, their management and
owners; the ERCs will be subject to hard budget constraints, and will receive no operating subsidies.
This risk has also been minimized through the preparation and review of feasibility studies for each ERC,
prior to funding decisions being made. All ERC proposals will also be reviewed and finally approved
by the Bank. A further risk is that the ERCs would compete with potential private investments. This
risk has been off-set by investing in areas warranting public sector involvement in R&D, and by ensuring
that future entry into those areas is unrestricted, either through new private entry or import competition.
7.4        Institutional. The ERCs and the GCC are new institutional structures. However, the ERC
institutional set-up being proposed is not rigid and consists of share-holding companies with provision
for adaptation to technology and market changes and termination. The GCC may also fail to reach the
required level of managerial and technical competence. Care has been taken in selecting qualified and
experienced staff and in including in the design of the project adequate technical assistance and training.
7.5        Financial. GCC may also experience difficulties in collecting on its loans from ERCs that
fail to reach the necessary level of revenue. However, the high percentage of equity funds out of the total
investment, and the value of the assets bought by the ERCs suggest a low level of default. Finally, under
the project, the GCC will act as an agent and will not carry the risk of default by ERCs.
7.6        Success of the project will in the long run depend on the success of the economic reforms
already started by the Government. This is a risk difficult to evaluate. However, the Government and
technology policy-makers in China are strongly committed to the objectives of the technology policy goals
and to the pursuit of a sustainable industrial development strategy. Although a high-risk operation, the
project is justified because of the very high potential benefits resulting from efficient technology
innovations to an emerging economy.



- 31 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1        During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Borrower that:
(a)   as part of the ERC appraisal process, each ERC will include a plan of conversion to an
LLC within five years, which will be approved by the Bank; thereafter, the ERC will be
required to implement the approved conversion plan under its sub-loan contract with the
GCC (para. 4.7);
(b)   all project ERCs will be selected in accordance with technical and financial criteria
acceptable to the Bank and all ERC proposals will be submitted to the Bank for final
approval (para. 4.11);
(c)   project sub-loans will be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.27);
(d)   project training will be carried out in accordance with a training program acceptable to the
Bank, and any project studies will be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and
timing acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.4);
(e)   a mid-term review of the project will be carried out by December 30, 1997 (para. 5.14);
(f)   project accounts will be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank
(para. 5.17); and
(g)  the Borrower will enter into a financial agency agreement with GCC, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.7).
8.2         The following will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan: signing of the
financial agency agreement between the Borrower and GCC (para. 6.7); and approval of the Loan
Agreement by the Borrower's State Council.
8.3        Based on the above agreements, the project constitutes a suitable basis for a loan of
US$200.0 million equivalent to the People's Republic of China. The loan will be at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate with a 20-year repayment period inclusive of five years of grace.



- 32 -
ANNEXES



- 33 -
Annex 2.1j
Page 1 of 3
CHIN
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Statistics Related to General Technology Policy Environment
Table 1: Acquiring Foreign Technology: imports
(Value in US$ billion)
Total   Complete  Licensing Consulting Technical   Cooper-        Main
Sets of              Services  Services    ative    Equipment Other
Equipment                                  Production
1988 Number       437.       137.       169.        19.        27.         10.       71.     4.
Value         3.         2.         0.       0.01       0.02        0.01       0.1   0.00
1989 Number         32         15          9          1          1           1         3
_ alue        2.          2.       0.1        0.00       0.0        0.00        0.1    0.0
1990  umber         23          7         10                                 1         3
Value         1.         0.3       0.2        0.00      0.00         0.5        0.1   0.00
1991 Number         35          8         11                     1                    12
Value         3.         2.        0.4        0.00       0.0         0.0        0.3   0.00
ZgUrff: China S&T Indicators 1992, p. 130.



- 34 -
Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 3
Table 2: Chinese Studentu Studying Abroad on Goverrment Scholarships
and Returning Students
Year               Students Studying Abroad         Returning Students
1980                         2124                           162
1981                         2922                          1143
1982                         2326                          2116
1983                          2633                         2303
1984                         3073                          2920
1985                         4888                          1424
1986                         4676                          1388
1987                         4703                          1605
1988                         3786                          3000
1989                          3329                         1753
1990                         2950                          1593
1991                         2900                          2069
Source:  China Statistical Yearbook 1992, p. 659.
Table 3:  Sources of S&T Financing
(Value in billion yuan)
Sources                  1988             1989             1990              1991
State                    11.80           12.80             13.90             15.60
Enterprises              10.20            14.70            17.40             18.10
Bank loans               4.90             4.10             5.20              7.50
Other                    1.30             4.10             5.50              6.10
Total                   28. 20           35.70             42.10             47.40
Sourc: China S&T Indicators 1992.



- 35 -
Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 3
Table 4    Forms of Economic Linkages with EnterpriBes
and Economic Entities
Total Number                 Subordinated to:
of
Institutions
Local       Ministries       Chinese
Departments   under State    Academy of
above         Council        Sciences
County
Level
Total                                2821            1928           892              77
1.  En t^C***bmy **z                 361             225            136              10
medium sized enterprises
2.  Leading or contracting           345             255             90              6
medium and small-sized
enterprises
3.  Joining or becoming              317             200            117              10
technology development
centers
4.  Merging with designing           170              79             91              5
and engineering entities to
form contractor companies
for technology projects
5.  Developing technology            1060            756            304              30
jointly with others
6.  Others                           568             413            155              16
4nUXrc: White Paper on Science and Technology No. 4, 1989, p. 332.



- 36 -                                AnnAX 2.2
Page 1 of 2
CHIN
TECHINOLOGY DEVLOPMET PROJECT
Sourc-a of Science and Technology Financing
Table 1: Domectic Technology Trade
(Value in billion yuan)
Item               1988              1989             1990              1991
Number of                 265,017          262,161          206,748           208,098
contracts
Value                       7.2              8.1              7.5               9.4
Table 2: Domentic Technology Trade by Buyer
(Value in million yuan)
Buyer                1988                 1989                1990                 1991
Number    Value    Number   Value   Number   Value   Number    Value
Industry        179945    500829    181099   477818   136549   498611    131985    605430
Research          NA         NA        NA         NA      10626    59495      13341      71869
Institutes
Government      56686      172341     28406    185349    11214    55359       13774      91078
Ministries
Technical        4682      15622      10040     37513     3754      15519     6341       26169
Trade
Associations
Private           NA         NA        NA         NA       5625     6204      2971       4693
thers          20273      31100     321183    106056    23672    98844       24139     103213



- 37  -                                     ne    .
Page 2 of 2
Table 3: Domestic Technology Trade by Seller
(Value in million yuan)
Seller                1988                  1989                  1990                   1991
Number    Value    Number    Value         Number      Value      Number      Value
Research         72416    275215        NA      411099      59235      268184      63213       444762
institutes
Colleges &       23828      39378       NA       43729      13475       66104       11912      68323
universities
Industrial       39018     153265       NA      152028      31563      144279      27112      124148
enterprises
Technical        67940     157728       NA       33386      61841      151561      67794       195204
trade
associations
Private          10106      11734       NA       48414       6403       13256       7588       13902
Others           48288      82499  j   NA   j  118080  |  18923         90648       14992   |  56113
Sourc: China S&T Indicators  1992, p.  127.



- 38 -
Annex 2.
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
TEC  VOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Information on NRCs Already in Operation jnd
Not Part of the Proposed Project
1.        SPC initiated a pilot program of ERCs (PERCs) in early 1990, with
actual institutional arrangements starting in 1992. As of early 1994, there
were 11 ERCs in operation and one under planning. During project appraisal, a
data base was created for the compilation of information regarding the
performance of these PERCs. A summary of the data collected is presented in
Table 1.
2.        The data shows that most PERCs were set up in 1992. However, these
were developed before the selection criteria and the framework of incentives
(now in effect) were in place. In addition, the PERCs have not been set up as
independent institutes and their budgets are linked to the budgets of the
sponsoring organizations. For these reasons, as well as the very short period
of operation, it is not yet possible to make an economic assessment of their
performance.
3.        Most PERCs have yet to produce a profit,  and those that already
show a profit owe a significant fraction of it to the sales of products rather
than income due from royalties or services. However, these results, need to be
interpreted with caution as their experience is not necessarily applicable to
the ERC program. Significant differences exist between the two sets of
institutions. For example:
(i) Incentives Framework. The framework of incentives, under which the
Bank has supported the ERCs is market-oriented, with a corporate
structure and will use limited liability corporations. The PERCs
are adjoint institutes to the sponsoring institution and work under
the R&D incentive framework.
(ii) Selection Criteria. The selection, defined under the incentive
framework has been carefully designed to promote market orientation
& clear ownership; the PERCs were not selected under the same
standards.
(iii) Monitoring and Evaluation. The 12 PERCs reviewed do not have clear
performance criteria to measure success or failure.



- 39 -
Annex 2. 
Page 2 of 2
|   BRCs      |  Year   |        Activities          I        Observations
|___________________ | Founded |
Engineering Plastics  11/93       4 joint ventures in north Staff/60; ongoing training
east China, and 2 planned activities with plans to
(founded 11/93)                   for the south west.         focus on SMEs to gain 60% of
market.
News Processing &       12/93     Engaged in joint R&D;        Staff/45; ongoing training
lectronic Publishing             joint marketing; and cross activities.
licensing.
(founded 12/93)
Industrial Automation 3/92        Developed the SUPCON JX-   Staff/40; considerable funds
100 Distributed Control    allocated for training;
System, and other           looking to spin-off
technologies; most income companies; and increase
from services and           market share from 2-20%. by
products.                   1997.
Fiber-Optic             1992      Joint R&D; cooperative       Staff/530; solid training
Communication &                   development; and most        budget; focus on SMEs; and,
Engineering                       income from services,        targeting 20% of market
royalties, and products.   share.
Computer Software       12/93     Joint R&D; joint             Staff/40 (by end of 1994);
marketing; cross            weak training budget; focus
shareholding; and most      on marketing 3 new systems.
profits from services,
royalties, and products.
Robot Technique         11/93     Joint R&D; cross share-    Staff/125; focus on
holding; and most income  assembling, maintaining and
from sale of products.      training function of new
technologies introduced in
market.
Shanghai                1994      Focus on joint R&D, cross No information provided.
Microelectronics        (target   shareholding; and cross
date)     licensing.
Optoelectronic Devices 1992       Joint R&D; joint             Staff/72; marketing visible
marketing; and most         lasers which account for 80%
prof its come from products of ERC's income; small
and services.               training budget.
High-End CNC            5/93       oint R&D and joint          Staff/41; no training budget
marketing; and most         listed; targeting 10-15% of
profits from services &   market.
products (10-15% market
share for high-end CNC
systems.
VLSI CAD                1992      Aiming for 30% of domestic No information provided.
(ongoing) market share 1995.
Semiconductor Material 1992       Joint R&D and joint          Staff/204; training budget
Engineering                       marketing.                   listed.
estuff                1995      Joint R&D; cross             Staff/220; profits expected
licensing; and purchase of in 3 years.
atents.



- 40 -
Aexx2A4
Page 1 of 7
CHIA
TECNOLOGY DEVELOPMEN   PROJECT
Statement on Technology Policy
February 1, 1994
This statement on technology policy by the government of China has
been developed in the context of the proposed China Technology Development
Project of the World Bank. It has been drafted by the State Planning
Commission through a process of consultation with other relevant government
organizations, including the States Science and Technology Commission, the
State Education Commission, the State Asset Management Bureau, the State
Economic and Trade Commission, the China Patent Office, the State Taxation
Bureau, the Ministry of Personnel and MOFTEC (Ministry of Foreign Trade and
Economic Cooperation).
I.    Overview of China's Science and Technology Policy
The Chinese government's policy on the promotion of science and
technology has been carried out since 1978 by making economic development its
central purpose. The essence of this policy is to cast the aims, levels,
priorities and tasks of science and technology development in terms of
economic development strategy and objectives. At the same time, technology
policy analyzes development trends in other countries and works out
corresponding policies, strategies and organizational structure adjustments
suited to China's national conditions so that technology promotes economic
development within the constraints of limited resources and financing.
From the mid-1990s to 2000, the Chinese government's technology
policy will be improved by deepening ongoing reform and widening its scope,
applying reforms stably and sustainable under the general framework of a
Chinese socialist theory and socialist market economy. Those technology
policies and laws which were drafted and have proved effective over the past
14 years will continue to be implemented.
The foundations of science and technology policies are found in
three documents: "Decisions on Policies of Science and Technology System by
the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party" (1985); "Decisions on
Some Issues of Establishing a Socialist Market Economy System by the Central
Committee of the Chinese Communist Party" (1993); and the "Law of Science and
Technology Progress of the People's Republic of China" (1993). All these
policies and laws reflect major reforms from different stages of the period
since 1978. The key points of the three documents are as followings:
a)    The general strategy for technology development is to accelerate
the process of transforming science and technology into an
economically productive force. Therefore, economic development is
dependent on science and technology, and progress in science and
technology must be oriented toward economic development.
b)    The State pursues the policy of "let a hundred flowers blossom and
a hundred schools of thought content" in science and technology



- 41 -
Page 2 of 7
research, and encourages all kinds of scientific innovation and
invention in order to benefit human beings.
c)    The State and society as a whole should respect knowledge, talent
and the creative work accomplished by scientific and technical
labor, and protect intellectual property rights.
d)    The State encourages collaborations and exchanges with foreign
countries in order to promote technology transfer and the
widespread dissemination of scientific knowledge.
e)    The State will seek to integrate science and technology with the
economy and actively promote the unity of the economy with science
and technology.
f)    The management mechanism in state owned enterprises  should be
transformed into a modern company system, and enterprises will
gradually become the main entities of technology development.
g)    The  State  will  establish  laws  and  regulations  for  smooth
implementation of the above tasks.
II.   Scope of this Technology Policy Statement
The development of a network of engineering research centers (ERCs)
throughout China with support from the World Bank constitutes an integral part
of China's overall science and technology policy. ERCs represent a new kind of
institutional mechanism for linking the research and commercial sectors in
technology development activities. This policy statement is intended to
specify, the reforms in the four areas are most processing. A separate Annex
elaborates on the implementation and timing of the actions discussed herein.
III. Greater Respect for Knowledge, Talent, and More Effective Protection of
Intellectual Property Rights
ERCs and the institutions they serve will be deeply involved in the
creation of new technology. Without a strong system of protection for
inventors' property rights in this technology, it will not be commercialized
rapidly. Throughout the 1980s and early 1990s, several new laws regarding
intellectual property were put in place. In the 1990s, the main tasks in this
regard will be the implementation of the enacted laws, policies and
regulations on protection of intellectual property. To accomplish this, the
following efforts are necessary:
a)    Increase public understanding of intellectual property rights.
Public understanding and respect for the system of intellectual property
rights is an important pillar for technology development. This is a long-term
goal toward which China continues to work. A more focused strategy in this
regard concentrates on the group of involved in technology development
engineers,   scientists,   industrialists   and  government  officials.   More
particularly  still,  the  members  of  the  ERC  community-ERC  engineers,
collaborators in industry, university and research institute personnel-need to
improve their knowledge of the system of intellectual property rights. This
target group will be the focus of training and technical assistance programs
developed in the context of the ERC program and implemented over the next few
years.



- 42 -
Annex 2.4
Page 3 of 7
b)    Provide training programs for judges, lawyers and others dealing
with technology transfer to further acquaint them with the laws in
China and standard international practice.
Each  year,   China's  Patent  Office,   together  with  local  patent
administrations, holds various training courses and seminars many times.
Participants in the courses include patent agents, patent workers, managers,
scientific and technical labor from enterprises, judges from courts, and
university students and tethers. In 1991 alone, patent administrations at all
levels provided 31 offerings of various training courses for 2,292
participants. Last year, after the Amendment to the Patent Law was approved,
the director of the Patent Office brought key operations members of extensive
promotion and explanation of the law, and in the meantime, clearly proposed
the development aims of "letting the public learn about patents and letting
patents serve for the whole society". China's Patent Office plans in 1994 and
the future to put even more law to let the patent concept grow roots in the
hearts of people. It will further encourage scientific and technical labor to
make better use of patents, while at the same time raise their general levels
of understanding of the law.
At present, the examination for patent agents is held once every two
years, and those who pass are awarded the "Qualification Certificate of Patent
Agent". As a result of increases in the level of science and technology and in
the number of patent applications, the number of patent agents is expanding
rapidly. There are now more than 500 patent agency firms in China, and the
number of patent agents exceeds 4000.
Institutions involved in external business are playing a major role in
acting on behalf of foreigners and foreign enterprises for patent
applications. There are now five patent agencies involved in external business
in China, and this type of institution will expand in numbers.
c)    Based on principles  of a socialist  market  economy,  establish
relevant supervision and enforcement systems to complete the
system of intellectual property protection.
On March 19, 1985, China joined the "Paris Treaty on protecting
Industrial Property Rights" to promote the system of protecting intellectual
property rights towards standard international practice.
In cases of patent infringement, the injured party may directly sue in
the People's Courts; or ask for arbitration from the patent administration. If
the arbitration is not satisfactory, the injured party may appeal to the
People's Courts. The China Patent Office in 1989 drafted and then enacted
"Methods of Patent Administration in Dealing with Patent Disputes". Its
implementation is well underlay, and the Office is now making further
amendment to perfect it.
To protect the intellectual property rights more effectively, People's
Senior and Intermediate Court in Beijing has set up a special court on
protecting intellectual property rights since 1992. At the past time, cases of
intellectual property rights infringement were usually tried by economic court
(in charge of industrial property rights) and civil court (in charge of other
intellectual property rights) at all levels. Setting up two special courts on
intellectual property rights in Beijing district is to suit the needs of the
rapidly developing economy and the increasing cases of intellectual property



- 43 -
AnnAx 2.4
Page 4 of 7
rights infringements. The Supreme Court of the People's Republic of China has
recently decided to experimentally construct a court on intellectual property
rights in the Senior Court of such area along the coast with developed economy
as Fujian, Shanghai, Guangdong, Hainan province in order to ensure effectively
these areas opening to the outside and protecting the intellectual property
rights. Chinese government will widen the experimental scope based on the need
of market and the experimental results.
For the sake of having laws to base in the cases of charging technology
contract infringements, China enacted "Arbitrating Principles of Arbitration
Mechanism on Technology Contracts" on June 25, 1991.
The revised patent law (enacted in 1992) provides patent administrative
authorities of dealing with counterfeit patents. To carry out the "Patent Law
of the People's Republic of China" more effectively, Chinese government
prepares to enact recently the "Temporary Provisions on the Activities of the
Administrative Authority Dealing with Counterfeit Patents" to let all the
authorities who enforce, supervise and administrate laws have laws to based
on. Some provinces have developed methods of dealing with counterfeit patents.
Within the past two to three years, China has devoted much attention to
the protection of trade secrets, with great legislative progress. The "Law of
Unfair Competition of the People's Republic of China", approved at the third
meeting of the Eighth National People's Congress (effective on Dec 1, 1993),
specifically lists infringement of trade secrets among the rules against
unfair competitive behaviors.
The trade secrets is defined as: "the technical and/or business
information which is, while unknown to the public, able to bring economic
profits to its holders and subject to its holders' protective measures".
Infringers of trade secrets will be subject to civil and administrative
remedies. In addition, legislation is planned, in due course, to clearly
define the legal responsibility for criminal acts of infringement of trade
secrets as a supplement to the "Criminal Law".
These recent and pending developments in trade secret law will bring
China's legal framework to a point that is consistent with standard
international practice. However, the question of public understanding and
enforcement of these laws also deserves attention. In most countries, trade
secrets are enforced through private contracts and confidentiality agreements.
China will promote understanding of trade secret law among the public and the
administrative and judicial system to move toward standard international
practice in this regard. Chinese officials will not, in principle, initiate
investigations or administrative proceedings on trade secret infringement
until a law suit is commenced by an injured party.
IV.   Strengthen the Channels of Technology Transfer on the Basis of a Sound
Legal Framework for Economic Contracts.
In 1981, China enacted the "Economic Contract Law Concerning External
Business of The People's Republic of China". In 1985, the Economic Contract
Law Concerning External Business" was enacted, and the "Technology Contract
Law of The People's Republic of China" in 1987. These three related statutes
currently constitute the system of China's economic laws.
China is now at the stage of transforming its old system into a new one.
The old system was premised on a relatively backward level of science and



- 44 -
Annex_Z2A
Page 5 of 7
technology, in which legal protection for technology transfer did not operate
well. Therefore, the coexistence of "Technology Contract Law for the People's
Republic of China" and "Economic Contract Law Concerning External Business of
the People's Republic of China" was necessary during this period. With the
development of the economy, China will draw up a unity law on contracts.
As for administrative controls on technology transfer internal and
external to China, the Chinese government believes that, making import and
export policy and establishing protection institutes for technology transfer
should be in accordance with the principle of freedom, fair, equality, and
mutual benefits.
With regard to the domestic examination and approval of technology
contracts and the system for technology import and export, the Chinese
government will, on the basis of successful past reforms further coordinate
domestic procedures to avoid double examination and approvals. In addition, it
will gradually make the transition from a system in which project examination
and approvals was the major approach to one based on "policy guidance".
An industry policy drafted by SPC and promulgated after approved by the
State Council is a major style for government officials processing policy
guidance.
V.    Improve the Taxation Climate for Technology Development
A.    Taxation
The "Decisions on Some Issues of Establishing Socialist Market Economy
System by the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party" in principle
formulated policies regarding future taxation reform in China. The principles
are: uniform tax, fair tax burden, simple tax, rationally divided power,
smooth distributive relation, standardize distributive structure.
With the socialist market economy system being established, the
enterprises and institutes are urgent the new taxation system to ensure their
vitality in competition. In 1993, the State Council enacted, "Temporary
Regulations of Increment Taxation of the People's Republic of China",
"Temporary Regulations of Expense Increment Taxation of the People's Republic
of China" and others total five new regulations. These regulations have been
put into effect since January 1, 1994.
Taxation reform being the leader of the whole economy system reforms
shows that the Chinese government put the taxation reform on the key position
of the whole economy system reforms. The new regulations of taxation reform
encourage and favorite enterprises and institutes (including ERCs) to engage
in technology transfer, for example, increment taxation will be freed if the
departments above import apparatus and equipment to engage in science research
and technology transfer. Therefore, China provides a good taxation environment
for technology transfer though circulation and diversion taxation reform with
fully practicing increment taxation as its major contents and though income
taxation reform with unifying and standardizing domestic enterprises income
taxation as its major contents and through other taxation reforms forming a
complete set with the above reforms.
China will from now on integrate decision-making on reform more firmly
with that on legislation, and to guide, carry forward and secure the course of
reform smoothly.



- 4b -
AnTiex 2. 4
Page 6 of 7
B.    Risk Capital
The market for risk capital in China is still at its beginning stage,
and there is thus a major need to accelerate the development of a risk
investment system if technology development and transfer are to thrive. Many
diverse actions are necessary. New channels of funds from the central and
local government, from large state-owned enterprises and from overseas,
including Hong Kong and Taiwan. Different forms of investment encouragement
will be tried, including subsidize projects, favorable or no interest loans
and shareholder-based private enterprise.
The investment environment for foreign enterprises will be improved,
leading to a situation of free entry and exit for foreign capital. Since
January 1, 1994, China has carried out floating rate which is single,
administrative and market-based. The Chinese currency RMB is scheduled to
become fully convertible to foreign currency under a single market-based
exchange rate over a long period of effort.
The principal government agencies which have direct relationship with
the risk-capital are MOF, MOFTEC, SPC and the People's Bank of China, etc.
Increased coordination of their various relevant policies will be developed.
China has determined to apply gradually the shareholding system to high
technology companies and 100 enterprises will be selected pilot to transform
their management mechanism to modern company system.
It should be noted that the ERC program itself should provide a
prototype of the system that can mobilize different sources of capital and
focus them on particular technology development needs with the promise of
significant returns.
VI.   Establish Skilled Labor Market to Promote Optimal Labor Allocation and
Mobility in Line with the Principles of a Socialist Market Economy
Since 1978, China has begun gradually to develop a labor market, and the
majority of university graduates are going to companies demonstrates the
rational and scientific nature of the Chinese government's policy in this
regard. In the future China will address the following:
a)    the urgency of establishing a social security system suitable to
the socialist market economy
With the establishment and development of a socialist market economy,
competition is forming, and the establishment of social security system and
agencies is therefore urgently required. We believed that the establishment of
a social security system in the future should be accomplished by means of
legislating, policy making, setting up multi-level social security regime
(social  insurance,   social  relief,   social  welfare,   special  care  and
arrangement, mutual assistance and individual saving accumulation security),
reforming medical care system, and building housing funds and pension system,
etc.
In fact, a new social security system have already been established in
some state-owned enterprises.
b)    Encouraging the science and education people  flowing into the
production areas



- 46 -
Annex 2.4
Page 7 of 7
We believe that the education is the foundation of the nation's
development and at any time and under any circumstances, the education system
should retain high quality talent. However, given the relative surplus of
talent in the higher education system in China recently, the Chinese
government is therefore encouraging some of these individuals to move to other
sectors in order to promote economic development.
c)    labor allocation
The Chinese government is going to integrate skilled labor training with
proper utilization, set up qualification and recruitment standards for various
occupation, employ academic certificate and vocational qualification system,
and gradually practice recruitment and equal competition to promote rational
mobilization of labor. Furthermore, it will implement a policy of "support
studying overseas, encourage coming back and allow going out and coming back
freely", and in multiple ways urge Chinese abroad to serve their motherland.
VII. Conclusion
The statement on technology policy above state clearly that China has
possessed the fairly good conditions which can completely pledge that the
science and technology projects of the World Bank will be carried out smoothly
and effectively.
Signed by
(Wang Chunzheng)
Vice Minister
State Planning Commission



- 47 -
Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 3
CHINLA
TECENOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
State Council Regulation. on Deep&ning Science and Technology Syst   R-fonm
January 10, 1987
Background
1.       Since  the  central  government  decided  to  reform  the  science  and
technology system more than one year ago, a number of measures have been
adopted to reform the method of allocating fund for science and technology, to
develop technology market, to expand the autonomy of research institutions, to
promote the liaison between scientific research and production, to strengthen
the enterprise's capability of absorbing and developing new technology, and to
reform the management system of specialized technical talents. These measures
are aimed at implementing the central government's policy of basing economic
initial results to the satisfaction of the large numbers of people in the
scientific and technological fields and the society as a whole.
2.       However,  it must be pointed out  that the  fundamental  problem of
science and technology being disconnected from production has remained
unresolved. The organizational structure of science and technology has not been
changed. It is still a closed-up system. Major research institutions are still
attached to administrative bodies and they do not have an interdependent
research institutions belonging to line ministries and universities, whereas
there is a severe shortage of research personnel in light industry, textiles,
and commercial fields as well as in localities and rural areas. Since there are
not effective measures and policies to promote the marriage of research
institutions with enterprises, many research institutions continue to strive
for self-reliance and they seldom develop close relationship with enterprises.
On the other hand, research institutions developed by enterprises continue to
try to de-link themselves from parent factories. Particularly after the
restructuring of line ministries and the decentralization of enterprises, the
line ministries have been trying to strengthen their control over research
institutions.
3.       Now the economic system reform is deepening and the reform on the
state administrative system has begun. Therefore, the 1987 science and
technology system must make new progress on the basis of reform measures that
have been issued by the State Council so as to meet the needs of new
developments. To achieve this objective, the following regulations are
formulated.
4.       Further loosen controls over research institutions, promote multi-tier
and various forms of horizontal linkage between research and production, forge
close links between the development of science and technology and national
economy.



- 48 -
Annwex 3-.1
Page 2 of 3
(i)   All  line ministries under the State Council must separate
administration from research functions. They must streamline
administration,   decentralize   decision-making   power   and
gradually hand down research institutions to enterprises,
conglomerates, sectors and central cities. The state should
change its management over research institutions from direct
control into indirect control, i.e., giving instructive
leadership and providing coordination service.
(ii)   The majority of research institutions that are engaged in
technology development, particularly those in the field of
product development, must gradually enter enterprises and
conglomerates or develop close relations with them. The
provision of their research fund should gradually shifted to
retainment from total sales revenue of enterprises and
enterprise groups.
(iii)   Other technology development research institutions can adopt
various forms to link themselves with economic construction. A
small number of institutions that have a major impact on
sectors can become technology development centers for their
sectors. Some can open their services to small and medium
enterprises and TVEs and become their technology development
centers and regional technology centers. Some can cooperate
with designing and construction units to form technology
engineering companies. Some can take over enterprises to
become   technology-oriented   conglomerates   or   research-
production type of enterprises. Research funds for these
institutions will mainly depend on revenue of enterprises and
social services.
(iv)   Institutions must streamline their administration bodies. In
the next few years, no new institutions will be established
and existing institutions will not be expanded. Readjustment
will be conducted on existing research force. Some people will
leave while new forces will be recruited so as to improve the
competence of the research force.
(v)   Accelerate  the  reduction  of  research  expenditure.   The
retention rate of bonus fund of research institutions and the
quota  limits  of  bonus  issuing  will  be  linked  with  the
reduction   rate   of   research   expenditure.   After   the
implementation of wage reform, wage increase out of self
retention can be deducted from revenue. Enterprises must take
measures to facilitate the stable development of research
branches and encourage scientific and technical talents to
join enterprises.
(vi)   Implement  the director  responsibility system.  The director
will   be   responsible   for   both   the   operational   and
administrative management of the research institution. For
those institutions that have made marked achievements in
reform, whose economic and social benefit rates are high or
have become self-sufficient in research funds, the income of



- 49 -
Anne 3.1
Page 3 of 3
their directors and vice directors can be two to three times
as high as ordinary employees.
(vii)   To gradually separate the ownership and management rights of
research institutions is an important policy for deepening
structural reform of research institutions and strengthening
their capability of serve economic development. Smaller
technology   development   and   research   institutions   can
experiment  with  contracting.   Those  poorly  managed  and
inefficient institutions can also be contracted out. Large
comprehensive research institutions should also actively
explore new management models in the course of reform, such as
dividing the institution into a number of units with
independent accounting, or let these units be attached to
enterprises   and  enterprise   groups,   or  contract   their
management   to   collectives   or   individuals.   Under   the
prerequisite of abiding by state regulations, contractors
should be guaranteed their right of self-determination in
management and their legitimate interests stipulated in the
contract.
Human Resource Development
5.       Further  reform  the  personnel  management  system  for  research
institutions, adopt more flexible policies for science workers and create a
favorable social environment to allow them to fully display their talents.
6.       Departments  concerned  should  organize  or  encourage  some  science
workers to get out of the institutions, universities or government departments
and work with enterprises in urban and rural areas. They can leave in various
forms such as job transfer, maintaining employment without pay and resign. They
can either sign contracts with the enterprises to take over management, provide
technical and consultation service, or establish small and medium joint
ventures and joint stock companies. They should be allowed to obtain legitimate
income for their services. Technical stock shares are also entitled to dividend
sharing. Those science workers who can help others become rich should be
allowed to get rich themselves. governments at various levels should give more
flexible policies on wage, welfare, academic title, residence registration and
organizational relationship for science workers. And they should also support
scientific undertakings in the provisions of credit and loan, risk investment,
fund raising through issuing stocks and taxation.
7.       To  loosen  restrictions  on  science  workers  will  accelerate  to be
commercialization of scientific and technological research results, promote the
development of technology and create a new generation of enterprises and
industrialists who can make valuable contributions to the development of
socialist commodity economy and the country's scientific and technological
undertakings.
8.       Line  ministries  under  the  State  Council  and  various  localities
formulate implementation details to resolutely deepen the science and
technology system reform in accordance with these regulations and local
conditions.



- 5u 
Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 8
gNA
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMKNT PROJECT
SPC Statement on the Technology Development Project
August 1993
1.        BackFground
The Chinese Government, by implementing the Technology Development
Project to be financed by the World Bank, aims at helping the Chinese
enterprises, research institutions and universities, based on their respective
comparative  advantages,   to  accelerate  the  transfer  of  scientific  and
technological results into industrial sectors for mass production in a
comprehensive way, and thus providing good opportunities of development for
them. Under this project, 40 to 50 Engineering Research Centers (ERCs) will be
established with potential for the development of Chinese industries. This
model will be a great improvement upon the existing ones in terms of guiding
principle, aim, operational mechanism and policy environments. It is expected
to be an impetus to the improvement of the Chinese industrial structures, the
rationalization of resource allocation and the protection of the environment.
It is also hoped that through the implementation of the project a sound policy
framework will be put in place to promote the integration of science and
technology with economic development and to improve the market system.
1.        Refoms
The Technology Development Project is logically called for by the
system aimed at reforming the Chinese Economy. The Reform and opening of the
Chinese economy first initiated in the rural areas over the past decade has
achieved great success, laying solid basis for further reforming the overall
economic  system  of  the  Country.   The  rural  reform  started  with  the
implementation of the Household Contract Responsibility System linking
Remuneration to Output which has successfully addressed the issue of ownership
and management in rural areas. Secondly, great emphasis was put on the
development of the shareholding township and village enterprises (TVEs) which
have now become an important part of the national economy, accounting for more
that 1/3 of the industrial output. The TVE's success can be well explained by a
flexible operation mechanism and an income distribution patten consistent with
the market economy.
2.        The urban economic system reform has also made great progress in the
recent 10 years. However, a lot of difficulties have been encountered. Among
them are the widespread lack of vitality of SOEs,  the far-less-than-perfect
rules and regulations for market competition, the lag of the government
institutional reform behind the rapidly changing situations. These have served
to highlight the necessity and importance of further acceleration of the pace
of economic reform. The enterprise reform is at the core of the urban reform
and is the key to the success of the overall reform efforts. The success of the
SOE reform depends on the systematic reforms. The ownership of SOEs must be
clarified, and the relationship between government and SOEs be rationalized. In
this connection the successful TVE experience is highly relevant to SOEs in the
sense that all the enterprises must be transformed into true legal entities and
agents under market competition, which are autonomously managed, self-
disciplined, responsible for their own profits and losses, and responsible for
their own development. The priority of the current reform agenda is to
transform the operational mechanism of the enterprises in order for them to



- 51 -
Annex3.
Page 2 of 8
compete in the market. But given the fact that the majority of the Chinese
enterprises have for long been isolated from research institutions due to the
systematic reasons, they are not equipped with adequate R&D capacity. Many of
them do not have their own R&D institutions, and can merely manage to run their
own production lines. At the same time, however, their demand for technology
has been ever increasing because of the pressures from market competition and
the development incentives they have. Therefore, the issue of integrating
enterprises and research institutions must be addressed systematically and
their own operational mechanism be transformed if they are to survive the
market competition and transform their own operation mechanism.
3.        On the other hand, the existing huge research capacity, which has
evolved to become isolated from the enterprises due to historical reasons, can
no longer meet the need of an emerging market economy and has proved to be
impeding the transfer of scientific and technological results to productive
sectors. Despite the progress made in this regard during the recent decade,
further efforts are yet to be made to effectively integrate the research
institutions, which are still operating in an isolated way, with the
enterprises and productive sectors. In this respect, the pace must also be
quickened, and their operational mechanism be transformed in response to the
development in the market. The integration of the research institutions and the
enterprises in accordance with market principles is exactly what the proposed
project strives for.
4.        Economic Development
Technological advancements and efficiency improvement of the national
economy as a whole are crucial considerations under the proposed project. The
rapid development of the world economy during the past four decades can be
attributed, to a large extent, to the increasingly eminent role of science and
technology. In developed countries, technological advancement is accounting for
60 to 80% of economic growth. In China science and technology have also become
a crucial factor contributing to the development of the national economy,
accounting for 30% of growth as compared with 20% in the past. For the recent
30 years, the pace of transfer of scientific and technological results to
industrial sectors has been greatly quickened, and the time-span increasingly
reduced.
5.        Role of Science and Technology
The role, importance and necessity of science and technology in
economic development have testified that the economic competition in today's
world is in fact the one related to the pace of transfer of scientific and
technological results to industrial mass production. At present the development
of the Chinese industries is still of an extensive pattern, driven mainly by
financial inputs and the consumption of physical and human resources. The rapid
development of TVEs and medium-and-small-sized enterprises further necessitates
the adjustment and optimization of the Chinese industries. Today in China, the
inadequacy of financial resources needed for development, the per capita energy
consumption higher than the world average, the per capita labor productivity as
low as only several per cent of that in developed countries, and the per capita
possession of natural resources far from being rich have all made it impossible
for China to continue the current extensive pattern of development which relies
exclusively on the consumption of natural, financial and human resources for
simple reproduction. Such a development pattern cannot but result in imbalanced
industrial structures, duplication of enterprise development, serious waste of
resources and worsening environmental pollution. The Chinese economy must rely



- 52 -
Arnnx 3.2
Page 3 of 8
more on scientific and technological advancements, especially on their transfer
to industrial production, if it is to develop in the future.
6.        ERCs
Aiming at accelerating the transfer of scientific and technological
results  into  production,  the  Engineering  Research  Centers  (ERC)  to  be
established under  the proposed project will  focus on the engineering  and
systematic integration. Enabling environment and necessary pre-conditions are
already in place after 14 years of successful Chinese reform process. Great
achievements have been made in various areas since China embarked on the reform
and opening program 14 years ago. It has been made very clear that China will
establish the socialist market economy as the goal for reform, and the pace of
reform has been further quickened since last year. The market system and the
various policies, laws and regulations are being set up and perfected. All the
foregoing has provided a sound external environment for the establishment of
the ERCs under the Technology Development Project. Through reform and opening,
more and more enterprises and research institutions have regained their
vitality. With 120,000 scientific and technological results waiting to be
transferred into productive sectors, the Chinese enterprises and research
institutions have prepared themselves for the establishment of market economic
system both conceptually and physically. Moreover the policies and guiding
principles clearly defined by the Chinese government in its effort to build the
socialist market economy will minimize the potential risks to be faced by the
project.
7.        A  widespread  consensus  has  been  achieved  as  the  basis  of  the
Technology Development Project. ERC's were first conceptualized in 1987 at a
seminar on the transfer of university research products and began to be
experimented by the Government in 1988 on a case by case basis. Several years
of experience have proved the effect of the ERCs in accelerating the
technological transfers. The ERCs are of the following features:
*    market orientation;
*    close integration with enterprises;
*    sound operational mechanism  (responsible for their own development
and survival through market competition);
*    engagement in technological transfers.
8.        In 1989 a series of studies and discussions about ERCs were conducted
by the Chinese government and the various parties concerned. In 1990 a basic
agreement was reached by the Chinese government and the World Bank on
establishing the ERCs as a new model for optimizing the Chinese industrial
structures and improving the competition capacity of the Chinese industries. At
the same time, many research institutions, universities and enterprises showed
great interest and submitted one after another their proposals for setting up
ERCs. During the period, many countries like US, UK and Australia were taking
active measures to transfer scientific and technological results to productive
sectors. The growing consensus in this respect is the rationale for the
proposed Technology Development Project.
9.        The Policy Framework of the Technology Development Project
The policy framework concerning the proposed project covers the two
major categories: policy system and legal system. The policy system of the
Technology Development Project is mainly based on "The Decision of the Central
Committee  of  the  Chinese  Communist  Party to  Reform  the  Economic  System"
promulgated in 1984, "The Opinion of the CCCP on Accelerating Reform, Widening



- 53 -
Annex 3.2
Page 4 of 8
Opening and Upgrading Economic Development" promulgated in 1992 and other
related technological and economic policies. The Decision is the major policy
of the 1980s which recognizes the fact that the Chinese economy is the planned
commodity economy and that the enterprises are independent producers and
managers of commodities. It sets the direction for, spells out the aims of, and
provided strong policy support to the Chinese economic reform in 1980s. The
Opinion declares the necessity and practicality of developing market economy in
China. It acknowledges that the socialist market economy is the goal of system
reform in 1990s and that the transformation of the enterprises' operational
mechanism must be accelerated. It provides the crucial policy support to the
economic development in the years ahead as well as the theoretic support to the
implementation of the proposed project. There are also other special policies
which are indispensable for the project. Among them are "The CCCP Decision to
Reform the Scientific and Technological System" and "The Decrees Regarding the
Transformation of the Operational Mechanism of the State Owned Enterprises".
10.       The above-mentioned policy system can be further divided into 2 major
types. The first type pertains to the economic system reform and includes four
sub-types covering macroeconomy, microeconomy, finance and enterprise reform.
The second type pertains to the scientific and technological system reform and
also includes four sub-types covering macro science and technology, research
institutions,   enterprise   technology,   and  personnel   mobility   and   the
corresponding financial reform. The Chinese government will continue to
formulate a series of macroeconomic policies to address some special issues
with a view to ensuring that the socialist market economy be established in a
smooth manner.
11.       Legal Framework
Being responsible for their own management, development, profits and
losses, ERCs must operate within the existing legal framework which includes 3
major types as follows:
*    the laws which ERCs must abide by as an economic entity, especially
the Enterprise Law;
*    the laws which ERCs must abide by as a R&D entity, especially the
Scientific and Technological Advancement law;
*    the laws represented by those on protection of intellectual property
rights (e.g. Technological Contract Law and Patent Law), which ERCs
must abide by as entities engaged in technological transfers under
the market principles.
12.       Moreover, the legislative branch of the Chinese government plans to
promulgate 60 economic laws in 1993 and 1994 which can be divided into two
categories. The first category refers to those laws which are required to be
submitted for approval on schedule. Some are currently being reviewed and
expected to be approved by the National People's Congress by the end of this
year. These include Corporate Law, Fair Competition Law (revised), Real Estate
Law, Law of Protection of Consumers' Interest, Individual Income Tax Law
(revised),  Accounting  Law  (revised),  Certificate  Public  Accountant  Law,
National Compensation Law. Besides 15 laws are expected to be reviewed by NPC
in 1994, including Banking Law, Bills Law, Advertisement Law, Arbitration Law,
Mortgage Law, Auditing Law, Insurance Law, Publication Law, National People's
Congress Organization Law (revised), Rules of Procedures of the Standing
Committee of the national People's Congress (revised), Election Law (revised),
Local Organization Law (revised), Court Organization Law (revised) and
Procuratorial Organization Law (revised).



- 54 -
Annex 3.2
Page 5 of 8
13.       The second category refers to 32 laws which should be submitted for
approval as soon as possible if circumstances permit. These include Township
and Village Enterprise Law, Trust Law, Labor Law, Civil Aviation Law, Energy
Conservation Law, Highway Law, Telecommunications Law, Law of Defense Research
and Production, law of Protecting Equal Rights of Dispersed Ethnic Minorities,
Association Law, Policy Law, Prison Law, Birth Control Protection law, Rules of
Judges, Martial Law, Lawyers' Law, Education Law.
In terms of aim and function, the above-mentioned laws can be divided
in to four types:
*    laws designed to discipline the market agents like Corporate Law;
*    laws aiming at upholding fair competition and adjusting relations
between market agents like Fair Competition Law;
*    laws aiming at strengthening macroeconomic regulation and promoting
coordinated development of the national economy, like Budget Law;
*    laws to establish and improve the social security system, like Labor
Law and Insurance Law.
14.       According to the authoritative sources, the pace of legislation will
be greatly quickened under these arrangements. And an economic and legal
framework of the socialist market economy is expected to be put in place by the
National People's Congress within the next five years. The legal and
institutional development of China has lagged behind the developments in other
areas, since it had been neglected for long until the late 1970s. Currently
speaking, great emphasis should be placed on overcoming the difficulties in
supervising and enforcing the laws which have already been promulgated. To sum
up, the Technology Development Project will be implemented within the policy
and legal frameworks described above. Along with the progress of reform and
opening up, the Chinese government will further formulate and improve a series
of laws and policies to ensure that the market competition be conducted in a
fair and disciplined manner.
15.       Policies
The orientation by SPC in its transformation of Macro economic
management is to make macro economic programs, coordination, to disseminate
information, and to make necessary supervision and render services. SPC has
decided  to  reduce  its  administrative  intervention  and  by  formulating
industrial, technology development policies to influence the industrial
development. On the other hand, SPC intends to help create an appropriate
environment conducive to the goals for enterprises to be autonomous in their
management and operation, to be responsible for their own losses and profits,
and their viable long term development. And by all these measures, to establish
a macro economic management system consistent with the fundamentals of market
economy. In this context, SOC is of the view, regarding the proposed Technology
Development  Project,  that  in  order  to  accelerate  economic  development,
continued efforts toward policy adjustment must be made so that the proposed
ERCs and operate as independent agents under a market economy. The major
measures at the moment are centered on execution and enforcement of the
relevant laws and regulations.
16.       It is necessary for the government to make guidance to the proposed
Technology Development Project, mainly in policy dimensions, in order to
facilitate the development of ERCs along the line of market economy. And such
guidelines must be made with new operational mechanism. Instead of the



- 55 -
Annex 3.2
Page 6 of 8
administrative means as practiced previously, such new mechanism shall be
market based, aimed at linking between productive firms and research
institutes. By experience and practice over the past, shareholding companies
shall be one of the appropriate forms in making such linkage. Shareholding
companies may able to combine firms and research institutes in terms of their
respective rights, responsibilities, and benefits, based on the market economy
principles. If such experiment proves to be successful, it is going to provide
with a large number of productive firms and about 5,000 large-scale research
institutes a good model for the systematic transformation. It is therefore
believed that the execution of the proposed project will likely contribute to
the healthy development of the Chinese firms and research institutes in terms
of policy changes. However, many issues still remain unresolved in establishing
shareholding system with ERCs, and very likely a transitional mechanism (ex:
management Committee, instead of Board) is to be required in establishment of
shareholding system for ERCs, but it is evident that shareholding system sheds
a very positive light in ERCs' orientation.
17.       Investment
It is still very necessary for the government, at this stage, to
provide assistance in investment into research and enterprises for this
purpose. China, being a developing country, spends merely 0.7% of its GNP on
science and technology, and lags behind not only industrial countries such as
US and Japan, but also the newly industrialized countries. And such gap is both
in absolute and relative terms. At present, the investment by the Chinese
enterprises and research institutes in the commercial transformation of
scientific and technological research results remains very little, due to the
high risks to them. China is now in the transformation from the planned
commodity economy into socialist market economy, and to reach this goal,
enterprises and research institutes must transform themselves into the driving
forces under the market system, however, to encourage them to take more risks
in undertaking commercialization of the innovations, the government is still
needed  to  provide  some  assistance  and  guidance.   In  the  process  of
transformation, the government shall not only make efforts to have enterprises
more market oriented, but also, more importantly, to help them to expand their
business in the new environment of competition. This, together with appropriate
policy in place, also requires government's input to create necessary
conditions, so that enterprises and research institutes are able to compete
both in domestic and international markets. In this context, some investments
by the government into technology development, particularly into the chain of
commercialization toward industrial production, are of high necessity. Since
China's expenditure in science and technology still remains government
dominated, therefore, from the governments' point of view, additional
expenditure into commercialization of innovation is of priority. And in a
sense, this is aimed to encourage enterprises and research institutes alike to
develop on this path, and at providing the better conditions for them to face
competitions. And eventually, with policy and investment, guide enterprises to
be the major forces in investment into technology development.
18.       Based on foregoing,  Chinese government believes that the proposed
Technology Development Project, under the policy framework as referred to,
shall influence the systematic changes the government intends to see, in terms
of the policies, operating mechanism, and the working conditions affecting
enterprises and research institutes. Further more, SPC is in charge of
formulating and implementing industrial policy. Therefore, to integrate the
proposed project into the implementation of industrial policy, undoubtedly will
add importance to the project. Under the completed regulations on ERCs last



- 56 -
Annex 3.2
Page 7 of 8
year by SPC, the industrial policy is emphasized. For instance, the Guideline
regarding ERCs
Establishment during Eighth Five-Year Plan (91-95), which we previously
discussed with the World Bank, was publicized nationwide via media, also stress
the importance of industrial policy.
19.       ERC Eligibility
ERC candidates, to be eligible for the financing under the proposed
project, in addition to the policy and legal framework, and the proposed
shareholding system or an alternative transitional system toward shareholding
system, must take note of the following aspects:
(a)  Domestic and World markets shall be seen as integrated. This may be
ignored by many chinese enterprises and research institutes due to
the fact that Chinese economy has long been in a protected domestic
market. Along with open-up policy and gradually transforming toward
market economy, in essence, world market is the same as domestic
market. Therefore ERC candidates, in formulating their strategy,must
be market oriented, and particularly world market oriented.
(b)  External Advanced Technologies shall be an important source for ERCs
in their efforts toward commercialization. This shall be adequately
emphasized to make ERCs competitive over long term. Some successful
cases can be applied among the ERC candidates. A candidate under
China Academy of Sciences, bought patents from GE, USA and a Japanese
firm, and made successful commercialization. As a result, the entity
has experienced rapid development in sales both in a domestic and
international markets. A research institute in Shanghai, jointly with
two local firms purchased from a US firm production technology, and
with process of commercialization, achieved good results.
(c)  ERCs shall be an economic agent in the market, and make profits.
However, the government shall have clear policy guidance for them so
that their viable development be technology transfer and new project
development oriented in materializing their profits. This shall help
establish a large number of technology transfer centers in China, not
merely some productive enterprises. Otherwise the rationale for ERC
establishment and development will no longer be there, and the
proposed Technology Development Project, in terms of its objectives,
will not have the significant potentials over the long term economic
development. The ERCs already in experimental operation, are all
profitable. It is the government's intention, with policy guidance,
that ERCs shall develop themselves mainly in cooperation with the
industries of commercialized technology, not themselves into large-
scale production units. Of course, we do not rule out the possibility
that some ERCs, particularly those engaged in high technology
development, will evolve into high-tech production enterprises
themselves.
20.       Long-term Possibilities of ERCs
There may be at least three development patterns for ERCs in future,
under the present policy framework:
(a)  Some ERCs may eventually be merged into large enterprises/enterprise
groups, and function as their own R&D department, and these



- 5*7 -
Annex 3. 2
Page 8 of 8
enterprises  may  be  hopefully  evolving  to  be  multinationals
themselves.
(b)  Some ERCs may develop themselves  into new technology development
corporations. It is more likely that those engaged in high-tech
development may be able to do so, and with such forms, R&D,
production and marketing will be integrated under one firm.
(c)  Still more ERCs may develop into independent  technology transfer
centers, and they themselves do not undertake large-scale production.
Given these possibilities, the government is of the view that under
the present policy framework, the proposed Technology Development Project has a
very good prospect for success. However, we need to continue addressing the
problems and issues as they arise in our efforts to establish and develop ERCs,
and some correct additional policy and regulation may be required to be
formulated, so as to ensure that the proposed project achieve the objectives
set by the Chinese government and the World Bank.
21.        Conclusions:
(i) policy adjustment and reforms by many countries; (ii) rapid
development in the World Trade and international division of labors; (iii)
increased technology transfers into large-scale industrial production. The
proposed project, in such context, shall address, in China's environment, both
policy changes and adjustments, and the challenges of technology development
and transfer. These objectives shall be seen in the present situation of
transformation in China from a planned commodity economy into a market
economy, as well as based on the requirements that Chinese industries must
shift their structures from high energy consumption, low efficiency, into
technology-driven, productivity-oriented ones. In essence, the proposed
project is aimed at trying to develop new mechanisms and new modules in terms
of policy and investment, to enhancing and accelerating technology transfer
into industries, and eventually, achieving the task of industrial structural
changes, improving productivity, and protecting environment. The proposed
project, as we believe, under the represent policy framework, in China and
possible better policy environment in future, will move forward. However, it
is anticipated that during the course of its implementation, efforts shall be
intensified to address the new problems and issues, to start new experiments,
particularly in the areas of making ERCs viable entities in the market
competition, through their advances in technology development and transfer. In
this regard, we expect a large amount of work needs to be done, and all the
measures to be taken shall be market oriented.



- 58-
Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 6
CzNA
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Survey of Industrial Technology D-velopment Operation. Fundad by the Bank
Backgound
1.          A survey has been conducted of the Bank's financed Industrial
Technology Development projects. The results of the survey are expected to
document the past institutional experience with the financing of projects of
this nature and to summarize the main lessons learned from our involvement in
the field.
2.          Industrial  technology development projects have generally been
characterized as those aiming to promote linkages between R&D, the productive
sector and the market place. By their very nature, the scope of technology
projects extends far beyond the technology sector. Market imperfections,
legal, fiscal and capital market reforms are areas often addressed by
industrial technology development projects. Therefore, industrial technology
development projects offer the Bank an avenue for initiating a broad-based
dialogue on many of these issues affecting the domestic industrial sectors.
3.          The first project financed by the Bank was presented to the Board
during FY 1975, for a loan amount of $5 million to finance an Industrial
Development Operation in Israel. Key components of this project dealt with
support of research and development (R&D) and technical training. Since then,
a total of 11 industrial projects, which can be characterized as Industrial
Technology Development Operations have been appraised and approved by the
Board. The total cost of these projects exceeds $2.2 billion and has involved
Bank  lending equivalent to $0.7 billion.  A list of these operations  is
attached in Table 1.
4.          The activities sponsored by these projects have included:
(a)   support  for  the  organization,  set  up  and  development  of
institutional infrastructure for technology development, including
training;
(b)   financing of technology development programs involving support to
R&D institutions and application centers;
(c)   financing of information services, including the organization of
data bases, information-networks and access to patents and other
sources of foreign technology and know-how;
(d)   financing of venture capital funds.
status of Projects
5.          Out of the eleven projects approved by the Board, four have been
completed for which Project Completion Reports (PCRs) are available, while



- 59 -
Annex 1.
Page 2 of 6
seven are at various stages of implementation. The most recent operation was
approved by the Board in FY 1991 and involves a Technology Development Project
in Turkey.
6.          Out  of  the  list  of eleven projects,  five  are  thought  to be
potentially instructive to the operation under development in China, because
of the similarity of issues encountered during their preparation and based on
the specific objectives sought though their implementation. The particular
projects that fall into these category include: a) the three Korea Technology
Development Project, approved in FY 1982, for $50 million; FY 1985, for $50
million; FY 1988, for $50 million; b) the Spain, Industrial Research
Development and Engineering Project, approved in FY 1990. The scope of the
activities supported through these operations resemble the closest the
activities envisioned under the proposed project in China. further, the Korean
and Spanish projects have been characterized by OED as "instructive" and
"influencing future project design". The project in India was characterized by
IENIM as "most innovative".
7.          A summary of the most relevant issues faced during preparation of
these projects and the lessons described in the PCRs for the first two Korean
projects are presented below. While no perfect project design exists and
technology policy should be geared towards the specific needs and situation of
a country, the Bank's experience does provide a set of common themes which
could guide future industrial technology development projects.
8.          Some Issues faced during project preparation:
(a)   Technology Policy as it relates to industry has a major role in
determining competitiveness and productivity; therefore it cannot
be seen in isolation from issues such as macroeconomic policy,
trade, protection, licensing procedures, and exit policies. The
combined effect of these factors in determining the competitive
advantage of the domestic industry in a country needs to be
understood and properly addressed. Therefore, a review of the
general policies affecting competitiveness and productivity needs
to be undertaken at the time technology policy is being examined.
(b)   Institutional Development. The Bank's role has been most critical
when the success of a project depends on a sustained commitment to
institutional development in areas where financial returns are
hard to quantify and where business failures are a necessary part
of the innovation process. Failures may dissuade an individual
firm from investing despite the fact that industrial technology
development benefits the society at large. Investing for the long-
term   has   justified   Bank   involvement   in   supporting   the
infrastructure for technology development.
(c)   Human Resource Development. Although the technology development
projects selected for review are not directly involved with higher
education, or other aspects involved in the development of the
human resources indispensable for successful R&D, a few lessons
have been obtained in the area of training and skills development:
(i)    First, the Bank's involvement in technology development has
often resulted in the setting up of new and complex



- 60 -
Annex 31
Page 3 of 6
institutional  arrangements  which  can  have  a  combined
educational and applied research agenda. The need to have a
solid management, administrative and monitoring capability
built into the scientific function is essential in these
cases. For example, institutions set up and supported
through technology development projects should have clear
commercial criteria against which their success or failure
can be judged. The commercial and economic rationale for the
day-to-day functioning of these institutions needs to be
clearly laid down, for which proper management and
operational skills are essential;
(ii)    Also,  the Bank's  role has been  far greater  than merely
setting up a suitable infrastructure to establish the
direction  of  technology  development.  The  Bank  has  been
involved in training and support of monitoring and
evaluating technology development activities.
(d)   Market Signals. Proper technological  choices are only possible
when markets can operate freely and effectively. Rational pricing
of resources and outputs to guide decision-makers, both private
and public have been found essential to guarantee that the
investments in technology development are used in an optimal
manner. Long-term sustainability and quality performance are
concerns that have been addressed through greater involvement in
setting up the proper incentives.
(e)   Regimes for Protecting Intellectual Rights. Financial incentives
given to firms to innovate will give the desired results only if
the legal and fiscal infrastructure for that particular incentive
is in place (as an example Venture Capital Funds set up in India
were  accompanied  by  suitable   fiscal  and  legal   changes).
Inadequacies in the legal protection afforded to technical
knowledge not only limit opportunities for domestic innovation but
also severely constrain cross-border technology flows (one of the
Bank's latest projects, i.e., Mexico Science and Infrastructure
Project includes funding for an agency set up to implement the
intellectual property laws already in place).
(f)   Role of the Public Sector. Private sector firms in OECD countries
have been extremely useful in inducing innovation processes.
Government efforts to correct imperfections in factor markets will
generate maximum social returns when the government concentrates
its efforts to build a partnership between the public and private
sectors (strengthening the capacity of public institutions to
deliver measurements, standards and quality control services to
the private sector; promoting and providing training to technical
personnel   and;   setting  up  risk-sharing  mechanisms)   while
recognizing that the private sector should take the lead in the
actual development of new products and services.
(g)   Access to information. The development of technology is anchored
in  the  availability  of  information,   not  necessarily   the
information generated at the local R&D institutions but from all
suitable sources. A wealth of information is continuously been



- 61 -
Annex 3.3
Page 4 of 6
made available from industrial countries, which is accessible
through patent offices or through technology transfer mechanisms.
Cost effectiveness in the development of new products and
services, requires the efficient use of these resources.
(h)   Role of Standards and Methods.  Future advances  in most  high
technology areas inevitably require refinements in measurement
techniques and agreed standards. Therefore, a component of
industrial technology development projects usually involves the
strengthening of the measurement, standards, norms and quality
control functions. The training of the workforce that makes these
systems operative is essential.
(i)   Appropriate  timing  is  important  in  technology  development
projects. The ability of a country to go to a more technology
intensive level depends on the general level of industrialization
and the availability of technical manpower to absorb and diffuse
the new knowledge.
9.          Lessons learned from project completion analysis and supervision
reports.
(a)   Financing industrial research and development as a component in
ITD projects is very difficult if institutions and mechanisms for
bringing about the commercialization of R&D results do not exist.
The necessity of creating new financial institutions and/or
establishing links with existing financial intermediaries explored
from the start in order to avoid costly delays, and in some cases
failure, in the development of new products and processes.
(b)   Technology Development Corporations such as CDTI in Spain and KTDC
in Korea learned only with time to function more like venture
capital companies. The Bank's guidance and monitoring is important
because most borrowers are experimenting with risk-sharing
financial mechanisms for the first time.
(c)   Stress  on  financial  strength  and collateral  of  sub-borrowers
hinders  the  advancement  of  truly  innovative  technologies.
Individual entrepreneurs and the establishment of dynamic firms is
thus inhibited. Technology development corporations and funds
should be made to support software intensive growth oriented
companies, involving a high degree of risk and long-term returns.
This was true with KTDC in Korea and CDTI in Spain.
(d)   Greater Bank help in devising financial instruments  should be
provided to industrial technology development funds set up in
borrower countries.
(e)   With the passage of time successful ITD institutions generally
change from institutions of ITD to more demand-driven institutions
with greater autonomy.
(f)   Technology  development  projects  should  be  flexible  in  their
organizational structure and approach to reflect the heterogenous
nature of technology development issues. The Bank, it was felt was



- 62 -
Page 5 of 6
justifiable flexible in procurement and disbursement procedures in
the Spain Technology Development Project.
10.         The findings and lessons learnt described in this memo represent
only a partial account of the institutional experience gained through the
preparation of Industrial Technology Development Projects in the Bank. The
documents on which the current analysis has been based, have been filed in the
project files for further use. These constitute a valuable data base for the
proposed project in China.



- 63 -
Annex 3. 3
Page 6 of 6
Table 1.  INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS  (Bank Financed).
Country      Ln/Cr    Scope                                     LnlCr Akt      yar   StatisA
($ million   approved
Israel        1116     Subcomponents of Industrial                              1975     C
Development Project
- Research Development                      5
- Technical Training                        5
Spain         1425     Support of RD&E for new products             18          1977     C
and processes in Industry
Korea         2112     Provision of finance for R&D, tech-          50          1982      C
nology import and institutional
development of KTDC. Provision of
risk-sharing finance training and
institutional development.
2473                                                 50          1984      C
2913                                                 50          1988      I
Mexico        2747     Review measures designed to encour-          48          1986      I
age ITD, strengthen technology
infrastructure and improve special-
ized technology finance.
Sri Lanka   1948 Cr   Technology development                        24          1988      I
Hungary       2966     Strengthen R&D infrastructure, de-           30          1988      I
velop institutional and financing
mechanisms for ITD. Increase effi-
ciency and applicability of R&D.
India       3119 Ln   Financing technology innovation by          145+55        1989      I
2064 Cr   setting up four VCFs, promoting
collaboration between industry and
R&D institutions and, support to
technology imports.
China         3274     Rural Industrial Technology                110.7         1990      I
Enterprise modernization through
introduction of upgraded technology,
training of managers, provision of
risk-sharing finance and industrial
development and technology informa-
tion.
Turkey        3296     Supporting firm level productivity          100          1991      I
growth, investing in standards and
metrology, funding R&D to catalyze
private sector investment in ITD
and venture capital institutions.
C: Closed
I: Under Implementation



- 64 -
Page 1 of 1
CEIINA
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crite                     d Financi       ding of NRC.
TICHN1CAL:      Criteria for technical funding is based on the:
ti)  relevance  of  the  proposed  technology  development
program to meet the technical and engineering needs of
the Chinese industrial sector;
(ii) scope of work and its concentration on technical and
consultative services to the industry;
(iii)adequate sponsorship regarding the qualifications of
the proponent institution in terms of its excellence in
its industrial sector and proximity to the market;
(iv) efficient and autonomous management structure conducive
to independent decision making;
(v)  qualifications of the proposed staff and a program of
technical training and human resource development; and
(vi) efficient use of the existing technical infrastructure.
FINANCIAL:      Criteria for financial funding is based on the:
(i)  adequate  sponsorship  regarding  the  financial  support
from enterprises, regardless of ownership and size, and
the expertise and potential to cater to a large number
of industries;
(ii) sound financial management structure reflected in the
overall operation that stress a commitment to a market-
oriented management style;
(iii)sources and mechanisms proposed for the acquisition and
assimilation of technology including linkages both
foreign and domestic that will drive the diffusion
strategy required for the dissemination of services,
new products, and processes responsive to the market;
(iv) satisfactory market analysis and business plan; and
(v) minimum 12% economic rate of return.



- 65 -                             AnnHx 4.2
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
TECHNOLOG  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline for 8RC Feasibility Studiss
Surmnary
1.          A one-page statement outlining the proposal and business plan.
Objectives and Scone
2.          A description of the short-and long-term objectives and scope of
the activities proposed for the ERC and an analysis of the importance of these
developments in the context of the process of industrialization of the
country. Brief mention of the general situation of the field in China,
problems and gaps in competitiveness, environmental soundness, technology and
productivity; sources and limitations of information.
Background of the Sponsor Organization
3.          An indication of the nature,  strengths and weaknesses of the
proponent; its human resource base; its research and development activities;
its performance in contract research; its past experience with technology
development and transfer; its network of connections, commercial and
technological, within China and in the outside world.
Rationale for the Establishment of the ERC
4.          An elaboration of the need to establish the proposed ERC, based on
gaps in the competitive provision of technological services and products from
Chinese sources, and on externalities. Indication of the matching of the scope
of work with market demands, skills, experience and resources of the
proponents, potential profitability and externalities.
Market Demand
5.          An assessment of the demand for the activities of the proposed
ERC, including an analysis of the client systems to be served and the
competition (and potential collaboration) from other providers of the same
services and products, in China dna abroad. Indication of how long will it
take for the ERC to develop marketable activities.
Diffusion Strategy
6.          A description of the mechanisms and tools to be used in the
dissemination of the output of the ERC. For each market area selected, an
indication of the specific strategy proposed for market penetration of the
services and products of the ERC, considering the following, as appropriate:
(a)   training of client staff;



- 66 -
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 2
(b)   exchange of staff with clients or potential clients;
(c)   utilization  of  the network provided by  the  relevant  industry
associations;
(d)   annual conference with client system;
(e)   newsletter distributed to the client system, etc.
Collaboration Strategy
7.          A discussion of the intended partnerships with foreign or domestic
suppliers of technology. For each market area selected, an indication of the
specific collaboration strategy regarding sources of technology in China dna
abroad, in the form of joint developments and international technology
transfer, for the Chinese and external markets.
Organization and Management Structure
8.          A  presentation  of  the  organizational  structure  fitting  the
specific requirements of the ERC, as market oriented organizations, including
organizational chart, with special emphasis on the structure and approach of
the marketing and sales functions; recruitment procedures; benefits offered to
staff; general description of responsibilities of key personnel, with a
summary of their experience and background. Description of the functions,
responsibilities, tasks and composition of the Management Council or Board of
Directors; the Advisory Committee; the ERC Director and his immediate cluster
of associates.
Prolect Description and Implementation Schedule
9.          Description  of  the  capital  structure  of  the  ERC,  mentioning
shareholders and their respective equity share; the equipment, buildings,
land, facilities, intellectual property rights, facilities and capabilities
acquired through the project, together with the implementation schedule.
Financial and Risk Analysis
10.         A financial analysis of the proposed ERC project, preferably using
the standard financial software package already employed in the analysis of
the original batch of proposals. Also a qualitative assessment of benefits and
risks associated with the proposal.
Business Plan
11.         The Business Plan of the proposed ERC is composed of the following
elements   of  the  outline   above:   market  demand;   diffusion   strategy;
collaboration strategy; financial and risk analysis. The Business Plan should
emphasize the expected share of the services and products of the ERC.



- 67 -
Annex 4.3
Page 1 of 1
TECHROLOY D LOPMENT PROJECT
Pan-l of Lcpertu for ZRC Proposal Reviews
Group Leader:         Shi Changxu, Natural Science Fund Commission of the State,
Academician, Researcher
Deputy Group Leader: Zhang Deyun, Xi'an Communications University, Professor
Yie Peida, Beijing Institute of Posts and Telecommunications,
Academician, Professor
Min Enze, Petrolic Academy, Academician, Professor
Chen    Junliang,    Beijing    Institute    of    Posts    and
Telecommunications, Academician, Professor
Fan Hongeai, Science and Technology Commission of Ministry of
Mechanic and Electronic, Industry Researcher Senior Engineer
Ni Weidou, Qing Hua University, Professor
Sun Yu, The 54th Research Institute of Ministry of Mechanic
and Electronic Industry, Research Senior Engineer
Yin Shitai, Beijing Telecommunication Administration, Senior
Engineer
Yan Liemin, The Academy of Posts and Telecommunications,
Senior Engineer
Wu Zhimei, The Software Research Institute of the Academy of
China, Vice-Researcher
Liu   Zengji,   Xi'an  Electronic   Science   and  Technology
University, Professor



- 68 -ex 4.4
Page 1 of 7
TECH1OLGY-DEVELOPMENT-PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Training Activities
1.        The training activities will be coordinated by the Project Office
(PO). The PO will serve as a focal point for training of ERC staff, industrial
users, policy makers, and academia. The objective is to deliver high-quality
training programs in technology commercialization to ensure that the ERCs have
a substantial impact not only on industry, but also on the labor market as it
prepares workers to be more technologically literate in a rapidly expanding
economy that will ultimately require technology to maximize efficient use of
its resources to be competitive in a global economy. The training activities
will focus on four areas that will strengthen the institutional and technical
capacity of the ERCs:
A.   Issues of Critical Importance Such am Operation and Management of LLCs,
and Intellectual Property Rights
Operation and Management of LLCs
2.        The ERCs will have to prove to outside industries and investors that
they are a solid engineering research center with highly skilled staff who
possess competent financial and managerial skills. Advanced and continuing
education and training should be on-going and delivered through seminars,
conferences, technical exchanges, and workshops. The training activities should
be managed through a human resource department equipped with a computer-based
human resource management system that will track training activities including
needs assessment, costs, and benefits. Areas that would benefit ERC staff are
not only the traditional management areas but must include areas which are
particular to innovation management and technology development. Those areas
are:
*    human resource development
*    MIS management systems
*    procurement
*    program management
*    financial management
*    strategic planning
*    marketing
*    institutional development
*    financing of spin-off companies
*    legal issues
*    intellectual property
*    contractual agreements
*    sunset provisions - exit strategy
3.        With the assistance of PO,  the ERCs are expected to establish a
network with other ERCs to share programs, costs, and best practices from
training activities. PO might publish a monthly newsletter for ERCs and its
users on human resource development (HRD) activities. In addition, PO, in



- 69 -
Page 2 of 7
collaboration with the ERCs, could further the HRD discipline by working within
the university system to develop a curriculum that responds to the needs of the
science and technology community.
Leaal Aspects of Technology Transfer/Intellectual Property
4.        Given the importance to intellectual property rights in technology
development, and the revision of the patent law in 1992, it is essential that
ERC staff, shareholders, contractors, policy makers, etc. fully understand
intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. The ERCs
will work with the Patent Office to assess legal concerns as they relate to
intellectual property. The issue of who owns the patent is critical to buyers
of technological innovation and can become a major barrier to technology
transfer if these issues are not worked out ahead of time. Industry will not
wait for legal matters to be sorted out, they will shop elsewhere for
technology. Issues that should be addressed by the ERCs are:
*    current status and legislation of Chinese law;
*    trading patterns with U.S., Europe, and Asia;
*    impact of legislation and trade on intellectual property; and
*    patent types (inventions; utility models; industrial designs; patent
marking and patent pending; trademark; copyrights; trade secrets;
patentable matter; and products occurring in nature.
5.        It might be advisable  for the legal  department  of  the ERCs  to
establish boiler plate agreements to facilitate collaboration with industry. A
speedy response is needed to negotiate cooperative research agreements with the
private sector. The literature available concerning this topic suggests that
agreements should not take more than 4-8 weeks. A slow lag time in acquiring
the patents could hinder and even prevent an opportunity to do business.
6.        A user-friendly electronic information retrieval system such as a
bulletin board could be designed to announce new technologies available for
licensing and other technology transfer opportunities. A directory of people
and resources in the ERCs might also be made public to facilitate easy access
through the ERC network.
7.        In addition to working within the patent system,  it is recommended
that the training activities include developing or revising a curriculum for
lawyers required to be knowledgeable in intellectual property. This could be
integrated in the university system.



- 70 -
Page 3 of 7
B.   Training  of Management Personnel on  the  Operation  of Market-Oriented
Technology Driven Enterprises
8.        As  a marketing department  will  be  set up  in all  the ERCs  (as
indicated in their proposals), an emphasis must be placed on the integration of
marketing throughout every department of the ERC. Marketing must be linked to
all parts of the company - from product design to finance, as it is a function
of planning, which is a function of management itself. While the labs offer
technologies and technical expertise, they must not overlook service. ERCs are
not only market oriented but technology driven. Devices are made in the labs,
products driven by the marketing department. An economic analysis unit might be
established to provide input to marketing. Education and training in marketing
will begin in the university system, and not only undertaken by the ERC
managers.
9.        Areas of training will include:
Market research and planning with the objective of creating a marketing
strategy.
a).  Analysis and evaluation of market (input from economic analysis
unit) includes identifying market barriers (international,
regional, and domestic).
b).  Market management - planning, advertising, customer service and
support.
c).  Customized approach for small and medium sized businesses.
d).  Selection  of  technologies  to market  - which devices  to be
transferred, identify needs, and concentrate on what has highest
return and where?
e).  Allocation  of  resources  -  are  there  enough  resources  to
implement plan?
f).  Analysis of industrial sector development
g).  Value added services - knowledge transfer, consulting, etc.
h).  Evaluation - has to be on-going, and refined.
Mechanisms for promoting technology transfer.
*    contract research - ERCs contract with industry
*    cooperative  research  -  projects  where  ERC  engineers  and
industrial engineer work cooperatively on projects of mutual
interest
*    workshops/seminars - put on by ERCs to disseminate information
on new or emerging technologies with possible applications to
industry
*    licensing (exclusive or non-exclusive)



- 71 -
Annex 4.i
Page 4 of 7
*    sponsored research: industry reimburses the labs for work done
at the ERC
*    technical consultation
*    employee exchange (industry and ERC staff)
*    individual lab visits: by industry technical personnel to labs
to share information and discuss technical problems
*    information dissemination to gain access to technical resources
- through publications, newsletters, and technical papers, etc.
*    publishing  a guidebook  for  technology  transfer  managers  of
evaluation)
C.   Training for th- Operation and Management of GCC
10.       GCC is responsible for financial management, ERC supervision, and the
monitoring and evaluation of the ERCs.  The evolution of GCC to a technology
financing institution will be a function of the interdependency between the
ERCs, industry, government, and the science and technology community who make
up the technology transfer chain as seen in the experience of the
industrialized countries. Concerning the operation and management of GCC, the
training activities as described in be of While GCC is expected to evaluate
and monitor the ERCs, it should not be presumed that a ready-made evaluation
and monitoring system exists to measure technology development. As the
technology transfer literature clearly indicates, no such methodology has yet
been established that the science and technology community have accepted. Due
to uncertainties in the field of technology transfer, a different approach for
evaluation has to be taken because very often one cannot know exactly what
input is responsible for which output. Technology commercialization, like R&D
does not lend itself to a neat benefit/cost matrix. Macroeconomic models tend
to be poorly adapted to the R&D environment. Case study approaches have proven
to be the best measure (to date) as much depends on where the tech transfer
function lies in the process of commercialization, and the programs specific
mission or goals. Of course, certain guidelines must be established for
monitoring and evaluation, and it is highly recommended that GCC study what
other financial technology institutions have done in the industrialized
countries to determine the "best practices" available and adapt what is
applicable to them.
11.        "Best Practices" guides for GCC's training program:
(i) Based on the technology transfer mission assigned to the ERCs, GCC
will monitor the resources provided in both human and financial
terms.
(ii) Assess the progress by identifying and quantifying input to the
program.
(iii)List a description of activities with some assessment of the quality
of activities such as patents, research agreements, and even less
formal activities like the number of incoming request documented.



- 72 -
Annex 4.4
Page 5 of 7
(iv) Products - output such as books, publications, and new processes and
products.
One should be very careful not to put too much emphasis on tangible economic
payoffs (eg. royalties) as measure of success. There is a huge value to "access
to state-of-art knowledge" that small businesses will receive from the ERCs and
which will increase their profits, and not necessarily the ERCs. There is a
high value offering in less tangible payoffs (at least in the short-term), and
GCC's will have an important role in promoting incentives to encourage
cooperative (risk-sharing) research projects in addition to commercialization
as the only desired outcome.  It should also be stated here that consensus in
the technology transfer literature indicates that 10-15 years is a realistic
time frame to measure any real success.
12.       Using the benchmarking approach to best practices that lead to most
effective transfer of technology use methods based on behavioral science to
collect   data  that   identifies   technology  transfer   factors   and  their
relationships. Case studies in technology development organizations, unlike
industry's approach to benchmarking cannot always use quantitative measures.
(Highest process yields, fewest customer complaints, etc.)  GCC might do well
to choose (6) core practices of the ERCs (market assessment, management,
communicating knowledge of technological capabilities, etc.) and monitor the
ERCs through surveys issued on a yearly basis and updated accordingly. The
survey would allow for standard questions as well as statements which allow for
individual responses to be "benchmarked". Some suggested examples:
(i) policy and guidelines of the ERC and for users - Statement: In order
to play an effective role a tech transfer intermediary should limit
the range of technical areas in which it is active, to those fields
in which it has an in-house technical expertise.
(ii) management - Statement: Because of the lag time between the licensing
of intellectual property and the receipt of royalties, ERCs must be
prepared to provide an appropriate, consistent level of resources to
offset the overhead cost of their tech transfer offices, which may
not turn profitable for years.
(iii) communication - Statement: Public sector institutions and labs must
be conscious that companies will show little interest in licensing
their technologies unless the technology translates into a profitable
product or process with an economic benefit.
13.       Project Tracking and Assessment System: In context of individual
contracts (with one or more company) project tracking should be done through
the life of a project and used as a key indicator as to when to revise or
terminate projects.  Assessments should be done at the project level, program
level, and reviewed at the executive level. There are useful outputs of
evaluation to be considered such as:
*    budget information
*    incoming requests
*    royalties
*    cash awards
*    research agreements



- 73 -
Annex 4.4
Page 6 of 7
*    number of inventions disclosed
*    patents
*    exclusive or nonexclusive licenses
*    spin-off companies formed.
There are other tools that are less evident but should also be monitored such
as: papers, articles, professional meetings, technical exchanges, and awards
which may actually add more to the economy than actual licenses. The literature
indicates that publications have a huge impact on technology dissemination yet
the impact is difficult to measure. Also, much technology is not patented or
patentable but can have a huge impact.
14.       In order to best support the management and operation of GCC, it is
recommended that they follow very similar training activities as mentioned in
1.1 Operation and Management of LLCs Those activities will greatly enhance the
institutional strength of GCC. GCC would benefit by learning about mechanisms
and incentives for technology transfer applied in other countries such as:
e    tax  incentives  and  loan  guarantees  for  industrial  users/buyers,
especially small and medium size enterprises.
e    interagency governmental agreements (eg. with NIM for standards).
*    international agreements between governments for joint research or
data swaps.
*    automated technology catalogue (ATC) - includes technologies in all
stages of development, and is a user-friendly computerized catalogue
system.
*    economic analysis unit to assess financial and economic information
as it pertains to ERCs and industrial users.
*    computerized  records  keeping  system  to  document  and  control
activities.
D.   Consulting Services and Study Tours on Financing and Management of IRCs
15.       PO would coordinate all of the above activities mentioned in points
1, 2, and 3. It is suggested that PO set up a clearinghouse of training
programs, seminars, exchanges, etc. to manage the requests of the ERCs, as well
as GCC. Consulting services are already being considered, and one example is a
proposal from the U.S. National Technical Information Service (NTIS) for
setting up a technical service information system for individual ERCs as well
as clusters. Study tours have already been proposed to visit foreign technology
transfer centers to address many of the above mentioned issues critical to the
management and operation of ERCs. Consulting services to properly address human
resource development will also be considered so that staff will be able to
adapt their skills to emerging technologies as well as the managerial demands
required in a market economy. Technology development calls for high-performance
jobs to support industrial clients, and emphasis should be placed on the three
selected    fields   particular   to   the   ERCs:    electronics/informatics;
chemicals/advanced materials; and energy/environmental systems. Study tours
will be segmented to address the specifics of those three sectors as well as



- 74 -
Page 7 of 7
areas  that  support  technology  development  and  services  in  management
assistance,   financial  assistance,  and  technical  assistance.  Tours  will
concentrate on visiting both the private sector and public sector organizations
involved in commercializing technology such as:
*    private industries (large and small)
*    spin-off companies
*    government agencies and laboratories
*    economic development agencies
*    manufacturing extension centers
*    engineering research centers
*    university industrial liaison programs,
*    other technology development intermediaries



- 75                              Annex 4 -5.
Page 1 of 3
TECEHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Description of the Proposed Productivity Center
1.    Productivity Centers
Productivity centers are an integral part of the national support
infrastructure   for   industrial   technology   development.   This   support
infrastructure generally includes specialized research institutes to improve
existing technologies or develop new technologies; technology information
centers to disseminate the results of R&D; a system of metrology, norms and
standards to ensure that products conform to nationally and internationally
recognized standards; special financial and fiscal incentives aimed at
promoting investments in technology; and productivity centers.
The main function of productivity centers is to provide services at the
enterprise level with the aim of improving industrial productivity through a
variety of means, including new and/or more capital equipment, enterprise
organization and management, product design and engineering, conformity to
national and international standards, marketing, and training and education.
At a broad level, the objectives of productivity centers are to raise
awareness of the importance of productivity improvement and to increase the
level of industrial productivity through the dissemination of the most modern
and/or most efficient manufacturing, management, and information systems.
2.    Productivity Centers and ERCs
Within the context of the proposed project, a productivity center would
provide direct services to users on how to improve productivity through the
effective use of the technologies that are developed or introduced by ERCs.
Its role would be to promote at the enterprise level productivity-enhancing
techniques   and  methods   in  industrial  operations,   and  is  therefore
complementary of ERCs' activities. The establishment of a productivity center
would help ensure that the types of technologies that are developed or
introduced by ERCs (productivity-enhancing and environmentally sustainable)
are properly used and applied throughout industry.
3.    The Proposod Machinery Productivity Information  and Training Center
(MPITC)
Since the implementation of reform and opening of the economy in 1978,
Chinese small and medium-sized enterprises (including township enterprises)
have  achieved  significant  growth.  The  industrial  output  of  township
enterprises increased from 49.3 billion RMB Yuan in 1978 to 1,760 billion RMB
Yuan in 1992, equivalent to half of the national economy. The machinery
industry alone generates an output equivalent to one-third of the total output
value of the whole industry.



- 76 -
Annex 4.A
Page 2 of 3
Despite this growth in output, township enterprises remain constrained
by lack of qualified labor, low productivity, outdated machinery and
equipment, low-level products, and poor environmental conditions. As the
Chinese economy becomes increasingly integrated in world markets, and in
expectation of China's accession to the GATT, township enterprises must
quickly meet the demands for qualified technical personnel, modern production
technology, advanced management techniques, and market information.
As a complement to ERCs' activities and in order to enhance the
productivity and competitiveness of the machinery industry, the Machinery
Productivity Center (MPC) is seeking to establish the Machinery Productivity
Information and Training Center (MPITC). The MPITC would function as an
intermediary between research institutes, ERCs, and universities on the one
side, and small and medium-sized (township) enterprises on the other side. The
main objectives of the MPITC would be to raise the technical and management
skills  of  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises  and  townships  by:  (i)
transferring the results of R&D to the machinery industry and promoting the
technological development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the
machinery  industry;   (ii)  providing  technical  training  and  information
services; (iii) providing market information and international technical
exchange services; and (iv) assisting firms in formulating a development
strategy.
The supporting institute for the proposed center, MPC, was founded in
1992 and was among the first productivity centers to be established in the
country. MPC is sponsored by the Research Institute of Machinery Science and
Technology (RIMST), which is recognized as one of the leading R&D institutes
in the fields of basic technology as well as high technology for the machinery
industry. RIMST was founded in 1956 and is headquartered in Beijing with 12
research institutes, 108 R&D departments, and more than 300 laboratories
throughout the country. It has about 6,700 employees, including more than
4,300 technical professionals, of whom 700 are senior engineers. In addition,
the institute has produced more than 3,000 R&D results, holds 96 patents, and
has won many national and state awards for its research achievements. RIMST
maintains close ties with 60 research institutes, including many at the local
level. In addition, horizontal contacts with enterprises account for about 851
of the institute's activities. The institute's strong technical background in
the machinery industry would have a positive impact on the overall support of
the MPITC, as well as the overall MPCERC project.
There is a strong rationale for supporting the MPIC given the broad
impact of the machinery industry on China's industry and the importance of
enhancing productivity in the machinery sector. Given the large scope of
technology transfer and training activities in this industrial sector, SMEs
and township enterprises would greatly benefit from the products and services
of the MPITC. In cooperation with the MPC, there are considerable coordination
and information costs that the center alone would not be able to absorb
initially. The ability to piggy-back off of the MPC would allow the MPITC to
address the training and information needs of users on a widespread scale. By
supporting the MPITC through the MPC and the RIMST, the Bank would be lending
to an existing strong and experienced institution to strengthen its base in



- *77 -
Annex 4.5
Page 3 of 3
becoming more operational and competitive in the field of industrial
machinery.
The construction plan for the MPITC has been clearly presented with
respect to the use of the existing facilities and available resources of the
supporting institutions as well as those of other institutions. In order not
to duplicate the construction of new laboratories, the MPITC will operate
within RIMST and will consist of an information center and a training center.
(i)   The  Information  Center  will  provide  technology  and  market
information to small and medium-sized enterprises, and by the same
token, will relay feedback from SMEs to research institutes, ERCs,
and universities, thus enabling the latter to learn more about the
actual needs of industry and to link their R&D projects with
market demands. The direct services provided by the center will
include dissemination of R&D results, enterprise diagnosis, market
analysis, technical advice, evaluation of assets, and personnel
training. The information system of the MPC will be linked up to
the MPC network as well as that of other information centers. The
funding will pay for items such as a computer service network
system, multi-media computer system, software, training, and
teaching materials.
(ii) The Training Center will train all levels of personnel from small
and medium-sized enterprises, with the objectives of improving
product quality, enterprise management, and popularizing the
results of R&D. Training will be provided in the following areas:
computer   application,   quality   control,   pollution   control,
investment      analysis,      enterprise       management,       new
technologies/materials/products,   investment   analysis,   assets
evaluation, and assessment of ISO 9000.
The  proposed  investment  for  the  construction  of  the  Machinery
Productivity Information and Training Center is as follows:
World Bank ....................                                 200,000 US$
Domestic investment ....................                1,200,000 RMB Yuan



- 78 -                               Annex 4.6
Page 1 of 95
CHINA
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Description of ZRC ProDosals
1.   Engineering Research center for High Performance Homogenized Alloys
2.   Engineering Research Center for Laser Processing
3.   Engineering Research Center for Distillation Technology
4.   Engineering Research Center for Clean Coal Combustion Technology and
Industrial Domestic Boilers.
5.   Engineering Research Center for Shipping Control System
6.   Engineering Research Center for Petroleum Refining Technology and Catalyst
7.   Powder Metallurgy Engineering Research Center
8.   Clean Coal Combustion Technology Engineering Research Center
9.   Fluid Machinery and Compressor Engineering Research Center
10.  Engineering Research Center for Net Shape Manufacturing
11.  The State Engineering Center for Audio/Video & Technical Diffusion
12.  Engineering Research Center for Industrial Environmental Protection
13.  Engineering  Research  Center  for  the  Integrated  Development  of  High
Performance Polyolefin Materials.
14.  Urban Pollution Control Engineering Research Center
15.  Mobile Communication Engineering Research Center
16.  Advanced Educational Technology and Equipment Project Engineering Research
Center
17.  Engineering Research Center for Converter Technology
18.  Engineering Research Center for Process Automation
19.  Engineering Research Center for Power Electronics
20.  Engineering Research Center for Optical Disks & Applications
21.  Engineering Research Center for Shipping Design Technology
22.  Engineering Research Center for Energy Savings in Power Systems
23.  Engineering Research Center for Rare Metal Processing
24.  Engineering Research Center for Industrial Textiles
25.  Engineering Research Center for Manufacturing Automation
26.  Engineering Research Center for Transducers
27.  Engineering Research Center for Software
28.  Engineering Research Center for New Welding Technology of High Efficiency
and High Quality
29.  Engineering Research Center for High Efficiency Rolling Technology
30.  Engineering Research Center for Advanced Polymer Processing Technology
31.  Engineering Research Center for Communication Software and Application
Specific Integrated Circuit
32.  Engineering Research Center for Magnetic Materials
33.  Engineering Research Center for Effective Utilization of Natural Gas
34.  Engineering Research Center for Paper Technology and Pollution Control
35.  Engineering Research Center for Fine Petrochemicals
36.  Engineering Research Center for Power System Automation
37.  Engineering Research Center for Applied Power Electronics
38.  Engineering Research Center for Advanced Power Sources Technology
39.  Engineering Research Center for Digital Cordless Telephone System
40.  Engineering Research Center for Synthesis of Novel Rubber and Plastics
Materials
41.  Engineering Research Center for Ultra-fine Powder Production Technology
42.  Engineering Research Center for Surfactant Technology
43.  Engineering Research Center for Rare Earth Metals
44.  Engineering Research Center for Die and Mold Cad Engineering
45.  Engineering Research Center for Clean Extraction and Energy Saving in Non-
ferrous Metallurgy
46.  Engineering Research Center for Telecommunications Switching



- 79 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 2 of 95
NATIONAL ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER
FOR HIGH PERFORMANCE HOMOGENIZED ALLOYS
1.        The development and application of high-performance metallic materials
will bring important economic gains to China. Technological progress in this
interdisciplinary field moves along a trajectory of increased homogeneity and
reduction of solidification segregation of the alloys (by controlling the content
and distribution of trace elements) . The development of new alloys with superior
price-performance characteristics will have major applications in the oil,
chemical, petrochemical and other energy intensive-industries. Examples of such
applications are pumps and key parts, special valves and mechanical sealing
parts, precision and heat -exchanger pipes, materials for low-temperature, and
hydrogen-environment storage.
2.        The Institute of Metal Research (IMR), Chinese Academy of Sciences is
the sponsoring institution for the National Engineering Research Center for High
Performance Homogenized Alloys (NBRC HPHA). Founded in 1953, the institute has
an excellent reputation and an impressive record of research, development, and
technology transfer achievements in materials science. The IMR, with 1180
employees (830 are academic and technical), has four State and academy key
laboratories, one state commodity inspection laboratory, thirteen laboratories
for applied R&D, three departments of technological development with pilot bases,
eight test and analysis laboratories, and one attached plant. In the short and
medium term, the ERC will concentrate on engineering and dissemination of applied
research results, including the provision of engineering testing, consultation
and training services. For the long-term, technical transfers will be combined
with development work.
3.        The rationale for public sector support in this area would be based
on: (i) the broad impact of disseminating information, standards, designs,
engineering results on high performance homogenized alloys technology to
producers of capital goods, and their end users in the chemical, petrochemical
and other major industries in China, with associated price-performance gains on
inputs being translated into productivity gains on the output side; and (iii) the
positive environmental impact from the adoption of high performance alloys
technology, fundamental in terms of improved energy efficiencies (as in the case
of thermal efficiency of generators using high service temperature alloys), and
increased operational safety of oil, chemical and petrochemical industry systems.
4.        The NERC HPHA has advanced an integrated collaborative strategy
organized around upstream research units and downstream batch production units.
The center will establish long-term collaboration agreements with foreign
research institutions, universities and firms (an agreement with Amoco in the US
has been signed) to exchange research results which can be further developed and
transferred downstream to producers of intermediate inputs and capital goods.
These producers, who have already committed to become cooperative partners of the
ERC, will be the link to mass manufacturers and end users. The IMR itself, has
engaged in long-term collaborations with 22 major foreign institutions and
universities, as well as industries such as metallurgy, chemical engineering,
oil, and machinery.
5.        The diffusion strategy adopted by the NERC HPHA is built around a
creative and well-thought dissemination/extension mechanism of combined research,
production and trade entity, formed by the Center including relevant
universities, scientific research institutions and enterprises. two parts, (i)
the materials engineering research (technical development and innovation) and
(ii) technical diffusion and technology transfer. It will function as an outreach
engineering service center engaged in testing, consultation services, trouble-
shooting, as well as provide market-oriented information on new materials,
technologies and processes. In addition, the center will establish a data-base
to guide the design, production and utilization of high performance alloys. A
strong management structure has been identified in the proposal as well as a
business plan to support the diffusion and marketing strategies.



- 80 -
Annex 4.6
Page 3 of 95
6.        The market for high performance alloys is growing as replacement
materials are needed to produce products that are lighter in weight, resist
corrosion, and are better conductors of heat. Industries which will benefit by
the diffusion of this R&D are: (i) chemical; (ii) automotive and other
transportation  sectors  (iii)  metallurgy;  (iv)  non-ferrous  metals;  (v)
petrochemicals; (vi) textiles; (vii) medicine; and (viii) environmental. As the
IMR recognizes the importance of marketing, the ERC will stress cooperation in
the development and transfer of technologies with enterprises who are competitive
in the global market place.
7.   Total funding for the NRC HPHA is US$9,166,000. The breakdown is as follows:
Us
thousand
World Bank ................     4,000
Other Bank loans ...............1 ,507
Equity ................        3,659



- 81 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 4 of 95
ZRC FOR LASER PROCESSING
1.   Laser processing is a generic, complex technology used for welding, cutting
and treating surfaces, among numerous other applications. The diffusion of this
technology would bring large productivity and product quality gains to many
industrial sectors such as: (i) automotive; (ii) electronics; (iii) material
processing; (iv) machine building; (v) metallurgical; (vi) ship-building; (vii)
aviation; and (viii) light industries.
2.        Huazhong University of Science and Technology,  (HUST) with a 20 year
history of R&D of laser processing has proposed the establishment of The
Engineering Research Center for Laser Processing (NERCLP). HUST has achieved
numerous patented research results in laser technology and transferred many of
its research achievements to industrial users. It is the site not only of the
Laser Processing Test Center (created in 1987), and the National Laboratory of
Laser Technology, but of a "trial" ERC established in 1991. The short-term
objectives of the NERCLP are to disseminate the application of laser technology
throughout the industrial sectors with special emphasis on those segments where
it would have the greatest impact. Over the longer term, the NERCLP will continue
to broaden the scope of applications to other industries as well as further
develop new processing technologies.
3.        The proposal establishes a clear role for public sector involvement
in this area, by focusing on the broad diffusion of this technology. This
includes dissemination of information concerning laser applications, setting
standards and norms of laser processing equipment, and their safe and efficient
operation. An additional justification for public sector involvement are the
gains that the diffusion of laser processing techniques that would bring from
decreased X-ray pollution at the workplace (in the case of welding techniques),
improved material savings (from the introduction of laser cutting techniques),
and increased safety (particularly for laser cladding of valves of nuclear
reactors).
4.        The strategy for foreign collaboration and tapping international
sources of technology through joint ventures and related arrangements is well
defined by HUST. In areas where they are weakest, they will seek opportunities
for technology transfer, import advanced technology and equipment, purchase
patents, and engage in joint ventures for international cooperation. The ERCLP
already has cooperative ties with many foreign companies and institutions, and
have identified potential international partners to help them achieve their goals
and objectives. In addition, they expect to recruit highly trained Chinese
nationals and foreign specialists to work at their ERC.
5.        The dissemination strategy, including the mechanisms through which
the NERCLP will reach large number s of producers is clearly spelled out. In
implementing this strategy, the ERCLP will set up will set up three special
departments for applications demonstration, consulting services, and marketing.
They will continually train their employees and clients as well as strengthen
ties with professional associations and societies. The NERCLP expects to make two
to three laser processing technologies commercially available every one to two
years.
6.        The market demand for laser processing technology is potentially very
large due to the benefits obtained by firms from raising production efficiency
and product quality, lowering energy consumption and saving raw materials. The
market will be larger in sub-sectors where China has targeted for accelerated
expansion or that are export-oriented. Those areas include automotive,
electronics/electrical, and material processing.
7.   Total funding for the ERCLP is US$7,900,000. The breakdown is as follows:



- 82 -
Annex 4.6
Page 5 of 95
Us
Thousand
World Bank               4,000
Other bank loans          1,977
Equity                    1,923



- 83 -
Annex 4.6
Page 6 of 95
ZRC FOR DISTILLATION TECHNOLOGY
1.        The chemical industry in China is one of the country's fastest growing
industries. Separation is a key process for the industry, playing a fundamental
role in the preparation of raw materials, product purification, and pollution
control. Distillation accounts for 951 of the separation processes in the
petroleum refinery and chemical industries. Investment in distillation devices
takes up approximately 50-80% of total plant investment, and these devices are
responsible for more than 40% of the entire unit energy consumption. China's
distillation technology is outdated and needs to be significantly upgraded for
reduced energy consumption and improved pollution control.
2.        The  sponsoring  organizations  for  the  Distillation  Technique
Engineering Center (DTERC) are Tianjin University, the oldest engineering college
in China with a top rated chemical engineering department, and the China
Petroleum Chemical Corp. (SINOPEC). The DTERC will be based upon the Tianjin
Center for Petrochemical Technology (PCTRDC), which has extensive experience in
contract research. The DTERC will be instrumental in improving energy efficiency
and decreasing environmental hazards, with a focus on improving existing
distillation processes by retrofitting, training, disseminating information, and
other complementary actions, while also engaging in the development of new
distillation devices and technologies.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is related to (i) the environmental benefits from enhancing separation and
thermodynamic efficiency, reducing energy consumption, and thereby the levels of
pollution for the chemical industry; (ii) the productivity gains of a very large
number of industrial users that will benefit from diagnosing, troubleshooting,
and diffusion of optimization and control techniques for existing distillation
processes and devices; and (iii) the dissemination of information and industry-
specific norms and standards, and the training of professionals.
4.        The strategy for foreign collaboration has been carefully outlined
with foreign companies tagged according to the DTERC's technological gaps. They
will match foreign collaborators with new technology to the appropriate domestic
users of that technology and assist in its transfer and adoption. Their plan is
to purchase know-how and licenses; high-tech instruments and devices; invite
foreign partners for joint R&D; exchange information and personnel; and establish
joint ventures. This ERC has identified specific foreign companies for
technologies in: (i) packing (Swiss firm); (ii) distillation techniques and
devices (Japanese and US firms); (iii) control technology (US firm); and other
examples of short and long term foreign potential partners.
5.        A number of channels and tools have been defined to implement the
DTERC's diffusion strategy. The DTERC will work closely with its industrial
partners, The Beijing Petrochemical Engineering Co., a major design and
construction firm; and local representatives and agents (established in areas
with major concentration of chemical plants and refineries in China). To
facilitate dissemination, the DTERC will use a number of tools including training
programs, joint research programs with clients; information exchange mechanisms
(newsletters and database), the latter to be made available through the wide area
network in China, and model projects to demonstrate new technology and devices.
6.        Along with their business plan which provides a solid assessment of
the distillation market, the market evaluation is quite satisfactory. There are
8,000 or so petroleum chemical factories in China. Small and medium-sized
companies comprise 90% of the 35,000 operating distillation columns, and are
responsible for higher levels of energy consumption and lower levels of
separation efficiency of these plants, with an increase in distillation yields
carrying significant cost reduction to producers. It is estimated that about 50-
60% of energy loss is due to technical failures and the rest to management
problems. The DTERC has outlined a time-table to capture 30% of the market in
distillation by the year 2000.



- 84 -
Annex 4.6
Page 7 of 95
7.        Total funding for the DTERC is US$10,190,000. The breakdown is as
follows:
us
Thousand
World Bank               5,000
Other bank loan          1,301
Equity                   3,889



- 85 -                             Annex 4.6
Page 8 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER OF CLEAN COAL COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGY
AND INDUSTRIAL DOMESTIC BOILERS
1.        China is rich in coal reserves with an annual raw coal production of
over one billion tons, making China the largest raw coal producer in the world.
Coal constitutes 76% of total energy consumption, with about 0.9 billion tons
burned directly. Industrial boilers, industrial kilns, and commercial boilers
account for 45% of total coal consumption in China. Coal utilization in China is
very inefficient. Low-grade coal combustion technology is the norm throughout the
country, and China suffers from serious environmental problems such as air
pollution and acid rain in almost all the major cities. Energy losses from
industrial boilers reached 27%, estimated to be equivalent to 100 million tons
of coal per year. In addition, 23 million tons of particulates and 18 million
tons of SOx and NOx are emitted into the air yearly, of which 73%, 87% and 67%
are from coal combustion. GOC has attributed great importance to the development
and diffusion of clean coal combustion technology in view of China's high rates
of economic growth and growing pressures on energy supply and the environment.
2.        Tsinghua University, the sponsoring unit for this ERC is a leading
applied research institution in the field of clean coal technologies, with strong
connections to industry through boiler manufacturers, power stations and
industrial users. The establishment of the National Engineering Research Center
in conjunction with this university will enable the ERC to promote the
development and application of new clean combustion technologies in China, and
transfer and commercialize the innovations to improve the coal combustion
industry. The objective of the NERC is to perform market-oriented engineering
and development including: (i) the promotion and commercialization of fluidized
bed boilers for industry; (ii) the dissemination of the new Tsinghua burners for
pulverized coal-fired boilers; (iii) the engineering testing in demonstration
plants and facilities of the 35-75 ton/hour of fluidized bed boilers; and (iv)
the optimization of power and heat supply systems of cities and industrial
districts. In the medium to longer term, the objectives are to complete the
development of the 220 ton/hour CFCB boiler; to diffuse co-generation power
plants with gas supply; and set up demo projects for deSOx and deNOx pulverized
coal burners.
3.        The  rationale  for  public  sector  involvement  is  based  on:  (i)
technologies, once developed and adapted to the Chinese conditions, and more
importantly, disseminated throughout industry would have a very significant
environmental impact increasing energy efficiency (in energy generation and use),
reducing waste and pollution, and lowering specific coal consumption. In view of
the critical dimension of energy-generation-and industrial production-related
air, water and solid waste pollution in China (China will probably be throwing
the largest volume of pollutants in the air by the end of the century-larger than
the US and the EEC economies), and the well known wedge between private and
social benefits of environmental protection, public sector support would be
warranted for these activities; and (ii) the number of producers (utilities and
industrial enterprises) that are potential users of the innovations or that would
benefit from the productivity enhancing assistance of the ERC is very large (in
the thousands.) Individually, these producers might have the incentives to
improve the efficiency of their operations, they might not have the means to
invest in the necessary R& D and engineering activities. Potentially, in
cooperation with other producers and suppliers of capital goods, they might
accomplish what the ERCs will set out to do, but there are considerable
coordinating and information costs that no individual actor is willing to absorb.
these high transactions on an industry wide basis. The failure of this market to
exist generates the externality the ERC would be addressing by introducing
technologies with widespread applicability.
4.        The strategy for foreign collaboration is based on the advantage this
ERC has in understanding the demand for new technologies and their ability to
diffuse it, as well as their weaknesses in accessing new technology from abroad.
Their plan is to continue the foreign collaboration already under way with
Tsinghua University, and to target foreign partners for joint research, exchange



Annex 4.6
Page 9 of 95
personnel, and management training. Foreign agreements already in negotiations
are with: (i) ABB-CE in the US for steam-gas CFB; (ii) BMFT in Germany for new
combined cycle methods; and (iii) InTeSol International Ltd. in the US for
developing the largest CFB boiler in China. Similar collaborative talks are being
pursued with the British, Japanese and the French. This ERC will actively pursue
the purchasing of foreign licenses of new technology, and will have an important
role in adapting it to the Chinese market.
5.        The  diffusion  strategy  will  be  based  on  the  dissemination  of
information (including conferences that bring Chinese customers together with
technology suppliers, and progress reports delivered to potential customers, and
extensive training on new clean coal combustion technologies. In addition, the
ERC will form dissemination subcenters in the form of joint venture companies
between the ERC (with a technical partner if necessary), the capital goods
producer (a venture capital investor in the first phase) and the first
demonstration customer. One such venture (the Huan Ltd.) has already entered the
market.
6.        The market for clean coal combustion technology for industrial and
domestic boilers is very large given that coal is the major source of energy in
China, and its cost significantly lower than crude oil. Although large scale
power plants supply most of the power, followed by the medium suppliers, there
are still 450,000 small units operating at very low and inefficient capacities.
These boilers are consuming 60% of the coal in China and generating most of the
air pollution. In addition, environmental awareness and protection has emerged
as important issues in China due to the scarcity of the energy supply. As of
October 1993, The Chinese will impose a new S02 emission tax from all coal fired
boilers without a desulphuring facility and this will stimulate the diffusion of
CFB technology. The large market for CFB boilers is attracting potential partners
and inducing them to transfer high-quality technology, including a provision of
training which will open the market and make it more competitive.
7.        Total funding for the ERC of Clean Coal Combustion Technology for
Industrial and Domestic Boilers is UB$5,953,000. The breakdown is as follows:
uS
Thousand
World Bank               2,510
Other bank loans         2,777
Equity                      676



- 87 -
Annex 4.6
Page 10 of 95
ERC FOR SHIPPING CONTROL SYSTEM
1.        Shipping control systems are critical components of safe and efficient
shipping. They comprise two categories: single ship control systems (SSCS) and
fleet control systems (FCS). There are 3,100 shipping companies in China of which
50 are large and medium scale. They operate 380,000 passenger ships and
freighters, along 18,000 km of coastline and 110,000 km of navigable waterways,
and carry 90-90% of foreign trade. In view of the size and importance of the
shipping industry in China, improvements in the quality and safety of the
industry operations, and a reduction in its costs will bring major economic and
environmental gains.
2.        The Shanghai  Ship & Shipping Research  Institute  (SSSRI)  of the
Ministry of Communications is the sponsoring unit for the proposed Engineering
Research Center for SCS (NERC SCS). The SSSRI has a thirty year history in the
field of shipping control systems. The strength of the sponsoring institution
is determined both by the quality of its facilities and staff, the superior
quality of its research achievements, and the commercialization of technology
directly into the market (over 90t). One reason for SSSRI's high standing and
effective market penetration is related to its management structure. Having been
a "pilot unit of scientific and technological reform" in 1984, the institution
stopped receiving funds allocated by MOC in 1985. The focus of the ERC will be
system integration and design, quality control and inspection technology, and
production engineering verification for single ship and fleet control systems.
For larger runs, equipment and systems will be generally produced under license
from the ERC. For fleet control systems, the ERC will concentrate on system
integration, the development of interface devices and system software, as most
devices and equipment are available in the international market.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector is based
on: (i) the large positive externalities from the introductions of systems which
greatly improve the safety of ship and fleet operations, particularly in coastal
areas and navigable rivers; (ii) the presence of a substantial market failure
related to the complexity of the R&D and engineering activities in ship and fleet
control systems which require significant concentration of scientific engineering
resources before any results appear. Spin-offs from technological assets of the
research institutes would not, in this case, bring obvious gains. At the same
time, the specifics of Chinese conditions impede a simple transposition of
systems that exist in other countries. Thus, R&D, and engineering efforts in this
area, particularly in terms of system integration and software development, would
not be just a case of simply re-inventing the wheel.
4.        The ERC SCS is being organized to transform market-valued research
achievements and technologies into commercial products regardless of their
origin,  and  through engineering,  the  ERC will  provide  complete  sets  of
technologies for batch production. Through this procedure, it will engage in
international cooperation and technical exchanges with the best companies in the
field. Its strategy for foreign collaboration is to pursue a variety of
arrangements depending on the product to be developed and the market to be
reached. For example, in the case of one-man bridge systems, it will import
technology alternatively from Sperry or Krupp-Atlas; and for cargo master
systems, they will develop partnerships with Norcontrol and Consilium (from
Norway and Sweden respectively). The SSSRI is currently engaged in four joint
ventures with foreign firms.
5.        The diffusion strategy proposed by the ERC SCS plans to closely link
its R&D with practical applications, and promote its marketable results by (i)
inviting clients to work with its engineers; (ii) introducing its achievements
through a network of institutes and associations such as the Chinese Society of
Navigation, Chinese Society of Automation, and others; (iii) assigning agents in
major shipping companies; (iv) publishing a newsletter; and (v) holding an annual
conference around the ERC's activities and new developments.
6.        The ERC SCS has a sound business and management plan which will enable



- 88 -
Annex 4.6
Page 11 of 95
it to capture a substantial share of the market. Demand for its products appears
to be well established. It is estimated that during the period of 1996-2000, two
percent of MOC's ships will need to be retrofitted anpually with single ship
control subsystems while 90 oceangoing and coastal ships will be built per year,
totaling 170 sets per annum. Currently, on a price-performance basis, SSSRI built
or integrated SCS subsystems are twice as competitive as those offered
internationally, in addition to being configured to Chinese specifications. This
suggests that the ERC SCS will not only be able to supply products with strong
positive external effects, but also do it profitably.
7.         Total funding for the ERC Shipping Control System is US$8,296,000.
The breakdown is as follows:
Us
Thousand
World Bank                4,000
Other bank loans          1,068
Equity                   3,228



- 89 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 12 of 95
ZRC FOR PETROLEUM REFINING TECHNOLOGY AND CATALYST
1.        Gasoline is the most important product of the Chinese petroleum
refining industry, with the output reaching 23 million tons in 1991, and
increasing to 40 million tons by the year 2000. Internationally, oil companies
and refineries are investing in R&D to increase productivity and improve gasoline
quality. The Engineering R-search Center for Petroleum Refining Technology and
Catalyst will focus on the development and dissemination of new processes based
on catalytic cracking of heavy feedstock, characteristic of China's oil resources
geared at the production of: (i) high quality (high octane, lead-free and
reformulated) gasoline; (ii) lower carbon olefins; and (iii) related catalysts.
The objective is to promote the application of MGG (maximum gas and gasoline
production), and DCC (deep catalytic cracking) technologies. These applications
are essential for reduction in vehicle-generated airborne pollutants, and to
decrease the gasoline consumption through the use of higher-octane gasoline, as
the Chinese revise emission standards and move towards stricter control by 1995.
2.        The  sponsor  institution,  the  Research  Institute  of  Petroleum
Processing (RIPP), has an outstanding reputation for R&D achievements in the
field of petroleum refining and petrochemical processing. Founded 36 years ago,
RIPP has solid experience in training, technical consulting, technology transfer,
and close ties with domestic and international firms in the industry. RIPP is the
center for quality supervision and testing of petroleum products with more than
1300 technical personnel and over 500 senior engineers. RIPP has been responsible
for the basic designs of 59 commercial units comprised of 23 petroleum refining
and catalytic production facilities with capacity ranging from 1 to 600,000 tons
annually for 37 different enterprises. In 1992, RIPP applied for 28 patents.
RIPP's strengths lie in bench-scale and pilot testing of technology and catalyst
research. The ERC activities would focus on the reformulation of light distillate
blends (such as gasoline), including the development of technologies for
manufacturers of gasoline oxygenates, geared at the reduction of airborne
pollutants. The lead times to develop and adapt such processes to Chinese
conditions calls for support of this initiative.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is related to: (i) the environmental benefits from the use of cleaner fuels
and reduction of toxic emissions; and (ii) the productivity gains from the
dissemination of productivity increasing technologies such as MGG. In view of the
importance of air pollution in China, and the well-known wedge between private
and social benefits of environmental protection, public sector support would be
warranted for these activities. In addition, producers might have the incentives
to improve the efficiency of their operations individually, they might not have
the means to invest in the necessary R&D and engineering activities. Potentially,
in cooperation with other producers and suppliers of capital goods, they might
accomplish what this ERC will set out to do, but there are considerable
coordination and information costs that no individual actor is willing to absorb.
In particular, resolving technical problems of engineering scale-up involve a
wide range of expertise, and research activities require close and consistent
coordination. These high transaction costs disallow the formation of a market to
supply the innovations on an industry wide basis. The failure of this market to
exist generates the externality the ERC would be addressing by introducing
technologies with widespread applicability.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, this ERC will take advantage of
RIPP's relationship with numerous firms (including two companies in Venezuela)
for joint development, technical cooperation, and cross-licensing of technologies
as well as joint marketing arrangements of their technologies in the areas of
catalysts and processes (as in the case of DCC). The ERC will operate
international cooperative ventures through a Marketing and Licensing Division and
emphasize joint marketing of catalysts and high-quality gasoline in Asia.
5.        The diffusion strategy will be based on: (i) the provision of field
services to clients in the form of technical advice including training and
exchange of personnel; (ii) utilizing professional associations to promote the



- 90 -                               Annex 4.6
Page 13 of 95
applications of technologies developed or adapted by the ERC; and (iii)
disseminating information through seminars and newsletters on new developments.
RIPP's well established network of enterprises with whom they have long-term
cooperative links will facilitate the implementation of this strategy.
6.        The market prospects for the ERC's products are quite promising.
Gasoline demand in China is expected to increase sharply with the growth in the
automotive vehicle population. The composition of demand will progressively shift
towards high-octane (as motor compression ratios become greater), and lead-free
and reformulated gas (as new regulations are mandated for the reduction of lead
and emission of toxic substances). Moreover, major gasoline export markets, such
as the US, will be demanding increasing quantities of reformulated gasoline and
other clean fuels in the future. Equally important will be the demand shift
towards light olefins. These are areas where the ERC will concentrate its efforts
in terms of scale-up technologies for commercial trial production and marketing
of patented research achievements.
7.        Total funding for the ERC Petroleum Refininf Technology Catalyst is
US$15,612,000. The breakdown is as follows:
Us
Thousand
World Bank                6,800
Other bank loans            697
Equity                    8,115



- 91 -
Annex 4.6
Page 14 of 95
NATIONAL ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR POWDER METALLURGY
1.        Powder metallurgy  (p/m)  is an  important  industrial  sector with
products that have broad applications in subsectors as diverse as automotive;
machinery; chemical; aircraft; and electrical/electronics. The use of p/m
technology has a major impact on energy and material conservation. Compared to
conventional technology, p/m usually brings up to 50t saving of energy and 40%
of raw materials. The p/m field in China is growing at a relatively fast rate
of 6-10% yearly, in response to the expansion of demand of downstream industries.
Nonetheless, an assessment of this sector in China in four major areas - metallic
powders,  p/m structural parts, p/m friction and antifriction materials and
cemented carbides - shows that the country lags in product variety, quantity,
quality, and application field and processing equipment, due to insufficient
human and financial resources allocated to the transfer of research achievements
to production.
2.        The sponsoring institution, Central South University of Technology
(CUST), is one of China's major engineering universities, with a distinguished
record in the metallurgy field. It is also the site of the Powder Metallurgy
Research Institute (PMRI), the National Key Laboratory for Powder Metallurgy and
the Center of Quality Supervision and Testing for Powder Metallurgy Products.
PMRI's research achievements are quite significant, and the institution was
granted 21 patents in p/m processing technology and equipment in 1981. The Powder
Metallurgy Engineering Research Center (PMERC) will focus on the development,
pilot production and transfer of technology of p/m powders and cement carbides,
p/m products (automobile and aircraft breaking materials, and structural parts)
and processing equipment.
3.        The subproject is fundamentally sound from a public sector involvement
standpoint. First, the dissemination of p/m technologies would have a very
significant environmental impact by increasing energy efficiency, and reducing
material consumption and waste, and related pollution. In view of the critical
dimension of energy-related air, water and solid waste pollution in china, and
the well-known wedge between private and social benefits of environmental
protection, public sector support would be warranted for these activities.
Second, the number of users of p/m products and processes that would benefit from
the cost-reducing, energy-saving assistance of the ERC would be extremely large.
While individually, these users might have the incentives to improve the
efficiency of their operations, they probably would not have the means to invest
in the necessary R&D and engineering activities. Potentially, in cooperation with
other producers and suppliers of capital goods, they might accomplish what the
NERCPM will set out to do, but there are considerable coordination and
information costs that no individual actor is willing to absorb. These high
transaction costs disallow the formation of a market to supply the innovations
on an industry wide basis. The failure of this market to exist generates the
externality the NERCPM would be addressing by introducing p/m technologies with
widespread applicability. In addition, the NERCPM will be involved in other
activities with large external effects such as training of technical personnel
and information dissemination.
4. The NERCPM has a well delineated collaboration strategy. Domestically, it will
make use of the network that PMRI has established, working with 55 large and
medium-scale enterprises in 20 provinces to co-develop new products and transfer
technology. In terms of foreign collaboration, the strategy to be pursued by the
NERCPM is for the entity to become an effective interface between foreign
suppliers of technology including those which are planning co-development
activities for the Chinese market. this can be seen in the examples of Bendix,
Goodrich and Degussa (of the US, France, and Germany, respectively) for friction
materials and civil aviation.)
5.        The  diffusion  strategy  for the dissemination  of techniques  and
products of the NERCPM will be based on the network established by CSUT. It will
be composed of professional associations, and industrial clients, and will
publish newsletters, provide training workshops, domestic and international



- 92 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 15 of 95
seminars, and exchange personnel with clients. The NERCPM will also set up a
marketing service system supported by the establishment of an information center
staffed with highly qualified experts in the field of technology dissemination.
The focus of the NERCPM diffusion activities will be five segments chosen on the
basis of their large potential demand for p/m technologies and their products and
NERCPM's comparative advantage: (i) aircraft brake materials; (ii) automobile
brake materials; (iii) metal powder; (iv) structural parts; and (v) cemented
carbides and tungsten products.
6.        The proposal presents a detailed analysis of the market demand for
p/m products in China, and the specific areas/partners for the marketing
activities of the ERC. With a potential demand of 8.5 billion yuan and an actual
demand of 4.45 billion yuan, with 25% of the latter supplied domestically, the
NERCPM and its network of partner firms have a significant growth potential, as
they attempt to expand new market coverage with new and more economical products.
In the short term, the NERCPM can transfer to industrial (mass) production over
100 R&D items, for which demand is well established, and production partners
identified, such as braking and antifriction materials, high performance
structural parts, cements carbides, ultrahard materials, and special advanced
processing equipment (such as horizontal vacuum sintering furnace.)
7.        Total funding for The National Engineering Research Center for Powder
Metallurgy is US$10,260,000. The breakdown is as follows:
us
Thousand
World Bank               4,500
Other bank loans            366
Equity                   5,394
4,540



- 93 -
Annex 4.6
Page 16 of 95
CLEAN COAL COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGY ZNGINEZRING RESEARCH CZNTER
1.        Coal constitutes the main energy source in China with an annual raw
coal production of over one billion tons, making it the largest in the world.
Power utilities account for 25' of total coal consumption in China, and by the
year 2000, the share of coal consumption for power generation will reach 40% with
the development of urban gas pipe network and district heating. Currently, 23
million tons of particulates and 18 million tons of S02 and NOx are emitted into
the air yearly, of which respectively 73%, 87%, and 67% are from coal combustion.
It is estimated that the economic loss caused by acid rain alone amounts to RMB
16 billion annually in China. Southern China provinces are now considered the
third most affected in the world. Power utilities are considered the major source
of coal-related air pollution insofar as they burn large quantities of coal in
a concentrated way. This sub-project is expected to have an important impact on
the development and diffusion of clean coal combustion technology (CCCT).
2.        The sponsor organization,  Xi'an Thermal Power Research Institute
(TPRI), has a forty year history of transferring research results to power
utilities in addition to providing technical support for efficient plant
operations. TPRI has conducted commissioning, performance and acceptance tests
in more than 90% of the imported large capacity power generating units in China.
More recently, it has also been supporting boiler and industrial power plants.
This institute has commercialized 58 products manufactured in over 20 plants and
is without question closely linked to the potential users of this proposed CLEAN
COAL COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGY ENGINBZRING RESZARCH CENTER. The priorities of this
ERC are clearly stated. It will focus on utility power plants, prior to
industrial boilers, and on the reduction of S02, and then NOx. The objectives
include the development of large-capacity CFCB boilers, desulphurization
processes for conventional boilers (including through limestone direct injection
into furnace with a retrofit project for a 100-200 MW demonstration unit planned
by 1995, and dust collector with extra desulphurization and de-nitration
effects), and of high performance coal-burners. In addition to conducting
development and engineering of integrated gasification combined cycle, an
industrial demonstration plant will be built with imported technology which will
then be absorbed and adapted to Chinese conditions enabling the broad
dissemination of this superior technology.
3.        The  sub-project  is  fundamentally  sound  from  a  public  sector
involvement standpoint. First, the technologies once developed and adapted to
Chinese conditions, and more importantly disseminated throughout industry, would
have a very significant environmental impact by increasing energy efficiency (in
power generation), reducing waste and pollution, and lowering specific coal
consumption. In view of the critical dimension of energy-generation related air,
water and solid waste pollution in China, and given that China will probably be
throwing the largest volume of pollutants in the air by the end of the century,
(larger than the US and EEC economies), and the well-known wedge between private
and social benefits of environmental protection, public sector support would be
warranted for these activities. Second, the number of producers (basically
utilities) that are potential users of the innovations or that would benefit from
the productivity enhancing assistance of the ERC is in the hundreds, making its
use very large. While individually these producers might have the incentives to
improve the efficiency of their operations, they might not have the means to
invest in the necessary R&D and engineering activities. Potentially, in
cooperation with other producers and suppliers of capital goods, they might
accomplish what the ERCs will set out to do, but there are considerable
coordination and information costs that no individual actor is willing to absorb.
These high transaction costs disallow the formation of a market to supply the
innovations on an industry wide basis. The failure of this market to exist
generates the externality the ERC would be addressing by introducing technologies
with widespread applicability.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, the strategy to be pursued by the
ERC is for the institution to become an effective interface between imported
technologies, or those co-developed with foreign partners, and the Chinese market



- 94 -
Annex 4.6
Page 17 of 95
(as in the case of retrofitting existing power plants for desulphurization
undertaken with Steag of Germany). The ERC expects foreign firms to take equity
positions by capitalizing their technologies, especially for FGD processes. The
ERC will be heavily involved in applied engineering research to adapt such
technologies to specific coal characteristics and site conditions to ensure their
wide diffusion in China. The features of CCCT requires that they be verified
through direct testing on real boilers in large capacity testing installations
near industrial sites. Moreover, local conditions require manufacturers, power
utilities, and design institutes to be effectively involved in the engineering
research. Thus the importance of involving top-rated Chinese partners in
transferring foreign technologies to Chinese conditions.
5.         The ERC's diffusion strategy will be based on the full use of an
established network of institutions and companies, including power utilities to
which TPRI provides technical services (70% of newly erected plants are assisted
by TPRI), and the extensive relationship with most large and medium-sized
manufacturers of power equipment. Departments will be set up to manage and
operate the diffusion strategy. Internally, the Marketing and Sales, and the
Information and Training Center departments will be charged with diffusing
technologies while externally, the ERC will establish a "cooperative enterprise
group  for  CCCT",  and  coordinate  with  industry  associations,  academic
organizations and the proven network of TRPI. The proposal includes "special
measures" outlined for the dissemination of projects which are of great economic
benefit but too large in scope (from the financial investment side) and will
offer it as a shared project to industry instead of directly selling the
technology. The ERC will attempt to organize joint research projects to share the
risks when appropriate.
6.        Given the need for China to save energy, operate high-efficiency power
plants, and reduce pollution, the market for CCCT will develop along with China's
economy. Already along the coastal provinces and large urban areas where the
economies are developing at a rapid rate, they have started to use CCCT to
control pollutant emissions according to their own environmental requirements.
The demand for desulphurization processes and low NOx combustion technology will
be widened as stricter environmental laws are passed and enforced by 1996. Fossil
fuel-fired power plants will need to reduce 5.45 million tons of S02 emissions
between now and the year 2000 in order to stabilize emission at the 1990 level.
The recently passed plan to impose duties on S02 emissions will give a further
spur to the desulphurization market.
7.        Total  funding  for the   Engineering Research  Center Clean Coal
Combustion Technology is US$9,172,000.
US
Thousand
World Bank ................           4,000
Other bank loans ................         1,194
Equity ................               3,978
FLUID MACHINERY AND COMPRESSOR ERC CENTER
1.        Fluid machinery and compressors represent the main equipment used in
various industrial sectors such as: (i) petroleum; (ii) chemical; (iii) energy;
(iv) metallurgy; (v) mining; (vi) transportation; (vii) refrigeration; and (vii)
textile. Power consumption for such equipment is responsible for one third of
China's energy's consumption, and generates significant air pollution directly



Annex 4.6
Page 18 of 95
from leakage of freon (700 ton/year), and indirectly from the emission of SOx,
NOx, and particulates into the air by coal-burning power utilities that supply
energy to industry. The objective of the Fluid Machinery and Compressor
Engineering Research Center (FMCZRC) is to improve the design, manufacturing, and
operational efficiency, reliability and environmental impact of large and medium-
sized compressors, pumps and fans. In particular, the FMCERC will focus on high-
efficiency, energy-saving new profile techniques for compressors; the engineering
of high-efficiency low noise fans; design and engineering of CFC substitute
medium and matching compressors; and the design and engineering of energy saving
systems (such as heat pumps, sewage disposal compressors, and fans).
2.        The sponsoring organization, Xi'an Jiaotong University has the longest
and most distinguished history of compressor and fluid machinery research in
China with the earliest doctoral degree in fluid machinery and fluid power
engineering. The FMCERC was established in 1991 on a pilot basis, and already has
developed over 55 techniques and awarded 13 patents including design techniques
for controllable 3-D impellers, centrifugal compressors, high-efficiency
displacement compressors, scroll compressors and scroll pumps, high-efficiency
low-noise fans, and monitoring and fault diagnosis systems for rotary machines.
3.        The subproject is fundamentally sound from a public sector involvement
standpoint. First, the fluid machinery and compressor technologies, once
developed and adapted to Chinese conditions, and more importantly, disseminated
throughout industry, would have a very significant environmental impact by
increasing energy efficiency, reducing air and noise pollution, and reducing coal
consumption. In view of the critical dimension of energy related air, water, and
solid waste pollution in China, and the well-known wedge between private and
social benefits of environmental protection, public sector support would be
warranted for these activities. Second, the number of users of large compressors
and fans that would benefit from the productivity enhancing, energy-saving and
pollution -abating assistance of the FMCERC is very large (there are over 3000
large refrigerating units operating in China). While individually these might
have the incentives to improve the efficiency of their operations, they probably
would have the means to invest in the necessary R&D and engineering activities.
Potentially, in cooperation with other producers and suppliers of capital goods,
they might accomplish what the FMCERC will set out to do but there are
considerable coordination and information costs that no individual actor is
willing to absorb. These high transaction costs disallow the formation of a
market to supply the innovations on an industry-wide basis. The failure of the
market to exist generates the externality the FMCERC would be addressing by
introducing technologies with widespread applicability. In addition, the FMCERC
will be involved in other activities with large external effects such as training
of its technical personnel, as well as standardization (for the Chinese screw
compressor industry, for example). The FMCERC will also support the establishment
of a fluid machinery state level test center to introduce a quality licensing
system.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, the strategy to be pursued by the
FMCERC is for the entity, in conjunction with its cooperative local partners
(general capital goods producers) to become an effective interface between
advanced imported technologies and equipment, or those co-developed with foreign
partners and the Chinese market. Thus, for example, in cooperation Shenyang
Blower Works, centrifugal compressor techniques from Italy and Japan (transferred
from Novo Pignone and Hitachi, respectively) have been introduced. International
cooperative research is being spearheaded with German and British compressor
manufacturers that stand at the frontier of their product specialties (Demag, and
Howden, respectively).
5.        For  the  dissemination of  techniques  and products,  the  FMCERC's
diffusion strategy will be based on a plan that involves over ten cooperative
partners, particularly factories and workshops. In addition, the FMCERC will rely
on the diffusion of information among users both domestic and international. To
implement its comprehensive training to incorporate over 200,000 engineers and
technicians, the ERC intends to set up six regional training subcenters. In



- 96 -                              Annex 4.6
Page 19 of 95
5.        For the dissemination of techniques  and products,  the FMCERC's
diffusion strategy will be based on a plan that involves over ten cooperative
partners, particularly factories and workshops. In addition, the FMCERC will rely
on the diffusion of information among users both domestic and international. To
implement its comprehensive training to incorporate over 200,000 engineers and
technicians, the ERC intends to set up six regional training subcenters. In
addition, centers will be set up in the petrochemical, metallurgical, and coal
industries as well as in design institutes.
6.        The FMCERC will focus on six major product areas in which there is
significant demand for its technical services : (i) scroll compressor and pumps;
(ii) large turbocompressors for fertilizer plants; (iii) monitoring and fault
diagnosis systems; (iv) energy saving transformation of old products; (v) large
fans and draft fans for coal mines and power stations; and (vi) sewage disposal
compressors. The detailed analysis of demand and the network that has been
established with the cooperative partners (mainly capital goods suppliers) and
customers, strongly suggest that the FMCERC will be able to successfully
implement its marketing goals and overall strategy.
7. Total funding for the Fluid Machinery and Compressor Engineering Research
Center is US$6,447,000. The breakdown is as follows:
Us
thousand
World Bank ................                       3,000
Other bank loans ................                 2,071
Equity ................                           1,376



- 97 -
Annex 4.6
Page 20 of 95
THE NATIONAL ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR NET SHAPE MANUFACTURING
1.        Net shape manufacturing (NSM) is an important generic technology for
metal forming. With respect to China, the country appears to be behind the world
frontier by more than two decades in the processes of die making, and equipment
automation. NSM combines the classical forging, stamping and heat equipment
technologies with new materials and computer-based precise machining and
measurement. NSM has broad applications in the production of parts, components,
and other fabricated products. The manufacture of net shape or near net shape
saves on materials and energy, reduces the amount of machining, and improves the
quality and configuration of the products. The objectives of the NATIONAL
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR NET SHAPE MANUFACTURING, (NERC/NSM) is to reach
one of the highest levels of development in NSM technology within ten years, by
focusing on fine blanking, precise forging, superplasticity, new types of forging
machines, robots, and control systems.
2.        The sponsoring institution, Beijing Research Institute of Mechanical
& Electrical Technology (BRIMET) of the Ministry of Machinery and Electronics
Industry, established in 1956, is a major research facility involved in the
fields of metal forming and heat treatment processes, materials, dies and molds,
superplastic technology of metals, and related equipment, BRIMET has about S00
staff, more than 500 engineers and technicians, and its research income has
increased five times over the past six years while staff compensation increased
six times since 1985.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is related to: (i) the environmental benefits from the dissemination of this
technology in terms of energy and material efficiency, in addition to a reduction
in noise and other forms of pollution that affect the workplace. Some of the
improvements associated with the diffusion of this technology would be privately
appropriated while others would be external to the firm; and (ii) the large
number of firms that would benefit from the productivity and quality gains due
to the diffusion of net shape manufacturing technologies throughout the
industrial sector. While individually, producers might have the incentives to
improve the efficiency of their operations, they might not have the means to
invest  in  the necessary R&D and engineering activities.  Potentially,  in
cooperation with other producers and suppliers of capital goods, they might
accomplish what this ERC will set out to do, but there are considerable
coordination and information costs that no individual actor is willing to absorb.
These high transaction costs disallow the formation of a market to supply the
innovations on an industry wide basis. The failure of this market to exist
generates the externality the ERC would be addressing by introducing technologies
with widespread applicability.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, this ERC will seek to establish
close ties with foreign institutes and firms with the purposes of acquiring
technology through outright purchase, licensing agreements, personnel training
and exchanges. Cooperative links have been established with the National
Precision Forming Engineering Center at Ohio State University (USA), UCLA at
Davis (USA), and Stuttgart University (Germany). In addition, joint development
is planned with Alinco, (Japan), and joint marketing with Amada (Japan).
5.        The diffusion strategy will be based on:  (i) establishing close
relations with mechanical design institutes and leading enterprises in order to
disseminate information through the set-up of model production lines and advanced
equipment; (ii) utilizing professional associations to promote the application
of technologies developed by the ERC; (iii) disseminating information through
seminars, exhibitions and magazines on the latest developments; and (iv)
providing clients with technical advice in addition to training and exchange of
personnel.
6.        The market for the ERC's products is quite promising. The change in
industrial composition in China will shift out the demand for NSM components.
Their ratio in industries such as automobiles, electronics, instrumentation, and



- 98 -
Annex 4.6
Page 21 of 95
aerospace is considerably higher than the average, ranging from 65% in
automobiles to 90% in electric instrumentation. While China is currently unable
to provide high-level forging production equipment, it is expected, by the end
of the decade, to produce 25 - 35* of all new forging equipment using techniques
supplied by the ERC. The ERC will establish cooperative ties with capital goods
producers (China National Machine Tool Corp., Heavy Machinery Corp., among
others) to bid for large scale, complete production lines of NSM components.
7.        Total funding for The National Engineering Research Center for Not
Shape Manufacturing is US$10,123,000. The breakdown is as follows:
Us
Thousand
World Bank                        5,000
Other bank loans                  1,717
Equity                            3,406



- 99                             Annex 4.6
Page 22 of 95
THE STATE ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER
FOR AUDIO/VIDEO & TECHNICAL DIFFUSION
1.        In China  there  are  about  900 manufacturing  enterprises  in  the
audio/video (a/v) field. It is estimated that only 201 are being run well while
15% are expected to exit as the market becomes more competitive. In addition,
there are about 600 firms, generally small and medium, that could overcome their
current difficulties with a concerted effort at modernization. These enterprises
are characterized by low-quality output produced under inefficient conditions,
due to outdated techniques,  insufficient knowledge, poor management, and an
undertrained staff. The State Engineering Research Center for Audio/Video &
Technical Diffusion (SERC-AV) will focus on the production problems faced by
these small and medium firms to improve their engineering capabilities and the
level of training of their personnel, while stimulating the adoption of modern
technical standards for a/v products. The objective will be to improve product
quality and reliability, reduce costs, and increase market penetration. This ERC
will offer technical consulting services, training, management tools for
obtaining productivity gains, feasibility studies, all configured to the specific
needs of the enterprise.
2.        The sponsor institution, the Nanjing Radio Factory (NRF), is a leading
enterprise of the Ministry of Electronics Industry, with experience in designing
and manufacturing a/v and telecommunications products. NRF has over 2,800
technical staff including 496 senior engineers, and its 1993 sales were 2.7
billion RMB Yuan. NRF has strong engineering and standards development
capabilities, and it is quite experienced in technical service and diffusion,
having transferred design, production and management technology to nearly 50 a/v
firms. NRF has strong international and domestic links, and has established joint
ventures and other cooperative agreements with major international TV and audio
producers, as well as domestic universities and research institutes.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is related to the very large number of firms (primarily small and medium-
sized), in villages and towns that would benefit from the productivity gains
associated with the diffusion of manufacturing a/v technologies. While
individually these producers might have the incentives to improve the efficiency
of their operations, they might not have the means to invest in the necessary R&D
and engineering activities. Potentially, in cooperation with other producers and
suppliers of capital goods, they might accomplish what the ERCs will set out to
do, but there are considerable coordination and information costs that no
individual actor is willing to absorb. These high transaction costs disallow the
formation of a market to supply the innovations on an industry wide basis. The
failure of this market to exist generates the externality the ERC would be
addressing by introducing technologies with widespread applicability.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, this ERC will take advantage of
NRF's extensive links with numerous firms and technical experts to establish
close ties with them. Their strategy will include technical and personnel
exchanges in order to support the modernization of production and managerial
methods of its clients. The ERC will, in particular, cooperate with Matsushita
and Sharp with the purpose of raising the awareness and diffusing TQC techniques
to domestic small and medium sized enterprises. The ERC will also appoint foreign
experts as its consultants, including Stanford University professors and retired
high ranking Phillips officials.
5.         This ERC's diffusion strategy will be based on (i) dividing the
country into six service areas, and providing support to sample enterprises in
each area, progressively expanding the sample; (ii) making full use of existing
information networks, as well as trade organization and professional associations
to disseminate relevant technologies and information regarding the ERC's
activities; (iii) organizing client meetings and seminars to diffuse information
by holding a user's conference and an annual engineering achievement exhibition
s well as inviting industry associations to interact with the ERC; and (iv)
provide training and exchange of personnel with clients.



- 100 -                             Annex 4.6
Page 23 of 95
6.        Market demand for the ERC's products and services seem quite robust.
Its clients will be the 600 or so small and medium sized enterprises that require
technical services geared at improving quality and productivity. The ERC will
furnish technical support and services including those necessary for the adoption
of international standards (ISO 9000), reaching 50-80 firms per year. There will
also be a demand for this ERC to transfer knowledge regarding the management of
production with an estimated 50-60 projects per year, and provide market and
technical information as well as training (particularly in total quality
control). A detailed business plan is found in the revised proposal. On the basis
of this (major) revision, the Bank should be ready to support the constitution
of the SERC-AV.
7.        Total  funding  for  the  State  Engineering  Research  Center  for
Audio/Video and Technical Diffusion is US$11,157. The breakdown is as follows:
US
Thousand
World Bank                       4,500
Other bank loans                 2,376
Equity                           4,281



- 101 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 24 of 95
THE ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER
FOR INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
1.        Despite recent efforts undertaken by the GOC, industrial pollution
continues to be a major concern and a threat to the sustainability of economic
development in the country. Current reports confirm that record amounts of
airborne pollutants are being emitted by the industrial sector. For example, SOX
emissions reached 14 million tons in 1989, and are projected to surpass 20
million tons by 1995 at current rates. Independent analysts have confirmed that
China may become the largest source of airborne industrial pollutants by the year
2020. Similarly, industrial sources are a major contributor to water pollution
in the country, and it is estimated that 70% of 35 billion tons of pollutants
discharged in 1990 came from industry (only 50% were within the standards). About
600 million tons/year of solid waste are also released. Enforcement of
environmental regulations is still weak in China but there seems to be a will on
the part of the Chinese to improve compliance through tougher enforcement and
application of stiffer penalties. The Engineering Research Center for Industrial
Environmental Protection will focus on the development and transfer of technology
in the areas of: (i) industrial wastewater treatment and recycle; (ii) industrial
fume and emission control and associated energy recovery; and (iii) treatment and
recovery of industrial solid wastes. These are areas that have the potential to
alleviate serious environmental concerns throughout the industrial sector in
China. The ERC will also provide other services such as monitoring and
assessment.
2.        The sponsor institution, the Environmental Protection Institute of
the Central Research Organization of the Building and Construction Industry
(CRIBC), has a long and distinguished history in the field of environmental
protection. The sponsor has provided consulting services in the field to foreign
clients, including the World Bank. The Institute holds 19 patents, and has
developed design techniques for numerous pollution abatement devices, and has
transferred those results into industrial practices. Some of these achievements
include state-of-the-art developments in fuel gas cleaning and recovery, dry-
cleaning and recovery of fluoride gas emissions. The Institute has a technical
staff of 220 including 60 senior engineers and 100 other engineers.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is related to the very large number of industrial firms that would benefit
from the environmental gains associated with the diffusion of industrial
pollution control technologies. Once developed and disseminated throughout the
country, industry will have a very significant impact on the environmental
performance of the sector, by reducing emissions of pollutants and increasing the
efficiency of the use of materials and energy resources. In view of the
importance of environmental protection in China, and the well known wedge between
private and social benefits of environmental protection investments, public
sector support is warranted for these activities. This is particularly necessary
under the current climate of enforcement to enable appropriate long-term
incentives to be developed to entice industry into compliance and thereby develop
the markets for pollution control devices.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, this ERC has proposed a strategy
with the following elements: (i) cooperation with foreign parties in the
development of pollution control systems for use in China; (ii) cooperation with
foreign parties for the introduction of equipment ; (iii) direct acquisition of
patents and licenses to penetrate the Chinese market; and (iv) a continuation of
interchanges involving visiting staff from overseas research organizations. The
ERC will borrow from the close ties its sponsor has with numerous foreign
universities in Canada, Sweden, German, the US etc., and it will strengthen its
ties with industrial firms such as Kimoto Electronic Corp.  (Japan), Invertek
International Corp. (Sweden), and British Environmental Resources Ltd. (Britain).
5.         This ERC's diffusion strategy will be based on existing arrangements
that have already served the parent institute well. The ERC will diffuse its
research results into the market by selling licenses, offering consulting and



- 102 -
Annex 4.6
Page 25 of 95
technical services, and through collaborative production with users, and set up
joint ventures with users of processes of know-how to commercialize the
developments. A well-thought out and detailed diffusion strategy is outlined in
the proposal. The ERC will also make full use of existing information networks,
as well as trade organization and professional associations to disseminate
relevant technologies and information regarding the ERC's activities.
6.        Market demand for the ERC's products and services seem quite robust
as more and more pollution will result from the rapid industrialization taking
place in China. In 1990, the GOC spent 7.07 billion RMB yuan directly on
environmental protection including: wastewater treatment, fume emission control,
treatment of industrial solid wastes, noise control and more. It is estimated
that by the year 2000, that figure will rise to 220 billion RMB yuan to meet the
requirements needed for industrial pollution control. Further, enforcement of
regulations and stricter environmental standards will cause greater compliance
and strengthen the already vigorous demand for pollution control technologies and
services.
7.        Total funding for the Engineering Research Centor for Industrial
Environmental Protection is US$6,900. The breakdown is as follows:
us
Thousand
World Bank                        3,000
Other bank loans                  2,000
Equity                            1,900



- 1Ui -
Ann6ex 4.6
Page 26 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR THE INTEGRATBD
DEVELOPMENT OF HIGH PERFORMANCE POLYOLBFIN MATERIALS
1.        The manufacturing, processing and application of high performance and
environmentally acceptable polyolef ins depends on significant coordination among
resin suppliers, plastic processors and end users. In China, the diffusion of
such polyolef in materials has been handicapped, insofar as proper grades are not
available; plastic processors lack the required production technology to process
high-performance materials when supplied; and end users lack the knowledge to use
products made of new materials in adequate ways. The Engine-ring Research Center
for the Integrated Development of High Performance Polyolefin Materials will
strengthen the links of the value-added chain by promoting the exchange of
information and cooperation among manufacturers, processors and end users. In the
short term, the ERC will focus on the transfer and application of technology of
flame retardant PP; commercialization of UHMW PE production as well as technology
among existing medium-sized PE plants; commercialization of bimodal PE technology
among existing PE plants; transfer of manufacturing technology of powdered
plants; transfer of proprietary production and application technology of
radiation resistant PP to medial device and apparatus manufacturers; development
of degradable polyolefin materials, and integrated development and application
of HDPE pipes. The medium and long-term objectives include developing new
alloying technology for high-performance polyolef ins, preparation and application
of amorphous polyolefins, and recovery of waste polyolefins.
2.        The proposal sponsor, The Beijing Research Institute of Chemical
Industry (BRICI), is a comprehensive research institution focused on basic
organic raw materials, fine and specialty chemicals, polymer synthesis, plastic
processing and environment protection. Founded in 1958, BRICI maintains a
technical staff of 1,000 of which 240 are senior engineers (478 additional
engineers) of which 30% of the total is engaged in the R&D of polyolefins.
BRICI'S strength in olefin polymerization and plastic processing is due to its
integral research scope comprising purification of raw materials, polymer
synthesis, polymer characterization, plastics processing performers evaluation
and environmental protection.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is related to the positive externalities from: (i) coordination and
integration of activities of resin and compound manufacturers, processors and
users, with the ERC acting as an interface, collecting and exchanging
information, providing technical training, and promoting cooperative development,
formulation of material and products standards; and (ii) the production and
application of high-performance polyolefins and the associated environmental
benefits.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, the ERC will take advantage of
BRICI 's experience with foreign partnerships, including : Montecatini and Enichem
(Italy); Phillips (US); Buss (Switzerland); and W&P and Drossbar (Germany). The
ERC plans to engage in extensive cooperative activities with foreign firms
through joint R&D, contract research, technical consultation and the provision
of technical services to foreign equipment and polymer producers to penetrate the
Chinese market. The latter compels the ERC to act as a service center or
demonstration production line.
5.         The ERC's diffusion strategy will be based on (i) establishing an
open, voluntary technical and economic cooperation committee composed of resin
producers, plastic processors, and major users for exchange of information,
especially  information  of  a  technical  nature;  (ii)  establishment  of  an
information station with a large-scale databank which will offer information
services on performance and application data of every brand of polyolefin,
product standards, equipment supply, as well as relevant information on foreign
firms; (iii) establishment of a training section with five regionally distributed
substations in Daqing, Chengdu, Jiangyn, Fuzhou, and Lanzhou; and (iv) the
establishment of a technical service station with personnel undertaking extension
work to support customers with technical consultation, maintenance, and start-up



- 1U4 -
Annex 4.6
Page 27 of 95
services.
6.        There is a large market for high performance polyolefins in China.
the demand for high-performance polyolefins for the manufacture of household
appliances, the auto industry, and packaging material pipes is growing at very
high rates, and will be the focus of the ERC's efforts. The ERC's short-term
objectives is the related diffusion of seven kinds (almost 20 grades) of new
materials and products to manufacturers and users. It is expected that the market
share of products produced with BRICI/ERC'S technologies, such as UHMW and
bimodulus PE, flame retardant PP, stronger autoplastics, modified PO compound,
radiation resistant PP, and PE pipes, will be in the order of 50-100W, depending
of the case.
7.        Total funding for the Engineering Research Center for the Integrated
Development of High Performance Polyolefin Materials is U8$11,586. The breakdown
is as follows:
Us
Thousand
World Bank                        5,500
Other bank loans                    318
Equity                            5,768



- 105 -
Annex 4.6
Page 28 of 95
URBAN POLLUTION CONTROL ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTZR
1.        Economic growth in China is increasing 7-10% annually, and that growth
is exacerbated by industrial and urban pollution placing severe pressures on
China's natural resources. Environmental protection is critical to not only
control urban pollution but to ensure sustainable development. The government has
focused its concerns on water pollution and domestic solid waste (DSW) pollution,
common to all cities in China. In short, China lacks effective and reliable
facilities for pollution control as well as key technologies needed for
wastewater treatment, collection of solid waste; vehicles for transport;
incineration (recovery and utilization of waste, emission control, etc.); and
composting (for DSW, fertilizer production, etc.). These technologies developed
by the Urban Pollution Control Engineering Research Center (UPCERC) would lead
to significant solutions regarding pollution problems, as well as policy measures
supporting technological development of the environmental sanitation sector.
2.        The sponsoring institution, Tongji University, and Shanghai Tongji
Science & Technology Industry Co. Ltd. is the first university in China to
establish an environmental engineering program working directly with the School
of Mechanical Engineering and other disciplines involved in environmental
sanitation,  heat  energy  engineering,  municipal  engineering,   automobile
engineering, etc. The university also maintains an information network
(ENSCIENCE/CHINA) to keep abreast of the latest R&D developments and has been
developing technology since the early 70's. In addition, Tongji University has
already successfully transferred 50 technologies/research results creating
social, economical, and environmental benefits. The university is recognized as
a leader in China in the field of municipal wastewater treatment and solid waste
disposal. The UPCERC has received full support from the Planning Commission of
Shanghai Municipal Government. In collaboration with the National Environmental
Planning Administration (NEPA), the university runs a training center which has
a positive impact on environmental engineering and technology transfer.
Additional sponsorship comes form the Shanghai Tongji Science and
Technology Industry Co. Ltd. With over 20 years of experience, this firm is
involved in environmental products and services such as synthetic materials,
infrared porcelain heaters, turn-key operations, construction of environmental
facilities, electric machinery and equipment. The firms has established
international ties with the U.K. France, Russia, Japan and UNEP. As a sponsor
of this ERC, the firm will not only deal in the production of environmental
technology and equipment but also relevant materials and other manufacturing
products and processes. The firm has received numerous awards for "best available
technology" from NEPA, central and local governments, and holds 27 patents.
3.        The  rational  for public  sector  involvement  of  this  UPCERC  is
completely justified given the broad environmental impact of transferring and
disseminating research results in water pollution control and solid disposable
waste critical to China's environmental protection. The technologies transferred
will create enormous energy savings and reduce serious water and other related
pollution in urban areas. While individual suppliers might have the incentives
to improve the efficiency of treatment facilities and operations, they would not
have the means to invest in the necessary R&D and engineering activities.
Potentially, in cooperation with other producers and suppliers of environmental
facilities and technologies they might accomplish what this ERC will set out to
do, but there are considerable costs that no individual actor can absorb. These
high transactions costs disallow the formation of a market to supply the
innovations on an industry wide basis. Given that the UPCERC is also being
sponsored by a private industrial firm, the Bank would be lending to an
institution to strengthen its base and become more operational and market driven.
4.        The strategy for foreign collaboration is based on international
exchange and the introduction of foreign advanced techniques on municipal
wastewater treatment and solid waste disposal. The ERC will purchase foreign
patents, and strengthen its information exchange with foreign institutions.



- 106 -                               Annex 4.6
Page 29 of 95
Foreign collaboration already exists with the University. of Bradford (U.K.);
Lyonnaise des Eaux (France); der Technischen Hoschule Darmstadt (Germany); Moscow
Construction Institute, (Russia); Q Source and Aepco Inc. (USA); UNEP; and WHO.
Domestic ties are also strong with NEPA, manufacturers and users such as the
Ministry of Construction, China Textile Machinery Corp., Shanghai Sifang Boiler
Works, and Shanghai Municipal Planning Committee.
5.        The diffusion strategy reflects a well-thought out plan designed to
assist municipalities to prepare environmental planning, and strengthen
environmental management in order to build wastewater treatment plants and solid
waste disposal plants. The UPCERC will conduct seminars for government planners,
manufacturers, and users in efforts to promote a strong environmental planning
capacity in the urban areas. The ERC will also keep track of international and
domestic trends, and provide technical training for users and operators of
facilities. The UPCERC will set up cooperative development activities, and an
information exchange with associations through conferences, newsletters, model
demonstration projects, and a strong customer service system.
6.        The market in China for urban pollution control is enormous given the
rapid industrialization and growth of the cities which has resulted in
increasingly large quantities of pollutants. Existing policies and regulations
are a means to control the pollution. The market is dependent on environmental
management to stimulate innovative solutions and the UPCERC will support
environmental management by formulating specifications, standards, norms, expert
systems, and software. It is estimated that only 5% of discharged domestic
wastewater is treated leaving 9.5 billion tons untreated, and 26 billion Yuan RMB
needed for construction of treatment facilities for this wastewater alone.
Treatment of DSW has been increasing at the rate of 53% annually. With 478 cities
in China producing 95 million tons of DSW each year at a growth rate of 10%, the
investment cost is staggering. It is estimated that only 3% of DSW is being
disposed of safely. In addition, the market for composting is also enormous as
China traditionally uses that method for fertilizer creating a demand for
increased production and improvement of soil to keep the ecological balance. The
market for incineration for DSW is also great. It is estimated that 20% of solid
waste can be disposed of using incineration technology. Figures suggest that 312
incineration plants with a capacity of 100 ton/day should be built. Lastly, the
market for collecting and transporting DSW needs to be completely modernized and
upgraded. The demand for transport vehicles with compressing mechanisms and other
functions (road sweeper, snow sweeper, etc.) is very high. The diffusion strategy
and business plan of this ERC clearly supports the marketing strategy which
includes a realistic timetable.
7. Total funding for the Urban Pollution Control Engineering Research Center is
US$ 4,948 million. The breakdown is as follows:
US
Thousand
World Bank                        2,700
Other bank loans                    188
Equity                            2,060



- 107 -                               Annex 4.6
Page 30 of 95
MOBILE COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER
1.        Telecommunication services in China are growing at an unparalleled
pace, and since 1985, mobile communications has been expanding at a rate of 50%
per annum. The expansion of telecom services and improvement of quality has
become an important priority to the Chinese Government. The Mobile Communications
Engineering Research Center will focus both on the production problems faced by
the producers of mobile communications equipment, and in improving the network
operations, solving compatibility problems between network systems, and equipment
standards. The ERC will be engaged in the generation of network norms, standards,
maintenance specifications, and will offer technical consulting and facility
support services, and training for both producers and users.
2.        The sponsoring institution, the Guangzhou Communication Institute of
Ministry of Electronics Industry, (GCI) is a major research facility in the
telecom field, and the unit responsible for research in mobile communications
technology and systems development. Their work includes drafting specifications
and standards; environmental test requirements; quality assessment procedures;
measurement methods; trunking and decentralized systems schemes and procedures;
among others. The institute which offers graduate work, has 800 technical staff,
of which 105 are senior engineers. The mobile communications equipment systems
developed by the Institute covers the total frequency range of current mobile
communication gear (from 1.6 MHz-900 MHz), and it denotes relatively powerful
integration and design capabilities. GCI has transferred mobile communications
technology to some 20 firms in the last decade.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is related to (i) the positive information and coordination externalities
from drafting and disseminating norms, standards, specifications and protocols
for both telecom equipment systems and networks; (ii) the very large number of
users and manufacturers of mobile communications equipment, mostly small and
medium-sized, that would benefit from the productivity and quality gains
associated with the diffusion of these specifications and norms, in addition to
the technical advice to improve operational efficiency. While individually
producers and users might have the incentives to improve the efficiency of their
operations, they might not have the means to invest in the necessary R&D,
engineering and standards-developing activities. Potentially, in cooperation with
other producers and suppliers of capital goods, they might accomplish what the
ERC will set out to do, but there are considerable coordination and information
costs that no individual actor is willing to absorb. These high transaction costs
disallow the formation of a market to supply the innovations on an industry wide
basis.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, this ERC will seek to establish
close ties with four to six foreign firms and institutions. This will encourage
participation in building the ERC, as well as creating joint developments,
technology transfer, and information exchange. They will also offer technical
training and advisory activities. In particular, this ERC will tap foreign
technical management experts to lecture, and send local staff to lead
corporations in the mobile telecom field to study and stimulate technical
exchanges.
5.         The diffusion strategy will be focused on timely collection of market
information, dissemination of leading edge technologies, and transfer of R&D
achievements. The strategy will be based on (i) the establishment of technical
and advisory service centers in provinces and cities, linking up foreign
manufacturers, and small and medium producers; (ii) dissemination of information
through publications such as weekly "communication product market conditions",
trade and professional associations; (iii) the training of both manufacturers and
end users' personnel; (iv) the exchange of personnel with clients; and (v) the
build-up of demonstration models such as flexible production pilot lines to
verify the maturity of production technologies.
6.        Market demand for this ERC's products and services appears to be quite



- 108 -                               Annex 4.6
Page 31 of 95
robust, especially in terms of the provision of infrastructural conditions for
the development of mobile communications equipment which involve standards,
procedures, interface specifications, and testing methods. In addition, other
services will include production procedures, technical advice, software support
and engineering designs for users.
7.        Total funding for the Mobile Communication Engineering Research Center
is US$7,347 million. The breakdown is as follows:
Us
Thousand
World Bank                        3,500
Other bank loans                  1,405
Equity                            2,442



- 109 -                               Annex 4.6
Page 32 of 95
ADVANCED EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND EQUIPMENT PROJECT
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER
1.        The Chinese government ranks education as a high priority as it is
badly needed to increase the level of scientific education necessary for the
country's economic development. With a huge population to educate and standards
below the world average, China is faced with a monumental task of education its
population. Farmers in the countryside have a low level of agricultural and
scientific knowledge which is a hindrance to modern township enterprises. It is
estimated that China will need to train 800 million farmers to keep up with the
pace of modernization. In addition, approximately 80 million industrial workers
are also in urgent need of vocational and technical training. In China, only one
person out of 500 attends the university and unless this percentage increases,
China will never meet the demands for trained workers in a market economy. In
order to implement such a monumental educational project, China will not be able
to rely on traditional methods but rather advanced educational technology and
equipment. The main objectives for the Advanced Educational Technology and
Equipment Project ERC include: (i) the improvement of the National Satellite
Television Educational System; (ii) the setting of standards for educational
facilities as well as national demonstration offices; and (iii) the assistance
to provincial education departments and training centers of enterprises in
Computer Aided Instruction (CAI) . To successfully implement China's educational
needs for advanced educational training, this ERC would take the lead in
disseminating and managing the technology, the equipment, and the training which
would lead to significant efficiency in creating a more educated work force ready
to compete as China transitions to a more market economy.
2.        The sponsoring institution, Tsinghua University is very strong in
training of scientists and engineers, and is also recognized as one of the key
universities under the State Education Commission for continuing education in
science and technology. The university has established the Continuing Education
College and the Computer-Aided Instruction Laboratory Center (CAI) whose research
on modern educational technology and equipment began in the late 70's. The
university has some 600 professors and 2000 associates, and maintains ties with
over 100 universities worldwide as well as about 100 domestic enterprises. The
university has an active outreach program for its CAI lab and is the responsible
organization in China to coordinate with all other industrial and national
institutes. In addition, the university has been successfully transferring
satellite TV technology as well as other technologies, holds 436 patents with
another 700 pending, and has won many national and provincial awards for its
research achievements. The university's strong technical background in
educational training will have a positive impact on the overall support of the
Advanced Educational Technology and Equipment Project ERC.
3.        The rational for public sector involvement of this ERC is completely
justified given the broad impact of disseminating advanced technology and
equipment in major educational centers nationwide pertinent to China's economic
development and social progress. While individually, producers (of advanced
educational technology and equipment) and trainers might have the incentives to
improve the efficiency of their products and operations, they would not have the
means to invest in the necessary R&D and training activities given the vast
number of individuals who are in need of their products and services.
Potentially, in cooperation with other suppliers, they might accomplish what this
ERC will set out to do, but there are considerable coordination and information
costs that no individual actor is willing to absorb. These high transaction costs
disallow the formation of a market to supply the educational innovations on a
countrywide basis, and the failure of this market to exist generates the
externality the ERC would be addressing by introducing technologies with
widespread applications.
4.        The strategy for foreign collaboration is based on international
exchange and introduction of foreign advanced technology, teaching materials,
and scientific management experience. Presently, the university has numerous ties
with about 15 foreign universities including, M.I.T. Johns Hopkins, Harvard, and



- 110 -                               Annex 4.6
Page 33 of 95
Stanford in the US; Imperial College of S&T in the U.K.; Osaka University in
Japan; TELECOM Institute of France; and many others. The ERC will participate in
international conferences held by ISO (International Standard Organization) in
order to formulate standards in China and disseminate that information. The ERC
will establish and strengthen its cooperation channels with the private sector
such as those contacts in Hong Kong, the US, Japan, the Netherlands, and France.
The ERC will be able to piggy-back on the university's strong international
network with foreign universities and high-tech multinational firms.
5.        The diffusion strategy has been clearly presented to reflect a well-
thought out plan involving training centers throughout the country. In
collaboration with the State Education Commission and other universities, this
ERC plans to establish 23 modern educational technology and equipment training
centers in Beijing, Shanghai, Wuhan, Xi'an, Guangzhou, and other cities. In
addition to the training centers, demonstration projects will be set up in
various fields such as: urban adult education; agricultural technology;
application and maintenance of audio-visual teaching materials hard-ware; and
operation management of CAI materials software. The ERC will transfer
manufacturing technology of modern educational equipment to domestic enterprises
such as: China Education Electronics Co.; Beijing Golden Disc Electronics Co.;
Anhui Wanyan Electronic System Co;, and many other suitable firms. The ERC will
disseminate information about their technologies and services to various
industrial associations, training centers, regional and national education
departments.
6.        The market for modern educational technologies is enormous given
China's population (1.2 billion) and its urgent need to modernize its educational
and vocational training nationwide. Based on research and plans worked out by the
government's educational departments, specific demands for this ERC's
technologies and services have been identified. Out of the 23 items identified,
some of  the categories  are for:  (i)  CAI software,  courseware  production
standards, and multimedia teaching systems; (ii) CD-ROM systems, development
tools and training software; (iii) Chinese terminals and operational support
systems; (iv) technology for systems integration; (v) large capacity storage
systems; (vi) children development tools; and (vii) technical support and
specialized training to support all products and services. Six of the 23 demand
items will have to come from foreign suppliers and this can be achieved through
joint ventures with Chinese enterprises who can successfully transfer the
technology for Chinese applications. The diffusion strategy, and the business
plan  supports  the  overall  marketing  strategy  both  domestically  and
internationally.
7.   Total funding for the Advanced Educational Technology and Equipment Project
Engineering Research Center is US$11,447. The breakdown is as follows:
US
Thousand
World Bank ..................... 5,000
Other   bank   loans ............... 1,927
Equity .....................    4,520



- LII -                            Annex 4.6
Page 34 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR CONVERTOR TECHNOLOGY
1.        Modern power electronics of advanced power semiconductor device and
its application technologies. These technologies have been made a substantial
change on not only high power electric equipment but also industrial, office,
clinics, and home use equipment. The adoption of these technologies in a variety
of fields has resulted in drastic reduction of electric power and material
consumption. In addition, it has also contributed to low noise operations
agreeable for human life. Convertor technology based on power semiconductor
devices is an efficient means to rationalize electric power usage which makes
sense in easing the pressure of energy consumption in China. Convertor technology
will convert from AC to DC, while invertor will convert DC to AC. Modern
convertor technology (using advanced power semiconductor devices) can be applied
to electric locomotives, many industrial drives using AC motors, speed control
for forklift trucks, nonstop power supplies for computers, etc. Chinese convertor
technology is estimated to be fifteen years behind that same technology of
developed countries in the same field.
The Engineering Research Center for Convertor Technology (ERC-CT) will provide
efficient production technologies to related enterprises by pursuing the
application of newly developed power electronic devices, carry out engineering
research on new electric drive systems, and elaborate modularization designing
and production technology.
2.        The sponsoring  institution,  Zhuzhou Electric Locomotive Research
Institute (ZELRI) is supported by the Ministry of Railways. ZELRI, founded in
1959, has eight R&D departments and a large number of advanced labs employing
close to 800 people including almost 500 engineers. The institute also serves
as The Test and Examine Center of Electric Traction Equipment in China and other
test sites for devices used on the railway system. ZERLI is also responsible for
the national standards for railway standards for electric traction equipment. The
institute has achieved over 170 research results of which 54 have been recognized
by the Ministry or at the local level, and many have been transferred to
industry. Significant technological achievements made are the 6400 kW electric
locomotive including convertor and control system, ZTL-1 automatic train stopping
device, and GTO (gate turn off) auxiliary convertors.
3.        The subproject is fundamentally sound from a public sector involvement
standpoint. Pressures from economic development, energy saving and environmental
protection enormously enhance the necessity of advanced convertor technology.
First, the dissemination of convertor technologies would have a very significant
environmental impact as electric power shortage in China is very serious. The
current capacity of domestic electric power generation is about 150 MkW, and the
generated power in 1993 is about 800 Bk Wh (kilowatt hour) of which 2/3 is
generated by power plants consuming 300 M tons of coal. An important electric
power consuming equipment is a synchronous motor which consumes 26OBkWh/year
corresponding to 30% of the generated power in China. If 1/3 of them are improved
by 20t in their electric power consumption efficiency by adopting modern
convertor technology, the electric power saved reaches 17 BkWh. In addition to
the energy savings that will be reached, enormous gains will be made towards the
efficiency of the electric railways system as the application of advanced AC
drive technology using convertor technology will make substantial improvements
in traction and braking forces. In view of the social benefits of environmental
protection from the positive impact of energy savings devices for the electric
power industry and transportation sector, public sector support would be
warranted for these activities.
4. The ERC-CT has a well defined collaboration strategy as it will make use of
the international network that ZERLI has established since the 1980s. The ERC
will continue working with ZERLI's contacts such as GE, Westinghouse, Swiss ABB,
Siemens, Toshiba and Hitachi. The ERC will welcome foreign shareholders with a



-  II.) -                         Annex 4.6
Page 35 of 95
technological advantage and act as a go-between for domestic enterprises for
investment and cooperation from abroad. Through international technical exchanges
and exhibitions, the ERC will strengthen and promote international collaboration
and technology transfer, and become an effective interface between foreign
suppliers of technology including those which are planning co-development
activities for the Chinese market. Domestically, The ERC will seek to develop new
technologies to be commercialized by the industrial sector in conjunction with
research institutes and universities.
5.        The  diffusion  strategy  for the dissemination of  techniques  and
products of the ERC-Ct will be based on the network established by ZERLI. It will
offer information on new technologies (domestic and foreign) on a regular basis
as well as various consulting and technical services. The ERC will be responsible
for technical training opportunities in the field and exchange of personnel with
customer. To promote investments in the early stages of R&D, the ERC will
organize a multi-client investment system outlining future profitable projects
of important generic technology in order to avoid high risk investments or to
encourage shared risks. The ERC will publish newsletters, and set up other
mechanisms to diffuse the latest advances in convertor technologies.
6.        The  proposal  clearly  outlines  the  market  demand  for  convertor
technologies. Many important applications for not only electric locomotives, but
also power stations, power transmissions, etc. will find large markets
nationwide. It is estimated that the market for locomotives and metro-vehicles
will reach about 600 million RMB in the year 2000. Another example of the
increased market demand for convertor technology will require a locomotive
convertor for 4400-600kW unit; a diesel locomotive convertor for 3000kW unit;
and power supply for a passenger coach air-conditioner of 40kVa will be developed
and supplied by this ERC in 1997. The ERC-CT expects to have six big customers
for railway vehicle convertors and over 20 customers of to her industrial
application convertors. The products of these potential customers will occupy
over 90* of Chinese power electric equipment production.
7.        Total  funding for The Engineering Research Center  for Convertor
Technology is US$6,470,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                  3,750
Other bank loans ................              427
Equity ................                       2,293



- 113 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 36 of 95
ENGINZERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR PROCESS AUTOMATION
1.        Process automation  (PA) is widely employed in almost all process
industries such as iron/steel, power generation; fossil fuels; chemistry;
materials; textiles; food, etc. Without process automation, it is inconceivable
to realize economical and safe mass production with high quality, high
efficiency, and low material/energy. With the modernization of Chinese
industries, the investments on PA are increasing. The annual growth rate of
investments for PA in China are: (i) 8-10% in iron/steel plants; (ii) 6-8* in
thermal power stations; and (iii) 15-22% in petrochemical plants. The Engineering
Research Center for Process AutomAtion (PA-ERC) will provide "total solutions"
such as hardware/software technologies as well as marketing and other services
to domestic enterprises. Initially, the ERC will promote the renewal of Chinese
PA industries as quickly as possible, set up quality assurance programs for
diffusion of reliable technologies to PA manufactures, and set up a design
platform for R&D integration particularly aimed at small and medium size
enterprises. In the longer run, the ERC will develop advanced digital PA
technologies, provide consulting services, and make domestic PA manufacturers
competitive with overseas industries.
2.        The sponsoring institution, Shanghai Institute of Process Automation
Instrumentation (SIPAI), is a comprehensive PA research organization in China,
and well respected in the fields of process instruments for measuring,
displaying, regulating, controlling, actuating, and control systems integration.
The SIPAI, founded in 1956, has been a principal supplier of technologies related
to automation products in China, and has a staff of almost 1000, of which 64%
make up scientific and technical personnel. The institute has won numerous awards
in PA technology, and is involved in international standardization serving as a
member of various technical committees of the ISO, (e.g. TC 30), and serves as
a reliability and environmental test laboratory, accredited as an international
laboratory by Lloyd's Registry and Shipping. Since 1980, over 800 R&D and
engineering results have been completed, and 87 of them received awards from
ministries, state and local agencies. Many research results have been transferred
to over 100 manufacturers. In addition, SIPIA has significant experience in
international projects with foreign firms.
3.        The subproject is fundamentally sound from a public sector standpoint
and deserves to be supported. Process automation technology is a generic
technology which is applicable to a variety of industries, thus having a
substantial impact on society. The adoption of this technology leads to a
significant reduction of energy/material consumption, high quality/yield
production, and safety operations. PA technology is characterized by its
sensitivity to new technological innovations because it can seriously affect the
performance of production yield and quality, resulting in competitive products
making PA technology an urgent necessity for Chinese manufacturers. Out of 1500
domestic manufacturers of which 95% are small and medium size firms, the majority
do not have access to the latest PA developments according to global standards
which are required by domestic manufactures. While PA technology becomes more and
more sophisticated (software and networks included) , the hardware will also
become more complicated and even the largest and most advanced of Chinese
manufacturers, will be at a competitive disadvantage as they seek to adapt,
improve, and market innovations in PA technology. Public sector support is
warranted for these activities.
4.        The PA-ERC,  along with its sponsor,  has a long history of close
relations with foreign enterprises and research organizations. SIPAI has worked
with numerous international firms like Honeywell, Modicon, Foxboro, IBM,
Yokogawa, Mitsubishi, Siemens, etc. The ERC will not only continue to collaborate
with foreign firms but seek new opportunities to cooperate in technology transfer
and other ventures. Domestically, SIPAI has strong technological ties with



- 114 -                              Annex 4.6
Page 37 of 95
numerous universities such as Qing Hua, Tian Jin, Middle China University of
Science and Technology, Shenyang Research Institute of Instrumentation
Technology, etc. This ERC is well positioned to cooperate with these
organizations and others to introduce innovations in process automation
technology which will enable firms to market products in a growing Chinese
economy.
5.        The  diffusion strategy for the dissemination of techniques  and
products of the PA-ERC is based on applying the network of its sponsor as well
as other related institutions. One approach will be to identify several firms
suffering from pollution and high energy consumption, and use them as a testing
ground to apply newly developed PA technology to solve technical problems. The
results would then be disseminated through various channels set up specifically
for this purpose. The ERC will also set up a sales and marketing department as
well as regional branches for sales promotion and consulting services. The ERC
will continue to participate in technical exchanges and information exchanges as
practiced by its sponsor.
6.        As stated earlier, there is an enormous market for PA technology, and
specifically in petrochemical, power generation, and metallurgy industries. For
example, 235 units of 300MW and 96 units of 600MW for large scale thermal power
generation will be installed by the year 2000. In addition, more than 10,000 sets
of PA products will be needed just for these installations alone, not to mention
the huge retrofit market for already installed facilities. This ERC will have a
score of marketable new products and technologies even in the initial stage which
is clearly outlined in the proposal, and expects to have 20% of its revenue from
technological transfers and sales of smart transmitters/new types of actuators.
7.        Total  funding  for The  Engineering  Research  Center  for  Process
Automation is US$7,994,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                 4,000
other bank loans ................             496
Equity ................                     3,498



- 115 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 38 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR POWER ELECTRONICS
1.          The key element of modern power electronics is the development of
power semiconductor devices. Power semiconductor devices have been providing
substantial changes on not only high power electric equipment but also
industrial, office, medical (clinics), and home use equipment, etc. The adoption
of power semiconductor devices in these fields has resulted in drastic reduction
of electric power and material consumption. In addition, it has also lowered the
noise level significantly in extremely noisy operations. A typical example of
this change can be seen in air conditioners which apply invertors enabling high
efficiency and low noise operations. All these improvements have been realized
by replacing conventional means by semiconductor electronic devices. Although a
tremendous market for power electronics using semiconductor devices exists in
China, the technological level of Chinese manufacturing industries in this field
is approximately twenty years behind world levels. There are over 400 enterprises
in China (95% are small and medium firms), still employing obsolete technology
of the late 1970's. The Engineering Research Center for Power Electronics (PE-
ERC) will play an important role in providing basic technology which corresponds
to the national long range development of science and technology in the 8th five-
year plan of China. The ERC will develop power semiconductor devices to make
domestic enterprises competitive with overseas products by applying Chinese
research results and introducing foreign technology. The engineering development
will be oriented to metallurgy, chemical electrolysis, high voltage DC
transmission, and traction of electric locomotives, etc. Consulting services,
particularly aimed at small and medium size enterprises, will also be provided.
2.          The sponsoring institution, XiIan Power Electronics Institute (XPERI)
of the Ministry of Machine Industry (MMI), is the only comprehensive power
electronics research institute (with its origins in power electronics) in China.
Most of Chinese power semiconductor devices have been developed at XPERI which
developed the first semiconductor rectifier diode in early 1960, and the first
thryristor in 1962. Since 1978, XPERI has developed 310 research results, of
which 180 have received awards from the state and various ministries. Some of
XPERI's developments are: (i) 4 inch diameter thyristors; (ii) light-activated
thyristors of lkA/4kV; (iii) GTO (Gate Turn Off); and (iv) IGBT (Insulated Gate
Bipolar transistor), etc. In addition, the XPERI owns a complete set of
fabrication technologies of various high voltage/high current semiconductor
devices, and demonstrates a well-balanced potential for testing, design, and
application of power electronics. XPERI has a staff of 730, with 150 engineers,
76 senior engineers, and cooperates with Shaanxi Institute of Mechanical
Engineering and Xi'an Jiaotong University to train engineering graduates.
3.          The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector is
related to: (i) the environmental benefits from the dissemination of power
semiconductor device technology in terms of energy and material efficiency.
Compared to conventional equipment such as Hg rectifiers and mechanical rotating
machines, this technology applied to electric power supplies, electrical power
transmission systems, electric trains, and other applications will drastically
reduce power consumption, equipment size, and noise generation; and (ii) Given
that over 95% of Chinese power electric enterprises are small and medium size
firms, and do not have access to the latest R&D, it becomes essential for them
to be aware of advanced technologies for commercial scale production; have access
to updated information, advice and services; and the latest training, and
marketing know-how. Power semiconductor devices require very special and
different technology from information oriented semiconductor devices. It must
also be extremely homogeneous, have a low defect rate, and fine impurity
concentration over a much larger wafer area (5-6 inch diameter) compared with
information-oriented semiconductor devices due to the high current of several kA.
In addition, special designs are indispensable for high voltage operations over
several kV. Even large domestic enterprises would not be able to develop such a
high technology device without public support. Given the energy/material savings,



- 116 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 39 of 95
and sound environmental impact this technology will have on society, public
sector support is warranted for these activities.
4.          The PE-ERC, along with its sponsor, XPERI already has a record of
close relations with foreign enterprises and research organizations. They have
collaborated with numerous international firms such as Mitsubishi, Hitachi,
EUPEC, Wacker-Chemitronic Co. (German), GE, Lisrec, and PSI (U.S.) and British
and Taiwanese firms. One example of XPERI's cooperative venture is a signed
agreement with GE on the technical transfer of 77mm (3 inch)- diameter thryistor
and rotary excitation diodes. The ERC will not only continue to collaborate with
foreign firms but introduce advanced technology to Chinese firms, especially
small and medium size firms in serious need of new and improved technologies. The
practice of technical exchange of personnel with international organizations will
also be continued, and domestically, XPERI has strong technological ties with
numerous universities such as Xi'an Jiaotong University, Shaanxi Institute of
Mechanical Engineering, Lisha Micro-Electronics Institute, and many others. This
ERC is well positioned to cooperate with industrial firms, research organizations
and others to introduce innovations in power electronics technology which will
enable firms to market products in a growing Chinese economy.
5.          The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of techniques and
products of the PE-ERC is based on applying the network of its sponsor as well
as other related institutions. That network consists of over 400 domestic
enterprises, 15 universities, and 20 research institutes. This ERC will
investigate the market needs to develop technologies, and use all means available
for  transferring  and diffusing  technologies  such  as:  (i)  establishing  a
cooperative diffusion mechanism with domestic and foreign firms; (ii) set up
regional branch offices for diffusing technologies and providing consulting
services to enterprises in the region; and (iii) advertise through the news media
and magazines such as "Power Electronics", and "Power Electronics Information."
The ERC will continue to participate in technical exchanges and information
exchanges as practiced by its sponsor.
6.          Given the nature of its applications, there is an enormous market for
power electronics products and services. For example, almost all offices using
computers as well as clinics using medical equipment are forced to set up non-
stop electric power supplies which are critical for their daily operations. Most
facilities of this type in developed countries adopt power semiconductor based
equipment. Many promising applications such as power stations equipment, electric
locomotives, high voltage, DC power transmissions and air conditioners will need
high efficiency, compact and low noise equipment which are only realized using
power semiconductor devices. It should also be noted that developments in this
technology are not only applicable to the industrial sector, but to the home
appliance market which will grow rapidly in China along with its economy.
7.          Total  funding  for  The  Engineering  Research  Center  for  Power
Electronics is US$9,165,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank .................                 5,000
Other bank loans .................1 ,049
Equity .................                     3,116



- 117 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 40 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR OPTICAL DISKS & APPLICATIONS
1.        Optical disks have become one of the most novel and rapidly growing
industries. In Japan alone, optical production reached 1.35 trillion yens in
1992, and those figures are expected to increase. In China, more than 30 compact
disk (CD) duplication lines entered the market in the mid 80's by Shenjeng
Advanced Science Enterprises Group (SASEG) as well as other types of optical
disks such as CD-ROM, CD-V, CD rewritable, and laser disks (LDs), etc. These
technologies have been applied to the fields of education, computers,
communications, medical uses, recreation, etc. The market potential for optical
disks in China is enormous. In 1993, the production quantities of CDs and LDs
attained 10,000 k pieces and 1,500 k pieces, respectively. To date, the total
production has reached 400 million RMB. A serious problem facing producers is
that most are small and medium size enterprises which basically have no R&D teams
for improving optical disk technology. In addition, Chinese production of CD and
LD drives still remains in the assembly stage. The Engineering Research Center
for Optical Disks & Applications (OD-ERC) will develop various kinds of optical
disks and promote their applications to the information industry in China
benefiting the users in the diverse sectors such as banking, medical and health,
education, commercial, recreation, etc.
2.        The OD-ERC has four sponsoring institutions:  (i) Shanghai Institute
of Metallurgy (SIM); (ii) Shanghai Institute of Optics and Fine Mechanics
(SIOFM);  (iii) Shenzhen Advanced Science Enterprise Group (SASEG); and China
Textile Machinery Co. Ltd. (CTM).
(i) SIM: SIM, with a 66 year track record, is a comprehensive technology
research institute primarily oriented towards applied research. Since 1960,
SIM has been expanding its activity to new materials such as ultra-pure
materials, super-conducting materials, semiconductor materials, magnetic
materials and others. The institute is comprised of 800 scientists and
technicians and employs a total of 1200 people. The Joint Laboratory of
Optical Disk was basically established by SIM and SIOFM for enhancing
optical disk research, and has numerous agreements with large domestic
enterprises. SIM has published more than 300 original papers annually and
completed approximately 580 research results.
(ii) SIOFM: SIOFM is a comprehensive optics research institute which merges
optics,   fine  mechanics,   electronics,   computer  technology,  organic
materials, and laster technology. This institute established an optical
disk pilot line from 1986-1990 for research including glass substrate,
pregrooving, preformatting, film deposition, testing, encapsulating, and
disk drive. The Joint Laboratory of Optical Disk has also achieved a number
of developments involving MO (Magneto-Optic) disk.
(iii) SASEG: SASEG is engaged in optical disk and opto-electronic display
developments. The company, SAST Laser Video Co. Ltd., (subsidiary of SASEG)
has established production lines for CDs, LDs, and optical disk players in
China. These products occupy more than half of the domestic production.
SAST has a close relationship with Philips.
(iv) CTM: CTM has a working capital of 249 million RMB, and 5,800 employees
including 1,041 technicians. The company's stocks are offered on the
Chinese stock market and internationally. CTM has signed an agreement with
SIM and SIFOM to establish the Shanghai Optical Disk Industrial company
which will import key equipment for manufacture and duplication purposes
and potentially target small and medium size enterprises.



- 118 -                               Annex 4.6
Page 41 of 95
3.        The subproject is fundamentally sound from a public sector standpoint
and deserves to be supported. The optical disk industry is growing at a rapid
rate which can only enhance the comprehensive technology which includes numerous
other sectors such as material processing, precise machining, lasers, optics,
computer software, and international standardization. Although there are only
about 30 small and medium size enterprises for optical disk, they do not have the
badly needed resources to conduct R&D in the above mentioned sectors. This ERC
will disseminate optical disk technology which would have a very strong impact
on the information industry as the current capacity is not sufficient to meet the
demands of the domestic market, thus public sector support would be warranted for
these activities. In addition, optical disks will be widely applied to not only
the music and entertainment industry but also to electronic publishing, multi-
media, and computer external memory which will promote social prosperity such
as education, and cultural exchanges between China and the rest of the world.
4. The OD-ERC has a well defined collaboration strategy with special emphasis
on international exchanges already been developed by the various sponsors. For
example, close relations exist between Philips, The German firm, Leybold, Nippon
Vacuum Co. as well as universities in Arizona, Nagoya, and Osaka. Cooperation
with domestic enterprises has been on-going among the various sponsors, and the
ERC will introduce products in collaboration with more than 20 organizations such
as Nanjing University, Beijing University, Shanghai Laser Institute, Xian
Institute of Optics and Fine Mechanics, etc. thus cultivating a domestic market
for various optical disks. The ERC will strengthen and promote international
collaboration and technology transfer, and become an effective interface between
foreign suppliers of technology including those which are planning co-development
activities for the Chinese market.
5.        The diffusion strategy  for the dissemination of  techniques  and
products of the OD-ERC will be based on the combined network of all four
sponsors. The ERC will not only be a center for technology transfer but also a
center for consultation, training, and test/inspection to provide various
technological services for domestic enterprises. To achieve this goal, the ERC
will (i) set up an advertising department in conjunction with the Joint
Laboratory of Optical Disk which already has a magazine called "Communications
on Optical Disk"; (ii) collect information and disseminate it on a regular basis
to customers; and (iii) create a special strategy (as needed) for introducing
complex technologies by focusing on one or two enterprises with strong R&D teams
to gradually disseminate these technologies to other enterprises.
6.        As stated earlier,  there is an enormous market for optical disk
technology in China. The estimated market demand (in quantities) for 1996 in
various  sectors  are  as  follows:  (i)  3 million  pieces  for  cultural  and
recreational uses, 200 k pieces for educational purposes; (ii) 1 million pieces
for electronic publishing; and (iii) 200,000 pieces in education. In order to
meet the large social requirement for these technologies, enterprises will not
only need to continue providing optical disks but will need innovative
technologies and approaches to supply the market, solve technical problems and
set technical standards which this ERC is well positioned to do.
7.        Total funding for The Engineering Research Center for Optical Disk &
Application is US$9,335,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank .....................             4,500
Other Domestic loans .....................    561
Equity .....................                 4,275



- 119 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 42 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR SHIP DESIGN TECHNOLOGY
1.        While the shipbuilding industry in China has become one of the main
production industries and international trading businesses, it suffers from a
low level of systematization, integration, practicability, and commercialization.
China is a country with an extremely viable shipping environment with its
enormous coastline of 18,400 km, 500 navigable rivers totaling 108,700 km of
navigable routes. With China's economy rapidly expanding, there is an urgent
demand for waterway transport which cannot be met by outdated ships operating at
low efficiency levels, high energy consumption, and with a fleet estimated to be
about 15 years behind world levels. In order to promote shipbuilding technology
renovation, it is important to accelerate the development of ship design
technology. There are 882 steel ship yards in China, 330 equipment and machinery
manufacturers, and over 100 research and design firms. The Engineering Research
Center for Ship Deuign Technology will play an important role in providing a
continuous base of new technologies to the industry so it can supply advanced and
commercialized ship design software suitable for China's practical use to meet
the demand of waterway transport. The ERC will develop and disseminate various
ship design techniques, them and provide training to Chinese users. The long-term
objective is to make this ERC a base for foreign and domestic advanced ship
design technology.
2.        The sponsoring institution, Marine Design & Research Institute of
China (MARIC) dates back to 1950, and is the oldest and most comprehensive ship
and offshore design and engineering organization . The institute has over 1800
employees (397 senior naval architects and engineers and 479 engineers); twelve
technical divisions such as Merchant & Research Ship Design, Offshore Engineering
& Work Boat Design, and Ship Hydrodynamic Laboratories; and three technical
consulting companies, the institute has completed over 850 ship and offshore
designs. In addition, MARIC has won 372 national and local awards and holds ten
patents available for technology commercialization. Some of MARIC's developments
are: (i) pre-propeller hydrodynamic fin sector; (ii) anti-fishing net energy-
saving device; (iii) asymmetric compensation duct; and (iv) semisubermisible
anti-typhoon multi-functional offshore platform, etc. Currently, MARIC has 11 key
research achievements being applied or capable of being applied to industry
including a series of CAD software for a wide range of ships involving merchant
ships, high-performance vehicles, and offshore units. Lastly, the institute has
a long history of close ties with China's shipbuilding-related academies,
research organizations, and shipyards.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector is
related to: (i) the environmental benefits from the dissemination of advanced
ship design technology in terms of energy and material efficiency; (ii) the
productivity gains of a large number (over 800 shipyards alone) of industrial
users that will benefit from the diffusion and upgrading of systematic ship
design software; and (iii) the dissemination of information and industry-specific
norms and standards, and the training of technical personnel. The development of
large-scale software packages and other related technologies for high-performance
ships is not feasible for any one individual company to finance despite the great
demand and urgency for modern ship production. In addition, This ERC will focus
on small and medium size ship building enterprises which account for
approximately 92% of the market. Given the enormous benefit the Chinese waterway
transport sector will have on the economic growth, public sector support is
warranted for these activities.
4.        This ERC, along with its sponsor, MARIC, already has a record of close
relations with foreign enterprises and research organizations (in 31 countries)
in the maritime sector. They have collaborated with numerous international
organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping, Lloyd's Registrar of
Shipping, Nippon Kaiji Kyokai, and numerous others. The basis of their



- 120 -                              Annex 4.6
Page 43 of 95
international collaboration is to introduce foreign advanced technologies by
tapping into the ERC's rich knowledge of domestic conditions to reduce the
development cost and penetrate the Chinese market. The international strategy
will facilitate the importation and transfer of foreign technology to small,
medium and large Chinese firms, as well as co-develop and diffuse new technology
into the Chinese market. The practice of technical exchange of personnel with
international organizations will also be continued. It should be noted that from
1978-1993, MARIC sent 377 delegations of 715 staff abroad and accepted 2,031
foreign delegations. Domestically, MARIC has strong technological ties with over
500 domestic shipbuilding enterprises and numerous universities and institutes.
5.        The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of advanced ship design
technologies of this ERC is based on applying the vast network of its sponsor as
well as other related institutions. According to their plan, the ERC's ship
design software in China will reach a market share of 30% within five years and
50* within eight years, and the products are expected to hit the Asia-pacific
market within five years. The ERC will establish different marketing strategies
for the different markets. The diffusion channel inside the ERC will be performed
by the marketing, quality control, and training and technology exchange
divisions. Outside the ERC, the diffusion network will be maintained through
close client associations and an active outreach program will be set up for
potential clients. The ERC will diffuse technology and information by providing
consulting services, advertise through the news media and magazines, publish a
special newsletter, and continue to participate in technical exchanges as
practiced by its sponsor.
6.        Given the size of its vast waterway system, and China's industrial
growth, there is an enormous market for ship design technology products and
services. As previously stated, there are over 800 steel ship yards, over 300
equipment manufacturers, and over 100 research and design firms, all potential
customers for ship design software and services. Many promising technologies such
as a ship design database will enhance the operational performance of various
ships such as oil tankers, bulk carriers, container vessels, high performance
vehicles, work boats, and offshore units.
7.        Total funding for The Engineering Research Center for Ship Design
Technology is US$8,622,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank .................                4,500
Other bank loans .................            583
Equity .................                    3,529



- 121 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 44 of 95
THE ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR ENERGY SAVINGS IN POWER SYSTZMS
1.        While  the  electric  power  industry  in  China  has  experienced
considerable growth, there is still a serious shortage of electricity which acts
as barriers to sustainable economic growth. Given the constraints of the limited
natural resources on the environment, it is not enough to expand the generating
capacity without adopting mitigating measures to reduce waste. With the power
industry being the largest consumer of electricity, energy saving techniques and
practices could be achieved by applying technical and economical measures
regarding coal consumption rates, line losses ratio, auxiliary power ratio, and
efficiency of power utilization which are well below international standards. In
conjunction with the GOC's development strategy of the power sector, The
Engineering Research Center for Energy Savings in Power Systems (ESPS-ERC) will
focus on the diffusion of critical technologies in energy savings in power
systems while concentrating on areas such as : (i) thermal power plant process
control; (ii) energy management systems (EMS); (iii) distribution management
systems (DMS); (iv) software support for integrated resource planning; and (v)
demand side management (DMS) techniques. The main objectives are to promote R&D
activities in energy savings of power production and consumption, and cooperate
with electricity utilities, enterprises, and other organizations to integrate and
transfer advanced technology in software and hardware products for energy saving.
Efforts in this area will be supported by four simulation laboratories to be
built (and operating by 1997) on existing facilities for systems integration,
performance verification, and demonstration purposes.
2.        The sponsor institution, the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI)
dates back to 1951, and is supported by the Ministry of Electric Power. EPRI is
not only responsible for R&D but also for testing of power equipment and
instrumentation, as well as certification. EPRI has a staff of 830, of which 70*
is technical. In recent years, EPRI has sent about 50 technical professionals
abroad (US, Canada, Germany, Japan, Switzerland, & Russia) to study and work in
power system engineering and control systems. EPRI has accomplished a large
number of research results which have received national awards and 57 received
award from the Ministry of Electric Power. The most recognized awards have been
in the field of power plant controls (SCADA and EMS), power system controls, and
energy savings and static Var compensators (SVC) . The institute has strong
engineering and standards development capabilities, and is quite experienced in
technical service and diffusion. EPRI has also been actively involved in the
transfer of technologies through licenses to the power industry, and in some
cases directly to the end-users such as design institutes, dispatching centers,
testing centers, etc. EPRI has established technical exchanges with numerous
institutions both internationally and domestically.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is related to the very large number of consumers of electricity in the power
sector that would benefit from the positive environmental impact associated with
the diffusion of energy saving technologies. Past difficulties in the improvement
of energy savings have been partially due to the highly centralized management
system which lacked incentives to save energy, as well as research institutes far
removed from the market and unable to focus on commercializing energy saving
technologies. While individually, large utilities and end-users might have the
incentives to improve the efficiency of their operations, they do not necessarily
have the means to invest in the specific R&D and engineering activities.
Potentially, in cooperation with other producers and suppliers they might
accomplish what the ERCs will set out to do, but there are considerable
coordination and information costs that no individual actor is willing to absorb.
These high transaction costs disallow the formation of a market to supply the
innovations on an industry wide basis. The failure of this market to exist
generates the externality the ERC would be addressing by introducing energy
saving technologies with widespread applicability.



- 122 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 45 of 95
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, this ERC will take advantage of
EPRI's extensive links with numerous firms and technical experts to continue
cooperating with them. Their strategy will include technical and personnel
exchanges in order to support prototype development, software development and
engineering and consulting services including DMS, and EMS for its clients. The
ERC will, in particular, cooperate with Westinghouse to resell their software and
set up an engineering service center, as well as Digital and ESCA (U.S.) for
similar purposes. The ERC will also collaborate with ABB and EPRI (Sweden); and
EPRI (Russia); and numerous foreign universities based on the network already set
up by EPRI.
5.         This ERC's diffusion strategy is based on cooperation with the major
utilities in China (6 large regional power systems) and foreign companies to
disseminate energy saving technologies throughout the country. The principal
organization for technical diffusion will be the R&D department in the ERC with
a branch in Zhuhai responsible for technical diffusion in the Guangdong area. As
advances are made, more diffusion branches will be set up throughout the country,
and abroad if warranted. The ERC will make full use of existing information
networks, provide training and exchange of personnel with users as well as trade
organizations and professional associations to disseminate relevant technologies
and information regarding the ERC's activities. They will organize meetings and
seminars to diffuse information and even provide technology demonstrations at the
user's site.
6.        Market demand for the ERC's products and services seems quite robust
given the size and potential of the power industry. By the year 2000, 300 sets
of power plant monitoring and controlling systems will be equipped for either
existing or newly installed thermal power plants. Fifteen per cent of the market
share is expected to be awarded to EPRI in the next seven years. Regarding energy
management systems, 32 EMS will be installed in the next decade, and it is
estimated that 60% EMS (15) market share will be developed by EPRI during that
period. The DMS market represents a larger share as 2000 counties with relative
heavy power load and complex distribution grids will have to be equipped with
distribution management systems on different levels. More than 500 DMS will be
installed in the next ten years. Besides energy saving products such as SVC, and
SCADA, the ERC will furnish technical support and services to diffuse engineering
results for its vast users.
7.        Total funding for the Engineering Research Center for Energy Savings
in Power Systems is US$6,173,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                 3,500
Other bank loans ................             640
Equity ................                     2,033



- 123 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 46 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR RARE METAL MATERIAL PROCESSING
1.        The manufacturing, processing and application of rare metals are key
in supporting modern engineering technology to industry since these metals
increase productivity, reduce energy consumption, and improve quality and
industrial safety. The goal of the ERC is to improve the status of low
industrialization level of China's rare metals and to stimulate the progress of
industrial technologies through the fabrication of titanium, zirconium, tungsten
and molybdenum. China is rich in rare metal resources yet processed materials
only make up 6% of the total, indicating that China's industrial level of rare
metal materials is still very low. Innovative processing techniques and equipment
in China lag behind those in developing countries because of the high cost
associated in processing rare materials. Diffusion of these rare materials will
play an important role in industrialization because they possess many unique and
valuable properties used for enhancing strength, corrosion and heat resistance,
as well as for light structural materials. The substitution of traditional
materials to rare metals will improve chemical engineering and civil aviation
industries, and materials for electronics and electric lighting industries. The
Engineering Research Center for Rare Metal Material Processing will develop and
diffuse those achievements which conform to mass production, and supply
engineering technologies to relevant industrial departments. The short-term and
mid-term objectives of this ERC are to: (i) prepare technologies for high quality
ingots and blanks; (ii) process technologies for materials with high
performances; and (iii) process technologies for rare metals in manufacturing
from automobiles to light industries.
2.        The proposal sponsor, The Northwest Institute for Nonferrous Metal
Research (NIN), is a comprehensive research institution for basic study and
development of rare metals processing. Founded in the mid-sixties, NIN maintains
a technical staff of 1,100 with thirteen laboratories whose strength lies in the
areas of Ti, refractory metals, nuclear materials, superconducting materials,
precious metals, etc. NIN also maintains a graduate school for training students
for Masters and Ph.D. degrees. It has obtained over 600 achievements in the last
30 years, for which they received awards for 300 of them. Among their successes,
68 technological achievements have been transferred to enterprises yielding a
profit of 29 million RMB (48 technologies still remain to be transferred). The
institute also has considerable experience in spinning-off high-tech companies
where NIN provides auxiliary facilities for testing. NIN also has many long term
cooperative agreements with over 30 research institutes domestically and abroad,
including the exchange of technical personnel in 19 countries.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is fundamentally sound and deserves to be supported. The rationale is
related to the positive externalities from: (i) developing and promoting rare
metal materials with the ERC acting as an interface to industry for significant
productivity gains, and (ii) the production and application of high-performance
process technologies associated with environmental benefits as this ERC will make
effective use of natural resources while its technologies contribute to energy
savings. While it is important for China to introduce new technologies to
industry, no one technical institution or industry in China is capable due to the
high cost of specialized equipment as well as the high risk associated with R&D.
Thus, the establishment of the ERC would allow them to disseminate information
through evaluation, introduction, and absorption of new technologies much more
effectively than any individual companies.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, the ERC will take advantage of
NIN's 30 year experience in foreign collaborative agreements including: The
National Science Research Center (CNRS/France); Tskukuba Laboratories and
National Research Institute for Metals of Science & Technology (Japan);



- 124 -                          Annex 4.6
Page 47 of 95
International Technology Transfer, INC.; University of Dayton (U.S.); Polish
Academy of Sciences; Metallwerk Plansee GmbH (Austria); Technical University
(Germany); and proposals from Rumania and Russia. The ERC plans to engage in
extensive cooperative activities with foreign firms through joint R&D, contract
research, and personnel exchange. The ERC will also engage in demonstration
projects and technical consultation services in order to facilitate the
adaptation of technology from foreign firms into the Chinese market.
5.         The ERC's diffusion strategy will be based on (i) utilizing NIN's
vast information channel such through its role as lead institution of China's
Rare Metal Scientific and Technological Information Network, Rare Metal
Processing Coordinated Group, Tungsten Association, and Molybdenum Association;
and through its technological network of clients both domestically and abroad;
(ii) a systematized targeted strategy to disseminate technology through its
marketing and sales department to three major groups consisting of processors,
enterprises, end-users; (iii) establishing a training section to work with the
three targeted groups through in-house training or training centers in other
provinces and areas, including exchange of technical personnel; and (iv) publish
periodicals and newsletters to advertise technical achievements.
6.        There is an immense need in China for rare metal materials products
and processes for important industries such as chemical, aviation, nuclear power
stations, and electric lighting sources. According to the latest economic
reports, the total demand in China for rare metal materials for the year 2000 is
7-8 billion RMB with a potential export market of 1 million RMB. In addition,
this market demand only accounts for the existing demand and not the huge
potential market such as Ti in civil applications of automobiles, bicycles, and
building materials. There are approximately 100 enterprises in China that will
need new products and technical services and there is a growing demand for
consulting services to provide technological innovations and introduction of new
equipment, technical software, auxiliary equipment and technical training. The
ERC has developed a marketing plan which consists of 6 major projects for
development and will begin in 1995. The plan will focus on technology for
fabrication of large scale composite plates and other components such as
processing technology for high reliable ZR-4 alloy sheathed tubes, W and MO
pressed components, etc. for manufacturers and users.
7.        Total funding for the Engineering Research Center for the Rare Metal
Material Processing is US$9,064,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank .................               5,000
Other bank loans .................           892
Equity .................                   3,172



- 125 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 48 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER OF INDUSTRIAL TEXTILES
1.        The textile industry is one of the oldest industries  in China,
employing about 15% of the country's total work force. Focusing primarily on
meeting the apparel demands of over one billion people, production of industrial
textiles has not been able to keep up with the vigorous growth of other
industrial sectors due to the rapid development of China's economy. The current
situation of the industrial textile industry in China is bleak, and characterized
by low output, poor quality, and outdated technologies (estimated to be twenty
years behind those of developed countries). In China, industrial textiles
accounts for only 10 of its total fiber consumption, and The GOC has plans to
raise that to 25% by the year 2000. In addition, basic industries are in urgent
need of industrial textiles of various properties for such sectors as petroleum,
chemical, communications, environmental, metallurgy, agriculture, industrial
safety, medicine, etc. In addition, 1991 data indicate that 1/3 of all the small
and medium size companies (roughly 11,000 firms) in China are engaged in the
textile and apparel processing industries, and operating at low levels of
efficiency, and high levels of raw material waste. In order to meet the
challenges set out by the GOC to promote industrial textiles, the Engineering
Research Center of Industrial Textiles (ERC-IT) will play an important role in
developing and transferring new technologies to small and medium size firms which
currently do not have access to information or advanced technologies to meet the
demand of this sector. The long-term objective is to provide high-performance
industrial textiles not only to small and medium size firms, but larger firms as
well which will enhance other industries such as construction, mining,
electronics, marine engineering, etc.
2.        The sponsoring institution, The China Textile Academy (CTA), dates
back to 1959, and is supported by the China National Textile Council (formerly
the Ministry of Textile Industry). With over 100 specialized labs and 10 pilot
scale test bases, the Academy has a total workforce of 1700 professionals of
which 615 are scientists and 127 senior technical staff. The CTA has several
testing centers such as the Quality Supervision Testing Center, a National
Textile Metrological Center, and is also a technically affiliated unit of the
International Standard Organization (ISO/TC38) . With seven engineering R&D
departments (synthetic fibers, coasting research, automation, etc.). The Academy
has developed more than 300 technologies of which 50 have won awards domestically
and abroad. CTA has provided technical services and advice to almost 5000
enterprises in 25 provinces and municipalities, and transferred research results
in areas such as (i) treatment technologies for dying, and coating; (ii) high-
speed and ultra high-speed polyester fiber spinning; and (iii) industrial
protection products that are anti-radiation, waterproof, fire-retardant, etc.
Lastly, the academy has extensive links with Chinese enterprises, research
institutes and universities which includes technical exchanges and joint research
projects.
3.        The rationale underlying the involveme-i- of the public sector is
related to the very large number of consumers of industrial textiles that would
benefit from the diffusion of new technologies, and engineering services as
enterprises shift from traditional apparel textiles to the more competitive
industrial textiles. Given that over 90% of Chinese textile enterprises are
small, medium-sized, or rural enterprises, and do not have access to the latest
technologies, they are operating at such low efficiency levels that even large
domestic enterprises would not be able to switch to production of such advanced
technology without public support. While individually, enterprises might have the
incentives to improve the efficiency of their operations or even switch
production to industrial textiles, they do not necessarily have the means to
invest in specific R&D and engineering activities. Potentially, in cooperation
with other producers and suppliers they might accomplish what the ERCs will set
out to do, but there are considerable coordination and information costs that no
individual actor (especially small and medium size firms) is willing to absorb.



- 126 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 49 of 95
These high transactions costs disallow the formation of a market to supply the
innovations on an industry wide bases. The failure of this market generates the
externality the ERC would be addressing by introducing industrial textiles with
widespread applicability, thus public support is warranted for these activities.
4.        The ERC-IT, along with its sponsor, CTA, already has a record of close
relations with foreign enterprises and research organizations. They have
collaborated with numerous international firms such as Toray (Japan); DuPont
(U.S.); Barmag (Germany); The Textile Academy in Russia; and the Wool Bureau of
New Zealand. The Academy has been host to more than 50 countries for technical
exchanges and joint research, and in recent years, has sent more than 200 people
to 20 different countries for conferences and training. The ERC-IT will pursue
a strategy to attract advanced foreign equipment, technologies, and products, to
introduce to Chinese firms, especially small and medium size firms in serious
need of new and improved technologies. The practice of technical exchange of
personnel with international organizations will also be continued. Domestically,
CTA has strong technological ties with numerous universities and research
institutes, and is well positioned to cooperate with industrial firms, and other
organizations to diffuse innovations in industrial textiles.
5.        The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of advanced technologies,
processes, and products of the ERC-IT is based on applying the network of its
sponsor as well as other related institutions. That network consists of over 12
research organizations and institutes of higher learning, and numerous diverse
enterprises from large scale textile and chemical fiber plants (e.g. Yizheng
Chemical Fibre Group) to small and medium sized firms (e.g. Zibo Synthetic Fibre
Experimental Plant). This ERC will cooperate with domestic and foreign firms in
importing technological software, hardware, and products to transfer and diffuse
to end-users. They will promote different forms of cooperation such as
encouraging enterprises to enter into close partnerships with the ERC and become
its demonstration base for technological transfer in the industry. Regional
branches and service outlets to diffuse technological know-how and services will
be set up and user conferences will be held regularly to brief the industry on
the latest developments. Newsletters, training courses, and other activities to
support the diffusion strategy.
6.        Normal consumption estimates of industrial textiles in the industrial
world account for 20-30% of the fiber consumption in the entire industry. That
figure is expected to rise to 50% by the year 2000. In China, market sales are
expected to reach US$10-15 billion, equivalent to two million tons by the year
2000. Unless China updates her technological base in this sector, poor
performance will continue to dominate production. Waste in fiber consumption (60%
are natural fibers) is a major problem in the industry and many products need to
be replaced by synthetic fibers. It is clear that market demand is far grater
than the supply as industrial textiles are needed by many industries such as
construction (housing and roads), environmental protection (ash and dust
filtration), and agriculture (equipment). In addition, small and medium size
firms in urgent need of technical transformation will need assistance
restructuring their product lines and switching to industrial textiles for not
only their survival but also to enable China to meet the demand of industrial
textiles.



- 127 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 50 of 95
7.        Total funding for The Engineering Research Center of Industrial
Textiles is US$9,631,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                 5,500
Other bank loans ................             376
Equity ................                     3,775



- 128 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 51 of 95
ZRC FOR MANUFACTURING AUTOMATION
1.        In China, there are over 100,000 manufacturing enterprises of which
90* or more are small and medium-size firms located in towns and villages. These
enterprises are characterized by high material and energy consumption (1 to 3,
and 1 to 4 times higher than developed countries, respectively); low labor
productivity (between on-twentieth and one-thirtieth of industrialized
economies); poor product quality and adverse production environment caused by
weak management; limited technical and market knowledge, and low levels of
automation. The Engineering Research Center for Manufacturing Autonation (ZRC-MA)
will focus on the production problems faced by small and medium firms,
particularly those in towns and villages with the objective of reducing energy
consumption, improving product quality, and the working environment. The ERC will
offer technical and consulting services, training, management tools for obtaining
productivity gains, feasibility studies and related automation equipment and
production lines which are generally configured to the specific needs of the
enterprise.
2.        The  sponsoring  institution,  the  Beijing  Research  Institute  of
Automation for Machine Building Industry (RIAMB) of the Ministry of Machinery
Industry, was founded in 1954 and is a major research facility involved in (among
others) the fields of application software, automatic control and application
engineering; industrial robots and artificial intelligence; and integrated
circuits design and mask-making for machinery. RIAME has about 1300 staff of
which 890 are engineers and technicians. In recent years, the institute has
obtained over 30 national patents and has transferred numerous research results
to enterprises. Thus, RIAMB has disseminated programming techniques for NC
machine-tools to over 30 enterprises, installed computer-aided management
information systems in over 40 firms; built over 20 highly automated high bay-
warehouses; and modernized automatic production lines in 170 enterprises in
addition to providing training to 465 firms.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is related to: (i) the environmental benefits from the dissemination of
automation technology in terms of energy and material efficiency. Some of the
improvements associated with the diffusion of this technology would be privately
appropriated; others would be external to the firms; and (ii) a vast number of
firms, mostly small and medium-sized (in villages and towns) that would benefit
from the productivity and quality gains associated with the diffusion of
manufacturing automation technologies throughout the industrial sector. While
individually, producers might have the incentives to improve the efficiency of
their operations, they would not have the means to invest in the necessary R&D
and engineering activities. Potentially, in cooperation with other producers and
suppliers of capital goods, they might accomplish what this ERC will set out to
do, but there are considerable coordination and information costs that no
individual actor is willing to absorb. These high transaction costs disallow the
formation of a market to exist generates the externality the ERC would be
addressing by introducing technologies with widespread applicability.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, this ERC will seek to establish
close ties with foreign firms through technical and personnel exchanges with the
purpose of adapting complex or sophisticated equipment imported by domestic firms
to their specific conditions. The ERC will acquire technology through outright
purchase and licensing agreements, and co-develop applications geared to local
needs. The ERC will take advantage of RIAMB's extensive links with foreign firms.
Examples of these links are: a joint development with DEC on a CIMS project;
similarly with CDC, in addition to MRP-II software; an agreement with Applicon
for CAD development; and technical cooperation (separately) with Grogo (US), IGM
(Austria), ABB (Sweden), and 3K (Japan), on industrial robots.



- 129 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 52 of 95
5.        The diffusion strategy will be based on: (i) transferring technologies
to the associated producers which will manufacture ERC designed products and sell
them to end-users; (ii) selecting typical clients to serve as demonstration
units; (iii) establishing agents in major markets to disseminate automation
technologies and products; (iv) utilizing trade organizations and professional
associations to disseminate the technologies developed or adapted by the ERC; (v)
organizing client meetings and seminars to disseminate information and
demonstrate the ERC's technologies and products; and (vi) providing training and
exchanges of personnel.
6.        The market demand for the ERC's products and services seem quite
robust. Its clients will be the mass of small and medium-sized enterprises, and
those located in towns and villages requiring technical services geared at
improving quality and productivity. In addition to technical advice, the ERC will
furnish cell automatic systems, and non-standardized sets of dedicated hardware
and software aimed at the modernization of its clients. For most automatic
devices and systems which are in high demand, the ERC will engage in joint
development and joint manufacturing with foreign (and domestic) firms, the latter
in case they are mature in design and production technology.
7.        Total funding sought for The Manufacturing Automation Engineering
Research Center is US$11,941,000. The breakdown is as follows:
Us
Thousand
World Bank                       5,500
Other bank loans                 2,474
Equity                           3,967



- 130 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 53 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTZR FOR TRANSDUCERS
1.          Transducers are "devices that accept information in forms of a
physical and chemical variables and convert them to output variables of the same
or another nature, according to a definite law". Transducers (sensors) are widely
employed in our modern society for not only industrial uses such as iron/steel,
chemical, electric power, transportation, energy etc. but also such uses as
medical   and   home  use.   Without   these   advanced   transducers,   highly
productive/safety manufacturing lines, and agreeable office circumstances would
not be realized. In addition, transducer technologies for medical and home uses
will greatly improve the standard of living in China. There are many kinds of
transducers  for  measuring  pressure,  temperature,  magnetic  field,  optical
intensity, moisture, smell, fluid flow speed/volume, etc. which signifies the
tremendous world market that exists in this sector. China, for example, needed
about seven million pressure transducers in 1992 and was unable to keep up with
the vigorous growth of other industrial sectors due to the rapid development of
China's economy. The current situation of the technological level of Chinese
transducer manufacturing is bleak, and corresponds to levels of international
standards of the mid 1970s. There are about 750 enterprises for transducers in
China of which 96% are small and medium sized enterprises. It should be noted
that even large firms lack the R&D capability necessary for catching up to
advanced international standards. In order to meet the challenges of promoting
the widespread applications of this industrial sector, the Engineering Research
Center of Transducers will play an important role in developing and transferring
new technologies to small and medium size firms which currently do not have
access to information or advanced technologies to meet the demand of this sector.
The objective is to focus on transducers using semiconductor materials for
avoiding diversified developments for pressure, magnetic and temperature sensing.
2.          The sponsoring institution, The Shenyang Institute of Instrumentation
technology (SIIT) dates back to 1960, and is belongs to the Ministry of Machine
Building Industry, a comprehensive transducer research institute in China. SITT
has over 18 specialized labs in transducer research, including a research and
testing base of Sensing Elements and Instrumentation Technology, and quality
testing center. The institute has contracted more than 750 research projects of
which 123 have won awards from the state ministries and provinces, and holds
approximately 34 patents. SIIT has a total workforce of approximately 800
professionals of which 430 are technical staff. The institute has organized many
international conferences and symposia in China, and its staff has participated
in technical exchanges abroad. SIIT has provided technical services and advice
to a vast number of enterprises, as well as transferring research results to
industrial clients.
3.          The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector is
related to the very large number of industries that would benefit from the
diffusion of new technologies, and engineering services which now suffer from
the enormous gap between research and production of transducers. As enterprises
demand high quality and high performance transducer products for a wide variety
of applications, manufacturers will need to provide-more competitive technologies
that are able to reduce energy consumption, improve production standards, and
increase production efficiency. Transducer technology is a generic technology
widely acceptable to not only conventional fields, but also new fields such as
micro-machining, super fine grain manufacturing, etc. Given that over 961 of
Chinese enterprises are small and medium-sized, they do not have access to the
latest technologies. Consequently, they are operating at such low efficiency
levels that making the switch to production of such advanced technology is
inconceivable without public support. While individually, enterprises might have
the incentives to improve the efficiency of their operations by applying advanced
transducers, they do not necessarily have the means to invest in specific R&D and
engineering activities. Potentially, in cooperation with other producers and
suppliers they might accomplish what the ERCs will set out to do, but there are
considerable coordination and information costs that no individual actor is
willing to absorb. These high transactions costs disallow the formation of a
market to supply the innovations on an industry wide bases. The failure of this



- 131 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 54 of 95
market generates the externality the ERC would be addressing by introducing
innovations in transducer with widespread applicability, thus public support is
warranted for these activities.
4.          The ERC, along with its sponsor, SIIT, already has a history of close
relations with foreign enterprises and research organizations. They have
collaborated with numerous international firms such as: Philips, Siemens,
Honeywell, IBM, IC Sensors, and Nova Sensor (U.S.); Degussa (Germany); Yamatake
(Japan); Oxford Instruments (UK); ASCOM, Keller (Switzerland)and numerous
universities and research institutes abroad. The institute has been involved in
numerous technical exchanges, joint research projects, and the practice of
technical exchange of personnel with international organizations will also be
continued. The ERC will pursue a strategy to attract advanced foreign equipment
and facilitate the adaptation and transfer to Chinese enterprises. It will also
transfer innovations from engineering achievements to introduce to Chinese firms,
especially small and medium size firms in serious need of new and improved
transducer technologies. Domestically, SIIT has strong technological ties with
numerous universities and research institutes, and is well positioned to continue
its cooperation with industrial firms, and other organizations to diffuse
innovations.
5.          The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of advanced technologies
of transducers is quite comprehensive and based on applying the network of its
sponsor as well as other related institutions. There are three levels of the
strategy: (i) the ERC will enhance a function of market information analysis and
provide necessary information to enterprises in order to adopt effective measures
quickly; (ii) The Intermediate Experiment Dept. will put newly developed
production technologies and equipment into trial operation for eventual
technologies to be transferred; and (iii) establish a Transducer Marketing
Corporation in the site of the ERC jointly with transducer enterprises to provide
close links with users. This ERC will promote different forms of cooperation such
as encouraging enterprises to enter into close partnerships with the ERC and
become its demonstration base for technological transfer in the industry.
Training will be provided to instruct and brief the industry on the latest
developments.
6.          Market demand for transducers seems enormous due to the nature of
the products. A tremendous need exists in many fields such as health care,
thermal power plants, ethylene projects, iron/steel plants, energy systems,
automobiles and electric appliances. In an initial stage, the ERC will choose
15-20 transducer manufacturing enterprises directly related to materials based
on semiconductors for pressure, magnetic, temperature and optical transducers,
thus increasing its chances of success in the market. It is estimated that for
large size thermal power plants alone, 650,000 transducers of over 500 varieties
will be needed and over 200 of those varieties have not yet been developed. The
auto industry in the next year or so will need 34 million pieces of 124 varieties
of transducers of which half are now imported. It is expected that by the year
2001, transducer products manufactured with technology diffused by the ERC will
have captured 15* of the market, and the varieties of transducer products
manufactured will reach 25% of all transducer varieties.
7.          Total funding for the ZRC for Transducers is US$8,146,000. The
breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank .........................        4,900
Other banks loan .........................   656
Equity .........................             2,590



- 132 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 55 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR SOFTWARE
1.          Recognizing  that  software  technology  is  fundamental  for  the
modernization of society, China has consistently emphasized this area in official
plans for national economic and social development. Software driven information
technology is critical to the software industry, and the quality, reliability and
overall performance of software is essential to the growth of many key industries
such as banking, insurance, office automation, and post and communications, etc.
Due to the rapid advances in hardware, VLSI and other computer technology, the
window of opportunity for software is very narrow, making it extremely
competitive in the marketplace. Although China has made many advances in the
software field over the last ten years, including their own software development
platform (SDP) and computer aided software engineering (CASE), the industry is
characterized by lack of standards in software production; slow market
penetration; weak maintenance and technical support services; and lack of R&D
resources for the majority of the enterprises. In addition the enterprises lack
high performance design and testing tools, skilled personnel, and engineering
knowledge. In order to meet the challenges set out by the GOC to promote
telecommunications software, The Engineering Research Center for Software will
promote software development tools such as micro-computer JB, portable computer
JB, and workstation JB SDPs fitted to the specific Chinese condition. The ERC
will establish advanced development and testing environments, and provide
technical consulting, facility support services, training, and upgrading
services.
2.          The sponsoring institutions are Peking University,  (the Department
of Computer Science and Technology), and Beijing-Guangdong Computer Center
(BGCC), a research and production based firm for computers in Guangdong province.
(a) Peking University, a comprehensive research center operates the
leading unit of the project "Software Development Platforms (SDPs)"
which is a national scientific key project. The dept. offers four key
areas of research,: computer software, software engineering, computers
and applications, and microelectronics backed by a total of ten labs
for VLSI, artificial intelligence, image processing etc. The dept. has
over 75 R&D projects, many of which have been awarded prizes in
excellence. There is a staff of over 100 senior technical
professionals.
(b) BGCC is a joint-stock company that was selected in 1993 as one of the
most advanced high-tech enterprises by the State Science Commission.
With a staff of almost 200, the enterprise maintains 23 branches in
China, with eight agents and 3 branches in foreign countries. BCCG has
produced 20 computer products in five different areas and has
established reliable channels for selling its software products. Its
tax management software covers 60% of the domestic market while its
financial management software is recommended by the Ministry of
Finance. The enterprise has engaged in multiple technical exchanges
and cooperative ventures with foreign f7i-ms and research institutions
in the software field and has extensive links with Chinese
enterprises, research institutes and universities.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector is
related to (i) the positive information and coordination externalities from
disseminating norms, standards, specifications and protocols for software
technology; and (ii) the very large number of manufacturers of such technology
who would benefit from software development and testing environments to be
provided by the ERC. In a technical area of critical importance to China's
future, the country finds itself lagging in basic software technology. Among
domestic enterprises, structural deficiencies hamper indigenous technology
development. Many firms are below the scale necessary to mount new technology
development for advanced software tools such as SDP which enhance productivity.
While individually, software manufacturers might have the incentives to improve



- 133 -                          Annex 4.6
Page 56 of 95
the quality and performance of the products, they do not necessarily have the
means to invest in the tools, equipment and skilled personnel needed for such an
enormous task. Potentially, in cooperation with other producers, users and
network operators, they might accomplish what the ERCs will set out to do, but
there are considerable coordination and information costs that no individual
actor is willing to absorb. These high transactions costs disallow the formation
of a market for the services the ERC will be supplying on an industry wide bases.
The failure of this market generates the externality the ERC would be addressing
by introducing software with widespread applicability, thus public support is
warranted for these activities.
4.        This ERC, along with both its sponsors' have close ties with both
domestic and international organizations. There are eight foreign companies
acting as agents in Asia, the U.S., Canada and Australia. Collaborative
agreements are with: Oracle, IBM, Unisys, Hewlett Packard, and Digitel (U.S.);
Bull (France); and Daiyu (Japan). The ERC has sent 30 senior professionals abroad
for technical exchanges and 21 have completed their programs and have returned
to China. This ERC will greatly benefit from its sponsor's background in academia
and the private sector and will continue to pursue a strategy to attract joint
collaborative agreements in R&D, and new technologies and products to introduce
to Chinese firms and organizations.
5.        The  diffusion   strategy  for  the  dissemination  of  advanced
communications and services is based on expanding the domestic and foreign
network of its sponsors as well as other related institutions. Regarding SDP
technology, the ERC will (i) improve developing efficiency; (ii) promote
industrialization of software production; (iii) provide consulting, training and
technology transfer; and (iv) utilize JB system as SDP to develop applied
software systems. The diffusion strategy will also establish a training center
for clients and end-users, and set up a unit for engineering standardization for
manufacturers.  Lastly, the ERC will disseminate information through its own
publications and networks such as the Software Industry Association and continue
to encourage technical exchanges with other organizations.
6.        Demand for the ERC will be derived from the explosive growth in the
information industry and consequently software products in China. The targets
are both large management departments of industry and government, and enterprises
in villages and rural towns for SDPs. According to the latest statistics by the
International Data Corporation, 11% of 71,000 commercial multi-user UNIX
programmers use CASE. The domestic software output in 1992 was 2 billion RMB, and
is expected to double in 1995. With over 100 units engaged in software
development and 80,0000 specialists working in this sector, a tremendous market
exits. Expected markets for specific products include: (i) security exchange
software, 30% of the market at 3-4 million RMB; (ii) accounting software, 20% of
the market at 2-3 million RMB; and (iii) cash register and business systems, 10%
of the market at 1 billion RMB . Unless China updates her technological base in
this sector, lack of standards and poor performance will continue to dominate the
industry. It is clear that market demand is enormous and the service sector is
in urgent need of technical assistance for innovative software systems and tools.
7.        Total funding for the ERC for Software is US$9,172,000. The break down
is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank .................                4,500
Other bank loans .................            911
Equity .................                    3,761



- 134                              Annex 4.6
Page 57 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR NEW WELDING TECHNOLOGY
OF HIGH EFFICIENCY AND HIGH QUALITY
1.        The production, processing and application of welding technologies are
key in supporting modern engineering technology. Over 50 of the industrial
products in China use steel and the majority of the steel products use welding.
Welding production technology is an important component to China's industrial
base and consequently its national economy. The welding industry in China can be
characterized by inefficient use of materials, outdated welding production
techniques   (20-30  years  behind  industrialized  countries),  high  energy
consumption, and environmental pollution which is intensified by the tens of
thousands of small and medium size enterprises that make up the major welding
production forces in the country.   The Engineering Research Center for New
Welding Technology of High Efficiency and High Quality (ERC-W) will diffuse new
technologies to correct the current state of the industry by (i) developing new
welding techniques for high production efficiency and quality; (ii) supplying new
welding  techniques  for  high  market-value  products  to  enterprises;  (iii)
developing manufacturing technology for production welding consumables; and (iv)
promoting mechanized (or automated) welding production strategies. These efforts
will increase productivity, reduce energy consumption, and improve quality and
industrial safety as well as raise the status of China's low level of
industrialization. The ERC will also develop the technical standards and
specifications for new welding technology which will stimulate the markets in
numerous industries (other than steel) such as electric power, construction,
aviation, aerospace, and even electrical appliances.
2.        The proposal sponsor, The Harbin Research Institute for Welding (HRIW)
is a comprehensive research institution for basic study and development of
welding processes and products, technology and equipment, welding robot
applications, submerged arc welding, resistance welding, automatic control
techniques, etc. Founded in 1956, HRIW maintains a technical staff of almost 700
with 93 laboratories, 4 test production workshops, a training center, and manages
a cooperative agreement between the Chinese Welding Society, and the German
Welding Society. HRIW is also responsible for monitoring the Technical Committee
of the National Welding Standardization Organization in the Institute, organizing
the National Welding Conference and maintaining close ties with the nearly 1000
member enterprises of the Chinese Welding Association. The institute has obtained
over 450 achievements in the last 30 years, 18 patents, and received numerous
awards from state and local ministries. Some of the commercialization successes
have been in friction welding, plasma surfacing, gas shielded arc welding which
have been transferred to over 70 enterprises, resulting in approximately RMB 1.54
billion yuan.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is fundamentally sound and deserves to be supported. The rationale is
related to the positive externalities from: (i) developing and promoting welding
technology with the ERC acting as an interface to industry for significant
productivity gains, and (ii) the production and application of high-performance
process technologies associated with environmental benefits as this ERC will make
effective use of materials and its technologies to contribute to energy savings.
While it is important for China to introduce new technologies to industry, no one
technical institution or industry in China is capable due to the high cost of
specialized equipment as well as the high risk associated with R&D. Thus, the
establishment of the ERC would allow them to disseminate information through
evaluation, introduction, and absorption of new technologies much more
effectively than any individual companies. Public support would have a
significant effect on the improvement of welding production efficiency and in
product quality to reduce negative environmental and safety impacts.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, the ERC will take advantage of
HRIW's network of 40 years experience in the welding sector which includes
agreements with: Ohio State University, Miller Electric Mfg. (US); E.O. Paton
Electric Welding Institute (Ukraine); OTC Daihen Corp., Osaka University (Japan;)
and over a dozen domestic enterprises. The ERC plans to engage in extensive



- 135 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 58 of 95
cooperative activities with foreign firms through joint R&D, contract research,
and personnel exchange. Their efforts will focus on collaborations with suppliers
of available technology to acquire or transfer and the end-users of the results
and products developed by the ERC. They will also engage in demonstration
projects and technical consultation services in order to facilitate the
adaptation of technology from foreign firms into the Chinese market. Other
activities will include technical exchanges, invitational lectures, joint
research projects and technical information exchanges.
5.        The ERC-W's diffusion strategy will be based on utilizing HRIW's vast
information channels and apply different mechanisms according to specific markets
of suppliers and end-users. The ERC will transfer foreign high efficiency and
quality welding technology to enterprises as well as techniques and products
developed in-house. Selected enterprises will be used as pilot testing facilities
and that information will be diffused through its technological network of
clients both domestically and abroad. The ERC-W will participate in training
activities; organize plant tours for technical awareness; encourage technical
exchanges of personnel; and publish periodicals and newsletters to advertise
technical achievements.
6.        There is an immense need in China for welding technology products and
processes as more than 20 industries(such as steel, electric power, construction,
aviation, ship building, aerospace, electrical appliances, etc.) make use of
welding.  As China's economy continues to grow, the demand for civil industrial
products such as bicycles, food processing equipment, and others more varied
products have created stresses on the large demands in the welding industry. By
the year 2000, welded steel products alone will require 50-60 million tons of
steel, and 300,000 welding power tons annually. The market in China for new
welding technology of high efficiency and high quality can basically be divided
into four categories that the ERC has developed. The plan will focus on: (i) the
demand for standardization of technology and processe with a projected market at
90%; (ii) new welding technology, advanced processes of high efficiency and high
quality, advanced manufacturing and automated production lines; projected market
50%; (iii) technical training, services and consulting projected at 60%; and (iv)
technology dissemination of technologies and services to small and medium size
firms projected at 30%.
7.        Total funding for the Engineering Research Center for the Now Welding
Technology of High Efficiency and High Quality is: US$9,848,000. The breakdown
is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                 5,500
Other bank loans ................1 ,762
Equity ................                     2,626



- 136 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 59 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR HIGH EFFICIENCY ROLLING TECHNOLOGY
1.          Iron-steel production is a fundamental industry in China as steel
products are the basic materials of the construction industry. Steel rolling is
a critical component of the manufacturing process in the iron-steel production,
and the key link between the iron-steel industry and various national economic
interests. China is the biggest user of steel products in the world, and its
steel production does not meet the demands of the country. In 1993, China
imported 20 million tons of steel at a cost of approximately $100 million despite
the fact that production has increased 5-10 million tons annually over the last
few years. Of the 100 different varieties needed in China, only half are
produced. There are almost 6000 rolling mills in China and only 80 of them are
large to medium size. In addition, 84% of all the rolling mills were developed
between 1930 and 1960, and 96% of the bar and rod rolling mills were made between
the 30s-50s. The steel rolling industry in China can be characterized by (i) low
productivity; (ii) serious waste water, solid waste and noise pollution; (iii)
high energy consumption and materials use. The Engineering Research Center for
High Efficiency Rolling Technology (ERC-HER) aims to provide efficient production
technologies to industries to improve quantity, quality, variety, and steel
consumption rates to competitive levels as well as provide software for designing
institutions to better manage the steel production industry.
2.          The sponsoring institution, The University of Science & Technology
Beijing (USTB) is supported by the Ministry of Metallurgical Industry. Founded
in 1952, the institution has over 17 institutes with specializations in metal
forming, metallurgical machinery, etc., and includes the Institute of New
Metallic Material which is approved as a key lab of the state. USTB has over 1400
faculty members with over 170 full professors including 3 committee members of
the Chinese Academy of Science. The institution has cooperative relationships
with 18 universities from 10 foreign countries and 37 enterprises. USTB has
achieved numerous research results of which many have been awarded technical
recognition and prizes by the Ministry and local level. Numerous research results
have been transferred to industry. Some of those technical achievements are: (i)
technology of car-body steel sheet formability; (ii) research on roll crown and
strip shape at wide strip mills; (iii) technology of skew rolling in ball
production; and (iv) rolling process controls, etc. The institution also
maintains excellent training facilities and promotes technical exchanges at their
university and abroad.
3.          The  subproject  is  fundamentally  sound  from  a  public  sector
involvement standpoint. Pressures from economic development in the steel industry
for better quality production,  energy savings and environmental protection
enormously enhance the necessity of advanced high efficiency rolling technology.
The most serious problem of the Chinese steel rolling industry is its low
productivity (about 20-40 tpa), compared to levels of the industrialized
countries (400 tpa). Given that the steel rolling operation determines product
quality, the technology level is directly related to quantity, variety, and
efficiency which greatly influences almost all industries in China. The
dissemination of steel rolling technologies developed and adapted to the Chinese
industry would have a very significant environmental and social impact by
increasing energy efficiency, and reducing waste and material consumption. In
addition, the number of producers that are potential users of steel rolling
innovations or that will benefit from the productivity enhancing assistance of
the ERC is enormous. Individually, these producers might have incentives to
improve the efficiency of their operations, but do not have the means to invest
in the necessary R & D and engineering activities. Potentially, in cooperation
with other producers and suppliers they might accomplish what the ERC will set
out to do, but there are considerable coordinating and information costs that no
individual actor is willing to absorb on an industry wide basis. The failure of
this market to exist generates the externality the ERC would be addressing. In
view of these social and technological benefits public sector support would be
warranted for these activities.
4.           The ERC-HER has a well defined collaboration strategy as it will



- 137 -                          Annex 4.6
Page 60 of 95
make use of the international network that USTB established over the last 40
years. The ERC will continue working with the institution's contacts such as
Aachen University (Germany); MIC (Russia); Ohio State and Purdue University
(USA); and Davey Corp. (Britain). The ERC will welcome foreign shareholders with
a technological advantage and act as a go-between for domestic enterprises for
investment and cooperation from abroad. Through international technical exchanges
and exhibitions, the ERC will strengthen and promote international collaboration
and technology transfer, and become an effective interface between foreign
suppliers of technology including those which are planning co-development
activities for the Chinese market. Domestically, The ERC will seek to develop new
technologies to be commercialized by the industrial sector in conjunction with
research institutes and the private sector.
5.          The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of techniques and
products of the ERC will be based on the network established by USTB. A market
service department will be set up to put forward proposals for the ERC Management
Committee and Technology Committee. A training center and consultative center
will also be set up to diffuse updated technology both domestic and foreign. The
ERC HER has established three trade networks in cooperation with 37 domestic
enterprises to develop a network for technology transfer. The three centers are:
(i) The New Part-Rolling Technology Research Society; (ii) Chinese Deep Drawing
Research Group; and (iii) The New Rolling Technology Developing Center. The ERC
will publish newsletters, and set up other mechanisms to diffuse the latest
advances in steel rolling technologies.
6.          The market demand for steel rolling technologies has a huge impact
on much of the manufacturing industry in China including the automobile and the
machinery industries. While China has introduced some modern equipment from Japan
and Germany, 83W of the plants are producing at levels somewhere between 1930-
1960. China's rolling mills (over 2000) are faced with extremely low efficiency
and cannot meet the demands of the country. IT is estimated that this ERC will
be able to penetrate 80% of the rolling mills with new technology. In parts
rolling technology, The ERC will transfer technology to about 50 enterprises
within the next five years. This proposal outlines a plan for marketing new
developments such as technology of strip profile controls, third generation of
sheet steel for the auto industry, and automation of rolling process technology.
The marketing strategy will focus on providing technological support, services,
information services, technology transfer, and training.
7.          Total funding for The Engineering Research Center for High 8f ficiency
Rolling Technology is US$7,702,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                 4,500
Other bank loans ................             403
Equity ................                     2,799



- 138 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 61 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR ADVANCED POLYMBR PROCESSING TECHNOLOGY
1.          Polymeric materials are experiencing functional improvements and
wider applications leading to a predicted level of worldwide usage that should
exceed metallic minerals by the end of the century. Data on plastics usage, which
accounts for 80% of polymer consumption, demonstrate that trend. In Japan, for
example, per capita plastics consumption rose approximately 60% between 1980 and
1990. In China, plastics consumption has risen more than 20% yearly since 1990.
Processing technology is the key determinant factor is polymer usage. China's
polymer industry is weak in processing capabilities such as: (i) testing
equipment and national standards for resin production testing are lacking; (ii)
low precision, long manufacturing times, and poor variety characterize mold
designs and manufacturing; (iii) obsolete molding equipment is being used lacking
the computer-based applications used worldwide; (iv) poor technical skills (only
7-8% are technically skilled) compared to industrialized countries where 1/3 are
trained; (v) minimal application of CAD/CAM/CAE compared to 25-75% penetration
rate in other countries. Another limited factor is that out of the 20,000 polymer
processing enterprises in China, 95% are small and medium size and consequently
have almost no relevant technological support. Lastly, there is little connection
between China's research sector (universities and institutes) and its industrial
sector. In the polymer processing area, research priorities have been biased
toward more basic technology questions with inadequate attention to engineering
and technology transfer.   The ERC for Advanced Polymer Processing Technology
(APPT-ERC) will develop and diffuse technology achievements for processes and
products, and supply engineering technologies to relevant industries such as
machinery, electronics, light industry, automobile communication, architecture,
aviation, etc.
2.          The proposal sponsor, Zhengzhou University is situated in the central
plain of China, and located in an area where the polymer processing industry is
heavily concentrated. Its Polymer Processing Technology and Molding Research
Institute (PPTMRI) was established in 1984, and the technical focus of the
institute spans the range of areas relevant to the industry. The institute has
received many awards and has transferred technology in over a dozen fields to
over 100 industries such as CAD/CAM/CAE technology, and rubber and plastic
processing equipment. PPTMRI is also the sponsor unit of the Polymer Material
Property Testing Center of the Ministry of Chemical Industry.  It also has a
training center of C-Mold software with AC technology and CAD/CAM software; and
is a member of numerous organizations such as China's Light Industrial Molds
Association and Plastic Process Association. Its staff now number 71, of which
many have participated in numerous technical exchanges both domestically and
abroad.
3.          The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is related to the development of emerging technologies. While polymer usage
is of course well-established, its transformation and expansion are part of an
ongoing worldwide "materials revolution", in which China is lags significantly
behind. The proposal has specified clearly a number of pervasive technical
capabilities in which Chinese enterprises compare poorly to world standards.
Given the current industrial structure, the situation is unlikely to improve
unless coordination and integration of activities of polymer manufacturers,
processors and users interface with industry to provide and exchange information,
technical training, and products standards. The production and application of
high-performance polymers will have a significant impact on small and medium
(95%) size industries that rely on polymer usage (mentioned above), as well as
benefits associated with the environment such as energy efficiency.
4.          In terms of foreign collaboration, the ERC will take advantage of
PPTMRI's and Zhengzhou Institute of Technology's experience with foreign and
domestic partnerships including: AC Technology, EDS, Cornell University (US); IKV
Institute, German Battenfield Co. (Germany); Taiwan Qicheng Tech. Co. Ltd.,
Taiwan Rubber Industry Development Center; Matra (France); Sodick Co., Tokyo
University (Japan) etc. The ERC plans to further their cooperative activities
with additional foreign firms through joint R&D, contract research, technical



- 139 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 62 of 95
consultation and the provision of technical services to foreign equipment and
polymer producers to penetrate the Chinese market. The latter compels the ERC to
act as a service center or demonstration production line. In addition, the
sponsor has agreements with over 100 enterprises for technical development and
technology transfer.
5.           The ERC's diffusion strategy outlined in the proposal is excellent
and based on a sound understanding of the many means necessary to diffuse
research results and state-of-the art techniques. The idea of branch centers in
various regions of China is important although costly. Given the relatively
modest number of current staff, commitments to maintain branch centers will reach
20 centers in 7-10 years. The strategy will focus on two areas: (i) the
acquisition of new technologies both domestically and abroad and adaptation of
products to the Chinese market; and (ii) accessing enterprises for market
feedback to apply to newly developed technology in a timely manner. The ERC APPT
will establish a training center to support customers with technology diffusion.
Lastly, the ERC will promote diffusion through its extensive network of their
sponsor, associations, through the media, publications and newsletters, and
technical exchanges.
6.          The polymer processing industries in China are primarily composed of
20,000 enterprises and that market can be divided into three distinct categories:
(i) large firms (less than 1% of the total) which maintain a strong technological
base, use foreign equipment, but posses poor capabilities to diffuse technology;
(ii) medium sized firms (4% of the total) which possess some foreign technology
but rely mostly on domestic equipment due to the high cost associated with
foreign technology. These firms should be able to absorb competitive technologies
developed by the ERC; and (iii) small and medium size firms (95% of total)
located mostly in townships and have very little technological support,
experience low productivity, high energy consumption and poor management skills.
Firms in the third category are the major target fort the ERC APPT. As China's
economy develops so will its consumption of plastics. According to 1989 data, the
per capita consumption of plastics in China is 5.6 kg as compared to the U.S.
where that figure jumps to 99 kg. China ranks loth in the world for annual output
of plastics. On the basis of market supplies for resin raw materials, the
plastics products is expected to increase 8% annually, valued at approximately
US$2.5 billion. In addition, plastic molds, critical to polymer products can only
meet the need of 70% of industrial production in China, and most of the products
are medium to low-grade molds. China possesses an enormous market for polymer
processing technology which will have a significant impact on the many diverse
industries mentioned above.
7.          Total funding for the Engineering Research Center for the Advanced
Polymer Processing Technology US$5,203,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ...............                  3,000
Other bank loan ...............               310
Equity ...............                      1,893



- 140 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 63 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR COMKUNICATION SOFTWARE
AND APPLICATION SPECIFIC INTEGRATZD CIRCUIT
1.          Recognizing telecommunications technology as fundamental for the
infrastructure of a modern society, China has consistently emphasized this area
in official plans for national economic and social development. Telecommunication
services in China are growing at a very rapid pace, and the expansion of telecom
services is an important priority to the GOC. Communications software and
application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) are critical elements for the
quality, reliability and overall performance of telecommunications products, as
the number of functions and degree of integration increase. The current situation
of the telecommunications software industry in China is bleak, and characterized
by roughly 700 firms of which 90% are small and medium-sized. These firms have
limited technological capability, particularly in terms of software and ASIC
development. They lack design and testing tools, skilled personnel, and
engineering knowledge. Communication software is different from computer-oriented
software in that it requires service networks to be multi-vender systems and
primarily real-time operating systems as well. ASIC hardware is critical to
telecommunication services as it gives rise to low power consumption,
miniaturization of equipment, cost reduction, reliability improvements, etc. In
order to meet the challenges set out by the GOC to promote telecommunications
software, The Engineering Research Center of Communications Software and ASIC
will provide advanced environments for software and ASICs design and testing to
manufacturers of communications products (333 in 1992), The ERC will establish
advanced development and testing environments, and provide technical consulting
and facility support services as well as training. The ERC will also provide
software maintenance and upgrading services; the design for the ASICs; and the
testing of products according to Chinese standards.
2.          The sponsoring institution, Shijiazhuang Communications Laboratory
(SCL) of The Ministry of Electronics Industry is a major research facility
dedicated to communications technology development. SCL is one of the earliest
and largest comprehensive labs with ten departments, a factory, and seven
permanent organizations serving industry including one for inspection and
testing. The lab research includes network and switching systems; ISBN
(particularly software development component); satellite communication and TV
broadcasting (having designed the first indigenous satellite TV uplink stations
in the early 70s); message handling systems; and mobile and optical fiber
communications. By the end of 1992, the lab had achieved 1352 scientific and
technological results of which 67 were awarded national prizes. The ERC has a
staff of approximately 2170 of which over 610 are technical and 283 are senior
engineers. The SCL has engaged in multiple technical exchanges and cooperative
ventures with foreign firms and research institutions in the communications field
and has extensive links with Chinese enterprises, research institutes and
universities.
3.          The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector is
related to (i) the positive information and coordination externalities from
disseminating norms, standards, specifications and protocols for communication
equipment and related software; and (ii) the very large number of manufacturers
of such equipment who would benefit from the software and IC development and
testing environments to be provided by the ERC. In a technical area of critical
importance to China's future, the country finds itself in a position of excessive
dependence on foreign sources of technology.   Among domestic enterprises,
structural deficiencies hamper indigenous technology development. These two
factors provide a strong rationale for public sector involvement as well. Many
firms are below the scale necessary to mount new technology development and this
ERC proposes to assist such enterprises as well as mount pilot production
facilities which can be adapted by firms in the industry. While individually,
equipment producers might have the incentives to improve the quality and
performance of the products, they do not necessarily have the means to invest in
the tools, equipment and skilled personnel required for such tasks. Potentially,
in cooperation with other producers, users and network operators, they might
accomplish what the ERCs will set out to do, but there are considerable



- 141 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 64 of 95
coordination and information costs that no individual actor is willing to absorb.
These high transactions costs disallow the formation of a market for the services
the ERC will be supplying on an industry wide bases. The failure of this market
generates the externality the ERC would be addressing by introducing software
with widespread applicability, thus public support is warranted for these
activities.
4.          This ERC, along with its sponsor, SCL, already has a record of close
relations with foreign enterprises and research organizations. They have close
ties and some collaborations with numerous international firms such as Toshiba
(Japan); Texas Instruments, American LSI Logic Corp., GTE, Synopsis, Imag,
(U.S.); GMD (Germany); Canada Bell North Lab (Canada) etc. This ERC will greatly
benefit from SCL's experience in technical exchanges and joint research, and will
pursue a strategy to attract advanced foreign equipment, technologies, and
products, to introduce to Chinese firms, especially small and medium size firms
in serious need of new and improved communication technologies. Domestically, SCL
has strong technological ties with numerous universities and research institutes,
and is well positioned to cooperate with industrial firms, and other
organizations to diffuse innovations in telecommunications services.
5.          The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of advanced technologies
in the telecommunications services is based on expanding the domestic and foreign
network of its sponsor as well as other related institutions. The ERC will train
its clients (details are well documented in the proposal)through product
introduction-orientations and technical discussion meetings including exhibitions
in China. The diffusion strategy includes the establishment of round-the-clock
technical  service networks  in China's major centers;  (Beijing,  Shenyang,
shanghai, Chengdu, Xian, and Guandzou). The ERC will provide advanced software
and IC environments for colleges and institutes' non-commercial applications in
order to disseminate technologies. Lastly, the ERC will disseminate information
through its own publication "Communication Software and ASIC", E-mail, and
industry associations.
6.          Demand for the ERC will be derived from the explosive growth in
communication products in China. The software and IC components in these products
will be responsible for an expanding share of their value. It is estimated that
the Chinese software market will grow tenfold by the year 2000 (30-40 billion
RMB). If the market accompanies the international trend, the communications
software share be 20 percent. It is expected that the ERC's cooperatively
developed software will take 10-20 percent of the sales volume in that category.
the market for communications ASIC will reach 150 million units by 1995 and over
500 million in the year 2000. Domestic independent IC providers will supply at
least 15 million units worth US$ 200-300 million by 1995. It is projected that
the ERC or jointly designed ICs will occupy 10% of the communication ASIC market
in terms of sales volume and 50% in terms of variety. Unless China updates her
technological base in this sector, lack of standards and poor performance will
continue to dominate the industry. It is clear that market demand is enormous and
small and medium size firms are in urgent need of technical assistance for
restructuring their product lines.
7.          Total funding for the ZRC for Comsunication Software and ASIC is
US$7,365,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................................. 4,200
Other bank loans ............................... 0
Equity .................................... 3,165



- 142 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 65 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTBR FOR MAGNETIC MATERIALS
1.          The manufacturing, processing and application of magnetic materials
and devices are very important to the modern information industry since magnetic
materials increase productivity, reduce energy consumption, and reduce pollution.
Magnetic materials are used in many diverse fields such as electric motors,
computers, communications, home electronic appliances, automobiles, etc. Over the
last 20 years, the production of magnetic materials increased from US$1 billion
to US$26 billion on a global scale. Japan is the biggest producer, occupying 60%
of world production. The demand for magnetic materials in developed countries is
7kg per person, while in China it is only 0.05kg per person. China is fortunately
rich in rare earth natural resources, which are vital to magnetic materials.
Recently, an appearance of a new magnetic material, Nd-Fe-B is having a profound
influence on relevant industries in the world. The magnetic material was first
developed in the U.S. by GM, and by Sumitomo Special Metals in Japan. Compared
with conventional magnetic materials such as ferrite, the new material has an
energy product ten times larger than that of ferrite. The performance of this
material greatly exceed that of Sm-Co magnetic materials, which has been the best
magnetic material so far. It is noteworthy that manufacturing of Nd-Fe-B does not
cause pollution. The goal of the Magnetic Materials ERC (ERCMM) is to improve the
status of the low industrialization level of China's magnetic materials and to
diffuse new technologies and magnetic materials and devices to small and medium
size enterprises which will have an enormous impact on the multitude of
industries that rely on high performing magnetic materials.
2.          The proposal sponsors are: (i) The Institute of Physics (IP); and
(ii) Beijing San Huan New Materials High-Tech Inc. of the Chinese Academy of
science (BSHNM) . Both institutes are comprehensive research institutions for
basic study and development of magnetic materials processing.
(i) IP was founded in the late 1920s, and has a long history in research
on condensed matters, material physics, atomic physics, and various topics
in theoretical physics. IP maintains 11 labs and a staff of almost 700
researchers and technicians. In the past 40 years, more than 1000 research
results have been implemented of which 200 are significantly important
with respect to high quality crystals and new materials such as Nd:YAG,
LiIO3, GGG, TGG, as well as superconducting material such as Nd-Fe-B and
Ba-Y-Cu-O, IP resulting in 20 patents. IP has the State Key Laboratory of
magnetism which is equipped with many advanced facilities like SQUID, and
Moessbauer susceptometer. IP also publishes three monthly journals and has
extensive technical exchanges with over 20 countries.
(ii) BSHNM is a new high technology enterprise, professionally engaged in
R&D, production and marketing of permanent magnets. Since it was founded
in 1985 as an economic model incorporating market oriented strategies,
BSHNM has made great success in industrialization of rare earth magnets,
new magnetic devices, key equipment and electronics.   In addition to,
BSHNM holds 13 patents, and is responsible for editing the premier
journal, "Permanent Magnet Materials in China". BSHNM is a leading unit of
R&D manufacturing magnetic materials and magnets, and has transferred
technology to over 30 industries in China.
3.          The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is fundamentally sound and deserves to be supported. The rationale is
related to the positive externalities from: (i) developing and promoting magnetic
materials with the ERC acting as an interface to industry (especially small and
medium size) for significant productivity gains; and (ii) the improvement in
production and application of magnetic materials resulting in efficiency gains
as this ERC will make effective use of rare earth natural resources as well as
improved energy savings (as Nd-Fe-B improves energy efficiency of electric motor
vehicles) . While it is important for China to introduce new technologies to
industry, no one technical institution or industry in China is capable due to the
high cost of specialized equipment as well as the high risk associated with R&D.



- 143 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 66 of 95
Thus, the establishment of the ERC would allow them to disseminate information
through evaluation, introduction, and absorption of new technologies much more
effectively than any individual company. The established of this ERCMM is
urgently needed to link enterprises and research organizations with the latest
developments in magnetic materials.
4.          In terms of foreign collaboration, the ERC will take advantage of IPs
long history of foreign collaborative agreements as well as BSHNM's industrial
experience. Some of those agreements include: General Motors, Tridus, IG Co,
University of Delaware, Aura System (U.S.); CNRS, Rhone-Poulenc (France);
Chemical Metal, Tokyo University (Japan); Krupp, Vacuum Shemeltze (Germany);
Luckey Metal (Korea), and numerous other countries in Europe and Asia. The ERC
plans to continue its cooperative activities with foreign firms through joint
R&D, contract research, and personnel exchange. The ERC will also engage in
demonstration projects and technical consultation services in order to facilitate
the adaptation of technology from foreign firms into the Chinese market.
5.           The ERC-MM's diffusion strategy will be based on: (i) utilizing its
sponsors' vast information channel gained by their leadership in China's magnetic
materials sector, and through its technological network of clients both
domestically and abroad; (ii) naming a special deputy director to head up the
diffusion and marketing division to disseminate technology to small and medium
size industries through its regional branches; (iii) using the mass media and
advertise through domestic industrial and academic associations of rare earth
magnets, electric motors, etc.; and (iv) establishing a training section
including exchange of technical personnel.
6.          There is an immense need in China for magnetic materials products and
processes for important industries like medical equipment, automobiles,
computers, etc. In China there are about 250 plants manufacturing magnetic
materials plus another 50 manufacturing magnetic devices. The estimated world
market for magnetic materials is expected to reach US$6.5 billion by the year
2000 of which Nd-Fe-B magnets will be about US$3 billion. The domestic production
of magnetic materials and devices in 1990 was approximately 2.4 billion RMB which
corresponds to 6% of total world production. Based on research achievements
already obtained by its sponsors, the ERCMM expects to develop high quality
magnetic materials which will enter the market in 2-3 years, magnetic devices for
various motors and electrical equipment in 3-5 years, and other materials and
products for the auto industry in 5 years. In total, the target of the ERC is to
take 50-60% of the domestic market share and 15% of the international market
share for rare earth magnets by the year 2000.
7.          Total funding for the Engineering Research Center for Magnetic
Materials is US$6,942,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                 3,500
Other bank loans ................1 ,411
Equity ................                     2,031



- 144 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 67 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR EFFECTIVE UTILIZATION OF NATURAL GAS
1.          Natural  gas  is one  of  the  three  main  fossil  fuel  resources
(petroleum, natural gas, and coal) in the world. The research in natural gas
chemical engineering suggests that natural gas will be the basic material for
energy sources (liquid fuels) and chemical industrial materials (olefins and
oxygen containing organic compound) in the 21st century. Given that petroleum
resources are declining, the world is witnessing major exploration and
development of natural gas. China is estimated to have 5100 billion M3 in gas
deposits which have increased dramatically since the exploration in Sichuan,
Shanxi, and Xinjiang providing large quantities of reliable material for the
natural gas chemical industry. Despite extensive exploration, the output is quite
low (1.5 billion M3) representing about 1% of world output. Unlike coal which
must be gasified by costly technology to become chemical material, natural gas
can be directly or indirectly converted to liquid fuel and various chemicals.
Compared to coal, the capital investment for natural gas conversion is about 70%
less, and consequently, many industries and research organizations in the world
regard natural gas conversion technology and its application as strategically
important for sustainable economic development. In the synthetic ammonia sector,
most of the world uses natural gas as the raw material, and in the US, 70t of
plants use natural gas in comparison with 17.5 in China. There are about 1400
small synthetic ammonia plants in China and they consume twice as much energy as
large plants. These plants would greatly benefit from using natural gas as their
raw material. The basic advantages to natural gas are smaller investments, higher
production efficiencies, and lower energy consumption. Areas where China faces
serious gaps are: synthetic ammonia, methanol, acetylene, acetic acid, olefins,
and liquid fuels. Those gaps can be seen in terms of (i) production scale; (ii)
technology; (iii) energy consumption; (iv) material quality; and (v) automation.
In recognition of its critical importance to industry, the utilization of
effective natural gas is intended to ameliorate these widespread problems. The
ERC would provide a link to transfer and diffuse technology to industries in a
timely manner at a reasonable cost; train technicians and management personnel;
help customers assimilate advanced technology; perform R&D; and establish
partnerships with industrial facilities. Although the basic technical skills
underlying these functions by and large already exist in Chinese universities,
the ERC would extend and apply them to industrial needs in a method which would
be unlikely without this new institutional mechanism.
2.    There are 4 sponsoring institutions for the ERC for Effective Utilization
of Natural Gas: (i) Changdu Institute of Organic Chemistry; (ii) Dalian Institute
of Chemical Physics; (iii) Chengda Chemical Engineering Company; and (iv) Chengda
Chemical Fertilizer Plant.
Chanadu Institute of Organic Chemistry
Founded in 1958 whose main area of research is the conversion and utilization
of natural gas. The institute has about 450 staff members and labs in natural
gas, metallorganic chemistry, 6 plasma chemistry labs, leather chemical material
cets, two experimental factories and one pilot testing bas for comprehensive
utilization of natural gas. The institute publishes two technical magazines
(Natural Gas Chemistry and Synthetic Chemistry) which are well known in China and
abroad. As a leader in organic chemistry in China, the institute has achieved the
following: Ci) producing hydrogen cyanide from natural gas,; (ii) new methods of
producing vinyl chloride from natural gas; (iii) catalyst and technology for
producing diamino toluene from dinitro-tulene; (iv) liquid phase systensis of
methanol under temperatures and low pressure, etc.
Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics
This institute has been engaged in catalysis research and development for over
40 years. With almost 300 scientists working in metal catalysis and new
materials, fine organic catalysis, etc. there are four applied laboratories and
a national laboratory for catalysis basic research. Dalian has successfully
developed new technologies such as advanced catalysts and catalytic techniques
for the petroleum, natural gas chemicals, fertilizer, and environmental



- 145 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 68 of 95
protection industries. This institute has begun a cooperative pilot program to
produce olefin from methanol with Montecatini Co. of Italy. The institute will
manage the engineering with its personnel techniques and fund.
Chenqda Chemical Engineering Company
This is a large comprehensive company staffed with about 1540 people of which
more than 800 are scientists. The company focuses on natural gas chemical
engineering and designing unit attached to the Dept. of Chemical Industry of
China. With advanced technical equipment and highly skilled staff, the company
has won more than 50 design awards, that has given them international exposure.
As a result, the company has participated in joint designs of large sized
chemical units with engineering companies from the US., Great Britain, France,
Germany etc. With numerous business and technical contacts with international
engineering corporations, the company has an impressive widespread network to
implement applied engineering R&D. As its investment, Chengda Chemical
Engineering Company will provide the site for the ERC, as such, the company will
provide much of the computer hardware and software for projecting simulation
research.
Chengda Chemical Fertilizer Plant
This plant is a major enterprise in chemical processing using natural gas as
basic material. With over 1500 staff, it produces 40,000 tpa of synthetic
ammonium, 100,000 tpa of ammonium bicarbonate, 10000 tpa of natural alipohat
alcohols, and P-aminophenol. Commercially, its annual output is over 50,000,000
yuan (RMB). Within the company, a chemical industrial assembling unit is set up
with strong engineering and technical capabilities.
The ERC is fundamentally sound from the standpoint of public sector involvement.
The ERC for Effective Utilization of Natural Gas has a comprehensive research
plan focused around the strengths of its four sponsors regarding technologies for
natural gas chemical engineering by way of conversion with natural gas as the raw
material, for new processes and new techniques. The objectives of the ERC are to
produce oxygen-containing compounds, and olefins as chemical raw materials, and
liquid fuels which will make a great contribution to the development of natural
gas chemical industry while having a significant impact on energy use and the
environment in China. The ERC plans to implement more than 20 convertible
subprojects which will offer technology transfer for a large number of indsutrial
applications for in China. Such work now suffers from underinvestment due to the
thousands of small and medium size enterprises in villages and towns in the
industry with severely limited R&D resources. Beyond research, much of the work
of the ERC will focus on training, dissemination of information and technologies,
and technical assistance functions that are unlikely to be provided by any
private sector entity. Thus, the activities proposed for the ERC are highly
appropriate areas for public involvement. Current use of natural gas in China
appear to suffer from high energy intensity, low productivity, and, one would
assume, relatively high levels of pollution. Pressures from economic development,
energy saving and environmental protection enormously enhance the necessity of
this ERC. In view of the social benefits of increased productivity and
environmental protection from the positive impact of energy savings devices,
public sector support would be warranted for these activities.
4.    The ERC for Effective Use of Natural Gas has a well defined foreign
collaboration strategy.   The sponsoring institutions have in fact already
established significant contacts with foreign collaborators which should augment
the ERC's foreign collaboration efforts. The Sponsors are already participating
in on-going ventures such as: Resource Chemical Institute, (Japan) ; Chicago
Natural Gas Research Institute (US); French Institute of Petroleum; Topsoe Co.
(Denmark); and Montecatini co. (Italy). The ERC welcomes foreign shareholders
with a technological advantage and will act as a go-between for domestic
enterprises for investment and cooperation from abroad. Through international
technical exchanges and exhibitions, the ERC will strengthen and promote
international collaboration and technology transfer, and become an effective
interface between foreign suppliers of technology including those which are



- 146 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 69 of 95
planning co-development activities for the Chinese market. Domestically, The ERC
will continue its long history of activities developing new technologies to be
commercialized by the industrial sector in conjunction with research institutes
and universities.
5.    The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of techniques and products
of this ERC is a two-pronged approach through a technology transfer stage and
information feedback stage. The ERC will focus on five major strategies: (i)
information strategy; (ii)technology strategy; (iii) market strategy; (iv)
business strategy; and (v) personnel strategy. Those strategies will be
strengthened by maintain constant contact with Chinese and foreign users;
facilitating the exchange of technical personnel; publicizing joint ventures;
publishing technical journals; and host international conferences. The ERC
proposal presents a clear management plan which implicitly considers not only
the internal management of the center but also relationships with outside
entities.
6.    The proposal clearly outlines the market demand for technologies relevant
to the effective use of natural gas. The industry is characterized by numerous
small scale plants, outdated technology, low productivity and low investment. The
demand is primarily from small and middle size enterprises and the ERC plans to
focus on developing 8 new techniques for the natural gas chemical industry in the
short term and produce six products, all clearly outlined in Table 5-1 of the
proposal. Some of the new technologies which should be ready to market between
1996 -1998 are: (i) new process for synthetic gas by natural gas catalytic
partial oxidation; (ii) new process for PSA separation (iii)membrane separation
technology; (iv) ethyl alcohol from synthetic gas; (v) olef in from synthetic gas,
etc. The schedule for techniques to commercialized and marketed is also clearly
outlined and planned for 1996 (short-term) and others for 1998. Estimated income
from technology transfers are expected to come from transfers such as: p-
aminophenol (25 million yuan per year); ethyl alcohol from synthetic gas (8
million yuan); olefin from methyl alcohol (5 million yuan); contract missions;
and supplying the catalysts required by the downstream enterprises at the
beginning of accepting the transferred technology. Small and medium-sized firms
are expected to be the main focus of ERC efforts.
7.          Total funding for The Engineering Remearch Centor for Effective
Utilization of Natural Gas is US$5,662,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                 3,100
Other bank loans ................           1,376
Equity ................                     1,186



- 147 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 70 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR PAPER TECHNOLOGY AND POLLUTION CONTROL
1.          China now occupies third place among the paper producing countries,
with production reaching 17.25 million tons in 1992. While the industry is
growing at 8-10% annually, the production, quality and variety of paper and
paper-board are said to fall far short of the demand. The ERC proposal
characterizes per-capita consumption of paper as a criterion "designating the
economic development  and social civilization of a nation,"  and therefore
emphasized the need for increases in production capacity as well as pollution
control for existing facilities. Effluents from the industry currently account
for 1/6 of the total water effluent discharge in China. Much of the spent liquor
from pulping is discharged totally non-treated. In addition, discharges of
chlorinated organic compounds (dioxin, clorophenols, and trichloromethane)
represent a serious health hazard to humans and other species. These pollutants
continue to mount with increased production, use of chlorine bleaching agents and
lack of treatment. The Engineering Research Center for Paper Technology and
Pollution Control will not only develop and diffuse innovations in technologies
treating spent liquor but develop "clean" pulping technologies for the
elimination of spent liquor to promote environmentally sustainable technologies
to paper-making plants, instrument manufacturers, and paper mills.
2.          The proposal sponsor, The South China University of Technology (SCUT)
is a comprehensive research institution for basic study and development of
science, engineering, management and liberal arts. The Pulp and Paper Engineering
Discipline (unit) in SCUT is a national key level laboratory and trains about 75%
of China's post-graduates in pulp and paper engineering. SCUT has an impressive
list of its research achievements such as new model headboxes for low-speed
paper-machines, pulping spent liquor treatment, and lignin industrial utilization
which have been successfully applied to industry. The Pulp & Paper Unit of SCUT
maintains a technical staff of approximately 130 engineers specialized in pulp
& paper mechanical engineering.  SCUT maintains close ties with many design
institutes and paper mills such as The China Technical Association of Paper,
Qingzhou Paper Mills, Guangzhou Paper Mill, etc. In addition, the Pulp and Paper
Unit maintains close ties with foreign universities and equipment manufacturers.
SCUT has obtained numerous awards at the local and ministerial levels as well as
many patents. They have a clear R&D track record with numerous ministries and 33
research and development projects from industrial enterprises totaling 1.83
million yuan (RMB). While SCUT's record is to be commended, by their own
acknowledgment, they have been slow to diffuse pollution control techniques due
to their lack of a strong engineering research base for pilot demonstrations,
which is precisely why an ERC would complement their research capabilities.
3.          The rationale underlying the need for public sector support in
solving environmental problems of this magnitude in the paper and pulp industry
is clear. There is also a strong case to be made for public support for
technology development in an industry of such critical national importance. Given
that available pollution prevention and control technologies are now available,
an effective strategy is to support a policy package which includes public
funding to enhance the diffusion of technology to the multitude of small and
medium scale firms currently polluting the environment. The need for support is
related to the positive externalities from: (i) developing and promoting
technologies to improve quality and variety of paper and paperboard with the ERC
acting as an interface to industry for significant productivity gains, and (ii)
the production and application of high-performance process technologies
associated with pollution abatement and prevention. While it is important for
China to introduce new technologies to the pulp and paper industry, no one
technical institution or industry in China is capable due to the high cost of
specialized equipment as well as the high risk associated with R&D. Thus, the
establishment of the ERC would allow them to disseminate information through
evaluation, introduction, and absorption of new technologies much more
effectively than any individual companies.
4.          In terms of foreign collaboration, the ERC will take advantage of
SCUT's experience in foreign collaborative agreements including: The Universities



- 148 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 71 of 95
of Quebec and Toronto (Canada); Royal Institute of Technology, (Sweden);
University of North Carolina and Black Clawson Co. (USA); Adritz Sprout-Bauer
(Austria) which has designated the ERC as its pilot test and training center in
the Far East and Southeast Asia. The ERC plans to engage in extensive cooperative
activities with foreign firms through joint R&D, contract research, and personnel
exchange. The ERC will also engage in demonstration projects and technical
consultation services in order to facilitate the adaptation of technology from
foreign firms into the Chinese market. The ERC will continue to collaborate with
domestic laboratories and industries in the field of paper technology and
pollution control.
5.          The ERC's diffusion strategy is based on the Pulp & Paper Unit's vast
information channel developed at SCUT, a leading institution of pulp and paper
engineering research. Through its technology training and service center, the ERC
will hold seminars in (i) pulping spent liquor treatment; (ii) less pollution
high yield pulping; and (iii) new techniques of papermachine headbox, etc. It
will also publish periodicals and newsletters to advertise technical achievements
and disseminate information of through its technological network consisting of
China Technical Association of Paper Industry, China Development Corporation,
China General Corporation of Light Industrial Machinery, etc. The ERC will also
establish a sub-center of demonstration engineering to expand cooperation to its
various clients both domestically and abroad including exchange of technical
personnel.
6.          As the output of pulp and paper increases, there is an immense need
in China for treatment of (i) non-wood fiber pulping spent liquor and effective
utilization of lignin in small and medium scale non-wood pulp mills; (ii)
pollution abatement technologies; and (iii) techniques for medium and low-speed
papermachine headboxes for non-wood fiber pulp. Knowledge about these
technologies have translated into requests from 300 straw pulp mills (out of
about 2000) expressing interest to integrate non-wood fiber pulping spent liquor.
The investment of this new process developed by SCUT requires only 1/7 of that
of the alkali recovery process. The investment for spent liquor treatment is only
1.7 million yuan (RMB) while the penalty for pollution is quite high. Therefore
it becomes practical for enterprises to employ this technology. In efforts to
transfer the technology, the ERC will set up demonstration sites to begin the
process. In addition, the latest economic reports estimate that in five years,
200,000 tons of lignin will substitute as a rubber reinforcing agent, cement
grinding agent, and other uses. In Japan, 1 million tpa of lignin is recovered
for use as compared to China's several thousand tons of which the rest gets
discarded. There are only 30 alkali recovery systems in China and about 170 are
expected to be needed and built in the next 15 years. Given that the industry
will grow 8-10% annually, the demand for new products, technical services,
auxiliary equipment, and technical training in this growing industry is
significant, and this ERC has developed a marketing plan which clearly identifies
its users in the pulp and paper industry.
7.          Total  funding  for  the  Engineering  Research  Center  for  Paper
Technology and Pollution Control is US$6,135,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                 3,000
other bank loans ................             368
Equity ................                     2,767



- 149 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 72 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR FINE PETROCHEMICALS
1.          The importance of fine petrochemical technology is significant to a
country the size of China whose economy is rapidly growing and will depend on
effective use of its limited resources to meet the needs of industry. In China,
the industry is characterized by quite a low ratio of fine chemicals to chemical
products (25%) as compared to 50% in industrialized countries. Other
characteristics are lack of variety of products, shortage of raw materials and
intermediates, and environmental pollution. It is clear that China must make
productive use of petroleum and natural gas as well as increase the level of
petroleum processing to enhance raw materials and intermediates urgently needed
to develop the fine chemical industry. Developing the fine petrochemical industry
will lessen the shortage of basic raw materials and intermediates and provide
specialty chemicals essential to other industries such as mining, petroleum,
medicine, light industry and electronics. Technologies are needed to: (i) make
comprehensive utilization of gases discharged from petroleum refineries using
advanced catalytic synthesis technology with low pollution and less energy and
raw material consumption to produce aldehydes, alcohols, and other oxygen
containing compounds which increase the fine chemical proportion to whole
chemicals produced in the country; (ii) transfer to small and medium chemical
enterprises for comprehensive utilization of carbon monoxide discharged from
small chemical fertilizer plants; (iii) byproducts produced from the petro-
chemical industry such as those from ethylene production units. The Engineering
Research Center for Fine Petrochemical Technology will develop and diffuse
technological achievements focused on the effective utilization of byproducts,
and develop production technology for intermediates for fine chemicals.
2.          The proposal sponsors are (i) The Lanzhou Institute of chemical
Physics (LICP) and (ii) Lanzhou Petroleum Processing and Chemical Complex (LPPCC,
SINOPEC), both comprehensive research institutions for basic study and
development of chemicals. Both sponsors have carefully outlined their rich
commercial network of domestic and foreign partners which will greatly enhance
their ability to commercialize and diffuse engineering achievements.
(i) Founded in 1958, LICP maintains ten research divisions, 2 state key
laboratories and a division for maintenance of instruments and equipment.
With a staff of 700, of which 500 are scientific and technical, the
institute has carried out more than 280 projects winning awards for more
100 from state and local ministries. LICP has successfully transferred
numerous results to industry including the process of oxidative
dehydrogenation of butane to butadiene; a new generation catalyst, W-201,
and many other.
(ii) LPPCC maintains 4 research and design institutions, a staff of
over 900 of which over 200 are scientific. The majority of the
research is focused on catalytic petroleum refining, lubricating oil
additives and engineering of chemical reactions. LPPCC has been
awarded over 200 prizes by the state and local ministries. This
sponsor also has experience in transferr4lg technology to industries
such as the first domestic deparaffinating industrial installation,
the  first  industrial  enlargement  of  the  catalytic  cracking
installation for maximum yields of liquid hydrocarbons and gasoline.
LPPCC will be able to provide excellent conditions for pilot plants
and industrial verifications and testing.
3.        The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector in this
area is fundamentally sound and deserves to be supported. The rationale is
related to the positive externalities from: (i) developing and promoting fine
petrochemical with the ERC acting as an interface to industry for significant
productivity gains, and (ii) the production and application of high-performance
specialty chemicals and intermediates associated with environmental benefits as
this ERC will make effective use of natural resources while its technologies
contribute to energy savings. While it is important for China to introduce new
technologies to industry, no one technical institution or industry in China is



- 150 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 73 of 95
capable due to the shortage of raw materials and as well as the high risk
associated with R&D. Thus, the establishment of the ERC would allow the
dissemination of information through evaluation, introduction, and absorption of
new technologies much more effectively than any individual companies.
4.        In terms of foreign collaboration, LIPC and LPPCC each have about 30
years of experience with both foreign and domestic partners and this ERC will
take advantage of its sponsors' vast network. Collaborative agreements (80 in
total) in the field of petrochemicals and fine chemical technology include:
Occidental Chemical Co., UOP Co., Oxychem Co., Shell (US); Oiles, Perfume Co.
(Japan); and joint projects and technical exchanges with 60 major universities
throughout Europe, Australia, and Japan. The ERC plans to engage in extensive
cooperative activities with foreign firms through joint R&D, contract research,
and personnel exchange. The ERC will also engage in demonstration projects and
technical consultation services in order to facilitate the engineering of fine
chemical technology into Chinese firms, particularly small and medium size.
5.         The ERC's diffusion strategy will be based on a two-tier approach
consisting of (i) technology transfer, realized through training and technology
related services; and (ii) the information feedback stage which will provide
capabilities to improve technologies and products based on market information.
This ERC will benefit from its two sponsors' vast information network both
domestic and foreign including numerous industry associations and its
technological network of clients. The ERC will disseminate technology through its
marketing and sales department; training of clients and staff; exchange of
personnel; annual conferences; and publish periodicals and newsletters to
advertise technical achievements.
6.        There is an immense need in China for fine chemical intermediates for
industries as diverse as mining, petroleum, medicine, light industry and
electronics. China's industry is deficient in intermediates for surfactants,
fragrance aldehydes, food and feed additives, and pharmaceutical which currently
rely heavily on imports. Based on that market analysis the ERC will focus on (i)
preparation of proponal, propanoic acid and their downstream products from dry
gas of petroleum refineries; (ii) fragrance aldehydes; (iii)Mixed C6 alcohols as
floatation  agents;  (iv)  long  chain  alcohols  and  its  catalyst;  and  (v)
phenylacetic acid. In China there are more than 30 large petroleum refineries and
byproducts can be used for food and feed additives in the domestic market.
Technologies of fine chemicals are especially suited for small and medium size
companies which the ERC is targeting.
7.        Total  funding for the Engineering Research Center for the Fine
Petrochemicals is US$8,049,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                4000
Other bank loans ................          1,986
Equity ................                    2,063



- 151 -                        Annex 4.6
Page 74 of 95
ENGINEERING RZESARCH CENTER FOR POWER SYSTEM AUTOMATION
1.          As China's economy continues to grow, the demand for electric power
is increasing at an accelerated rate. Power shortage in China is currently around
20%, and an annual growth rate of 9% is needed to relieve the serious bottleneck
which hinders industrialization and economic growth. At the end of 1993, the
installed capacity and the yearly electric generation was 180 GW and 815 TWH
respectively. Estimates for the year 2000 are calling for a in installed capacity
of 310GW and yearly electricity generation of 1400TWH respectively. China's
electric power industry is operating at low reliability levels coupled by
shortages and waste. In order to meet the needs of these serious problems, China
must increase installed capacity while paying close attention to the security and
reliability of its power supply as well as energy conservation. Based on these
policies and guidelines, the ERC for Power System Automation has been
established, and will seek to improve power system efficiency on energy
conservation and environmental quality as well as: (i) advance technical standards
and norms; (ii) provide technical support for large control systems requiring
foreign equipment and systems; (iii) transfer technologies and offer technical
training and services; and (iv) enhance the monitoring for environmental
protection.
2.          The sponsoring institution, Nanjing Automation Research Institute
(NARI) is a comprehensive research institute affiliated with the Ministry of
Electric Power. Founded in 1973, NARI has branch offices in Shenshen Special
Economic Zone and Nanjing High Tech Development Zone. NARI consists of 10 R&D
divisions with labs engaged in power plant production control, power system relay
protection techniques, power system communication techniques, engineering design
etc. The institute has a total workforce of approximately 900 professionals of
which half are engineering specialists. Every year over 60 persons travel abroad
to participate in technical exchanges. To date, NARI has won more than 65
national awards and holds about 25 patents. Many technical results have been
commercialized to industry such as the first domestic IC relaying protection
device, 500kV line protective relaying equipment, and the first domestic SCADA
system of real time supervision control. NARI also has a thirty year history of
close ties with both domestic and foreign institutes and enterprises.
3.          The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector is
related to the very large number of power system equipment manufacturers (mostly
small and medium size) and consumers of electric power that would benefit from
the diffusion of new electric power devices, and engineering services. Given that
China is operating at very low, inefficient levels of power, strengthening its
electric power infrastructure will provide a great social benefit to society. A
leading center, such as this ERC, is necessary to resolve some of these critical
problems. Manufacturers do not have access to the latest technologies, nor are
they able to adapt imported equipment to the Chinese market without public
support. While individually, enterprises might have the incentives to improve or
develop the technology they do not necessarily have the means to invest in
specific R&D and engineering activities. Potentially, in cooperation with other
producers and suppliers they might accomplish what the ERC will set out to do,
but there are considerable coordination and informatTon costs that no individual
actor (especially small and medium size firms) is willing to absorb. These high
transactions costs disallow the formation of a market to supply the innovations
on an industry wide bases. The failure of this market generates the externality
the ERC would be addressing by introducing power system automation technologies
for widespread applicability,  thus public support  is warranted for these
activities.
4.          The ERC along with its sponsor, NARI, already has a record of close
relations with foreign enterprises and research organizations. They have
collaborated with numerous international firms and universities such as: Leige
University  (Belgium);  HVDC Canada);  Siemens,  PTI,  General Electric,  Power
Technologies,  Intel  (U.S.);  Electricite  de  France;  Korea  Electric  Power
Corporation; and Digitel (Hong Kong). NARI will continue its practice with
international organizations and enterprises to encourage joint research and



- 152 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 75 of 95
technical exchanges. Domestically, NARI has strong technological ties with
numerous universities and research institutes, and is well positioned to
cooperate with industrial firms, and other organizations to diffuse innovations
in power systems automation technologies. The ERC will pursue a strategy to
attract advanced foreign equipment, technologies, and products, to introduce to
Chinese firms to fulfill the power shortage demand that characterizes Chinese
society.
5.          The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of power  system
automation technologies and services of the ERC is based on applying the network
of its sponsor as well as other related institutions. A marketing and sales
department will be set up with manufacturers (both domestically and abroad) and
end-users to collect market information and introduce technologies in a timely
manner. This ERC will cooperate with domestic and foreign firms in importing new
equipment and technology to transfer and diffuse to end-users. They will provide
advisory services to enterprises to diffuse information on standards and
specifications, as well as provide technical training for staff and customers.
They will also publish these new standards for corporations through publications
and workshops in addition to working closely with their network of trade
associations institutes, and other professional committees.
6.          It is clear that China's market for power system security control
technologies and reliable power supply is enormous given the population size and
the rapid growth of the economy. Statistics indicate that industry will have a
yearly growth rate of over 9% by the year 2000, and newly installed transmission
lines exceeding 15000 kilometers will be needed. Following that construction will
be corresponding control equipment and systems installations. For protective
relays, every year more than 100 transmission lines over 220kV must be put into
operation. For transient stability control systems, every major power plant and
large generating unit must consider control measures, even regional control
measures to ensure full capacity . For power network dispatch control system,
there are 6 regional centers, 250 local or city control centers, and more than
2300 county level centers in China.   Obviously there is a large demand,
especially for remote terminal units, communication interfaces, and dedicated
communication equipment to satisfy the shortage of electricity nationwide. Unless
China updates her technological base in this sector, unreliable power supply, and
high energy waste will continue to dominate production which will hinder China's
sustainable growth. This ERC can facilitate the technical transformation needed
to restructure China's power system industry which will have a tremendous impact
on society at large.
7.          Total  funding  for  the  NRC  for  Power  System  Automation  is
US$9,973,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................................. 5,550
Other bank loans ............................. 932
Equity .................................... 3,491



- 153 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 76 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR APPLIED POWER ELECTRONICS
1.        Traditional industries dominate China's economy and its development,
to a large extent, will depend on the success of renovating these industries.
Industries such as electric power generation, machine building, metallurgy,
petroleum, chemical, textile, and transportation are the mainstay of China's
economy. Heating (including heat treatment and processing such as smelting and
welding) and drive (dynamic transmission for electric motors, etc.) are critical
technology components for the above mentioned industries. The application of
inductive heating and speed control technology for electrical machinery to
transform traditional industrial and drive systems will reduce energy
consumption, waste of raw materials, environmental pollution, and increase
productivity. Given that most of China's industries are small and medium size,
and using the traditional methods of heat treatment (coal and oil burning), there
is a tremendous waste of energy and raw materials coupled with pollution. Large
enterprises in China also facing similar environmental problems. For example, the
average heat efficiency of industrial boilers and furnaces is 10-20 times higher
than international standards. In the field of electrical machinery drive, the
technology used is rated at the level of the 1980s. The Engineering Research
Center for Applied Power Electronics (APE) will seek to develop and transfer
technologies to promote the renovation of the heat treatment process and drive
system related to heavy industry in China benefiting the users in the diverse
industrial sectors mentioned above which will have enormous impact on China's
industries and consequently, the economy.
2.        The ERC's sponsoring institution is Zhejian University, administered
under the Education Commission. Founded in 1897, the university has trained more
than 50,000 students in specialized disciplines. The university maintains nine
state key laboratories and one engineering research center. Since 1970, Zhejian
University has conducted comprehensive R&D in energy saving and technical
renovation for industrial heat treatment and drive systems. The university has
many extensive research groups dedicated to technology diffusion in such fields
as applied electronics technology; electrical machinery and control; electrical
power system; semi-conductive materials; and testing and measurement apparatus,
etc.   In the field of heating and drive system technology,  the sponsor has
successfully commercialized 33 scientific achievements, several patents, 16
prizes from state and local ministries. There has been a major effort in the last
five years to train graduates in electrical and electronic technology. The R&D
groups of the university has transferred technology to enterprises in medium
frequency inductive heating throughout the country saving about 117 million KHW
of power annually. The university maintains extensive relationships with large
Chinese enterprises such as Shanghai General Rectifier Plant, Harbin Large
Electrical Machinery Research Institute as well as small and medium sized.
Lastly, the university has close ties with about 30 universities broad which
enabled them to participate in hundreds of technical exchanges.
3.        The subproject is fundamentally sound from a public sector standpoint
and deserves to be supported. The applied power electronics industry is growing
at a rapid rate which can only enhance the comprehgnsive technology critical to
the productivity of numerous other industrial sectors such as electric power
generation, machine building, metallurgy, petroleum, chemical, textile, and
transportation. As the modern heat treatment process and the speed control system
of electrical drivers fall in the category of complex system engineering covering
many branches of science and technology (power electronics and motion control,
computer technology,  etc.), practical difficulties emerge in applying these
technologies which hinder the application of innovations to the traditional
industries in China. Therefore, it is necessary to set up this ERC-APE to serve
as a channel between research and industrial production which will undertake
various activities such as the development of prototypes, trial production,
testing and evaluation, and include the diffusion of those innovations. The
transfer of those technologies by any individual enterprise is highly unlikely
due to the enormous cost and complexities associated with the power sector,
however public sector support is warranted as the transformation of this sector
will have a tremendous impact on China's industries, especially small and medium



- 154 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 77 of 95
size companies as they seek to transform their capacity for increased
productivity, energy efficiency, and reduction of raw materials gained through
the technical renovation in applied power electronics.
4.        This ERC has a well defined collaboration strategy with special
emphasis on international exchanges already developed by the long history of its
sponsor. For example, letters of intent for joint projects have already been
signed with EUPEC, a consortium of AEG and Siemens of Europe; Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University (US); Heriot-Watt University (UK); The
ERC will introduce products in collaboration with more than 20 enterprises and
research institutes in China thus cultivating the domestic market for various
applied power electronics technologies. The ERC will strengthen and promote
international collaboration and technology transfer, and become an effective
interface between foreign suppliers of technology including those which are
planning co-development activities for the Chinese market.
5.        The diffusion strategy  for the dissemination of  techniques  and
products of the ERC will be based on the combined network of its sponsor and vast
number of enterprises in which it has maintained close ties with over the last
100 years. The ERC will set up a national network to function as a center for
technology transfer as well as a center for consultation,  training,  and
test/inspection to provide various technological services for domestic
enterprises needing to renovate its industrial heat treatment and drive systems.
To achieve this goal, the ERC-APE will (i) set up a marketing and training unit;
(ii) collect information and disseminate it on a regular basis to customers; and
(iii) establish three or four national cooperative networks for enterprises and
consumers to focus on the service aspect of introducing new technologies. The ERC
will use the mass media as well as professional associations, technical
committees, and other institutes to disseminate information and technology
developed by them along with its industrial partners.
6.        As stated earlier, there is an enormous market for industrial heat
treatment and drive systems technology in China as it is essential for the
renovation of the traditional heating process and mechanical drive system. The
transformation of those sectors will not only result in both energy and material
savings but will push ahead the renovation and development of related industries
such as machine building, electric power generation, automation, etc. In China,
the estimated market demand for equipment related to drive systems, inductive
heating and high frequency inverters systems for arc welding and various
rectified power sources is 6.5-8.5 billion yuan RMB per year by 2000. In order
to meet the large demand required to shift China's industrial base to a more
productive and efficient one, enterprises will not only have to continue
providing power saving electronic devices, but will need innovative technologies
and approaches to supply the market, solve technical problems and set technical
standards which this ERC is well positioned to do.
7.        Total funding for The Engineering Research Center for Applied Power
Electronics is US$5,330,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                 2000
Other bank loans ................1 ,287
Equity ................                     2,043



- 155 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 78 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR ADVANCED POWER SOURCES TECHNOLOGY
1.          Power sources technology encompasses devices or systems that convert
chemical, solar heat or nuclear energy into electrical energy. The focus of the
proposed ERC is to work within this broad field toward the development and
commercialization of certain advanced power sources, notably various types of
batteries (the primary near-term need), thermoelectric modules, solar cells, and
fuel cells. In China today, there are more than 1000 power source enterprises,
employing 130,000 workers, and claiming sales of about 5.7 billion yuan in 1992.
This industry, faced with enormous growth, is estimated to lag 20-30 years behind
the most advanced technology elsewhere in the world. Besides obvious performance
deficiencies, the power source technologies widely employed in China present
severe environmental problems. For example, lead acid battery designs currently
used in China leak and corrode where as they are discarded in the US, Japan and
Germany. Lead and cadmium consumption is high in China and materials recovery is
ineffectively applied. Lastly, production output per worker lags behind highly
industrialized countries by a factor of 10 due to the lack of efficient
production techniques and equipment. Although R&D in advanced power source
technology has increased markedly since 1985, there are still many technical
goals that remain unmet including enormous problems to diffuse both existing and
new technology into enterprises throughout China. This ERC aims to apply advanced
power sources technology to industrial needs in a manner which would be unlikely
without institutional support.
2.          The sponsoring institution, The Tianjin Institute of Power Sources,
(TIPS) under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Electronics Industry, is
the only comprehensive R&D institute for power sources in China. Founded in 1958,
it now has 10 R&D departments and two factories. The staff numbers 1500, of which
some 600 are technical personnel. TIPS provides a wide variety of services
including (i) turn-key development of production factories; (ii) pilot plants;
(iii) testing; (iv) the organization of industrial associations; (v) and an
information exchange network. Its comprehensive research accomplishments are
well-documented. With almost 40 years of experience, TIPS has compiled an
impressive record of concrete research achievements in areas of lithium battery,
sealed lead acid battery, Ni/Cd battery, Zn/air battery, water activated battery
and fuel cells. Through the formal publication of "Chinese Journal of Power
Sources" and other means, TIPS has become the leading institution of information
for industry regarding power sources in China.
3.          The  subproject  is  fundamentally  sound  from  a  public  sector
involvement standpoint. The development and dissemination of advanced power
sources is of critical importance to China's future in any number of areas,
ranging from production efficiencies to the possibility of electric vehicles.
Efforts by the power source industry to upgrade advanced power sources technology
is not seen as an immediately viable strategy given the limited funds of Chinese
enterprises and the many interface problems such technologies encounter. Rather,
the development of domestic battery technology engineering and adaptive
capacities presents the key to technological progress. These areas are precisely
those to which the proposed ERC is addressed, and ts establishment would thus
fill an institutional void to which the overall program is addressed. The ERC's
plan is to focus on servicing SMEs and TVEs by transferring engineering
production technology of advanced electrochemical power sources thus improving
the quality of products and production efficiency while decreasing material
consumption and usage of toxic materials. These production improvements will also
generate significant environmental improvements. In addition, large numbers of
battery enterprises would benefit from this type of public sector investment
which now suffers from underinvestment due to the small size of most factories
with severely limited R&D resources. Beyond R&D, much of the work of the ERC will
focus on training, dissemination of information and technologies, and technical
assistance functions that are unlikely to be provided by any private sector
entity. Thus, pressures from economic development, energy conservation, and
environmental protection enormously enhance the necessity of power source
technologies thus warranting public sector support.



- 156 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 79 of 95
4.          The ERC has a well defined foreign collaboration strategy. The
proposed ERC has developed a collaboration strategy which will be guided by the
demands of the market including both domestic and foreign. In the revised
proposal, the ERC provides a list of 15 important domestic partners, including
universities, institutes and factories, some of which have singed letters of
intent.    Some of  the partnerships  include:  Bitrode  Co.,  Electrochemical
Automation Inc., and American Oven Systems (US); Japanese Battery Industrial
Association (Japan); and more foreign collaboration is being sought in Europe,
Australia and India. TIPS appears to be well-positioned to introduce advanced
technologies from abroad by converting and integrating it for the Chinese market.
They will take full advantage of their network of colleagues already engaged in
international research and development, and disseminate their findings through
their technology transfer network.
5.          The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of techniques and
products of this ERC is characterized as the "life blood" of the ERC, thus
indicating the high priority assigned to this function. A dissemination strategy
(both internally and externally) is set out clearly and thoroughly, covering the
organization of the effort. The marketing, sales, and the information & training
departments will be responsible for technical dissemination as well as external
channels "tightly and loosely associated" networks established to disseminate
reulsts of technical achievements and market information. The ERC proposes to
maintain constant contact with Chinese and foreign customers; to facilitate and
publicize joint ventures; publish technical reports; provide outreach to
professional organizations; hold regular meetings with its clients; and to host
international conferences.
6.          The proposal outlines the market demand for technologies relevant
to the ultimate demand for new power source technologies, both in its direct
discussion of this issue and in the Business Plan. Given that over 85% of battery
enterprises (approximately 1000) in China are SMEs or TVAs, and basically using
elementary production technologies. The ERC can have an enormous impact in terms
of market penetration by providing the needed technology transfer services,
consulting services, and necessary training. Technologies expected for delivery
to industry are advanced NI/MH battery, sealed lead-acid battery, lithium
battery, and other electrochemical power sources. The management and
organizational plans of the ERC are well-conceived and technical goals of the
organization are specified early-on, organized according to long and short-term.
The implementation plan to initiate the ERC plus a list of steps necessary to
establish a limited liability corporation are detailed and this will enable a
strong marketing plan to move forward.
7.          Total funding for The Engineering Research Center for Advanced Power
Sources Technology is US$9,186,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank .................                5,000
Other bank loans .................            781
Equity .................                    3,405



- 157 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 80 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR DIGITAL CORDLESS TELEPHONE SYSTEM
1.          As China's economy continues to grow, the demand for information
exchange  and  telecommunications  becomes  critical  to  its  development.
Telecommunications is a basic public service necessary for development, and the
GOC has given it a high priority in its plan for modernization. At present,
telecommunications services is increasing at an unprecedented speed, and the
capacity of telephone exchanger in China doubles every five years. By the year
2000, the entire capacity of telephone exchanger will exceed 10 million lines.
However, given the size of China's population, telephones will still only be
provided to 5-6% of its population. An enormous effort must be undertaken to meet
the demand of the telephone market in China. The challenge to combat a weak
communications infrastructure has been tackled by the GOC as can be observed by
their serious effort to promote (i) the purchase of radio communication products
from abroad; (ii) introduce advanced production technology, assembly and
manufacture radio products; and (iii) develop and adapt radio communications
products suitable to the Chinese market based on advanced international
technology. It is through these policies and practices that the ERC for Digital
Cordless Telephone Systems has been established, and will seek to advance the
technical standards, unify radio interfaces and the interfaces with public
telephone networks, and assist manufacturers and clients in solving problems and
developing new services. The objectives of the ERC are to (i) complete the
development of frequency-scan cordless telephones and input trial products into
the market by 1994; (ii) complete the R&D for cordless equipment of one way
calling functions, (CT2), partial two-way (CT2+), and complete calling functions
(CT4) systems for trial network testing; (iii) complete the research of national
digital cordless telephone systems (DECT) by early 1995 and then put the trial
products into market by early 1996; and (iv) widely implement the engineering
research of CDMA-PCN systems before the year 2000.
2.          The sponsoring institution, The 4th Research Institute (FRI) of the
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT) is an industrial center of the
Ministry engaged in R&D of civil radio and wireless communication technology.
The institute has a total workforce of approximately 750 professionals of which
half are technical, and about 40 staff members have participated in technical
exchanges and training abroad. To date, FRI has won more than 20 national awards
and about 300 MPT awards, of which most have been in mass production regarding
mid and small capability digital radio communication systems in various bands.
The FRI is responsible for several testing centers such as the Quality Monitoring
and Test Center of Radio Communication Equipment, and Xi'an Communication
Measurement Center. In 1992, a group of engineers developed the first practical
cellular mobile communication handset which currently is being successfully
produced at 20,000 units per year. The institute is focused on (i) studying
generic criteria and network operation engineering for CT4; (ii) implementing
system equipment of network management systems, RF port controller, portable
units, etc; (iii) establishment of public digital cordless telephone system trial
networks; and (iv) the field test of production to study mass product technology
and form mass production capability. Lastly, FRI has extensive links with Chinese
enterprises such as Jiangyin Intelligent Communication Co. for product
development, research institutes and universities which includes technical
exchanges and joint research projects.
3.          The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector is
related to the very large number of manufacturers and consumers of digital
cordless telephones that would benefit from the diffusion of new technologies,
and engineering services. Given that digital cordless telephones have good
security and low interference and CT2 and CT2+ as well as higher traffic density
and low price and operation costs, these systems are greatly needed in China to
help speed ups and strengthen its telecommunications infrastructure, and provide
a great social benefit to society. The current system is characterized by weak
standards, equipment and norms; manufacturers without access to the latest
technologies; and limited funds to adapt imported equipment to the Chinese market
without  public  support.    While  individually,  enterprises  might  have  the
incentives to improve or develop the technology they do not necessarily have the



- 158 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 81 of 95
means to invest in specific R&D and engineering activities. Potentially, in
cooperation with other producers and suppliers they might accomplish what the ERC
will set out to do, but there are considerable coordination and information costs
that no individual actor (especially small and medium size firms) is willing to
absorb. These high transactions costs disallow the formation of a market to
supply the innovations on an industry wide bases. The failure of this market
generates the externality the ERC would be addressing by introducing digital
cordless communications with widespread applicability, thus public support is
warranted for these activities.
4.          The ERC along with its sponsor, FRI, already has a record of close
relations with foreign enterprises and research organizations. They have
collaborated with numerous international firms and universities such as Intel,
AT&T, Bellcore, California Institute of Technology (U.S.); Montreal University,
(Canada); and Philips (The Netherlands). The Institute has been involved in a
multitude of technical exchanges in numerous countries, and that practice will
also be continued. Domestically, FRI has strong technological ties with numerous
universities and research institutes, and is well positioned to cooperate with
industrial firms, and other organizations to diffuse innovations in digital
cordless telephone systems. The ERC will pursue a strategy to attract advanced
foreign equipment, technologies, and products, to introduce to Chinese firms to
fulfill the demand for cordless telephone systems and services in serious need
of new and improved technologies.
5.          The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of digital cordless
telephone systems and services of the ERC is based on applying the network of
its sponsor as well as other related institutions. An institute for "Market
economics" will be set up to closely monitor contacts with foreign manufacturers
and potential clients and well as monitor market trends in the industry. This ERC
will cooperate with domestic and foreign firms in importing new equipment and
technology to transfer and diffuse to end-users. They will provide advisory
services to enterprises to diffuse information on standards and specifications.
They will also publish these new standards for corporations through publications
and workshops. The ERC has carefully outlined its diffusion channels in the
proposal and has focused on 4 key units: (i) international cooperation; (ii)
research  institutes  and  universities;  (iii)  professional  information/user
information; and (iv) governmental information. A special training unit has also
been set up and is expected to operate in six major regions in China in
conjunction with the local telecommunications agencies.
6.          It is clear that China's market for digital cordless telephone
systems is enormous given the population size and the rapid growth of the
economy. The estimate of 5-6W of telephone popularization by the year 2000 has
been made by MPT, and the ERC is expected to capture 209 (about 13 million
subscribers) of that market which includes its trial products and the products
manufactured by the firms adopting the technologies diffused by the ERC. The
service target of the ERC is the national telecommunications network, hundreds
of thousands of final clients and a multitude of manufacturers and counterpart
associates. The ERC will focus on 20 demands based primarily on four categories
related to: (i) network operators such as general technical specifications and
network management; (ii) clients' need for technical training, support of
management software etc.; (iii) small and medium companies and their need for
design document of equipment and standardization document; and (iv) test
documentation in adjustment technology and systems and procession control. Unless
China updates her technological base in this sector, poor performance will
continue to dominate production, and a great reliance on foreign equipment will
continue, and with that often inefficient service and maintenance. In addition,
the cordless digital telephone industry, represented by small and medium size
manufacturers, and final end-users is in urgent need of technical transformation
to facilitate the Chinese in restructuring their entire telecommunications
sector.
7.          Total funding for the ERC for Digital Cordless Telephone System is
US$9,024,000. The breakdown is as follows:



- 159 -                                               Annex 4.6
Page 82 of 95
(USD thousand)
World Bank .................                                             4,500
Other bank loans .................                                       1,058
Equity .................                                                3,466



- 160 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 83 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR SYNTHZSIS OF NOVEL RUBBER
AND PLASTICS MATERIALS
1.        The petrochemical industry and synthetic materials have a significant
significant impact on Chinese industries given that rubber and plastics are
widely used throughout the country. The industry is faced with a slow rate of
commercialization of engineering applications which makes installations for
producing synthetic rubbers and plastics very weak, and one that relies heavily
on imports. With billions of dollars in imports related to the installation of
large ethylene plants, this becomes a heavy financial burden for a developing
economy like China. While many industrial sectors rely on synthetic rubber and
plastics (telecommunications, packaging, automobile, electrical and medical
appliances, shoes, etc.), it is estimated that industries need about 10 million
tpa of which the domestic output can only satisfy about half this amount. A look
at the automobile industry indicates that in 1995, 5 or 6 production lines for
making 3 million tires and tubes will be needed and the demand for styrene
butadiene rubber (SBR) will be greatly increased. By the end of 1990, it is
estimated that the demand for S-SBR will reach 65,000 tpa. Similarly, toward the
end of the 90's, China will have produced 2,000,000,000 pairs of shoes requiring
90,000 tpa of SBR. The market potential for synthesis of novel rubber and
plastics materials in these two sectors alone is enormous, and new technologies
will improve the efficiency of all the above mentioned sectors in China. The
industry is characterized by weak and limited industrial testing capabilities;
outdated technologies contributing to high energy consumption and pollution; lack
of funds for testing; and weak promotional systems within the sector to diffuse
information. The Engineering Research Center for Synthesis of Novel Rubber &
Plastics Material (RPM-ZRC) will develop various kinds of new technologies and
scaled up pilot test installations in synthetic rubbers and resins including
thermoplastics, elastomers, synthetic resins of the styrene family, and certain
polyester resins for non-fiber uses.
2.        The sponsoring institution, Beijing Yanshan Petrochemical Research
Institute (BYPRI) is a R&D organization under the leadership of China
Petrochemical Corporation (SINOPEC), one of the largest enterprises in China.
Founded in 1972, BYPRI employs over 250 engineers involved in polymer science
and since its new engineering unit, over 80 engineering designers i the fields
of processing, construction, electric engineering, heating, and ventilation, etc.
The institute claims over 40 science and technology prizes at the ministerial
level, among them pilot plant tests and the industrialization test for
manufacturing thermoplastic elastomers and styrene-butadiene block copolymers.
BYPRI holds ten patents and has commercialized 36 technical achievements for
industry. The institute has numerous agreements with large domestic enterprises
and foreign companies such as Polydora in Britain, and Fuji Electric in Japan.
BYPRI also set up the National Quality Supervision & Testing Center of
Petrochemical Organic Material and Synthetic Resin in 1992. Several professional
scientific associations are also based at the institute, and it publishes the
"Synthetic Resin and Plastic Journal" research results.
3.        The subproject is fundamentally sound from a public sector standpoint
and deserves to be supported. The novel rubber and plastics industry is growing
at a rapid rate which can only enhance the comprehensive technology which
includes numerous sectors such as telecommunications, packaging, automobile,
electrical and medical appliances, shoes, etc. The ERC will provide technologies
for synthesis of resins and synthetic rubbers aiming to reduce environmental
pollution, and energy consumption while improving technological capabilities of
small and even large manufacturers of synthetic rubber and synthetic resin
plants. The small and medium size enterprises do not have the badly needed
resources to conduct R&D in the above mentioned sectors. This ERC will
disseminate information on new technologies which would have a very strong impact
on the resin and plastics industry as the current capacity is not sufficient to
meet the demands of the domestic market, thus public sector support would be
warranted for these activities.
4. The ERC has a well defined collaboration strategy with special emphasis on
international exchanges already developed by the sponsor. For example, close



- 161 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 84 of 95
relations exist between Polydora Corp.  (Britain); EniChem  (Italy); Polymer
Institute of Hamburg University (Germany); and Taiwan Sanda Co. Cooperation with
domestic enterprises has been on-going through the sponsor, and the ERC will
encourage participation with other institutes, ERCs, and enterprises to cultivate
a domestic market for various new rubbers and plastic materials. The ERC will
strengthen and promote international collaboration and technology transfer, and
become an effective interface between foreign suppliers of technology including
those which are planning co-development activities for the Chinese market.
5.        The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of techniques  and
products of the ERC will be based on the network of sponsor, SINOPEC and expand
those contacts further according to the objectives of the ERC. The ERC will
utilize its marketing and patent department, and information and training center
to diffuse technological achievements. It will not only be a center for
technology transfer but also a center for consultation, training, and
test/inspection to provide various technological services for domestic
enterprises.   To achieve this goal,  the ERC will collect information and
disseminate it on a regular basis to customers using various established
mechanisms such as the Chinese Association of Synthetic Rubbers, and Association
of Synthetic Resins and their prospective publications.   The ERC will also
promote technical exchanges, conferences and workshops.
6.        As stated earlier, there is an enormous market for synthetic rubbers
and resins in China as well as the Asia region . The estimated business income
for 1994-1995 is 1,000,000 RMB (yuan). Key research items to be developed by the
ERC are: (i) S-SBR (used in anti-skid tires); (ii) low cis-polybutadiene rubber;
(iii) hydrogenated thermoplastic elastomers of polystyrene rubber styrene with
an estimated domestic demand at about 20,000 tpa; (iv) hymopolymerization and
copolymerization of styrene which only meets 50% of the domestic demand requiring
excessive imports; and (v) chemical modification and viscosity-increasing of PET
to be used in the manufacture of polyester fiber, film, and bottle industry, all
which represent an enormous market for China. It is believed that the ERC would
supply technologies to the downstream enterprises regardless of whether the
technologies are developed domestically or imported from abroad. The long-term
objective is to integrate energy-saving and environmentally sound technologies
in order to meet the large social requirement for users of resins and synthetic
rubbers in solving technical problems which this ERC is well positioned to do.
7.        Total funding for The Engineering Research Center for Synthesis of
Novel Rubber & Plastics Material is US$7,940,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank .................                4,500
Other bank loans .................            202
Equity .................                    3,238



- 162 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 85 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR ULTRA-FINE POWDER PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY
1.          The powder industry is one of the most important raw materials
industries in China. There are 5000 powder production enterprises in China of
which 90t are small and medium sized, and located in rural areas. Powder products
are not only essential as basic raw materials in paints, coatings, cosmetics, and
detergents, but also fundamental to newly developed industries such as
communications, electronic materials, and advanced ceramic materials. In China,
the powder industry is characterized by (i) high energy consumption; (ii) low
product  quality;(iii)  insufficient  in  resources  utility;   (iv)  serious
environmental pollution; and (v) technology lagging 30-40 years. In addition,
industrial and institutional applications are inefficient and need more
systematic R&D while producers are highly scattered with small production
capacity. In recognition of these obstacles, and given the importance of this
industry, the Engineering Research Center for Ultra-Fine Powder Technology will
target small and medium size industries in efforts to raise the level of
manufacturing and productivity in areas such as powder preparation, surface
treatment, testing and evaluation, and environmental protection by technology
transfer of new products and processes.
2.           The sponsoring institution, the East China University of Science &
Technology (ECUST), is a key university under the State Education Commission.
Founded in 1952, ECUST is a comprehensive institution with a long history of R&D
in chemical engineering and powder preparation. ECUST operates 12 laboratories,
one of which is a National Key Lab, and a new team of 100 senior engineers has
been organized to focus on the development of powder preparation and application.
ECUST publishes several journals on functional polymers, chemical engineering and
has set up a direct network of information connection with American DIALOG data
base. Over the last ten years ECUST has compiled an impressive record of concrete
research achievements which have been successfully transferred to industry. It
also maintains numerous ties with domestic and foreign enterprises and
institutions.
3.           The subproject is fundamentally sound from the standpoint of public
sector involvement. Given that ultra-fine powders is developing at an accelerated
rate due to the fact that they are important as basic raw materials to industry,
the GOC has given it high priority as it recognizes the need to stimulate the
development for industrial growth. The lack of engineering-oriented research has
impeded the growth of technology transfer of powder production and application.
The ERC's research plan is focused on the scale-up of many selected engineering
processes for commercialization of technology such as gas-solid-liquid reaction,
supersonic air grinding, homogeneous cobalt coating, super-pure ultrafine
products, etc. This work now suffers from under investment due to the small size
of most plants in the industry characterized by severely limited R&D resources.
Beyond research, much of the work of the ERC will focus on training,
dissemination of information and technologies, and technical assistance functions
that are unlikely to be provided by any private sector entity. Thus, the
activities  proposed  for the  ERC are highly appropriate  areas  for public
involvement. In view of the social benefits of increased productivity and
environmental protection from the positive impact of energy savings devices,
public sector support would be warranted for these activities.
4.           The ERC has a well defined foreign collaboration strategy based on:
(i) R&D and collaboration, (ii) collaboration in engineering research projects
where enterprises will be encouraged to invest in joint work to share risks and
benefits; and (iii) acquisition of technology & international cooperation. ECUST
has over 35 cooperative agreements with institutes and enterprises such as:
Jenkins Newell Danford Corp. (Britain); Taiwan Metal Co.; Korean Ewon; Nippon
Paint Co., Unitech, Chemicals (Japan); Ohio State University, MIT, Dupont,
American SuperStar International Co. (US); and Henkel Co., Technische Universitat
Clausthal, B.Braun Melsungen AG, Hoechst, (Germany). The sponsor has sent 64
researchers to work in 12 countries for technical exchange and has received more
than 20 experts in return. ECUST has an elaborate network of domestic partners
and will encourage domestic and foreign institutions to join R&D efforts to



- 163 -                          Annex 4.6
Page 86 of 95
advance technology exchanges, and act as an effective interface between foreign
suppliers of technology planning co-development activities for the Chinese
market.
5.          The diffusion strategy is aimed at transferring technology and
extending it's application to achieve productivity gains to benefit small and
medium size enterprises. In order to accomplish those goals, the ERC will
establish internal and external organizations to act as diffusion channels. It
will take full advantage of its sponsor,  industrial clients  (domestic and
foreign) as well as academic institutions. It will create a professional society
of powder production industries to take advantage of the networks in
manufacturing and application of powder products within the industry. The two
major units to focus on diffusion are the sales and marketing divisions. The ERC
will also concentrate on training staff and customers through demonstration
plants, site visits, conferences, and trade journals.
6.          The proposal outlines the market demand for key technologies and
applications relevant to the ultra-fine powder sector and other associated
industries. Because of the wide and versatile applications of powder products,
the ERC will first focus on 20 carefully selected products that cover the
essential areas of manufacturing and applications of powder products, and ultra-
fine products in particular, such as: bio-ceramic materials, silver halide
particles of silvery salt sensitized materials, fine fillers for coatings, ultra-
fine zircite, titanate, alumina, etc. The market for specific powders include:
(i) Fe203: China needs 5000 tons of magnetic powder and can only produce 1500
tons of low-quality powder each year; (ii) titanium powder: in the 80's there
were 63 factories mostly with small inefficient production units of which only
40 are still operating, and producing low quality and poor varieties of titanium;
(iii)electronics ceramic powder: 70/80 factories in the electronic industry
produce mainly sensitive parts, and electric pressure ceramics materials which
do not possess the same electricity resistance as manufactured by the
industrialized countries. The industry faces an enormous gap between supply and
demand of ultra-fine powders and unless industry is technologically equipped,
China will not only depend on foreign exports but will not be able to compete in
a global market.
7.          Total funding for The Engineering Research Center Ultra-fine Powder
Production Technology US$4,038,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                  1,900
Other bank loans ................              212
Equity ................                      1,860



- 164 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 87 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR SURFACTANT TECHNOLOGY
1.          The  surfactant  industry  is  essential  for  household  laundry
detergents, household and personal cleaning products as well as agricultural and
industrial products. In addition, surfactants are used in the development of
other industries to enhance process efficiency, improve product quality, and
save energy (e.g. high speed spinning in the textile industry and use of
emulsifiers in the food processing industry to enhance flavor. Even though this
industry has grown considerably in the last 30 years, it lags 20 years behind the
industrialized countries due to its weakness in advanced engineering technology.
The primary obstacles are: (i) a major gap between the supply and demands of
surfactant on an industry wide basis as well as weak production due to limited
availability of domestic natural resources; (ii) new varieties of highly
efficient and energy saving detergents already on the world market; (iii)
industrial and institutional applications are inefficient and need more
systematic R&D; (iv) surfactant producers are highly scattered and larger firms
have small production capacity; and (v) negative environmental impact caused by
surfactant/detergents. In recognition of these obstacles, and given the
importance of this industry, the GOC has designated surfactant as one of the
industries targeted for major technological transformation. Presently, it takes
10 years or longer in China to develop a new catalyst or reactor for large-scale
production. If surfactants are to be developed cost effectively, the transfer of
engineering applications into new products and processes must be shortened if
industry is to be competitive. The ERC in Surfactant Technology is intended to
ameliorate these widespread problems. The ERC proposes to provide industry with
scaled-up design demonstrations, train technicians and management personnel, help
customers assimilate advanced technology, and invest in environmental
technologies.
2.          The sponsoring institution, Research Institute of Daily Chemical
Industry & National Council of Light Industry (RIDCI) has 30 years experience
specializing in R&D of surfactant/detergents. RIDCI operates five laboratories
(surfactant synthesis, oil/fat processing, surfactant application, engineering
R&D, and specialized instruments & equipment), and maintains three centers
focusing on quality and supervision, standardization, and information
dissemination. In addition to these activities, three companies are also part
of this institute which develop, market, test, and sell specialized instruments,
and agricultural disinfectants. This institute employs 405 people of which 208
are technical. Over the last ten years the Institute has compiled an impressive
record of concrete research achievements and awards as well as eight sets of
pilot plants.
3.          The subproject is fundamentally sound from the standpoint of public
sector involvement. The Surfactant Technology ERC'e research plan is focused on
the scale-up of many selected engineering processes for developing technology
for commercialization in areas such as: (i) biodegradable products; (ii) new
paraffin dehydrogenation catalysts; (iii) preparation of catalysts for
hydrogenation of fatty nitriles; (iv) food emulsifiers including polyglcerides
and monoglycerides; and (v) ecological and environmental engineering. This work
now suffers from under investment due to the small size of most plants in the
industry with severely limited R&D resources. Beyond research, much of the work
of the ERC will focus on training, dissemination of information and technologies,
and technical assistance functions that are unlikely to be provided by any
private sector entity. Thus, the activities proposed for the ERC are highly
appropriate areas for public involvement. In view of the social benefits of
increased productivity and environmental protection from the positive impact of
energy savings devices, public sector support would be warranted for these
activities.
4.          The  Surfactant  Technology  ERC  has  a  well  defined  foreign
collaboration strategy based on the conversion of engineering results and the
potential of foreign providers for the advancement of commercial applications.
Recognizing the disparity in current technical levels between Chinese and foreign
firms, the proposed ERC has developed four strategies to promote this effort: (i)



- 165 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 88 of 95
co-development with internal and overseas technology providers for industrial
testing; (ii) technologies provided by domestic and foreign units will be
converted for domestic use; (iii) collaborating with potential end-users of
technologies; and (iv) encouraging domestic and foreign institutions to join R&D
ef forts to advance technology exchanges. The collaboration strategy will make use
of the international network that has already been established by its sponsor,
RIDCI. Since 1989, and the UNDP funded project, about 20 foreign experts from the
US, Europe, and Japan have given technical lectures, and 47 RIDCI professionals
went abroad for technical exchanges. RIDCI has signed technical agreements with:
Proctor & Gamble, Unilever, Monsanto (US); Lion and Mitsubishi,  (Japan); and
other Asian firms. Through international technical exchanges and exhibitions, the
ERC will strengthen and promote international collaboration and technology
transfer, and become an effective interface between foreign suppliers of
technology including those which are planning co-development activities for the
Chinese market.
5.          The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of techniques and
products will be based on market trends, demands of customers, and take full
advantage of its sponsoring institution, RIDCI. The institute is actively
involved in many organizations such as the Soap and Surfactant Industry
Association, and it holds seats on numerous scientific and technical committees
which can facilitate technology driven opportunities through outreach activities.
Also available to this ERC is its information center which is well poised to
diffuse information and technologies through its many periodicals, seminars, and
international meetings. Lastly, due to the geographic distribution of its
customers, the ERC envisions setting up a decentralized division for the rapid
diffusion of its technologies and products.
6.          The proposal clearly outlines the market demand for key technologies
and services relevant to the surfactants/detergent, and other related industries.
Because of the wide and versatile applications of surfactants, the ERC will first
focus on the industrial sectors which use large amounts of surfactants such as
textile, petroleum, leather, and pulp and paper industries. China faces an
enormous gap between supply and demand of surfactants and their intermediates.
By the end of this century China will need two or three more new LAB plants each
with capacity of about 70,000 metric tons per year. The exploitation of domestic
available natural resources to produce surfactants is still at a very weak stage.
Surfactant producers in China are highly scattered and in 1988 there were 263
firms producing 283,000 tons of surfactants. Some of the key technologies and
services for this market are: (i) catalysts for production of surfactant and
their intermediaries; (ii) reaction equipment needed,; (iii) production
technology for main additives and builders used in household and industrial
applications; (iv) and environmental products and applications.
7.          Total funding for The Engineering Research Center for Surfactant
Technology is US$8,603,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank .................                 5,250
Other bank loans .................           1,332
Equity .................                     2,028



- 166 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 89 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR RARE EARTH METALS
1.          Rare earth materials (RE) have wide applications in many diverse
industries  such as metallurgy,  machinery,  petroleum,  chemical engineering,
electronics,   communication,   energy   development,   aviation,   automobile,
agriculture, and environmental protection. China claims 80% of the world's total
rare earths mineral reserves, and many of them possess a high content of middle
to heavy RE elements. Because of its benefit to basic industries, and its vast
reserves, the GOC has given national importance to the development and
utilization of RE resources. With over 300 RE processing factories in China, of
which 90% are small and medium size as well as township enterprises, there still
remains only a limited amount of highly refined products due to outdated
technology and equipment, and the difficulty to transfer research achievements
into a wide range of applications for industrial production. The Engineering
Research Center for Rare Earth Metals will develop industrial technologies for
manufacturing high purity rare earth elementary materials (mainly rare earth
oxides and metals), and functional materials (mainly hydrogen storage materials)
used in the development of energy sources and environmental protection.
2.          The sponsoring institution,  General Research Institute for Non-
ferrous Metals (GRINM) is China's largest research unit specializing in R&D of
non-ferrous and RE metals. GRINM, founded in 1958, has been a principal supplier
of technologies related to RE metals, and has a staff of over 1300, with more
than 500 senior level engineers. With over 20 research institutes and offices,
including the National Analysis and Testing Center for Quality Control for Non-
ferrous Metals, the institute has won numerous awards in RE technology. Since its
inception, over 3000 R&D and engineering results have been completed, 64 have
been granted patents, and more than 50 received awards from various ministries.
Scholars and specialists in RE studies from nearly 20 countries have participated
in technical exchanges at GRINM. In addition, GRINM has significant experience
in international projects with foreign firms in many countries such as Australia,
Brazil, Pakistan, Korea, etc.
3.          The subproject is fundamentally sound from a public sector standpoint
and deserves to be supported. RE technology has a broad range of applications for
a vast number of industries including metallurgy, electronics, energy
development, and environmental protection that its development and diffusion will
have a substantial impact not only on industry but society at-large. The adoption
of this technology leads to a significant reduction of energy and material
consumption in addition to high quality/yield production. RE technology requires
new technological innovations because it can seriously affect the performance of
production yields and quality required for competitive products making RE
technology an urgent necessity for Chinese manufacturers. Out of 300 domestic
manufacturers, the majority do not have access to the latest RE materials
(according to global standards) required by domestic manufactures. While RE
technology becomes more and more sophisticated, the products (hydrogen storage
materials, metals, phosphor, electric light source materials) will also become
more complicated and even the largest and most advanced of Chinese manufacturers,
will be at a competitive disadvantage as they seek to adapt, improve, and market
innovations in RE technology. Public sector support is warranted for these
activities.
4.          The RE-ERC, along with its sponsor, has a long history of close
relations with foreign enterprises and research organizations, and will continue
to collaborate with foreign firms in the area of RE technology. On-going projects
are with Piesteriz Agrochemie (Germany); CETEM and IPEN (Brazil); SAMIM (Italy);
and Ashton Mining Co. (Australia). This ERC is well positioned to cooperate with
organizations and enterprises to introduce innovations in RE materials technology
which will enable firms to market products in a growing Chinese economy.
Domestically, GRINM has strong technological ties with numerous institutes
throughout the country as well as many small and medium size and enterprise
townships such as Harbin Rare Earth Material Plant (Jiangxi Province); Changding
Rare Earth Plant (Fujian province); Shanghai Plant for Light Source Materials,
etc.



- 167 -                          Annex 4.6
Page 90 of 95
5.          The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of techniques and
products of the RE-ERC is based on applying the network of its sponsor as well
as other related institutions both domestically and abroad. The main executors
of technical diffusion are the Marketing & Sales Dept. and the Information &
Training Center. Technical achievements will be disseminated through various
channels set up to promote innovations by holding technical exhibitions, pilot
plant testing and scale-up testing, publishing newsletters and journals, and
working closely with their clients. The ERC will continue to participate in
technical exchanges and information exchanges as practiced by its sponsor.
6.          As stated earlier, there is an enormous market for RE technology, as
observed by the upward demand for RE metals and alloys; RE elementary compounds;
luminescent materials; and hydrogen storage materials. For example, in Japan,
several companies are successfully producing hydrogen storage materials with the
capacity of thousands of tons per year, and in China, the preparation of hydrogen
storage materials is still only at the laboratory stage. It is estimated that in
the next 10 years, requirements for these materials will more than double.
Overall, the market demand for total rare earth materials is expected to increase
3-5% every year while the market for functional materials with high performance
will increase more than 10% annually. In addition, the price for RE products has
been increasing at a considerable pace, and in 1994 the price for these products
was 10-20% higher than 1993.
7.          Total funding for The Engineering Research Center for Rare Earth
Metals is US$6,061,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ................                 3,100
Other bank loans ................             937
Equity ................                     2,204



- 168 -                            Annex 4.6
Page 91 of 95
ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTER FOR DIE AND MOLD CAD ENGINEERING
1.          The die and mold industry is internationally recognized as a key
underpinning of economic and technological development for a wide variety of
other sectors to which it supplies equipment. This is especially true for a
manufacturing-oriented economy such as China. In recognition of the strategic
importance of this industry, the State Council of China has designated dies and
molds as one of the industries targeted for a major technological transformation.
There are currently more than 10,000 die and mold factories in China, of which
95% are of small or medium size. Employment in the industry reaches 360,000, of
which about 10 are technicians. The conditions and economic demands facing these
factories vary widely, however a number of general problems are pervasive: (i)
high materials and energy consumption; (ii) low productivity; (iii) lack of R&D;
(iv) poor technical and management capabilities; and (v) lack of resources to
assimilate new technology, particularly from abroad. The ERC in Die and Mold CAD
Zngineering is intended to ameliorate these widespread problems. Its main
purposes are to provide factories with advanced CAD software at reasonable cost,
train technicians and management personnel, help customers assimilate advanced
technology, perform R&D and establish partnerships with industrial facilities.
Although the basic technical skills underlying these functions by and large
already exist in Chinese universities, the ERC would extend and apply them to
industrial needs in a manner which would be unlikely without this new
institutional mechanism.
2.          The sponsoring institution, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, is one
of the key institutions of higher learning in China. Its Research Institute of
Tool and Die Technology, founded in 1983 jointly with the Shanghai No. 2 Light
Industry Bureau, will be the home of this ERC. This institute now employs about
130 people. Over the ten years of its existence, the Institute has compiled an
impressive record of concrete research achievements (documented in an appendix
to the proposal) as well as a widespread network of contacts and sites for the
implementation of CAD systems throughout twenty-one Chinese provinces. It
publishes a journal, has hosted international conferences, and has embarked on
four joint ventures involving companies and universities from the US and Japan.
3.          The subproject is fundamentally sound from the standpoint of public
sector involvement. The Die and Mold CAD ERC's research plan is focused on
technologies of generic applicability across a large number of applications and
factories in China. Such work now suffers from underinvestment due to the small
size of most factories in the industry with severely limited R&D resources.
Beyond research, much of the work of the ERC will focus on training,
dissemination of information and technologies, and technical assistance functions
that are unlikely to be provided by any private sector entity. Thus, the
activities proposed for the ERC are highly appropriate areas for public
involvement. Current die and mold operations in China appear to suffer from
excessive use of materials and energy intensity, low productivity and, one would
assume, relatively high levels of pollution. Pressures from economic development,
energy saving and environmental protection enormously enhance the necessity of
die and mold CAD engineering. In view of the social benefits of increased
productivity and environmental protection from the positive impact of energy
savings devices, public sector support would be warranted for these activities.
4.          The Die and Mold ERC has a well defined foreign collaboration
strategy. Recognizing the disparity in current technical levels between Chinese
and foreign institutions, the proposed ERC has developed a well-defined
collaboration strategy with potential foreign providers of technology. This is
based on a consultancy committee of ERC personnel and representatives from
abroad. The committee would function as an intermediary and source of technical
expertise to facilitate exchange between China and other countries. The
sponsoring institution has in fact already established significant contacts with
foreign institutions which should augment the ERC's foreign collaboration
efforts. Some of the on-going joint ventures are with: Mitsubishi, Yamamoto, and
Sodick Corp.(Japan); Molex (American subsidiary in Singapore); Taiwan Gongzhun
Precision Die Co.; and EDS, and Moore  (American). The ERC welcomes foreign



- 169 -                          Annex 4.6
Page 92 of 95
shareholders with a technological advantage and will act as a go-between for
domestic enterprises for investment and cooperation from abroad. Through
international technical exchanges and exhibitions, the ERC will strengthen and
promote international collaboration and technology transfer, and become an
effective interface between foreign suppliers of technology including those which
are planning co-development activities for the Chinese market. Domestically, The
ERC will seek to develop new technologies to be commercialized by the industrial
sector in conjunction with research institutes and with universities.
5.          The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of techniques and
products of this ERC is capsulated in the description of this ERC as a "window"
through which technical and marketing information would pass to users in the
industry. The ERC thus proposes to collect changing market information; to
maintain constant contact with Chinese and foreign customers; to facilitate and
publicize joint ventures; to establish branches of the ERC in the main regions
of China; to publish journals; provide outreach to professional organizations;
convene regular meetings of its clients to discuss needs and problems; and to
host international conferences. The ERC proposal presents a clear management plan
which implicitly considers not only the internal management of the center but
also relationships with outside entities.
6.          The proposal clearly outlines the market demand for technologies
relevant to die and mold CAD engineering such as PC stamping mold system; plastic
ejected mold system; pattern technologies; and software developed for CAM. The
proposed ERC is envisioned to have two main market targets: (i) factories without
die and mold CAD software, to which it would provide CAD products; and (ii)
factories already in possession of CAD software but in need of technical
expertise.  The ERC will actively train personnel to utilize the software
effectively. Small and medium-sized firms (95% of the industry) are expected to
be the main focus of ERC efforts. It is estimated that some 600 CAD software sets
could be sold to this market within five years. On a more aggregate level, the
proposal estimates that in five years' time the ERC's business income would be
around 80 million yuan, which would amount to 10% of the total business in the
die and mold market.
7.          Total funding for The Engineering Research Center for DIE AND MOLD
CAD ENGINEERING is US$7,035,000. The breakdown is as follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank ..................               3,500
Other bank loans ................             370
Equity ................                     3,165



- 170 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 93 of 95
ENGINEERING RESZARCH CENTER FOR CLEAN EXTRACTION
AND ENERGY SAVING IN NON-FZRROUS METALLURGY
1.        The  non-ferrous  metal  (NM)  industry  is  by  nature  prone  to
environmental degradation and high energy consumption. Given the rate of
industrial growth in China, that problem has become increasingly critical due
to the negative environmental impact and shortage of energy sources that face
the Chinese population. Compounding the issues, China faces a serious technology
gap (operating with technology from the 50's and 60's) to effectively address
those problems. The development of technology regarding clean extraction (CE) and
energy savings has proven to be the most appropriate means to keep up with
industrial expansion worldwide. Furthering the NM industry in China necessitates
the establishment of the Engineering Research Center for Clean Extraction &
Energy Saving in Non-Ferrous Metallurgy (ERC-CBES). China's NM industry consists
of over 1,000 enterprises located nationwide while the most pollutant smelters
are situated around large or medium cities. These industries are characterized
by (i) outdated technology and equipment; (ii) poor quality of raw materials and
low grade ore; and (iii) poor management and low automatization which creates
huge energy consumption and efficiency wastes. The wastes released by the NM
industry contain numerous toxic substances and their danger to humans and the
environment are quite severe in this industry. Currently, the NM industry in
China accounts for over 10% of the total solid waste. China's laws regarding the
management of industrial solid waste began late, thus their rate of land
rehabilitation is only 6% as compared to 80% in the U.S. The ERC-CEES's major
task is to focus on the development and transfer of new technologies to small and
medium size firms. Priorities will be on (i) waste abatement at NM mines and
smelters; (ii) S02 removal and recovery from fumes emitted from smelters; (iii)
new techniques for high efficiency and clean smelting technology; and (iv) new
technology of hydrometallurgy, and cyanide-free mineral processing, etc. In order
to meet the challenges set out by the GOC to promote the NM industry and resolve
the severe environmental impact, only new environmental high-performance "clean"
technologies" can adequately prevent and abate the environmental and energy
problem.
2.        The sponsoring institution, The Beijing General Research Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy (BGRIMM) dates back to 1959, and is currently affiliated
with China National Non-ferrous Metals Industry Corp (CNNC). BGRIMM runs about
100 laboratories with thousands of testing facilities throughout the country
including 18 research departments from (i) Mining Technology; (ii) Mining
Chemical Engineering; (iii) Extractive Metallurgy; (iv)Environmental Protection;
and (v) Mineral Processing. The institute has a total workforce of 1600
professionals of which 400 are high ranking technical experts. BGRIMM is actively
involved in many associations and sits on numerous technical committees including
the China National Scientific & Technical Information Network for Mineral
Processing, and the China Communication Engineering Information Network. The
Institute has developed more than 1000 scientific and technical achievements of
which over 350 projects won awards domestically and abroad. The institute also
has extensive capability for scaling up and engineering R&D results such as a
pressure ammoniac leaching plant for a nickel powder factory. Lastly, BGRIMM
maintains relations with over 500 enterprises and has extensive links with
research institutes and universities (domestic and foreign) which includes
technical exchanges and joint research projects.
3.   The rationale underlying the involvement of the public sector is related
to the severe pollution problems and high energy consumption associated with the
NM industry. Considering that China's output in 1993 was over 3.2 million tons,
(ranking it forth in the world) it is not surprising that with a twenty year lag
in technology, the pollution and energy problem has had a negative impact on
economic development. In recent years, the price of end-products of the Chinese
NM industry has been set at world market levels, but the technology level,
equipment and price of raw materials and energy are not able to compete on the
global market. By the year 2000, the estimated yearly output of non-ferrous
metals in China will be 4-5 million tons, with energy consumption at around 40
million tons of equivalent coal; that demand, will be very difficult to satisfy



- 171 -                           Annex 4.6
Page 94 of 95
given the level of technology in China. Since a large number of these polluting
industries are situated around large or medium size cities, the GOC chose 32
cities as high priority for environmental cleaning of which 16 cities have been
slated because of NM industries. Urban areas, and the NM industry would greatly
benefit from the diffusion of new technologies, and engineering services in
tackling this serious environmental/energy related problem. With over 1000
enterprises nationwide operating at such low efficiency levels it is clear that
they will not be able to tackle these environmental problems associated with high
production unless there is public support of advanced technology. While
individually, enterprises might have the incentives to improve the efficiency of
their operations they do not necessarily have the means to invest in specific R&D
and engineering activities. Potentially, in cooperation with other producers and
suppliers they might accomplish what the ERCs will set out to do, but there are
considerable environmental, coordination, and information costs that no
individual actor is willing to absorb. These high transactions costs disallow the
formation of a market to supply the innovations on an industry wide basis. The
failure of this market generates the externality the ERC would be addressing by
introducing CE and energy saving technologies with widespread applicability, thus
public support is warranted for these activities.
4.        The ERC-CEES, along with its sponsor, BGRIMM, already has a record
of close relations with foreign enterprises and research organizations. The
institute maintains technical cooperation and trade relations with more than 40
countries  such as:  Utah State Bureau of Mines  (US); Mekhanobr,  (Russia);
Kasmekhahobr, (Kazakhstan); Mining Research Laboratories (Canada); German Grund
Corp.; Woodward-Clyde International (Australia); and The Sino-Australian Mine
Waste Research & Management Institute (China) . It has set up several co-operative
ventures with foreign partners in Russia, Haiti, and Kazakhstan. In addition,
BGRIMM also sponsors technical exchanges both domestically and internationally.
The ERC will pursue a strategy to attract advanced foreign equipment,
technologies, and products to introduce to the Chinese NM industry in serious
need of new and improved technologies. Domestically, BGRIMM has strong
technological ties with numerous universities, research institutes, and is well
positioned to cooperate with all industrial firms, and other organizations to
diffuse innovations in clean technologies in non-ferrous metallurgy.
5.        The diffusion strategy for the dissemination of advanced technologies,
processes, and products of the ERC-CEES is based on their capability for scaling
up engineering results and applying them to large and small firms engaged in non-
ferrous, ferrous, rare metals, and precious metals. Within the ERC, a Marketing
Dept. and Exchange & Training Dept. will be set up and headed by a vice-president
for the diffusion of technology, engineering services and general networking of
information in the NM sector. The ERC will sponsor a CEES network linking up
enterprises and clients worldwide through the distribution of a newsletter. They
will promote different forms of cooperation such as encouraging enterprises to
enter into close partnerships with the ERC and become its demonstration base for
technological transfer in the industry. Conferences, training courses, and
technical exchanges will be held regularly to brief the industry on the latest
developments to advance CEES technology. The ERC has also proposed the use of
risk contracts to share the technological and financial risk of technology
transfer with its potential clients.
6.        The ERC-CEES has classified the basic market demand in China for NM
goods and services into 6 categories: (i) land rehabilitation with a minimum of
1000 tailings ponds occupying over 2000 km2 of space. At the Zhongtiaoshan Mine
alone, rehabilitated land is expected to bring 20,000 RMB yuan per mu (lmu= 0.067
hec) generating about 250 million RMB yuan to the mine; (ii) full tailings back-
filling technology used in all underground mines (70% of NM ores are mined
underground); (iii) underground solution leaching which has a strong demand as
seen by rough estimates for 5 mines predicted to yield over 300 thousand tons of
copper valued at 5.4 billion yuan; (iv) recovery of SO2 from dilute gas emission
and purification of other gases, clean and energy-saving technology, and



- 172 -                             Annex 4.6
Page 95 of 95
hydrometallurgical process (given that SO2 emission from NM production is only
second to that of thermal power); (v) efficient water treatment and cyanide-free
gold extraction which has a huge demand in China for the drainage of waste water
from NM production and carries a drainage penalty of 100 million yuan to
polluting industries (in addition, approximately 600 mines will benefit from
cyanide-free gold extraction technology); and (vi) new technology and equipment
for energy-saving operations as it benefits all industries from heat loss
released from NM smelting process which accounts for 1/3-1/4 of total energy
consumed by the industry. Overall, the ERC will provide more technological
achievements (now tested in batch scale in laboratories) and will be able to
commercialize them in the next 2-3 years.
7.        Total funding for Engineering Research Center for Clean Extraction &
Energy Saving in Non-Ferrous Metallurgy is US$7,924,000. The breakdown is as
follows:
(USD thousand)
World Bank .3,300
Other bank loans .2,252
Equity .2,372



- 173 -
Annex 4.7
Page 1 of 21
TEC}NOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ExaMple of Proposed ERC Financial Plan
I



I                            B                                C          0         E          F         C          ,           I         J          K          L
2                                             07:103 AM             FINANCIAL ANALYSIS FOR ERC PROJECT
3                                            20-Jun-93              .ar. fhfs.z.f.a:...s....... .. r.....
4
5 
6
7                                                             1939       1994       1Q95      1996       1997       1998       1999      2000       2001       2002
S-*w--*------ *--k                                     rW*w*f*aw***Wf*A-*a-waw***-aa..  -*t * ** * a*w** aa*^* ^**** - k*k -k-*kk~*   * k   ** ,* _ *
9 Parameters                                                                                        A*kkkkkkk
10  ..a.ms    .. . . ..g...aw  a ===  ..tx. mu..: .                                                    a*a**.-a
12 Physical Contingencies
13   Donestic Cost                                            15.007.
14   Foreign Cost                                             15.007.
Is                                                                                                    *k***k
16 Financing Terms                                        Interest        Term    Grace       CoMM.
Is  *orld Bank (to HOF)                                        1.0i7.       15          5      0.757     . ....
19    Domestic Bank                                            t.48%        10          3                 lb... A
20    Working Capital Loan                                     t.64%
21    Other Dom. Credit                                        t.467.
22  Onlending Charge to ERC                                    0.007.
23  Net 18 Loan Cost to ERC                                    7.80t
24
25
26 E.wchange Rate
28  Market Exchange Rate                                       5.75 RMB/IUSD                          **
29    Orticlal Exchange Rate                                   5.75 RMB/iiSO
31 Ye.i r
OQ~.
33   Current Year                                              1993                                  ........                                                             m
34    Disbursement                                             1994                                   ......... o
35    P'tject Cc.mpletion                                      1996                                   ...... ...
37 Ile P*irPed -if thie Project
la   --   -------------                                  - -   --                     _             .      . ......
q9  1. i   Pee e.id                                               15... IS Years
IU. 



41 Tax Rate                                                                                         .*.*A..
42 ----------------- -- ___----------------------------------------------                                   **r**_~
43    Average Sales Tax Rate for Products                      4.002     4.00%      4.00Z      4.007      4.00Z     4.002      4.002      4.002      4.002      4.002,*****a..
44    Income Tax Rate                                        33.007   33.00%    33.007   33.007   33.002    33.007    33.002    33.00%    33.002   33.00%*.*.**o.
45    Two Funds Rate to Covernmaknt                           0.00%      0.007    0.007        0.007     0.00      0.00;!    0.001.    0.00        0.002.    Q.00%*.*
ts,,.w*........,F*,.t............ ,46                       ......._*a,-a, ...a...-....n.a........sa...,**
41 Tax Exemption / Tax
4t ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------                                   ****
49 Inc.Tax Exemp./Inc.Tax                                      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
S0 Sales Tax Exemp./Sales Tax                                  0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
51
53
54
55
56 Escalation
57 *gwuag     asz 4 gz5: z5 . g..                              1993       1994      1995       1996       1997       1993       1999     .2000       2001       2002
59      Domestic                                              1.000      1.050     1.050      1.050      1.050      1.050     1.050      i.oso      1.050      1.050
60                                                            1.000     I.0S0      1.101      I.t15      1.216     1.276      1.340      1.407      1.477      I.S51             -n
61                                                            1.000     1.025      1.076      1.130      1.17     1.246      1.308      1.374      1.442      I.514
62
63      Foreign                                               1.000     1.03t      1.019      1.021     1.034      1.036      1.036      1.036      1.033      1.029
64                                                            1.000     1.03t      1.05t      1.06     1.123      1.164      1.206      1.249      1.290      1.328
65                                                            1.000     1.019      1.04t      1.012      1.105     1.143      1.11S      1.227      1.270      1.309
66
67 *..  . ...eaa.. ...r...      .. -.rq_..r..... ...f...-                      n    . a.            .        *                     ..*.................
6t
69
70
12
73
14 Project Cost Estimate
1is ...                    ......                        -
16 In RMB Th.:.usand
77 ---------------------~~~~~-~~~~---------~---~~~  ~              -~------------------ ---------                                                                        *
79                                                             1993                 1994                 1995                  1961            Total                     o 
10 Pr.j.-.ect Cc mponent                           Lecal  F.rrelgn      Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign        Local  Foreign   L.cal  F.:.reign                     I'



-                                                        ---- ---- - - - - - -- - ----I-          -- -- - - - -- - -- - ---- - ------ ----                                                      - -- ----                                       
32    Assets Transferred  - Buildings                        0           0         876            0          0           0           0           0       876           a                      I
53    Assets Transferred  - Equipment                         0          0            0           0        584           0           0           0       584           0                     584
34    New Civil Wofks                                        0           0      4.000             0     4.000            0      3.000            0   11.000            0                 11.000
IS5   New Equipment                                          0           0         300      4.830          300      4.106         200       1,932        800    10.168                   11.668
36    Technical Documentation                                0           0          I5          12          Is          75          Is         48         45         193                     233
87    Consulting  Expense                                    0           0           0          48          II8         46          Is         46         36         14017
S3    Starr Training                                         0           0         300         290         400         2 88       200         211        900        865                   1.165
89    Pre-Project  Expences                                 s0           0          20            0         30           0         2S           0        125           0                     125
go ---------------------------------------------------------------
91    Base Cost                                             s0           0      5.511       5.241       5.347       4.514       3.451      2.312   14.366    12.066                      26.432
92    Physical Contingency                                   I           0         827         738         302         81         519Si       341    2.15S        1.310                   3.965
93    Price Contingency                                      0           0         153         151         469         396        SI7         346     1.145          192                  2.037
95 TotalII ns ta I  -d Cc.s t                               58           0      8.495       8.177       6.613       5.517       4.494      3.004   11.565    14.168                      32.433
91    Ir-rking Capital                                        I          0      1.353            0         182                    614                 2.634            0                  2.634
98 -------------------------------------------------------------------
99 ToalI Financing Required                                 SS           0      7.150       8.177       8.100       S.517       5.171      3.004   20.300    14.753                     35.058
100                                                                                                                                                                                                -0
I0I
102
103
104
105  In IJSO Thousand
l0 -------------------------------------
101
108
109                                                                    1223                    1994                    1995                   1998             T%% a I                 CrandJ T-ngjl
110 Vr,..jec-t C.mope.nent                               Local   Fc.,eign        Lc,calI  Foreign        Lc.alI  F.zneti gn      L.c a I  Fnieign    Local   Foreign                   tIISD Thousand
112    Ay-sets Tran%ferred    Buildings                             0     0         12            0           0           0           0          0        152           0                     152o OQ
113    Assets Trainsferred -Equipment                         0           0           0           0         102           0           0          0        102           0                     102 m:
114    New C i .i I W.:.r k s                                 0           0         696            0        696           0        522            0    1.913            0                  1.913   JX
115    Mrw Equipme~nt                                         0           0          52         340          52         114          35        336        139      1.290                   2M
11e    T,.chnical I).,mnAg;n0                                             0           3          13           3          13           3          a          a          34                      4i1~
Il7    t.,rnsulting Expense                                   0           0           0                       3           a3                                6          24                      31
11I    Staff TraininRt                                        0           0          52          50          10          50          35         so        IS?         ISO                    301
jig    Pr#-Pu~.iect Expences                                  9           0           3            0          s                       4          0         22           0                      27
120       ......-



121    Base Cost                                         9          0        958        911         930        785        801        402   2.491    1to01                    i.59
122    Physical Contingency                               I          0        144        137        139        III         90         60       375        31S
123    Price Contingency                                  0          0         21         20         51         43         50         33       122         98                   21S
1224
125 Total  installcd Cost                                10          0     1.123      1,068       1.121        94G        71i        496    2.995       2,510                 5.505
126
127    Working Capital                                   0          0        235           0         32                   119                  458          0                   458
128-
129 Tctal Financing Required                             10         0      1.359      1.068       1.152        946        860        496    3453       2.510                  5.9G3
130
131
132
133
134
135
136 Financing Plan
137
138 In RHB thousand
139  ----                       ------- -    -
140
141                                                            1993                  1994                  1995                   1996              T<.tal                Cr.mnd TI.tal         H
142                                                       Lcal   Foreign       Local   Foreign       L(cal.  Foreign        Local   Fcreign        Lc.cal   Fore ign             tRMB Thbu-  <
143-
144    WorId Bank Loan                                        0          0           0     6.177          (0)    5-587           10t   3.004             0'   14. 168               11.76S
145    Donestic Bank Loan                                    58          0      5.620           0     1.494           0      3.494          0      13.666          0                13.666
146    Wrrking  Capit.I LoAn                                   I         0      1 353           0        182          0        684          0       2.634          0                 2.634
147    Eqcity ---F.C. Fr.nl, Insttut,.n                       0          0        S76           0       SS4           0          0          0        i.60         0                 1.460
248    Equit       Fr .,n. Prt,rs                             0          0           0          0     2.540           0      2.)000         0       2.540          0                 2.740
249   LEui2ty        .,crmnf..nI Appr..pruiAl*n               0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0           0          00
2J0    Equ I ty    Cash C..ntributu.n                         0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0
tS2                                 !   t..                 56          0       .u,30     6.1177    2.800       5.58 7     1- 27      3.004  7 0-300    14. Mi8                   35-0GS
131
156 In IISO th..usAnd
rs>
1.18                                                                                                                                      ,  ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
1579                                                          0       1993                  1994                   1995                  1996              1..t.aIl              Crand TutaH]
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                             lil7.c I.cl F.-,elp  ia F:ei n  1. -ua I  [:-.rrign I ,<1 .gn  L  -ctIr.tiltn -c I   :, r Eti n  t II S0 T IWu!~ t.



161
162    World Bank Loan                                         0          0          0     1.06t          (0)      946         (0)       496           lO)   2.510                   2.510
183    Domestic Bank Loan                                     10          0       972           0       761           0       516           0      2.319           0                 2.119
164    Working Capital Loan                                    0          0       235           0         32          0       119           0         453          0                   45t
ls    Equity ---F.C.  Frc.- InstItit ti.n                     0          0       151           0         99          0          0          0         250          0                   250
168    Equity ---Frcm Partters                                 0          0          0          0       261           0       165           0         426          0                   426
161    Equityr ---Covernnent Appropriation                     0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0           0           0                    O
16t    Equity - -Cash Contribution                             0          0          0          0          0          0         0           0
169                                               -                                                     ---   -- -                                          --------
170     Total                                          10.14492           0 135t.520 106t.024 1152.261 945.9565 360.2909 49S.S6St    3453.217  2509.566                          5962.144
111
172
173
174
17S
116    ... ... ... ...    .. . .. . . .. . .. . .   *- --*-..    -* -*--** --------- ... .. .. .                                      .........................           ,     .......
177 
(13
Itl
ISO
132
133 Rums ness Plan tRHB th.:.usjnd,
114  =.s.* ....   ....   ........S.......    .......
115 fiperatioin Revenue
116    --  --  - -- - --.
tIt   Firm C-.ntracts
119       Including the Fire Contracts 8.sed on (Client Instituti.,ns
190      .nd ERC 0-n Institution.
191                                                              1993       1994       199S       1996       199i       1993       1999       ?Ot)      UJii       2002
192
193   RK.nov fr- t.:.* I.rr (ntnacts.-                               0     3.535      3.935  i.;20          5.9!m  i .155  7.6;5             9.21()   I0.t1iJ    11.475
194
195    I.d.Jests Nanuracttred
197                                                              1993       1994       199;       1996       199i       1991       1999       2000       2001       200 2
191-9-           --  - -  --  - -- -  --  -  ---3--     - - --- --   - --  - 994   -  --  - --  - -  --  - ---99-      - --     -- -  - --  -20--0----          - --  - -
199    R.'venstc from Products Hjnufactuited                        0      2.200      2.720      3.600      4.430      4.430      5.400      6.600      6.300      7.200            0I
200_ 



201   Other Operation Itorks
202-
203                                                        1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      199t     1999      2000      2001      2002
204--                                                                                                         
205     Incc.me r,om Othver flperalion Works                  0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
206
207
20t Total Operation Revenue                                   0    5.735    6.655    9.320   10.400   11.635   13.055   15-.40    16.890  1.675
209
210
211
212 1on-OperatIon Revenue
213  --- - - -  - - - --  - - - -  - - -- - - - - - -
214    Investment Incoae
215  ----                  --_.
216      Suppose the investment Income is to be   AtoX IRMO thousand'
217      X: accumulated investment other than project.
211      A                                                 0.00
219      8                                                 o0.00                                                                                                        F
220      Accumulated Investment                               0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
221    Invvrtnent Income                                      0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
222
223   tJthe-r h.n-Operation Income
224  _---
225      Coverneent Support                                   0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0
226      Others                                               0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0
22t-
223   Subtotal                                                0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
229
230 TotAl Rton-Operatio.n Inco"                               0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0
231
232
233 Expense
234                            - ---
235   Staff Salaries
236   ---_   -     -      -   -     -     -      -
237    Base Year Salary Per Capita                          7.2
233    Annual Salary Increase Rate                         5.002
239    Number of Staff Employed                               0       120       130       140      ItO       ISO       ISO       ISO       ISO      ISO
240    Tntal Salar le:                                        0       901     1.032     1.167    1.225    1.31t    1-447    1.520    1.59         l.t15              f t
240~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s Tna 3Ois_



241
242   Staff Benefits
243  ------------- __-_-_-_
244     Base Yeat Benefits Per Capita                             5
245     Annual Benefit Increase Rate                          3.002
241     NumBer of Staff Euployed                                  0       120        130       140        140       ISO       ISO        ISO        ISO       ISO
247     Total Benerit                                             0       oil       ttO        765      718         tti9      89        922        950       979
248
249   Patent Fee
250    ------------ ------- --                     _-_--
251     Annual Patent Fee                                        10        10         10        10         10        10        10         10         10        10
252
253   Spare Parts J, maintenance
254  ---------------- _-.-                              _
255    iMaint.Rate of Fixed Assets                            0.002      4.002     4.002    4.002       4.002    4.002    4.002        4.00^      4.002    4.002
256     maintenance                                               0     1.297      1.297    1.2 I7 1.297           .237     1.297      1.297     1.291     1.297
257
258   Raw Materials
253
260                                                           1993       1994       1995      199t       1997      1991      1999      2000       2001      2002
261  -- - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  -- -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - --  - -  - - -  - - -
262     material Cost                                            0        200        300       300       300        320       360        400       400       600
283
264   ItIilitiis
265  -------                             -     -     -
261 Names of lltilities                                             Average Prices
267 -1- ----                                            - - - -    -- - - -     - - - -
263 TatertktON)                                                        0.550 S-0 4.
269 ElectrIcity(KIIlI                                                  0.450 **..*..*
210 V.apc.ur iKMN31                                                     1       . 500.*
211 Ca I ITN'                                                           0.240 .........
212 Itli.Is                                                           0.000 .........
213
774
2iS Ctnsumpti-n V-.d141 ol ltilit:efi
216i
277-                                                          1993       1994       1995      1996       ISO?      1998      1999      2000       2001      2002
219 A.j1erkILT'.i'                                            0.00      2.00       2.00       2.00      2.00       4.00      4.00      4.00       4.00      41.00
280 lrIecvtrecittiylWi                                        0.00   350.00    350.00   350.00   350.00    360.00   360.00    370.00    310.00   400.00     
00 >



21l Vapour(KHA3)                                            0.00   SOO.00   500.00   SOO.00   SOO.00   SOO.00   500.00   550.00   550 00   SSO 00
282 CoaI(TON)                                               0.00  1000.00  1000.00  1000.00  1000.00  1000.00  1000.00  1000.00  1000.00  1000.00
283 Others                                                  0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
21S
238 Utility Costs
217   ------------------------------------------------------
231                                                          1993      1994      lo9s       1995      1991      1993      1999      2000      2001       2002
220 Water(kTON)                                                 0          I                   I         I1        2         2         2          2         2
211 Electricity(K!III                                           0   I St          ISt       ISl        15t       182       182       161        187       ISO
292 VapourtKN^3)                         o                             750 50     7150      150       750       750        750       125       325        825
233 Coal(TONI                                                   0       240       240       240       240       240        240       240       240        240
234 Others                                                      0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0
229     Total                                                   0     1.149     1.149     1.149     1.149  l.lS4         1.154     1.214     1.234      1.247
217
233   Sales Expense
202            -  ----- - - - - - - ---- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
300    Sales Expense                                            0       600   . . .650      tOO       tOO       tOO        35O       1SO       lSO        360
301
302   D-pr-cIat-.n
303  --- - -  - - -  - -- - -  - - -  - -  ----_.-..--.-...
304    Annual Depreciation                                     0          0         0    2.513    2.513    2.513    2.313         2.513    2.S13       2.513
305
306 Total Expense                                              10    4tl    5.121    t.OOI    3.032    3.343    t.;2t             3.14;    t.350    9.13?
201
309
311
312 l'I...ject IRR
212 .....      SSfIZJ    St.&?t  .
314 Lire Perlod of the Project                                IS Year
31  ----------------------
315                                                         1993       1994      199S      1206      1991      1993       1999     2000       2001      2002
- - _.-...  ......-.....--.---
31t   Project C'.st                                           St   12.673   12.205    7.493             0         0          0         0         0          0
j1i    I.-rkIn3 Capital Increase                                I    1.353        132       684       It?       223      1JS91      464        175       293
220   flperJtiCrA lncox                                        0    5.735    6.SSS    9.320   10.400   11.835    13.OSS   IS.340   I-11.9O   1I.815



321   Operation Expease                                        10    4.7t1    5.121    S.4l1    5.569    5.129    6.014    6.231    6.331    6.689
322   Net Cash Flov                                           6139  (13.013) tlO.3S9)  t4J349J   4.644    5.51t    7.499          9.I43   10.37t    11.709
323  --- -    -   -    -    -  -    -   -    -    -  -  -    -   -    -   -    -  -    -   -    -   -   -   -   -    -   -    -   -   -   -    -   -     -
324
32S hRt                                                    22.57-
326
222 ............l. .......    ................................ ................................................. a .......
328
329                                                          1993      9994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001       2002
331 Switch                                                      0         0         0         I         I         I         1          I         I         I
332-
334
33S
331 Working Capital Analysis
338
339                                                                                                                                                                          -
340                                                                        ,                                                                                                 i
341 Turn Over Period (Days)                                  1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1991      1999      2000      2001      2002
342 -------. . -
343 Minimum Cssh                                               30        30        30        30        30        30         0          0         0         0
344 Reetivable Acc...unt                                      60        60        60        s0        60        60         O          O60 60   60
34S Inventorles                                               60         60        60        sO        60        60        sO        60        60         60
346 Payable account                                            C0        60        s0        s0        s0        60        s0        60        60         60
3471--------------------------------------   ------- ---                  -       -       -        -       -       -       --.-----......   ..
341
349
350 Projeeld Not *.C
S   I    ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---  ---
352                                                          1993      1994      1995      1996     1997       199  19     9       2000      2001       1007
3S3 - .--- .. ---- -...  . .- .. ... ...
354 Hiniaum Cash                                                I       393       421      66i       fi,4       69;         0         0         0          0
JSS Receivable Acc-tont                                         0      956      1.109    1.553      1.133     1.939    2.176      7.640    2.tlS    3.I13
356 Invtnt.tits                                                 2       191       555      915       sil        972    1.002      1.039     1.056     1.111
351 Pa).vbl. acc-11nt                                           2       191       155      915        9g1       912     1.002     1.039     1.056     1.11-
35  ,( t  7                                                         1.351      1-;36    i.270     7.407    2.634    7.1i6    7.610    2.11;    3.113
3 5 9 ......... - --- -----.-.                                                                                                                        -
360 .t *.t Incre se                                                  1.3S]        112      6t4        It7       22t      (4591      J64       175       291



263
362
J38
364 Capital Formation and Depreciation Calculation
365  ...   ........                                   ......I.......
381
367 Capital Formation                                       1913      1994      1995      1996      19C7      199t      1999      2000      2001       2002
361                                                                                                                             -  _                   -
369    Installed Cost---Buliding                               0    5.714     4.951    3.899           0         0
310   Installed Cost---'Other Than building                  S     6.926     1.254    3.599           0         0
312   Total                                                   St   12.613   12.205    1.498            0         0         0         0          0         0
313
314 Peprlciable Value
315 -------------------------          _-___
376   Building                                                 0    5.748   10.69S   14.597   14.57    14.517   14.597    14.537    14.597    14.591
I77   Other Than Building                                    St    6.933    14.237   13t136   17.3t 17.336   11.t33    11.3t6 1.836    17.836
373
379 Depreciation Rate
380 --.. _._._              -     - - - - -
213   Building                                             5.007.
332   Other Than building                                 10.00O
313
334 Deprtciati.;n
386   Building                                                0         0         0       130       730        730       730       730       730       730
3t1   (other Than buildinf                                    0         0         0    1.1J4       .134      1.734     1.7114    1.734     1.1t4   1.14
333   Total DepreciatIon                                       0        0         0    2.513    2.53       2.513    2.513       2.511     2.513     2.513
339   Aeuc. DepSeciJtm..n                                      0        O          0    2.513    5.071       1.540   10.034   12.S6t   IS-011   17.594
39)
:392
393
394
195 IL...In C.Ilcul.,I ..n
396   .  r..,.--  ,,  ...- .,
398
399 I....in Disbu,rsecent                                  1993      199J      1995      1996      1997      1991      1999      2000      2001       2002
.                                   .n                                                         .                 ....   .._.H



401    I.,rId Bank (USD)                                            0     1.068        94B        496          0          0
402    Wotld Bahk (RHB Equivalentl                                  0     8,177    5.587       3.004           0          0
403    Doe*stic Bank                                              52      5,620      4,4Q4     3.494           0          0
404-- - --.--.. ... ....---
405    Total                                                      58    11.797    10.081       6.498           0          0          0          0          0          0
406
407 Commitmenl  Fee
40- -- .. -----
409    WorId Bank 1USD)                                           19         is          1          2         iO)        to)
410    Wctrld Bank (RHB EquaveIen t I                            108         86         43         11         tOI        to0
411    O.c.estic  Bank
412            ----    -                                                                           .-
413    TvtJI                                                     108         86         43         11          17n       '0'         0          0          0          0
414
415  Inter.s(
416 ---------                                                                    
417    World Bank  1USD)                                           0         41        117        172        191        181        162        143       124        105
412    World Bank (RHB Equavelenl)                                 0        235       892       .042      1. 178     1.135      1.029        921        S10        6Q8 a
419    Domestic Bank                                             238        195        62t        778     1.074        908         743       578        413        248 8
420.-----                                                     .-.-
421    T,tal                                                     238        430     1.320      1.820      2.251      2,044      I.773      I 499      1.223  94G
422
423 Repayment
424        ------
425    W.,rld Bank  1USD)                                                                                              251        251        251        251        251
426    World Bank  (RHB Equavelent)                                                                                  1.572      1.594      1.615      1.639      1.610
427    D-.mestic Bank                                              0          0          0          0     1.952      1.952      1.952      1.952      1.952      i.952
4228 -. .-
429    Total                                                       0          0          0          0     1.952      1.525      3. 5i      37567      3.592      3.G23
430
431 I'.'tstanding
43.
433   'i.rld Bank (ULSDI                                           0      1.068     2.014      2.510      2.510     2.259       !.O08    1l73;        lSOG       1.255
434    W.)rId Bank IRHG Equavelentl                                0     6.1i7    11.764    14.768    14.768    13.195    11.602           9.987     8.348      6.678
435    Drestic Bank                                               58     5.678  . 10.172    13.666    1.113         9.761       7.809      i.857     3.904       1.952
431    T.,tII                                                     52    11.855    21.935    28.433    26.481    22.957    19.411    15.844    12.252            8.630 3 
432                                                                                                                      
439 4'.rking Capital Loan                                                                                                                                                        r7
440                       -     - -.-- -- - 



441  . forking Capital Loon                                          I     1.353        12        684         117       228
442    forking Capital Repayment
443    Outstanding                                                   I     1.354   * 1.538       2.220      2.407      2.634      2.634      2.634       2.834     2.834
444    tnterest                                                     0         59        12S        152        200        218         223        228        228        221
445
446
44? ........................ ............h..........w *w                 .        tr.. ..u.....w... ta...........           ..w. ........ ........ W..wwss .....
448
449 Projected  Income Statement
450 a....a .......tw w. wsot.....  .... .........
451                     (RHO Thouisand)
452                   (Year End Dec.31)
453
454                                                              1993       1994       logs       19.6       1901        1993       1999       2000       2001       2002
456 Operation Revenue                                               0     53718       7.162    10.532    12.340    14.496    11.078    21.7SS   24.360    28.281
451    Revenue from Fire Contracts                                  0     3.823       4.235     6.464       7.024      8.9 14    10.014    12,692    14.553    17.378
458    Sales or Products Mtanufactured                              0     2,255       2.927      4.068      3.316      5.532      7.054      9.066      9.807    10. 904
450    Other Opt-ration Income                                      0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0
461    t oss- fussncs'c T.ux                                        0        2 33       286        421          9 4      580        683         It0        914      1.131
462 Net Rtvi-nue                                  ~~~~~~0 5.643     6.816    10.111    11.847    13.916    16.395    20.3817   23.386    21.3150
465
466    stalr Benefits                                               0       633         142        864        935      1.083      1.172      1.261      1.370      1.48?
467    Annual Patent Fee                                           10         10         II         II          32         12         13         14         14         is
468    Spare Parts L maintenanc#                                    0     1.330       1.396      1.466      1.339      1.616      1.691      1.182       1.811     i.9ss
469    Raw Ma.terials                                               0       205         323        339        356        399        471         549       S11        909
470    Ut iIi I itks                                                      1.171       1.236     2.292       1.363      2.433      1.510      1.695      1.719      1.330
471   Salesi Experts.-                                              0        615        100        904        949        991      1.112      1.163      1.226      1.302
.3 72    DepreciAtIu.'n                                             0          0          0     2.513       2.513      2.513      2.513      2.513      2.-5 13    2 .513t
413
414 11.rtngIc-t                                                  lIt)        7 143    1.3SZ     1.39U      2.125s    4.140       G.0l1-      0.332    11.133    11.538
415
416 !4..n.tlp&rxtie.n  Incomt                                       0          0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0
411    Investment  IncomAe                                          0          0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0
4718   tither N..n-11peratik.n Incc.u.e                             0          0          0          0          0           0         0           0          0          0
4 19                                                                                                                                                                              00
480 .N..n ..p.rAtinit Expwrnso                                    s0         SI         54         51         59         62         Gs          69         12         76
4t  alaStsssssetastssstsssssssttss:wst-trga-s-zZ--tssassssass:tssttsstsswstsstawssasSsessssawss  ssssas



411
412 Financial Charges
4t3      forld Bank                                             JO       320        735     1.053      1.171      1.135     1.029        921        llO       693
434      Do1.estic Bank                                        238        195        621       771      1.074        l0t       743        571       413        243
415      forkIng Cap. L.E-n                                       0        59        125       162        200       213        223        223       223        223
436   Subtotal                                                 346        574     1.J41      1.913     2.451      2.261    2.000        1.728    1.450      1.173
481
433 Incose Before  Tax                                        (406)       III      (134)      (6541       215     1.31l      3.943     1.017   10.210    13.2t9
419 Incose Tax                                                   0         39          0         0         71       S93      1.303     2.646      3.369     4.3tS
491 Net Incose                                                14061        79       (1341     (654)       144     1.217    2.645       5.372      6.t41     3.903
492
493
494 Ratios
49S   Cross Profit Margin                                      ERR      13.167.   19.742    13.117    23.007    29.752   36.637.   46.93t2   50.172   53.552
496   Pretax Income/Net Sales                                  ERR       2.032.   -2.61Z    -6.412       1.317.   13.052   24.082    33.312   43.667    41.95.
491    Net Income/Net Sales                                    ERR       1.39%    -2.612   -6.472        1.21%     1.747   1.13?.   25.727.   29.25%    32. 79!
493    Operating Ratio                                         ERR      36.147.   30.262   t6.197    77.00%    *0.2S2   63.327    53.022.  49.t33    46.45-
499   Net Incooe/Total Assets                               117.342    0.542    -0.6t7.   -1.392.    0.432         3.12       3.3372   17.52   21.902   26.t7.                    H
500                                                                                                                                                                               ,w
501
502
503 Net Income Distribution
504 a...... an ...... of .       .         ......
505                    (RHB Thousand)
S06                   (Year End Dec.31)
501
Sol                                                           1993       1994       199S      1996       1997       1998      1999       2000      2001       2002
509.. 
S10 Ratio:
512    Dlvident Rati., IPxid Next Yearl                       0.007      0.007    50.002   50.00.   50.007.   50.002 i 50.00% 50.007.   50.002 50.007.
512    Reserve Rati.                                          0.007.    0.002    25.002   25.007.   2S.007.   25.007.   25.002    25.007    25.001   25.00.
S 13                         .....  ---       - - .  -      -  -.- --  ---- ---    -   - -.- -- -- -- ----- -    -  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -.- -- -- -- - *- -- ---- - - - - - - - - - - -
514    Net Income                                             t4O6'        79       (114     (t654)       144     1.217      2.64S     ;.372      t.l41     3.903
SIS    Dlvident Paid                                             0          0          0       '92)      t3271        72       603      1.323     2.6t6     3.420
5S6    Annual Reserve Funds                                      0          0        146)     (2631        36        304       661      1.343     1.710     2.226
517    Accumulated Reserve Funds                                 0          0        (46)     (2091      21741       131       792     2.13;    3.31S       6.0,11
Sit   Annual Retained Earning                                 (406'        *9      (133)      (399'       435       ii1    1.376       2.706      2.445     3.257
519    Accumulated Retwined Earning                           '406'      (3271     (465'    (364)        1429t       412     1.787     4.493      6.931   IO.195S
S20                                                                                                                                                                            _



521
522
523 Projected Source and Applicatlon Statement
524 ..............
525         (RHB Thousand)
526                 (Year End Dec.31)
527
528 SOURCES                                                1993      1994      199S      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002
529-
530   Net Income                                           (406)       79      (184)    (654)       144    1.217    2.645    5.372    6.341    3.903
531   Depreciation                                            0         0         0    2.513      2.513    2.513      2.513     2.513    2.513      2,513
532    Interest                                             346       514    1.438    1.993    2.451    2.261         2.000     1.726     1.450     1.173
533                                                                                       -----
534   Cash From Operation                                   (60)      653     1.304    3.853      5.109    S.992      1.159    9.611    10-305    12.590
535
538   long-Tere Borrowing
531    lorld Bank                                             0    6.177    5.5t7    3.004            0         0         0         0         0         0
538    D.mestic Bank                                         St    5.620    4,494    3.494            0         0         0         0         0         0
539                                                                                     ------
540   tvtal L-1 Bcrroving                                   5S    11.797   10.01    5.490 0                    0                             0         0              -
541                                                                                                                                                                    <
542   ShI.,r-te(ra B.rrc.wing                                 1    1.353       12       6t41       13        228         0         I         0         0
543
S44   Equity Transf.trred                                     0       376    2.124    1.00(          0 n
545
346 1-.IAI S'.urcvs ...r Fund                                (2'  (4.659   13.690   12.034    5.295    6.219          1.159    9.611  lO.t05   12.590
543
549
550 AIiPL ICAT lI(NS
551
S52
553   Pra.j.ct Expenditure                                  St   12.613    12.205    7.493            0         0         0         0        0          0
551   N(..n Pr.%ject (nvestesnt                               0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         n
555                          --,.... .. .-
iSS    T-utaxl InvestI&ent                                   53    12.673   12.205    7.49t           0         0         0         0        0          0
553   l,ng-terw Debt Service                                                                                                                           -_t
559    Financial Charges                                   346       574      1.433    1.993    2.451    2.261       2.000    1.726    1.450       1.173              0 >I
560    Rrpayment                                              0         0         0         0    1.152    3.52S    3.546    3.567    3.592         3.622



561                                                                                                                                     _________________-
592   Total L-T Debt Service                                 346       574      1.4t1    1.993    4.404    S,736    5.546    5.294    5.042    4.795
563
564   Energe & Buget Adjusting Fund                             0         0         0         0        0         0         0          0         0         0
565   Dlvident Paid                                             0         0         0        921    (327)       72       603     1.323    2.636    3.420
568
567   Inc/Dec In Inventory                                      2      t35        [OS      1ll        69       112        103       llt       g99        b4
583   Rec./Pay. Acc. Adjustment                                (2)     169        11:      459       239       256       333       6tO        346       506
569
570 Tot Applications of Fund                                 404   14.251    13.911    9.975    4.335    6.226    6.595          7.415      1,172    3.3SS
572 Net Cash Flow                                           (405)      423       (2211   2.060       910         (71     564    2.196    2.633        3.705
574 Beginning Cash                                              0      (405)       23      (193)   1.862    2.772    2.768    3.329    5.526          t.15l
575 Ending Cash                                             (405)       23       (1931   1.362    2.772    2.766    3.329    5.526         3.153    11.t64
516
517
517  Debt Service Coverage Ratio                            -0.2        1.1      0.9        1.9      1.2        1.0       1.3       1.3       2.1       2.6
519                                                                                                                                                                 H
530
531
512
5t3
534
Sts
536 Projected halanc+ Sheet
Sl7       t       -        g -         g        *
S3t       (RHB Thousand)
531      (Year End Dec.31'
590
Sol                                                         1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1993      1999      2000      2001       2002
592.-........ .
593 I.SSETS
594   . ..
59S   Cturrent Assets
596    Cash & Bank                                          (4051       23      (193)   1.862   :.772    2.766    3.329    5.526           L.I53    11.S64
597    Securiles or Ron-Pro.nv.                                0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0O
593    Accounts Receivable                                     0    1.004      1.223    1.79t    1.107    2.175    2.916    3.715          4.159     4.829    r
599    ('ther Receivables                                      0         0          0        0         0         0         0         O          0         0
600     Inventories                                            2       337       942     1.059    1.121    1.140    1.343    1.462         1.560     1.724      Ch
0 



8O0    Other Current Assets                                   0         0         0         0         0         0         0         U         u         u
603   Total Current Assets                                 (404)   1.1884    1.967    4.719    8.007    8.481    7.583   10.702   13.878   18.416
f04
BOS   Fixed Assets
608    Gross Assets                                           0         0         0   32.433   32.433   32.433   32.433   32.433   32.433   32.433
607      less. Depreciation                                   0         0         0    2.513    5.027    1.540   10.054    12.S67   15.081   17.594
609   Net Fixed Assets                                        0         0         0   29.920   27.406   24.t93   22.379   19.t68   17.352    14.839
t10
fill  Construction 7IP                                       53   12.731   24.935           0         0         0         0         0         0         0
612
813 Total Assets                                           (348)  14.594   26.903   34.639   33.414   31.373   29.968   30.568   31.230   33,255
614                                                                                                                
615
616 LIABILITIES & EOUITY
fill         ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -  - -
Slt   Current Liabilities
6B9    Accounts Payable                                       2       837       942    1.059      1.128    1.240    1.343       1.462    1.560    1,724
820    Other Payables                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
621    Short-term Loan                                        1    1.354      1.536    2.220    2.407    2.634    2.634    2.634    2.634    2.634
622    Current Haturities of LT Debt                          0         0         0    1.952    3.525    3.546    3.587    3.592    3.6?2          3.658
623    Other Current Liabilities
624
625   t"tal Current Liabilities                               3    2.191    2.479    5.231    7.060    7.420    7.545    7.6tt    1.t17    8.016
626
627   Long-Term Debt
628    World Bank                                            0    6.177    ((.764   (4.763   (3.195   ((.602    9.987    S.3i3    6.671            J.9.3
629    D.:.aestic Banks                                     58    5.678   10.172    11.1(3       9.761     7.809    5.857    3.904    1.952            '0'
630                                                   ---     --   ---.-  .   -.
631   T..Ial L-T D.bt                                       58    1.I855   21.935   26.J41    22-9;7   19.111    5-.44   1?.23?    8.f.30    4.'J
632
633   Frqii tY
63-1    C.kpi taI                                             0       816    3.000    4.000    4.000    4.000    4.000    4.000    4.000           1.000
635    Reserve Fund                                          0          0       148'    '209'      1(741     131       792    2.13S    3.84S    6.071
636    R,tained Earings                                    '406'     (3271    (4651      '3641     1429'     412    1.787    4.093    6.93.3  (1.195
637 1.                                                                                                                                                                 >
638   T...tal Equity                                      (405'      5l9    2.489    2.921    3.397    4.512    6.519   10.563   14.183  23.2G6                      -x i
639                                                                                               .                                                                    x
B40 T..t.11 I.i.ab. L Equity                               '346)  144594   28.903   34-639   33.414   31.373   2.9-88   30.563   31.230   33.255



642        ,                                                                 -o         -0         0          0          0          0          0         0          0
843
644 L-T Debt / (L-T Debt + Equity)                            -16.507    95.587.   89.817.   90.OS7.   87.117   81.04'   70.66%    53.557.   31.t6%    19.707.
645 Current Ratio                                           -161.41        0.8S      0.79       0.90       0.85      0.87       1.01       1.39       1.7t       2.30
646 Current Ratio                                           -161.41        0.85      0.79       1.44       1.70       1.67      1.91       2.61       3.31       4.23
647 Ouick Ratio                                             -152.01        0.47      0.41       0.70       0.69      0.71       0.t3       1.20       1.58       2.08
C)
0
0)
l3-.



Operation Revenue
-----------------------------------
Fire Contracts
Including the Firm Contracts Based on Client Institutions
and ERC Own Institution.
Prices                             Names or F.C.       Average Prices
Firm Contract I                    CB                    35.000    *
Firm Contract 2                    FB                   150.000
Firm Contract 3                    TS                   200.000
Firm Contract 4                    CP                   450.000  *-****'
Firm Contract S                    LVC                  230.000 *s       -
Firm Contract 6                    F                      0.000 *
Fire Contract 1                    G                      0.000 *-****.*
Firm Contract 8                    H                      0.000 *
Firm Contract 9                    I                      0.000
Firm Contract 10                   1                      0.000
Firm Contract 10                                          0.000   ...
Firm Contract 10                   1                      0.000  ''.
Firm Contract 10                   J                      0.000 *  *_  >-
Firm Contract 10                   J                      0.000 ****.                                                                                      H
Firm Contract 10                   J                      0.000 h......* 
Firm Contract 10                                         H0 000       A                                                                                     I
Firm Contract 10                   J                      0.000 ... .
Firm Contract 10                   J                      0.000....
Firm Contract tO                                          0.000 .....
Firm Contract 10                   1                      0.000 *..
Firm Contrart tO                   1                      0.000 .-- 
Iijtpumt v.Iunre .r F.C.
1993    .199-1    1995       1996      IYYi      IYY1     IYWJ      2000      7001      200!2     2003
CB                                        0.00    15.00    15.00    20.0         70.00    !; no    *>.on    3n.nn    30.11()   35.00    35.0()
FR                                        0.00    10.00    10.00    12.00    12.00    13.00    15.00    11.00    20.00    22.00    25.00
is                                        0.00      3.00      5.00      1.00      S.00 n     .o      9.00    1 0.00    12.00    12.00    11.0o
(P                                        0.00       i.00      1.00     2.00      2.on      3.no     3n.0      4.00      4.00      5.00      5.00
LYC                                       0.00      2.00      2.00      4.00      4.00     6.00      6.00      3.0()    3.00    10.00    10.00
o>
0 x



Revenue frto Fire Contracts
1993     1994      1995      1996      1991      199t     1999      2000      2001     2002      2003
Total                                     0    3.S35    3.935    S.720    5.920    1.155    7.6S5    9.240   10.090   11.475   12.325
CB                                           0       S25       S25      700       700       17S       315    l.OS0    l.OS0    1.225       I.22S
FB                                           0    I.S00      1.500    1.300    1.t00      1.950    2.2so    2.550    3.000    3.300    3.750
TS                                           0       600    1.000    1.400    1.600       1.800    1.t00    2.000    2.400    2.400    2.800
cP                                           0       450       450      800       900    1.350    1.350    1.800    1.00    2.250    2.250
LYC                                          0       460       460      920       920     1.330    1.380    1.t40    1.340    2.300    2.300
Prtdticts Hanuractured
Pr i.ges                          N.amJs -,f P.M.     AverJVe Ptices
Product I                         DP                    40.000    *                                                                             H
Pr,duct 2                         FS                     0.400 .-*.a. 
Prc.duct 3                        a                      0.000 .-i*i 
tOlutput V:.lume of P.H.
1993     1994      1995      1996     Iu9;      1998      19Y9      2000      2001     2002      2003
..                                                                                                                            . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -     . . .. . . . .- -- -
DP                                        0.00    50.00    6o.        tO 30.00   10.O0n    100.00   120.00    150.00    150.00   160.00   160.00
0.00   500.00   300.00  1000.00  1200.110  1200.00  1500.00  1500.00  'I00.00  2000.00  2500.00
-.                            ~~~~~     ~~~~~     ~~~0. 00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.0  .00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
C)-
C0 



- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- : -- -- - - -
1993       1994       1995       1996       1997        1998       1999       2000        2001       2002        2003
--            -    -    -    -     -    -    -    -     -   -    -     -   -    -    -    -    -     -   -     -   -     -    -    -     -    -    -   -    -    -
Total                                            0     2.200      2.720       3.600      4.480      4.420      5.400       6.600      6.S00       7.200      7.400
------------------------------------------
DP                                                   0     2.000      2.400      3.200      4.000       1.000      4.800      6.000       6.000      8.400       6.400
FS                                                   0       200        320         400        480        480        800         600        SO0         800      1.000
a                                                   0           0          0          0          0           0          0          0           0          0           0
Raw Materials
.
Names or Materials                                     Average Prices
steel                                                      2.000  **-***
0.000  ft.*,-A-
m                                                          0.000  *--**
Consumption Volume of materials
----------------     ----------------
1993       1994       1995       1996       1997        1998       1999       2000        2001       2002       2003
..---         ---     .---                                                                    - -    -- - -                                                      . -. 
st.el                                            0.00    100.00    150.00    150.00    150.00    160.00    180.00    200.00    200.00    300.00    300.00    t
I                                               0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
:|                                               0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
HAItrial Ct.sts
1993       1994       199S       1996       199i        I!Il9l     19!9       2000        2001       2002       2(03
1.  I                                            0        200        300        300        300        320         360        40()        100        600        600
--- ---- - ---- -- - - -- - -- ---- -- -.  .-- -  . -- - - - - - -- --    _  - ---- - - -- -- --..-. -
It.el                                          n        200        300        300        300         320        360         400        100        G00         600
I                                     ~~         ~~         ~     ~~~~~0  0  0  0   0          0          0           0          0           0          0
0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0           0          0           0
p3
00



TBCHNOLOGY DBVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumary Table of BRC Proposals
ECs        Estimted Estimted         Key Spon-so           Foreign * Domestic Partners               Difftsion Strategy                        Market
(Objectives)    Project      IBRD
Cost       Lown
USSOOO    USSOOO
Perform.             9,166      4,000 Institute of Metal   Amoco (US); 7 large domestic iron  Outreach engineering services for Market for new materiaLs is:
Alloys                                 Research, and         and steel companies; Chemical        testing, consulting, and             chemical, automotive, metaLLurgy,
(productivity                         Chinese Academy of   Industry Ministry; and others.         marketing on new technologies,      non-ferrous metals,
enhancement)                           Sciences (IMR CAS)                                         training; and a data-base for the petrochemicals, textiLes medicine,
design, production and              and environmental.
utilization of high performance
attoys.
Laser                7,900      4,000 Huazhong University  Rofin-Shinar Laser, Siemens            Three special departments for       Market for new processes is:
Processing                             of Science and        (Germany); BIAS, PRC, Coherent and application demonstrations,            automotive, electronics, machine
(productivity                         Technology (HUST)    Cattech (US); Amada, Toshiba, and  consulting, marketing, and              and ship building, aviation, and
enhancement)                                                 Mazak (Japan); and Chinese plants. networking with associations; and materiaL processing.
________    ________                                         ~~~~~~~~~~training   of   personneL.  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Distillation        10,190       5,000 Tianjin R&D Center   Mitsubishi (Japan); Koch              Collaboration with Beijing Petro.  With approximately 8000 petro-
Technology                             for Petro-Chemical   (US);Sulzer (Switzerland); Mass-   Eng. Co.; Local agents in areas    chemical and oil refinery
(envirormentat                         Technology (PCTRDC), Transfer (Britain); and about 40   with major concentration of             factories in China and 35,000
impact)                              (SINOPEC) and          Chinese firms.                       chemical plants and refineries;    distillation columns (90X small
Tianjin Univ.                                              training, data-bases and joint       and medium), the market is
_________ _________                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~research projects.        significant.
Clean Coat           5,953      2,500 Tsinghua University  Foster Wheeler Corp.(US); IHI          Network of institutions and          Strong market given the need to
Coabust.                                                     (Japan); ABB-CE (US); BMFT           companies including power            operate high-efficiency large
(Boilers)                                                    (Germany); Intesol (US); and other utilities; marketing, sales, and  scale power plants and medium size
(envirornmental                                              Chinese plants.                      training department; and            thermal power stations.
impact)                                                                      p_ artnerships with industry.
Shipping             8,296      4,000 The Ministry of        Norcontrot (Sweden); ConsiliLm and Promotion and collaboration of        With over 3100 domestic shipping
Control                                Communications and   Saab (Sweden); Motorola and Sperry commercial applications with            co's. operating 38,000 passenger
(productivity                         Shanghai Ship and    (US); and other domestic shipping  Chinese Society of Navigation,          ships, 18,000 km of coastline, and
enhancement)                           Shipping Research    co's.                                 Chinese Society of Automation;       110,000 km of waterways carrying
Institute (SSSRI)                                          agents in shipping co's.;           90X of trade.
________  ___ ____      ______  ___________   ___________    newsLetter,   and    semninars.
Petroleae           15,612      6,800 Research Institute   IFP and Intevep (Venezuela); Stone Exptoiting ties with SINOPEC,            The market for lead-free gasoline
Refining &                             of Petroleum          & Webster (US); and other domestic technical exchanges of personnel   and cleaner fuels will be large in
Catalyst                               Processing (RIPP)    firms.                                from industry & institutes,          the transportation sector as new
(environmental                                                                                    promotion of clean air              envirorunentat regs. are enacted.
impact)                                                                                          technologies.
Pouder              10,260      4,500 Central South          Bendix, Boeing (US); Goodrich,       Exploiting sponsor's network of    The demand for p/m technology is:
Metallurgy                             University of         Airbus (France); Toyota (Japan);   associations and industrial            automotive, machinery, chemical,
(enviroraental                         Technology (CSUT)    Degussa (Germany) and other           clients; exchange of technical      civil aviation,
impact)                                                      Chinese firms.                       personnel and training.             electronics/electrical and others.    n-
Clean Coal           9,172      4,000 Thermal Power          Steag (Germany); numerous domestic Network of institutions                The market for clean coal
Cobumtion                              Research Institute   plants, and  several universities. associations, and companies,            combustion technology is coal-             D
(envirormentaL                         (TPRI)                                                     including power utilities;           fired power plants, users of            M- C
impact)                                                                                           marketing and sales, and an          industrial boilers and combustion       O X
_____ ____ __  __ ____   ____ ___  _____ ____ _____   ___ _____ ____ _____ ____ ____ inform ation   and   training   center.  equipment.               " 4



ERCs       Estiioted Eat imted       Key Sponsors          Foreign & Domestic Partners              Diffision Strategy                          Market
(Objectives)    Project      Iow
Cost       Loan
Fluid                6,447      3,000 Xi'an Jiaotong         Ingersolt-Rand (US); Demag           Activities with over 10              Focus on 6 major product areas
Machinery                              University            (Germany); Howden (Britain); SRM   cooperative partners (factories    where demand is high: pumps;
(envirorvnentat                                              (Sweden); and other Chinese firms. and workshops); set-up 6 regional turbo-compressors; energy-saving
impact)                                                                                           training centers and design         products; fans for coal mines and
institutes.                         power stations; and compressors.
Met Shape           10,123      5,000 Beijing Research       Eumuco (Germany); ALinco and Amada Ties with mechanicaL design            The market for NSH components in
Manufact.                              Institute of          (Japan); and domestic ptants.        institutes and firms to set-up    industries are automobile;
(environmentaL                        MechanicaL &                                                model production Lines and           electronics; chemical; metallurgy;
impact)                               ELectrical                                                  advanced equipment; training,       transportation; refrigeration;
Technology (BRIMET)                                        technical and consuLting            textiLe and computers.
_ _ __ _ __ services.
Audio/Video         11,157       4,500 Nanjing Radio         Matsushita and Sharp (Japan);        Focus on SHEs and dividing           Market for a/v products is
Tech.                                  Factory (NRF)         Stanford Un.; Phittips; and          country into 6 service areas; use processes and consulting at smaLL
Diffusion                                                    domestic universities and research of trade organizations; seminars,  and medium size firms (approx.
(productivity                                                centers and others.                  user's conference; and training.   600) manufacturing T.V.s,
enhancement)                                                                                                                           sateltite equip., radios, CD
l payers, etc.
Industrial           6,900      3,000 EnvirornmentaL         Environ. Research Inst. of Essen   Continuation of technicaL and         Market is for environ. services             F
Envirrent                              Protection Institute (Germany); Nippon Hokkaido Un.,    academic exchange; seminars;            and processes for industry                  n
Protection                             of Centrat Research  New Japan SteeL Co. Kimoto ELec.   Licensing agreements;                   including wastewater treatment and
(environmentaL                         Institute of          Co. (Japan); Inverteck Int'l Co.   coltaborative production and          control of fLue gases; and
impact)                               BuiLding &             (Sweden); British Environ.           joint ventures.                     buiLding material ptants.
Construction          Resources Ltd.; and numerous
Industry (CRIBC)      domestic plants & institutes.
PolyoLefin          11,586       5,500 Beijing Research      Montecatini and Enichem (Italy);   Estabtishment of technical &           Market is for applications of new
Naterials                              Institute of          PhiLtips (U.S.); Buss                econ. committee, databank;           poLyotefin materials in households
(productivity                          Chemicat Industry    (SwitzerLand); W&P and Drossbar    training station with 5 regional   for appLiances; auto industry;
enhancement)                           (BRICI)               (Germany); and domestic firms.       su-iostations; and technicaL        packaging and new materiaLs for
________                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~extension stations.   manufacturers.
Urban                4,948       2,700 Tonghi University    Un. of Bradford (U.K.); Lyonnaise  Assist municipalities and               Market is municipalities of 438
Pollution                              and Shanghai Tonghi  des Eaux (France); Tech. HoschuLe  industries to prepare env.              cities for waste water treatment
Control                                Science & TechnoLogy Darmstadt (Germany); Q Source &    management and planning through    and disposaL waste treatment,
(envirornmentat                        Industry Co. Ltd.    Aepco (U.S.); UNEP; Who; and          seminars; cooperative development  incineration pLants; and
impact)                                                      numerous domestic firms and          agreements; demonstration           cotlection and transport
municipaLities.                      projects; and strong customer       industries.
services.
Mabilte              7,347       3,500 Guangzhou             4-6 six foreign firms (eg.)          Transfer of R&D achievements;        Market is SMEs producing mobile
Communicatioms                         Communication         Motorota, ATT (U.S.); Ericsson,    advisory service centers in           communications equipment for
(productivity                          Institute of          (Sweden); NEC (Japan); and other   provinces and cities; using            infrastructure; network systems;       m 
enhancement)                           Ministry of           domestic firms.                      pubtications, associations; and   testing; and standards.                    ( D
Etectronics Industry                                       exchange of personnet.                                                       M X
Adyarced            11,447       5,000 Tsinghua University  15 universities (eg.) M.I.T.,         Plans to establish 23 technology  With an enormous poputlation to            0
Edurational                                                  Johns Hopkins (U.S.); Osaka Un.    and equipment training centers in train, new educational equipment             e 4-
Tech &                                                       (Japan); Telecom Institute,          major cities; set up urban ed.      and products such as: CAI                   co
Equipmlt                                                     (France); contacts with private    programs; disseminate info            software; CD-Rom systems; Chinese
(productivity                                                firms in Hong Kong, U.S., Japan,   through industriaL associations,   terminals; T.V. sateltite
enhancement)                                                 France & the NetherLands; and        training centers, and regional    technoLogy; and muLti-media
domestic institutes and indxustriaL education centers.                   teaching systems are urgentLy
_firms.                              I__needed.



ERCs       Estimted  Esti_ted          Key Sponsors          Foreign & Domestic Partners                Diffusion Strategy                          Market
(Objectives)    Project    I1R
Cost       Lon
USSOOO     USSOOO
Converter             6,470       3,750 Zhuzhou Electric       GE (U.S.); ABB & LEM (Swiss);         Plans to offer new technology to   Enormous market for electric
Tedhology                               Locomotive Research  Westinghouse (U.S.& France)             domestic and foreign customers;    locomotives and  electric
(envirornental                          Institute              Toshiba & Hitachi (Japan); DSI        technical services and training    vehicles, but also power stations,
impact &                                                       (Canada); and domestic                opportunities; exchange technical power transmissions, etc.
productivity                                                   collaboration with universities,   personnel with customers; and            Products of potential customers
enhancement)                                                   institutes, and numerous firms.    organize a multi-client                  wiLl occupy over 90% of Chinese
investment system for important   power electric equipment
technologies.                        production.
Process               7,994       4,000 Shanghai Institute   Mitsubishi, Hokushin,                   Diffusion channels wiLl be set up Market will be in four major
Autotion                                of Process             Toshiba(Japan); Eurotherm (U.K.);  internally (such as sales and            industrial sectors: power
(productivity                           Automation             Action, Modicon, IBM, Foxboro         marketing dept.) and externally    generation (control systems);
enhancement)                            Instrumentation        (U.S.); Siemens(Germany) and          (regional branches in targeted        petrochemicals; metallurgy; and
numerous domestic universities,    locations) to meet market               harbors (automatic control
institutes and industrial firms.   demands, and exchange of                systems) as well as PA products in
technicaL personnel.                 technical retrofits and existing
enterprises.
Power                 9,165       5,000 Xian Power             GE, Zastech (U.S.); Mitsubishi,    Set up regional branch offices           There are 400 power electronic
Electronics                             Electronics Research Toshiba, Hitachi (Japan); EUPEC    for diffusion of technoLogies to   enterprises and products such as
(productivity                           Institute              (Germany); Wacker-Chemitronic Co., regional enterprises; creation of power semi-conductor devices and                   -Z
enhancement &                                                  Brush (U.K.); and numerous            marketing and business                modules; protection equipment                O'
envirornmental                                                 domestic universities, institutes  departments to promote technical, technoLogies as well as technical
imoact)                                                        and industrial firms.                 consultative, and training            consulting services.
services. The ERC will also
advertise technology transfer
opportunities through the mass
media.
Optical Disks         9,336       4,500 Shanghai Institute   Philips (Dutch); Leybold (German); Center for tech transfer,                  Largest market for opticaL disks
& Application                           of Metallurgy;         Nippon Vacuun Co., Nagoya Univ.,   training, consultation and               are computer use and data storage
(productivity                           Shanghai Institute   Osaka Univ. (Japan); Prodisk,           test/inspection for small and         with growth of multi-media
enhancement)                            of Optics & Fine       Arizona Univ. (U.S.); and numerous medium size domestic enterprises;  technology for use in education,
Mechanics; Shenzen   domestic institutes, universities  set up advertising dept., and              comuinication, medical, business,
Advanced Science       and firms.                            focus on special R&D                  and entertairunent sectors.
Enterprise Group;                                            partnerships.
and China Textile
Machinery Co. Ltd.
Ship Design           8,622       4,500 Marine Design &        American Bureau of Shipping           Client network for specific           Large, medium, and smalt shipyards
Tedwology                               Research Institute   (U.S.); Lloyd's Registrar of            markets to diffuse design             (882 steel shipyards, 330
(productivity                           of China               Shipping (U.K.) Bureau Veritas        software in coastal cities &          equipment & machinery
enhancement &                                                  (France); Det Norske Veritas          inland regions for small, mediun  manufacturers, and numerous                   I
envi ronnental                                                 (Norway); Nippon Kaiji Kyokai         and Large conpanies; pursue           concrete shipyards, and over 100          am
impact)                                                        (Japan) to establish ship             contacts with cLients (many of        research and design firms aLL
classification methods; and over   which have investments in the           potentiaL customers for ship
500 domestic shipbuilding             ERC); disseminate information        design software and services.                 X
enterprises and ship                  through public media &                                                          o
organizations; universities and    associations.                                                                        Z.
institutes.                                                                                                           0 ao



ERCs       Estiiated Estimated        Key Sponsors          Foreign & Domestic Partners               Diffusion Strategy                          Market
(Objectives)    Project      IBRD
Cost       Loan
US$000     US$000
Energy Savings       6,173       3,500 ELectric Power         Numerous cooperative agreements    Regional technical branches to    The power industry is the largest
in Power                               Research Institute   with ESCA, Westinghouse, Digital   cooperate with major utilities in consumer of electricity, and in
System                                                        (U.S.); ABB, EPRI (Sweden);          China to diffuse advanced             urgent need of energy saving
(environmental                                                EPRI(Russia); and numerous           technologies; organize training   products and services such as
impact)                                                       domestic research institutes,        courses with demonstrations for    thermal power plant process
universities, and industrial         potentiaL users; publish             controls; energy management
firms.                               technical journals, organize         systems, distribution management
technical exchanges; and provide  systems; software and techniques
consulting services.                 for demand side management.
Rare MetaL           9,064       5,000 Northwest Institute  Collaborative agreements with:         Utilization of NIN's information  Estimate for Chinese market in
Materials                              for Nonferrous Metal CNRS (France); Takuba Labs and          channel through its role as lead  year 2000 is 7-8 bilLion RMS with
(productivity                          Research               National Research Institute for    institution in numerous                another 1 billion in export
enhancement &                                                 Metals of Science & Technology       associations; organization of         potential.  Demand will come from
envirormental                                                 (Japan); ITT Inc., University of   targeted strategy to 3 major            chemical, aviation, nuclear power
impact)                                                       Dayton (US); Metallwerk Plansee    groups of processors, enterprises stations, electronics and electric
GmbNH (Austria), and numerous        and end-users; estabLishing a        lighting sources as well as growth
domestic universities,               training dept.; exchange of          in civil application of Ti in
enterprises, and institutes.         technical personnel; and             automobiles, bicycles and building
disseminate pubtications.            materials.                                  I-
Industrial           9,631       5,500 The China Textile    Toray (Japan); Dupont (U.S.);          Applying network of over 12           Industrial textiles account for             _
Textiles                               Academy                Bermag (Germany) The Textile          research organizations and           only 10% of its total fiber
(productivity                                                 Academy in Russia; and the Wool       institutes; outreach to large       consumption and the indsutry rust
enhancement)                                                  Bureau of New Zealand; and           corporations and small and medium raise that level to 25% by the
domestic institutes.                 size firms through regional          year 2000.  In addition, basic
branches and service outlets;        industries are in urgent need of
establish demonstration units;       various properties such as
and exchange of personnel.           chemical, petroleum, construction,
agriculture, environmental
protection, etc. One-third of the
11,000 firms are SMEs, and
operating at high levels of
innefici ency.
Marsufacturing      11,941       5,500 Beijing Research       DEC, Grogo, CDC, etc. (US); AEG    Transferring technologies to            The market is significant due to
Automtion                              Institute of           and Production Tech. Center           producers to sell to end-users;    the small and medium size firms
(productivity                          Automation for         (Germany); IGM (Austria); ABS        establish demonstration units;       needing management automation,
enhancement)                           Machine-Building       (Sweden); 3K (Japan); and Chiangs  professional agents for                 product design, and manufacturing
Industry (RIAMB)      Group (Hong Kong); and domestic    marketing, and exchange of              automation in auto, machine-tools,
institutes.                          personnel.                           heavy machinery, and others.
Surfactant           8,603       5,250 Research Institute   Proctor & Gamble, Unilever,             Furthering ties with Surfactant    Focus on industries that apply             Td
Technology                             of Daily Chemical      Monsanto (US); Lion and Mitsubishi Industry Assn. and its many seats  large amount of surfactants such
(productivity                          Industry & National  (Japan); other Asian firms; and    on numerous scientific and               as: textile, petroleum, leather,         o
entnuicement &                         Council of Light       domestic institutes and firms.        technical committees to promote    and pulp & paper for new
enviroanental                          Industry (RIDCI)                                            outreach activities; and              technologies in additives for            4- 
impact)                                                                                            establishing decentralized           household and industrial                  o
information center.                 applications; environmental               ' 
______ _____                           ____  ___I__  _____   _____  _____  products,   etc.



ERCs       Estimted  Estimted         Key Sporsors           Foreign & Domestic Partners                Diffusion Strategy                          Market
(Objectives)    Project       IBRD
Cost       Loan
USSOOO     USSOOO
Rare Earth            6,061       3,100 General Research       Piesteriz Agrochimie (Germany);    Continued colLaboration with             Demand for RE eLementary
Metals                                  Institute for Non-   CETEM & IPEN (Brazil); SAMIM            foreign firms in RE technology;    compounds, luminescent materials,
(productivity                           ferrous Metats         (Italy); and Ashton Mining Co.        and smatt & medium firms              and hydrogen storage materials
enhancenent &                           (GRINM)                (Australia); and domestic             throughout China.  A marketing        wilt more than double in the next
envi rormental                                                 institutes and firms.                 and Sates Dept. wiLl be set up to  10 years; while market for high
iq2act)                                                                                              diffuse information on technotogy performance materiats will
transfer opportunities wiLl be       increase more than 10% annually.
disseminated through newsletters,
journals, conferences, and trade
_________                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~associations.
Die & Mold Cad        7,035       3,500 Shanghai Jiao Tong   Mitsubishi, Yamamoto, and Sodick   Facititate and publicize joint             Two targets are: factories without
Engineering                             University             (Japan); MoLex (US sub. in            ventures; establish regional          die & mold CAD software, and
(productivity                                                  Singapore); EDS, and Moore (US);   branches of the ERC; and outreach  factories in possession of CAD
ernhancmnt)                                                    and Taiwan Gongzhum Precision Die  to professional organizationsand   soft- ware in need of technical
Co.                                   clients through international        expertise.  Smatl & medium size
meetings and technical exchanges. firms (95% of industry) wit  be
main focus, and within 5 years,
expected income will be 80 mittion
yuan, or 10% of total die & mold
market.                                    a.0
0D
Clean                 7,979       3,300 Beijing Generat        Utah State Bureau of Mines (US);   Engineering resuLts will be              Market divided into 6 categories:
Extraction &                            Research Institute   Mekhanobr (Russia); Grund Corp.    disseminated by the Marketing              Land rehabititation; full tailings
Energy Saving                           of Mining &            (Germany); Mining Research Lab.    Dept., and the Exchange &                back-filling; underground solution
in Mm-Ferrous                           Metallurgy (BGRIMM)  (Canada); Woodward-Ctyde Int't          Training Dept. A vice-president    teaching; recovery of SO2;
Metallurgy                                                     (Australia); and The Sino-            will be named for technotogy          efficient water treatment &
CprwxNJctivity                                                 Australian Mine Waste Research &   diffusion, and a network will be  cyanide-free goLd extraction; and
erhwment &                                                     Management Institute based in         set up to Link enterprises and        energy saving technoLogies.
envi ronmental                                                 China.                                cLients worLdwide through a
impact)                                                                                              newsletter.  Conferernces,
training courses, and technical
exchanges will be held reguLarLy
to brief industry.
mechanisms such as newsLetters,
symposia, technicaL exchanges,
_________                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~etc.
Power Systm          9,973        5,500 Nanjing Automation   Intel, GE, Power Tech- notogies    Network of sponsor; creation of   Market is coaposed of consumers of
Automtion                               Research Institute   Siemens, (US); Korea ELectric           sales & marketing dept.               electric power.  Industry witl
Cprcxkictivity                          (NARI)                 Power Co.; Digitel (Hong Kong);    (domestically and abroad);               have growth rate over 9% by year
enhare-nt *                                                    EDF (France); Leige Univ.             technical exchanges; publications 2000 requiring 15,000km of
envi raomntal                                                  (Belgium); HVDC (Canada) and          and contact with trade                transmission lines; and more than
imct)                                                          domestic firms.                       associations.                         2500 county leveL and city level         CD
centers will need dispatch control    Iu 
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ systems.  o  x
I-t   .-f
'.OCD



ERCs       Estimted Estianted        Key Speors            Foreign & Domestic Partners              Diffusion Strategy                         Market
(Objectives)    Project      IBRD
Cost       Loan
UsSOOO    UsSOOO
Applied Pouer       5,330        2,000 Zhejian University   EUPEC, a consortiLn of AEG &          This ERC will tap into their         The market for industrial heat
Electronics                                                  Siemens (Europe); Virginia           sponsor's network which is over    treatment and drive systems is
(productivity                                                Polytechnic Institute (US);          100 years old and closely Linked  enormous as China renovates
enburvo net *                                                Heriot-Watt University (UK); and   to domestic and foreign firms and traditional heating process and
enviraroental                                                mumerous domestic institutes and   organizations.  Three or four         mechanical drive systems.
impact)                                                      enterprises.                         cooperative networks will be        Estimated market by year 2000 for
established for inspection,         power electronics equipment and
consultation, technology            services is 6.5-8.5 billion yuan
transfer, and training.             RMB related to industries such as
machine building, chemical,
textile, petroleum, metallurgy,
________   ______________________________                                       ~~~ ~~~~~etc.
Transducers          8,146      4,900 Shenyang Institute   Philips, Siemens, Honeywell, IBM,  Strategy is to build on the vast  Market demand exists in numerous
(produetivity                         of Instrumentation   IC Sensors, Nova Sensor (US);          network (close ties with foreign   industries such as health care,
enhanceenrt &                          Technology (SIIT)    Degussa (Germany); Yamatake           & domestic enterprises,              thermal power plants, iron/steel
environmental                                                (Japan); Oxford Instruments (UK);  institutes, universities, and          plants, automobiLes, electric
impact)                                                      ASCOM and Keller (Switzerland);    trade associations) of its            appliances etc.  Large thermal
and numerous domestic plants.        sponsor to diffuse technologies    plants alone will need over
and information.  The ERC will      650,000 transducers; and the auto
set up a marketing dept. to         industry wilt need over 34 million
disseminate market trends and       (half are now imported).  By year
information from pilot testing.    2000, ERC plans to capture 15X of
Strategy will also undertake        market.
training and exchange programs.
Advacxed Pouer       9,186       5,000 Tianjin Institute of Bitrode, Electrochemical              Creation of marketing, sales, and Over 85% of battery enterprises
Soumrces                               Power Sources (TIPS) Automation Inc., American oven        information & training units for   (1000) are small and mediun sized,
Technology                                                   Systems (US); Japanese Battery       technical dissemination and well   the market potential is enormous
Cproduetivity                                                Industrial Assn.; and numerous       as externaL channels already         (currently 5.7 billion yuan).
enhancement &                                                domestic firms.                      utilized by sponsor for outreach   This amount will increase at an
envirrmm!ntal                                                                                     activities.                          accelerated rate based on the
impact)                                                                                                                                large demand for power sources
that accompany industrial growth.
Softumre             9,172      4,500 Peking University    Oracle, IBM, Unisyss, Hewlett          Build upon network of both           In 1992, the domestic software
(prodxictivity                         (Dept. of Computer   Packard, Digitel (US); Bull           sponsors; set up a unit for         output was 2 billion RMB and that
eriuwowent)                           Science &             France; and Daiyu (Japan) and        engineering standardization for    is expected to double by 1995.
Technology) and       numerous domestic firms and          manufacturers; establish a          Over 100 units engage in software
Beijing-Guangdon      institutes.                          training center for clients and   development and specific software
Computer Center                                            end-users; and continue its          products targeted for: security
(BGCC)                                                     program of technical and            exchange, accounting, cash
linformation exchanges.              register and tax forms.                 OQ
0
4OO-



ERCS       Estim_ted Estim_ted       Key Sponors           Foreign & Domestic Partners               Diffusion Strategy                        Market
(Objectives)    Project      I R
Cost       Loan
USSOOO     US$S0OOO      ________
Me ueLding           9,888      5,500 The Harbin Research  Ohio State Univ., MiLler Electric  Strategy will apply and expand    Market includes more than 20
Teco-rlogy of                          Institute for         Mfg. (US);E.O. Paton Electric        HRW Is vast information network;   industries such as steel, eLectric
High                                   Welding (HRIW)        Welding Institute (Ukraine); OTC   organize training activities;         power, construc-tion, aviation,
Efficiency mid                                               Daihen Corp., Osaka Univ. (Japan); pLant tours; promote technical        ship building, electrical
High mimlity                                                 and over a dozen enterprises.        exchanges; publish periodicals;    appliances, etc.  The demand for
(proilctivity                                                                                     and focus on 20 selected            welded steel products alone for
enhfdwxant                                                                                        industries for pilot testing and  the year 2000 is estimated at 50-
Mid                                                                                              diffusing information to            60 million tons. The ERC expects
enwi romental                                                                                     supptliers and end-users.            to gain 50X of market for new
impact)                                                                                                                               welding technology in advanced
manufacturing and automated
I______      ________________                                                                               production   lines.
Synthesis of         7,940      4,500 Beijing Yanshan        Polydora (UK); Fuji Electric         Utilization of vast network of       Industries requiring synthetic
Novel Rubber &                         Petrochemical         (Japan); Enichem (Italy); Polymer  sponsor incLuding SINOPEC.             rubbers & resins are:
Plastics                               Research Institute   Institute of Hambuirg (Germany);    EstabLish marketing and patent    telecommunications, packaging,
Materials                              (BYPRI)               Taiwan Sanda Co. (Taiwan), and       departments as welt as centers       automobile, shoes, medical
(productivity                                                numerous domestic firms and          for tech transfer, consultation,  appliances, etc.  For example, in
enhaneement &                                                institutes.                          and training.                        1992, China needed 90,000 tpa of
environmental                                                                                                                          styrene butadiene rubber just for
impact)                                                                                                                               the shoe industry (2 biLlion               o
pairs) which China was unabLe to          0
meet. The estimated revenue for
1994-1995 for synthetic rubbers
and resins in China and parts of
Asia is 1 million RMB.
Cc.mmication         7,365      4,200 Shijiazhuang           Toshiba (Japan); Texas               This ERC's sponsor is highly         The domestic software market is
Software &                             Communications        Instruments, American LSI Logic    sophisticated in using                 expected to grow tenfold by the
ASIC                                   Laboratory (SCL)      Corp., GTE, Synopsis, Image, (US); telcommunications and part of the year 2000 (30-40 billion RMB), and
(productivity                                                GMD (Germany); Canada Bell North   strategy is to expand that use to the communications share is
enharvd ent)                                                 Lab; and numerous domestic firms   disseminate information .  In          estimated to be 20X.  The ERC
and institutes.                      addition, the ERC will propose      pLans to capture 10-20X of the
product introduction-orientations  sales volume in that category.  By
and technical discussion            1995, the market for domestic
meetings; round-the-clock           integrated circuits will  be at
technical service networks and      least 15 million units worth US#
major cities; and publish and       200-300 million.
disseminate information through
E-mail and industry associations.
Nauletic             6,942      3,500 The Institute of       General Motors;, Tridus, IG Co.,   Utilize its vast network of both  Industries to benefit are:
Materials                              Physics (IP) and      University of Delaware,Aura System sponsors domestically and abroad; automobiles, medical equipment,
(prodchtivity                         Beijing San Huan New (US); CNRS, Rhone-Poulenc              name a special deputy director      computers, and electrical
erauraoent I                           Materials High-Tech  (France); Luckey MetaL, Korea;        for the diffusion and marketing    equipment.  Domestic production of    X 
erniron entaL                          Inc. (BSHNM)          Krupp, Vaccun Schemeltze; numerous division; establish regional          magnetic materials and devices in    ._ >
iq2pet)                                                      other domestic firms and             branches to focus on SMEs; use      1990 was about 2.4 billion RMB (6X         X
institutes.                          the mass media to advertise, and  of world production).  The target         0
establish a training center.        of the ERC is to take 50-60X of
domestic market and 15X of              '0 co
international market by the year
I                                                                                                         1__ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   2000.



ERCs       Estimted  Estimated       Key Sponsors          Foreign & Domestic Partners              Diffution Strategy                         Market
(Objectives)   Project       IBRD
Cost       Loan
USSOOO     usSOOO
Effective            5,662      3,100 4 sponsors: (i)        Resource Chemical Institute          Utilize and expand the network of Market is users of natural gas as
Utilization of                         Changdu Institute of (Japan), Chicago NaturaL Gas          four sponsors; deveLop 5             basic raw materials for energy
Natural Gas                           Organic Chemistry;   Resource Institute, (US); French   strategies: information;                sources (Liquid fuels and chemical
(prodictivity                         (ii) Dalian            Institute of Petroleum; Topsoe Co. technology; marketing; business;  & industrial materials).  Ammonia
ednct                                  Institute of          (Denmark); and Montecatinit Co.    and personnel.  Strengthen            plants alone represent 1400 users.
and                                    Chemical Physics;    (Italy) and numerous domestic         outreach activities through         Yearly estimates from tech
enviror_mntal                          (iii) Chengda         pLants and institutes.               technicaL exchanges,                 transfer for the following is: p-
iq.ct)                                Chemical Engineering                                        publications, and hosting           aminophenol, 25 million RMB; ethyl
Co.; and (iv)                                              international conferences.           alcohol from synthetic gas; 8
Chengda Chemical                                                                               million RMB; and olefine from
Fertilizer Plant.                                                                              methyt alcohol, 5 million RMB.
Paper                6,135      3,000 The South China        Universities of Quebec & Toronto   SCUT will establish an                 There are about 2000 straw paper
Tedm  ology and                       University of          (Canada); Royal Institute of         information channel for diffusion mills in China , and estimates
PoLLution                              Technology (SCUT)    Technology (Sweden); Univ. of         of new technologies; set up a        indicate that in five years,
Control                                                      North Carolina, Black Clawson Co.  training center; hold seminars;   200,000 tons of lignin will
(productivity                                                (US); Adritz Sprout-Bauer            and advertise in the mass media   substitute as a rubber reinforcing
erharcement                                                  (Austria); and numerous domestic   specifically to SMEs.                 agent (which is also cheaper).
amd                                                          plants and institutes.                                                    Given that the industry will grow
emviroantal                                                                                                                           at about 8-10X annually, the
impact)                                                                                                                               demand for new products, technicaL0
equ)ipment and training will also
____ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ grow.
Ultra-Fine           3,972       1,900 East China State      Jenkins Newell Danford Co. (UK);   Strategy aimed at transferring         With over 5000 powder plants (90X
Pouder                                 University &          Taiwan Metal Co.; Korean Ewon;       technology to SMEs to acheive        SMEs), needing technological
Proidtion                              Technology (ECtST)   Nippon Paint Co., Unitech,            productivity gains.  The ERC will upgrading, the market is enormous
Technology                                                   (Japan); Ohio State Un., MIT,        set up internal and external         for raw materials supplied by
(proidtivity                                                 Dupont, American Superstar           units for sales and marketing to  ultr-fine powders. Due to the wide
wnhuintt                                                     International (US); Henkel Co.,    act as diffusion channels; create diversity of applications of
an                                                           Technische Uni. Clausthal, B.        a professional society of powder  powder products, the ERC will
nvirommntal                                                  Braun MeLsungen AG, Hoechst          industries; train staff and          focus on 20 selected ultr-fine
impact)                                                      (Germany); and numerous domestic   customers; and promote test           products. Regarding magnetic
plants and institutes.               plants and site visits.             powders alone, China needs 50W
tpa and can only produce 1500 of
inferior quality.
Nigh                 7,702      4,500 The University of    Aachen Univ. (Germany); MIC            A marketing dept. will be set up  Market for steel rolling
Efficimecy                             Science & Technology (Russia); Ohio State Univ., Purdue to monitor industry's needs and   technologies benefits
Rolling                                Beijing (USTS)        Univ., (US); Davey Corp. (UK), and diseamminate timely information.   manufacturing industry as well as
Tednology                                                   numerous domestic firms and          A consultative and training         automobile and machinery.  China
(proiintivity                                                institutes.                          center will also be established    maintains over 2000 mills, and the
enhu n t                                                                                          and three trade networks in         ERC expects to capture 80X of the        b
NW                                                                                                cooperation with 37 enterprises   market over the next five years.
erwironmental                                                                                     have been set up for technology                 
Iimpc t)        l          l          ltransfer and diffusion.                                                                          ____
0
I.ih.cs



ERCs       Estimted Estimted          Key Spsors             Foreign L Di stic Partners                 Diffusion Strategy                          Market
(Objectives)    Project       IBRD
cost       Loan
USSOOO     USSOOO
Advanced              5,203       3,000 Zhengzhou University AC Technology, EDS, Cornell             The ERC is committed to the           The market is composed of about
Pol>_er                                                        University (US); IKV Institute,    establishment of 20 branch               20,000 enterprises of which 95%
Processing                                                     German BattenfieLd Co. (Germany);  centers (over 7-10 years) in             are SNEs.  The domestic plastics
Technology                                                     Taiwan Qichen Tech. Co., Taiwan    various regions throughout the           market is expected to increase 8%
Cprdxhctivity                                                  Rubber Industry Dev. Center; Matra country to provide access of             annually, valued at US$2.5
erdmoxmment                                         (France); Sodick Co., Tokyo Univ.  technologies to SMEs. A training  billion.  Industries benefitting
a_d                                                            (Japan); and numerous domestic        center wilL also support              from advanced polymer processing
ernvir rntal                                                   plants and enterprises.               customers nationwide, as well as  are machinery, electronics, Light
imact)                                                                                               publications and technical            industry, automobile, aviation,
_____________                                                            exchanges.                            etc.
Fine                  8,049      4,000 The Lanzhou             Occidental Chemical Co., UOP Co.,  Strategy based on two-tier               Industries relying on fine
Petrocheicals                           Institute of           Oxychem Co., Shell (US); Oiles        approach consisting of technology petrochemcials are mining,
(praLictivity                           Chemical Physics       Perfume (Japan); numerous domestic transfer through training and            petroleum, medicine,
enhancemnt                              (LICP) and Lanzhou   plants and institutes; and              technology related services, and  pharmaceuticals, light industry,
ard                                     Petroleun Processing technical exchanges with 60             the information feedback stage        and electronics.  China's
envirormental                           and Chemical Complex foreign universities throughout    based on market information.               industries are deficient in
i act)                                  (LPPCC)                Europe, and Asia.                     Technology and information            intermediates and technologies of
disseminated through the mass        fine chemcials are especially
media, conferences, periodicaLs,   suited for SMEs, the target for
and workshops.                       this ERC. 
Digital               9,024       4,500 The 4th Research       Intel, AT&T Bellcore, California   Strategy is based on applying            The market is enormous given the
Cordless                                Institute (FRI) of   Institute of Technology (US);           network of sponsor; creating an    population of China.  The ERC is
Telephone                               the Ministry of        Montreal University (Canada);         institute for marketing to            expected to gain 20% of the market
System                                  Posts and              PhiLipps (Holland); and numerous   monitor industrial trends;               for products and services (13
(prmdJctivity                           TeLecammunications   domestic firms and institutes.          disseminate new  standards through  million subscribers) by the year
enhancemnt)                             (MPT)                                                        workshops and publications; and    2000.  The market also includes a
promote technical exchanges.         multitude of manufacturers, and
the nationaL telecrammuinications
__________  __________                                                                        network.
Telecmmicat          7,000       5,000 Tenth Research          AT&T, Northern Telecom, Shanghai-  The strategy is based on                 TeLecommunication equipment
ijrs Switching                         rInstitute of the       BeLgium, Bell Telephone Coepany    dissemination of information             manufacturers, telecomeunication
(productivity                           Ministry of Post and                                         through publications,                 operators, mostly in the small-
enhancent)                              Telecommunications                                           professional and user                 and medium-size mrket.
associations, training, and
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  demonstration   tools.
TOTCAL              3a3,96     192  tlOO
0
0
1-uS-



- 203 -
Annex 4.9
Page 1 of 1
CHINA
TECENOLOGY DEVnELOPENT PROJECT
Procedur-s for Anpraical and AMproval of NRCa
1.          With a view to broadening the base of the proposed project and
ensuring transparency in the process of selection and review of ERCs, the
following procedures for appraisal and approval of the ERCs were agreed upon by
the GOC and the Bank:
2.          The SPC has already advertised in the national media an invitation
to participate  in the ERC program to R&D  institutions,  universities,  and
enterprises that wish to sponsor an ERC.
3.          The SPC has set up a two-stage panel review process  involving
leading national experts from industry, science, and technology. First, the SPC
has established a two-tiered Sector Committee of Experts that will examine the
technical, financial, and economic rationale for the establishment of the ERCs.
The rationale for public sector support will be based on whether the ERCs
proposed would: (i) have a broad positive environmental impact from the
adoption of the technology; (ii) generate productivity-enhancing benefits to a
large number of potential users of technologies that would not be widely
diffused without the engineering development and dissemination efforts
undertaken by the proposed ERCs; and (iii) generate other activities in which
there are large economic and social benefits arising from externalities due to
economies of scale or other systemic benefits from undertaking technology
development or engineering.
4.          Second, after the Sector Committee has made its recommendations on
-whether the proposed ERCs meet the rationale for public sector support, a
distinguished Panel of Experts (listed in Annex 4.3) will conduct a detailed
review of the proposals and rank them according to their merit, following the
selection criteria jointly established by the SPC and the Bank. These criteria
include: the relevance of the proposed program to the Chinese economy, the
scope of the work and its potential to cater to a large number of industries,
the ability of the proponent to transfer technology to commercial use, the
proposed collaboration strategies with foreign and domestic sources of
technology, the dissemination strategy for proposed products and services, and
the management and structure of the sponsoring institution (technical and
financial criteria are listed in greater detail in Annex 4.1).
5.          The best proposals will then be submitted to the Bank for feedback
and comments on their rationale for public sector involvement and Bank support.
6.          Once  the  Bank  has  endorsed  the  proposals  according  to  the
established criteria, the GOC will provide a final acceptance of the proposals
as eligible under the ERC program.
7.          The proposals are then submitted to China International Engineering
Consulting Corporation, the implementing agency and financial intermediary,
which will determine the financial and economic merit of the proposal and
decide on its funding.



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
......................................... .......................... .....................  .............
INVESTMENT (ERCS)
PUBLIC SERVICES.;    
NIM .
(~~~~ .     .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   . .   . . . ..  . . . .Njjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj 
.   .   . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - . .  .  ....  .  .  .  .    .   . .iiiiii ...i .iii
TECH.CASSISTACES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.____.................................................,,,.....
1,995 1,996 1,997 1,998 1,999 2,0002 2001 2,002 Xx
FISCAL YEAR 
U  DESIGN/APPRAISAL FI PROCUREMENT EZ IMPLEMENTATION|



- 205 -
Annex 5  2
Page 1 of 1
TECMMOLOGY DEVELOPT PROJECT
Zatimt   Diahuruemnt Sch-dul- for Ban  Loan
Diaburuaoent
Bank Fiscal      Profile
Year and         China         Profile         Annual        Cumulative       Annual        Cumulative
8ea_  ter      Industry          Bank
US$ million                    % of total
1996
Sept-Dec.                 0               0            0.0            0.0               0               0
Jan-June                  3               3            6.0            6.0               3               3
1997
July-Dec.                 6             10             6.0           12.0               3               6
Jan-June                 10              18            7.9           19.9               4              10
1998
July-Dec.                14             30            26.0           45.9              13              22
Jan-June                 26             42            30.0           75.9              15              38
1999
July-Dec.                46             54            28.0          103.9              14              54
Jan-June                 SB             66            28.0          131.9              14              66
2000
July-Dec.                70             78            25.0          156.9              13              78
Jan-June                 82             86            25.0          181.9              12              86
2001
July-Dec.                90             94             6.0          187.9               3              94
Jan-June                 90             96             6.0          193.9               3              97
2002
July-Dec.                94             98             6.1          200.0               3             100
Jan-June                 98            100
2003
July-Dec                100               -                              -              -               -



- 206 -                           Annex 6.1
Page 1 of 6
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chaterof  ol ChLna ScinL ai   schnology  nvsent CoXRoration
Chapter 1: General Principles
Article 1   Gold China Science & Technology Investment Co. (hereinafter called
"GCC") is a holding limited company by the State Planning
Commission (SPC) with independent legal position. It works on, as
an   intermediary,   transferring   research   achievements   into
productivity.
Article 2   Under  the  guidance  of  the  national  development  strategy  of
economy, science and technology, sector policies, technology
policies as well as the long-term program and planning, GCC is to
promote applying the research results and transferring the new
technologies into production. GCC also provides the services for
implementation and intermediary of the Technology Development
Project (constructing the national engineer research centers)
loaned by the World Bank.
Article 3   GCC abides by the related law, regulations and decrees issued by
the state. It upholds the socialist direction and the principles
of science, justice and reliability. GCC will implement various
business to the contracts and active efficiency.
Article 4   GCC  will  carry  out  its  operations  with  the  principles  of
independent  management,   self-responsibility   for  losses   and
profits, self-restriction and self-develoment.
Article 5   The registered capital of GCC is 30 million Yuan RMB.  The total
capital is 80 million Yuan RMB which is from SPC. The Corporation
will increase its registered capital with the development of the
corporation businesses.
Article 6   GCC is located in Beijing (office address is in Haidian District.)
GCC will set up branches in other places according to the
condition possible and the development of its businesses.
Chapter 2: Business Scope
Article 7   GCC undertakes the transferring of key research achievements and
related businesses. The corporation provides the consultancy
appraisal and intermediary services in the process of research
achievements transferring to industry; promotes the improvements
of the technology used in both small and medium enterprises and
township and village factories.



- 207 -
Annex 6.1
Page 2 of 6
Article 8   Being entrusted, GCC provides the administration of implementation
and services for constructions of national engineering research
centers which are financed by the World Bank, GCC provides the
services for administration of the Technology Development Project
and provides the services for purchases of the ERCs according to
the purchasing formula provided for by the World Bank, at the
meantime, GCC manages the payment and the recovery of the World
Bank investment to the ERCs and prepares the necessary data and
document for SPC, MOF, and the World Bank.
Articl- 9   GCC will develop the foreign cooperations, raising the funds from
various channels, so as to promote the commercialization of
research achievements both home and abroad, and to strengthen the
competitiveness of domestic products.
Article 10  Creating  appropriate  conditions  for  proceeding  development,
operations, and business agent of new high tech products
(mechanism,    electron,    information,      chemical    industry,
communication, new material, environmental protection and energy
saving.)
Article 11  Developing the consultancy services of technical information and
appraising the technical transferring activities.
Chapter 3: Operational Mode
Article 12  All  the  activities  of  GCC  will  apply  contracting  approach
according to the international custom. By various means including
joint shares, holding shares, joint ventures, joint operations,
and shared cooperations, GCC will run comprehensive businesses
under the national laws and try to maintain or increase the value
of state-owned assets.
Chapter 4: Operational Management
Article 13  Under the guidance of the long-term planning,  program,  sector
policies and technology policies prepared by SPC, GCC will make
full use of market mechanism to appraise the investment projects
and analysis risks independently and flexibly with scientific
management and operational modes.
Article 14  The Corporation is independent in its operation, management and
accounting, and self responsible for losses and profits. It will
set up independent business and financial units.
Article 15  Based on the related stipulations of the state and the business
needs, GCC will appoint the concerned financial organizations to
manage and run the funds and make them apply to the technology
transferring.
Chapter 5: Organizations and Rights



- 208 -                           Ann
Page 3 of 6
Article 16 GCC will separate the governmental functions from the enterprise,
and adopt the general manager responsibility system under the
leadership of the shareholder meting. The primary shareholder of
GCC is SPC. The board of directors (BOD) of GCC will be selected
by SPC. The BOD will be consisted of five persons, of which one
chairperson, four members (of which one is executive director).
The term of the BOD is four years.
Entrusted by the shareholder meeting, the BOD has the following
rights:
1.    Reviewing and making decisions on the general development
directions and annual operations plan of the Corporation;
2.    Reviewing and determining the general operation policies of
the Corporation;
3.    Reviewing and checking the annual budget plan, final budget,
and profit distributing plan of the Corporation;
4.    Reviewing  and  approving  the  increase  and  deduction  of
registered capital, merge, sub-establishment, termination
and clearance of the Corporation;
5.    Reviewing and approving the major investment, joint venture
and share holding decisions.
6.    Determining the employment and dismissal of general manager,
deputy general managers and the rewards and punishment to
them. The general manager will be nominated by the BOD and
approved by SPC (four-year term). The general manager
nominates the deputy general managers, chief economist,
chief accountant and chief engineer and shall get the
approval of the BOD and submits to the SPC for file.
7.    Listening to the working reports of the general manager
periodically,
8.    Discussing and addressing other major issues which the BOD
regards as necessary concerning operation and personnel of
the Corporation.
Article 17 The BOD will hold several regular meetings annually. The meetings
will be presided by the Chairperson or the delegated executive
director when the chairperson is not able to attend the meeting.
In addition, interim BOD meeting will be held when the general
manager makes the request or three BOD members propose to.
During the period of no BOD meeting, the Chairperson is
responsible for the daily works of the BOD, while the major issues
will be reported to the BOD and filed.
Article 18 the Corporation will have one general manager and several deputy
general managers. According to the development of the Corporation
businesses, the Corporation will have chief economist, chief
accountant, and chief engineer gradually. The staff will be
employed on the contract basis.



- 209 -
Annex-6.1
Page 4 of 6
Article 19  The  Corporation  will  set  up  several  functional  departments
according to the requirements of the businesses and employ
qualified staff for the department.
Article 20  The Corporation will expand its business scope gradually and set
up subcompanies or subsidiaries accordingly.
Article 21  The  organization  mechanism  of  GCC  can  be  expressed  as  the
following chart.
Chart of Organization Mechanism of GCC: (draft)
|BOD|
General Kanagor
D-puty General M^nager
Office        Finance      Service Center    Domestic     International
Dopartment    for Sci. & Tech.  Business     Cooperation
Development    Department     Department
l                        ~~~~~~~~~~Proje*cts
Of which the organization of Service Center for Science and Technology
Development Projects can be showed as the following chart.



- 210 -
AnnAEx 6 1
Page 5 of 6
Director of
the Center
Deputy Director                              Project
of the Center                             Management
- Planning              - Coordination
- Progreso Checking     - Consultation &
- Progress Reporting    R-aluation
Technical
Assi tance
{~~~I
- raining Plan
-Dtailod Arrangementj
- Conference
Arrangements
I     Eq-uipment
Procuremnt
- Planning              - Contracting
- Tender Offering       - Approving
- Tender gvaluating     -Implementing &
Checking
Financ- 
Management|
- Fund-Spending         - Chart Reporting
Supervicion             - Special Account
-Reviewing              Management
Article 22  The main duties of the legal representative of the Corporation are
the following:
1.    Organizing and implementing various decisions of the BOD;
2.    Formulating   the   draft   development   plan,   operational
policies, and regulations of the Corporation;
3.    Proposing the annual budget plan, final budget, and profit
distributing plan;



- 211 -
Annex 6.1
Page 6 of 6
4.    Determining  the  establishment   and  adjustment  of  the
institutes of the Corporation;
5.    Determining  employment,  dismissal,  salary,  rewards,  and
punishment of the staff under the deputy general manager;
6.    Executing daily administrative,  operational,  and financial
matters and signing of documents concerned;
7.    Signing  of  contracts  and  agreements  of  major  projects
following the decisions of the BOD. The deputy general
managers assist the general manager in implementing the
daily operations according to their divisions of task.
Chapter 6: Financial Management and Profit Distribution
Article 23  GCC carries out the financial activities following the enterprise
financial standards and accounting standards issued by the state.
GCC will pay taxes according to the laws and stipulations of the
state.
Article 24  GCC distributes its profit following the Company Law. GCC will
withdraw funds appropriately for development and material benefits
under the prerequisites of guaranteeing the development of the
Corporation and value maintain or increasement of state-owned
assets. Subject to ratification, GCC can put its benefits into
effect. Corporation to promote transferring the science and
technology achievements.
Article 25 GCC carries out the laborer employing systems of engagement
contract under the prerequisite of competity.
Chapter 7: Program of Revising the Charter of the Corporation
Article 26  The  charter  of  GCC  will  be  examined  and  approved  by  the
shareholder meeting, the top authority of the Corporation. When
the dominant shareholder is the SPC, the charter will be examined
and approved by the SPC. The program of the adjustment and
termination of the charter is the same as above.
Chapter 8: Termination of the Corporation
Article 27  The terminate program of GCC is: When the Corporation is going
bankrupt or closed, the shareholder meeting of the Corporation
will examine and approve whether GCC terminates its business and
applies for bankrupt following the related regulations of the
state. When the dominated shareholder of the Corporation is the
SPC, SPC will determine whether the Corporation terminates its
business and applies for bankrupt.
Chapter 9: Supplements
Article 28 This Charter will become effective after it is approved by the
high authoritative organization and registered in the industrial
and commercial administrative organization.



- 212 -                             Annex7.1.
Page 1 of 4
Ca=
TECHENOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dociuent. in the Proj*ct File.
DOCUMENT I
LIST OF NRCs
1.    Proposal  for  Power  System  Security  Control,  February  1994  by
Nanjing Automation research Institute, Nanjing.
2.    Proposal  for  Power  Electronics,  February  1994  by  Xian  Power
Electronics Research Institute, Xian.
3.    Proposal for Die and CAD Technology,  February 1994 by Shanghai
Jiao Tong university, Shanghai.
4.    Proposal for Industrial textiles,  January 1994 by China Textile
Academy, Beijing.
S.    Proposal  for  Transducer  Technology,  February  1994  by  Shenyang
Institute of Instrumentation Technology.
6.    Proposal  for  Process  Automation,   January  1994  by  Shanghai
Institute of Process Automation and Instrumentation.
7.    Proposal for Industrial Heat Treatment and Drive System, March
1994 by Zhejiang University.
8.    Proposal for Ship Design Technology, January 1994 by Marine Design
and Research Institute, Shanghai.
9.    Proposal for Advanced Power Sources Technology,  February 1994 by
Tianjin Institute of Power sources.
10.   Proposal  for  Software,  January  1994  by  Peking  University  and
Beijing Guangdong Computer Center, Guangdong.
11.   Proposal  for  Surfactant  Technology,  January  1994  by  Research
Institute of Daily Chemical industry, Taiyuan.
12.   Proposal  for New  Welding  Technology,  February  1994  by  Harbin
Research Institute of Welding, Harbin.
13.   Proposal for High Efficiency Rolling, February 1994 by University
of Science and Technology, Beijing.
14.   Proposal for Cordless Phone, January 1994 by The Fourth Research
Institute, Xian.



- 213 -
Annex 7.1
Page 2 of 4
15.   Proposal for Advanced Polymer Processing Technology, February 1994
by Zhengzhou Institute of Technology, Zhengzhou.
16.   Proposal for Synthesis of Rubber and Plastic materials,  February
1994 by Beijing Yanshan Petrochemical Research Institute, Beijing.
17.   Proposal  for  Rare  Metal  Material  Processing,  January  1994  by
Northwest Institute for Non-Ferrous Metal Research, Xian.
18.   Proposal  for Clean Extraction and Energy Saving in Non-Ferrous
Metallurgy, February 1994 by Beijing General Research Institute of
Mining and Metallurgy, Beijing.
19.   Proposal  for  Converter  Technology,  February  1994  by  Zhuzhou
Electric Locomotive research Institute.
20.   Proposal for Optical Disk Technology,  February 1994 by Shanghai
Institute of Metallurgy, Shanghai Institute of optics and fine
Mechanics, China Textile Machinery Company Limited, Shenzhen
Advanced Science and Technology Laservideo company Limited.
21.   Proposal  for Advanced  Educational  Technology,  January  1994  by
Tsinghua University, Beijing.
22.   Proposal   for  Synthetic   Fiber,   February   1994   by  Shanghai
Petrochemical company, Shanghai.
23.   Proposal for Communication Software, February 1994 by Shijizhuang
communication laboratory.
24.   Proposal  for Magnetic Materials,  January  1994 by  Institute  of
Physics, and Beijing San Huan New Materials High Tech Inc..
25.   Proposal  for  Rare  Earth  Materials,  February  1994  by  General
Research Institute for Non-Ferrous Metals, Beijing.
26.   Proposal  for Energy Saving  in Power  systems  February  1994  by
Electric Power Research Institute.
27.   Proposal for Effective Utilization of Natural Gas, February 1994
by Chengdu Institute of Organic Chemistry, Dalian Institute of
Chemical  Physics,  Chengdu  Chemical  Engineering  Co.,  Chengdu
Chemical Fertilizer Plant, Chengdu.
28.   Proposal for Powder Production Technology,  February 1994 by East
China University of Science and Technology.
29.   Proposal  for  Laser  Processing,   September  1993  by  Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, Wuchang.



- 214 -                            Annex 7.1
Page 3 of 4
30.   Proposal  for Fluid Machinery and Compressor,  September 1993 by
Xian Jiaotong University.
31.   Proposal   for  Distillation  Technology,   May  1993  by  Tianjin
University.
32.   Proposal for Clean Coal Combustion Technology for Industrial and
Domestic Boilers, August 1993 by Tsinghua University, Beijing.
33.   Proposal for Fine Petrochemical Intermediates,  September 1993 by
Lanzhou   Institute   of   Chemical   Physics,   Lanzhou   Petroleum
processing and Chemical Complex, Lanzhou.
34.   Proposal  for Distillation  Technology,  September  15,  by Tianjin
University and China Petroleum Chemical Corporation.
35.   Proposal  for  Manufacturing  Automation,  May  1993  by  Beijing
Research Institute of Automation for Machine Building Industry.
36.   Proposal  for  Powder  Metallurgy,  May  1993  by  Central  South
University, Hunan.
37.   Proposal  for  Olefin  Polymerization  and  Catalyst,  May  1993  by
Beijing Research Institute of chemical Industry, Beijing.
38.   Proposal  for Audio/Video  Technical  Diffusion,  January  1994,  by
Panda Electronics Group and Nanjing Radio Factory.
39.   Proposal  for  Telecommunication  Switching  and  Software  Support
System, September 1993 by The 10th Research Institute of MPT.
40.   Proposal  for High  Performance  Homogenized Alloys,  May  1994  by
Institute of Metal Research.
41.   Proposal for Shipping Control System,  September 1993 by Shanghai
Ship and Shipping Research Institute, Shanghai.
42.   Proposal for Net Shape Manufacturing,  September 1993 by Beijing
Research Institute of Mechanical and Electrical Technology MMEI,
Beijing.
43.   Proposal for Clean Coal Combustion Technology,  September 1993 by
Thermal Power Research Institute.
44.   Proposal for Petroleum Refining Technology and Catalyst, September
1993 by research Institute of Petroleum Refining, Beijing.
45.   Proposal for News Processing and Electronic Publishing,
January 1993 by Peking University.
46.   Proposal for Mobile Communication, 1993 by Guangzhou Communication
Institute, Guangzhou.



- 215 -                            Annex 7.1
Page 4 of 4
47.   Industrial  Environmental  Protection,  November  1993  by  Central
Research Institute of Building and construction, Ministry of
Metalurgical Industry.
48.   Proposal for Paper Technology and Pollution Control, February 1994
by South China University of Technology, Guangzhou.
49.   Proposal  for Urban  Pollution  Control,  January  1994  by  Tongji
University, Shanghai Tongji Science and Technology Industry Co.
Ltd..
OTER DOCUMENTS
DOCUITH  II     Proposal for Strengthening the Research Basis
of Metrology and Improving the Capability of Measurement
and Testing Services, January,1993 by National Institute
of Metrology.
DOCUnENT III    Environmental Impact Assessment for ERCs.
DOCUMENT rV     Proposal for Funding of A Productivity Center.
DOCUMENT V      Objectives and Management Modalities of the ERC Program



- 216 -
Annex 7.2
Page 1 of 1
CHINA
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline of Contents of Semi-Annual Report
(to be furnished by GCC within 30 days of end of each quarter)
I.         Summary
II.        Activities and Developments Related to the Implementation of the
Project, by component:
(i)   Approvals of ERC proposals and activities under the public
services component;
(ii) Procurement Activities (details in annexure) - Tender document
preparation, tendering and contract awards by ERC, progress by
contract compared to agreed procurement schedule and contracts
(table including (i) date of bid invitation; (ii) date bids
received; (iii) date of bid validity; (iv) date of contract award;
and (v) delay or elapsed time).
(iii) Status and Progress of Consultant Services (progress report of
technical assistance component in annexure).
III.       Financial Management - Broad parameters of GCC's financial
situation; project expenditures by component; disbursements.



- 217 -
Annex 7.3
Page 1 of 1
cam
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SBRervision Plan
Dates             Activity                  Skills                 SW
FY96                   Supervision        Management/Engineering          3
Mission            Technology Policy             2
Financial Analysis           2
Procurement               2
Headquarters              Management               3
Technology Policy            2
FY97                   Supervision        Management/Engineering          4
Mission            Technology Policy             4
and                 Procurement                4
Headquarters
FY98                 Mid-Term Review      Management/Engineering          4
Technology Policy            4
Procurement               4
Economics                2
Financial Analysis           2
Headquarters              Management               2
Economics                2
FY99                   Supervision        Management/Engineering          3
Mission                Procurement               3
and              Technology Policy             3
Headquarters
FY2000                 Supervision        Management/Engineering          3
Mission                Procurement               3
and              Technology Policy             3
Headquarters
FY2001                     PCR                                            12



