                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 25493

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (SCPD-3847S; CPL-38470; SCL-3847A)

                                           ON A

                                           LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 200 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                          FOR A
                           TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                        June 9, 2003




Private Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective May 2003)

                               Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan (Y)
                                          Y1 = US$ 0.12
                                       US$ 1 = 8.28

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAD     Computer Aided Design
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
ERC     Engineering Research Center
FEPS    Final Executive Project Summary
GCC     Golden China Corporation
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HRD     Human Resource Development
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IPR     Intellectual Property Right
JV      Joint Venture
LLC     Limited Liability Corporation
MEIO    Mechanical, Electrical Import/Export Office
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOFTEC  Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation
NIM     National Institute of Metrology
PC      Productivity Center
PO      Project Office
PRC     People's Republic of China
RMB     Renminbi (Chinese Currency)
R&D     Research and Development
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SDPC    State Development & Planning Commission
SLC     Stock Limited Corporation
SOE     State Owned Enterprise
SPC     State Planning Commission
STIC    Science and Technology Corporation
UK      United Kingdom
US      United States
VAT     Value Added Tax
WB      World Bank
WTO     World Trade Organization

                              Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din (Jamil) Kassum
                           Country Director:     Yukon Huang
                             Sector Director:    Homi Kharas
                         Task Team Leader:       Lily Uy Hale

                                            CHINA
                       TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 9
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P003600                                                      Project Name: CN-TECHNOLOGY
                                                                         DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Lily Uy Hale                                                TL Unit: EASPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 9, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: CN-TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                                L/C/TF Number: SCPD-3847S;
                                                                                                     CPL-38470; SCL-3847A
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (67%); General energy sector (15%); General
                            information and communications sector (15%); Central government
                            administration (3%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Technology
                            diffusion (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization
                            (P); Climate change (S); Pollution management and environmental
                            health (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    05/15/1992                                        Effective:                         02/12/1996
   Appraisal:    11/11/1993                                            MTR:                           06/15/1999
    Approval:    02/28/1995                                         Closing:                          12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/State Development & Planning Commission (SDPC)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Jemal-ud-din (Jamil) Kassum                         Gautam Kaji
Country Director:          Yukon Huang                                         Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:            Homi Kharas                                         Richard Newfarmer
Team Leader at ICR:        Lily Uy Hale                                        Walter Vergara
ICR Primary Author(s): Lily Uy Hale; Jacques Yenny


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The objective of the project is to support the Government's continuing reforms in technology policy and
    institutions so as to promote the development and/or adoption of cleaner, productivity-enhancing
    technologies in China's industries. The project is designed to accelerate diffusion and adaptation of
    technologies in China and abroad through the deepening of technology markets and through
    institutional initiatives.

    The objective was consistent with the Bank's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
    emphasized the assistance to the key challenges facing the government over the medium term, i.e.
    sustainable growth within a stable macroeconomic environment, and poverty reduction, human
    resource development (HRD), and improving the distribution of income, both across the urban-rural
    divide and among the different strata of Chinese society. The project addressed these challenges
    through its support in the following two areas: (a) the transformation of a segment of university
    laboratories and research institutes into market-oriented technology development corporations; and (b)
    the strengthening of public services for norms and standards, necessary for technology development,
    including the modernization of the National Institute of Metrology (NIM) and technical assistance and
    training.

    The first area led to furthering the market orientation with the associated increased competitive
    pressures of these transformed institutions. These undertakings are in tandem with the Government's
    SOE reforms which formed part and parcel of the economic sustainability packages. The project has
    in fact deepened its reform objectives by focusing on deepening the technology markets via policy
    incentives for various technology subsectors. The project also encouraged the promotion and adoption
    of environmental friendly technologies which contributed to the Government's effort in curbing the
    spread of environmental problems amidst rapid urbanization and the flurry of development activities.

    The objectives of the project were clear and important for the country. The project responded to the
    Government's strategy for economic development outlined in a State Council Resolution on
    Technology issued in 1988, and summarized in the document submitted to the Bank by the State
    Planning Commission (SPC) in 1992, regarding the rationale for the project. Therefore, the project
    was clearly demand driven.       The project also supported the Bank's efforts to promote efficient
    industrial growth in China. The enterprise and financial reforms of the 1980s created strong pressure
    for firms to reduce costs and make more efficient use of energy and materials.           This requires
    productivity improvements and better environmental performance. This project assisted the transfer of
    research results to industrial applications.

3.2 Revised Objective:
    The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
    Component I: Engineering Research Centers (ERCs), US$390,300,000

    The design of this component is to assist in restructuring part of China's large R&D institutions into
    market-responsive corporations with the objective of adapting, developing and diffusing technologies,
    in particular those that have positive environmental impacts. At the same time, the ERCs will also
    produce prototypes and customized products and services that adopt foreign and domestic technologies.
    The implementation of these objectives has stimulated other entities in China's economy to behave more


                                                    - 2 -

    responsively to market forces. Laws and regulations have been changing and consolidating in support
    of market transformation. A number of relevant policy changes which supported the project objectives
    of the ERCs and further promoted liberalization of the market are listed in Annex 1.

    As the ERC program covered a wide range of sectors between R&D institutes, industrial enterprises,
    and foreign firms, their achievement and implementation experience also varied. The differences in
    their stage of restructuring, the relationship with their parent company and the nature of their research
    work led to the varied levels of administrative management capacity and the financial results of the
    companies.

    Component II: Technology Public Services, US$11,700,000

    The design of the project was well related to achieving its objectives. The project took into account the
    Bank's experience with technology development in China's industrial sector obtained through its
    industrial and education projects. Previous industrial projects included support for rural technology
    development; industrial diversification and modernization; and technology modernization in small and
    medium scale industry. Within the education sector, the bank supported higher education and research
    in the fields of science and engineering; expansion and upgrading of the technical education system;
    and reform of the management of science and technology programs. This project benefits in particular
    from the development, under previous projects, of well-endowed research institutions capable to reach
    out to the industrial sector. Some of these institutions have become sponsors for several ERCs
    supported by this project.

3.4 Revised Components:
    The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
    Quality at entry was satisfactory. The objectives of the project were consistent with the objectives of
    the CAS and clearly reflected Government priorities. Preparation was fairly lengthy and the dialogue
    led to the preparation of a Statement on Technology Policy by the Government. The statement was
    drafted by SPC in consultation with the State Science and Technology Commission, the State
    Education Commission, the State Asset Management Bureau, the State Economic and Trade
    Commission, the China Patent Office, the State Taxation Bureau, the Ministry of Personnel, and the
    Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC). The interaction with the Bank
    during preparation also led to a more market oriented approach to technology diffusion than originally
    planned. There was no Quality Assurance Group Assessment of this project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    The objectives of the project were generally achieved.          First, the transformation of   university
    laboratories and research institutes into market oriented technology development corporations, was
    very successful. The reform process in China accelerated during the past ten years, when the project
    was prepared and implemented. The 15th National Congress adopted additional measures to promote
    further liberalization of markets (ownership of companies, reform of State Owned Companies (SOEs),
    and adoption of new laws and regulations). In March 1999, the State Council issued regulations for
    the commercialization of scientific and technological advances, with the overall objective to further
    enable and promote the market for technology. Contract, patent copyright and competition laws to
    protect intellectual property and promote competition have been passed. For instance, in 1999, the



                                                      - 3 -

   Company Law has been amended to strengthen provisions regarding fraud prevention and promotion
   and protection of contracting mechanisms (see details in Annex 4). At the enterprise level, the central
   government decided to transform 1,000 R&D institutes under ten National Industrial Bureaus into
   corporate technology companies, demonstrating the seriousness of the Government science and
   technology policy reform process. Furthermore, one third of the R&D entities in sectors such as
   medicine, pharmaceuticals, agriculture and forestry, which were left out of the 1,000 institutes, will be
   encouraged to convert to corporate structure.

   The business transformation of many research institutes involved many environmental activities,
   including the improvement in industrial waste treatment, paper industrial pollution control technology,
   clean coal combustion technology, urban waste treatment technology, etc. Many of these institutes
   were able to acquire patents for these technological breakthroughs and contributed greatly to the
   industrial applications of these patented technologies.

    All these developments have significantly improved the prospects for technology markets in the country
    and thus contributed to the achievements of the project development objective. The project impact can
    be summarized as follows:

    a) it assisted the national transition program for research institutes, through the process of
    commercialization of assets from the R&D system and their reorganization into technology companies
    (ERCs);
    b) it promoted the policy dialogue on marketing of technology assets, issues which are now better
    understood and reflected in new regulations; and
    c) it was instrumental in the adoption of fiscal incentives for the industrialization of R&D at a
    national level.

    The second objective to strengthen technology related public services was also met successfully with
    the strengthening of the National Institute of Metrology (NIM) and the Productivity Center (PC). The
    NIM has made significant progress in improving standards of measurement and calibration and the PC
    has provided services to many enterprises as well as training courses (further details are in section 4.2).

4.2 Outputs by components:

    (a) Engineering Research Centers ­ Investment Component
    All of the 47 ERCs financed under the project have converted into either a Limited Liability
    Corporation (LLC) (21), a Stock Limited Corporation (SLC) (8), a State Owned Enterprise (SOE) (8),
    or have been absorbed as R&D centers of other LLC/SLC/SOE (10). Although progress has been
    achieved towards acquiring an independent corporate structure, some ERCs still have further to go to
    meet the commitment of converting to a definite corporate form as indicated in the Appraisal Report.
    Some ERCs have adopted the SOE structure as a transition towards a more definitive LLC or SLC
    structure. The conversion of the ERCs is complicated by the fact that some of the ERCs' sponsors are
    themselves transforming into corporate structures. Valuation and transfer of assets from the sponsors
    to the ERCs and the definition of ownership rights both take time.

    The 47 ERCs financed by the project were mostly in the fields of clean production and environmental
    protection technology, energy saving technology and information for industrial production. Both the
    Bank and the Project Office under SDPC have encouraged the ERCs to prepare business plans
    according to the format suggested by the Bank. SDPC believes that the ERCs would have to decide on
    their own about preparing business plans on the basis of market incentives and potential investors'



                                                    - 4 -

interest. In June 2002, the Bank conducted a management-training workshop, where 28 ERCs were
represented.   The workshop included a business-planning component, which generated a positive
response, suggesting that the ERCs are gradually developing a better understanding of the need for the
business plan as a management tool to improve their performance as business entities.

Substantial training activities for the ERCs took place during project implementation, many of them
financed from counterpart funds, which indicate the importance attached by SDPC to this component
of the project. Starting in 1996, The PO and GCC organized (with Bank assistance) national ERC
workshops almost every year, with an average participation of around 200. There were also a number
of study tours, organized by the PO/GCC every year starting in 1997. Finally, the ERCs organized
their own overseas and domestic training on management and transformation from 1997 to 2000 with
over 160 people participating in 36 teams. In 2001, SDPC organized an ERC exhibit and an ERC
Technology and Investment Conference at the Third Shenzen High Technology Fair. The ERC fair,
which displayed some 200 achievements, received 150,000 visitors and contracts worth RMB 260
million (US$ 32 million) were signed with 19 ERCs. The conference offered an opportunity for
financing organizations to identify new technology investment opportunities. The 47 ERCs now
employ about 6,900 persons, of which over 50 percent have senior or intermediate professional titles.

Monitoring ERCs business performance would have to continue beyond the procurement and
disbursement of the Bank project. The ERCs have not been in operation sufficiently long for the PO to
be able to present detailed performance indicators, along the line suggested in the appraisal report. In
terms of aggregate output, over the past five years, the 47 ERCs have transferred some 600 major
research results, implemented over 26,500 technology transfer contracts and established some 60
subsidiaries, including joint ventures. According to information presented by GCC, the aggregate
gross income of the project ERCs had achieved a cumulative RMB 7,225 million (US$ 870 million).
Regarding rates of return, only three of the 28 participating ERCs at the 2002 workshop volunteered
information. Returns ranged from 1.5 to 4 percent a year. Although these are below the SAR's target
of 12 percent per year, the reporting ERCs suggested that this reflected the start up situation of all
ERCs. They were confident that the rates of return would improve significantly as the ERCs achieve a
more steady operation. The Bank has also encouraged the ERCs to devise rescue strategies and
guidelines for orderly exit of the market in case of necessity. It is important that the ERCs recognize
early signs of impending failure and pursue rescue strategies early on and, if those fail, to organize a
smooth exit from the business, via merger/acquisition and/or liquidation.

(b) Strengthening the National Institute of Metrology (NIM) and Productivity Center (PC)
The objective of strengthening the NIM and the PC, to complement the transformation of the ERCs by
improving public services, has been achieved. The construction activities and equipment purchases
have been completed, and training of NIM staff has taken place. The Institute has reported progress in
improving primary standards of measurement and in establishing new standards for calibration of
engineering parameters. The completion of the Force Measurement Hall establishes NIM as Asia's
top-level force measurement laboratory with wide range of measurement, high accuracy, well-equipped
facility and good testing environment. There is also a number of other achievements in the fields of
national primary mass standards, upgrading of the gravimeter, optical fiber measuring instruments,
nano-meter laser wave length and time keeping system of the atomic time scale.

The Productivity Center (PC) has now established and improved databases and web-sites for the
standardization, quality management, mechanical standards, service measurement and experimental
conditions. To date, more than 2000 small and medium size enterprises have accepted services from
the PC, which covered machinery standardization, quality systems (ISO 9000), CAD technology,


                                                - 5 -

    production management, environmental management system (ISO 14000), machinery safety, advanced
    manufacturing technology, personal training, etc. In addition, by 2002, the PC had held 30 training
    courses for 7500 trainees. The PC plans to set itself up as a separate entity from the sponsoring
    institute, perhaps adopting the status of a non-profit corporation, as soon as Chinese law allows.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    The project benefits were expected to result from increasing the productivity of R&D assets and their
    effective deployment in support of industrial development.         The project was seen as playing an
    important role in the development and adaptation of new technologies to Chinese conditions and in the
    diffusion of cleaner technologies. Technology innovations and diffusion in the economy would result in
    improvement of productivity and efficiency of the industrial sector and improved environmental
    performance. No economic return was calculated. The number of contracts signed and the aggregate
    income of the ERCs mentioned above are good indications that the project economic benefits are
    materializing.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    Subprojects financed by the loan were expected to have rates of return of at least 12 percent. As
    mentioned above, it is too early to draw conclusions as to the financial performance of the 47 ERCs
    supported by the project. Some will be more successful than others and returns can be expected to be
    in a broad range.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    Technology invented at research institutes used to languish in the laboratories, the project has helped
    speed up its transfer to industry. It has also helped institutes and industry to take more risks in
    undertaking commercialization of innovations. In 1990, a basic agreement was reached by the Chinese
    Government and the Bank on establishing the ERCs as a new model for optimizing the Chinese
    industrial structures and improving the competitive capacity of Chinese industries. At the same time,
    many research institutes, universities and enterprises showed great interest in setting up ERCs. At that
    time, a number of countries like the US, UK and Australia were taking active measures to transfer
    scientific and technological results to production sectors. The Government has seen the project as
    helping to influence the systemic changes it was trying to promote in terms of the policies, operating
    mechanisms, and the working conditions affecting enterprises and research institutes. As mentioned
    above, Government recently extended the approach to 1,000 ERCs from the 47 included in the project.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    There were no adverse factors outside the Government control that had a negative impact on the
    project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    The Government took longer than expected in establishing a financing agent that would be responsible
    for: disbursement, collection and repayment of the loan funds, procurement of goods, application for
    withdrawals through the MOF, implementation of the technical assistance program, and assisting the
    project auditors. The Government first established a Science and Technology Corporation (STIC).
    Because of continuously ongoing changes in legislation, the statutes of the corporation had to be
    modified, staff of STIC were transferred into a new entity, the Golden China Corporation. As a result
    project negotiations only took place one year after appraisal and it took another year to make the
    project effective.



                                                     - 6 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    Procurement proved very cumbersome and delayed implementation for about 18 months. The closing
    date was extended accordingly from June 30, 2001, to December 31, 2002. The procurement process
    involved too many parties. They include the ERCs procurement agents, the Project Office (PO), GCC,
    MEIO (Mechanical, Electrical Import/Export Office) and MOF. Delays can occur at every step and
    by every party involved. In particular, MEIO review takes on average two months as they are short of
    staff and rely on outside experts and agencies beyond their control. Since procurement packages
    included a large number of technological equipment, many ERCs in anticipation of newer technology
    which would be in the market in a matter of few months, took longer than expected to decide what level
    of technological equipment they should buy. Due to this lengthy decision process by some ERCs, the
    procurement delay rippled through the entire implementation process. Another factor that led to
    implementation delay is the merger, acquisition and change of ownership of many parent companies.
    The change of the parent company structure resulted, in some cases, in a management vacuum in many
    ERCs, leading to non-activity for many months.

5.4 Costs and financing:
    The Bank loan was used to import advanced equipment and technological information while local funds
    financed construction and installations to house the imported equipment, as well as to provide
    environmental protection, fire and labor safety facilities. Some 600 million Yuan (about US$76
    million) was spent on civil works. The total project cost is estimated at US$365 million versus the
    appraisal estimate of US$402. The cost of the ERCs component came to US$355 million, against the
    estimate of US$390 million. The US$35 million difference is accounted mostly by the lower cost of
    civil works (US$28 million less than estimated) and of services (-US$12 million), while equipment
    purchases were US$5 million above estimates. The cost of the Public Service Component is US$10.3
    million, about one million less than the appraisal estimate. Details are in Annex 2. Bank disbursement
    reached US$196.8 million, and 3.02 million were cancelled at Government request. The reason for the
    cancellation was that after the bidding process and evaluation of bids, one purchasing ERC decided not
    to award the contract to the lowest bidder but to the bidder of their choice. As this was against the
    Bank's procurement rule, the implementing agency had to use its own counterpart funds to buy the said
    equipment and cancel the loan amount allocated for the purchase.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    Sustainability of the project is highly likely.      This is because the project was instrumental in
    introducing successful means to transfer more readily results of theoretical research to industry, and
    thus stimulate productivity in the economy as well as improve industrial environmental standards.
    While some of the ERCs financed by the project may fail, as there are clearly commercial risks, many
    others are likely to succeed. Preliminary results on contracts signed and revenues appear promising.
    So much so that the process is now being extended broadly throughout the economy as already
    presented in section 4.1.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    As shown by their activities in the last five years, described in section 4.2, the ERCs lost no time in
    starting operations. Similarly for the public services, where the Productivity Center has already
    provided assistance, especially to small and medium enterprises, by spreading applications of
    mechanical standardization, quality control, computer design technology and management
    consultations. The PC has also conducted large training programs.




                                                     - 7 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    The Government first approached the Bank with a preliminary project concept in 1990.                The
    Government had launched early versions of the institutional structure to be supported under the project
    and was introducing market mechanism in the Science and Technology system by gradually reducing
    subsidies to selected R&D institutions. Project preparation by the Bank started in earnest in May
    1992, and a Japanese grant was approved early for assistance in project preparation. The Bank's
    preparation and appraisal team worked diligently and thoroughly with the Government, which had
    shown a very high level of support from both SPC and MOF. Within the Bank however, support for
    the project was not unanimous, as there was reluctance at the time to invest in technology development
    at large. In addition, the project had four sector managers/division chiefs during the preparation
    period. A number of issues were raised at the FEPS meeting asking staff to revise the FEPS. A
    management review meeting was called in June 1993 to "decide whether the Bank was willing to
    support the basic framework of the project or whether it wished to abandon the project altogether".
    The meeting concluded with support of the project as restructured in the revised FEPS and appraisal
    took place in December 1993, eighteen months after preparation started. Some of the critical issues
    were the status of the ERCs and the setting up of a financial intermediation agency for sub-loan
    administration. The original idea was for the ERCs to be non-profit organizations, with independent
    legal standing. Through project preparation this was changed to the ERCs becoming market oriented
    independent limited liability companies (LLCs).       The financial intermediary to be set up by the
    Government also went through several trials (see 7.4 below). The project was approved by the Board
    in February 1995 and became effective a year later, about four years after the start of preparation. By
    then, all 47 ERCs to be supported by the project had already been approved by the Bank.

7.2 Supervision:
    Bank supervision of the project was conscientious and professional. Skill-mix and continuity of the
    team were satisfactory. The same task manager remained with the project from early preparation in
    1992 until after the mid-term review at the end of 1999. Team members participated actively in a
    number of workshops and assisted with the organization of field trips and overseas training for ERCs
    staff. Budgetary difficulties in the Bank created supervision problems in 1999, when contracts for the
    procurement and supervision consultant could not be renewed. This had a serious impact on the ability
    to respond in a timely manner to the many procurement activities required by the 47 different
    beneficiaries. Similarly the contract with the technology policy consultant was allowed to lapse.

    The development of performance indicators for the ERC program had been clearly specified in the
    appraisal report. Supervision missions kept pressing the point with the PO and GCC. The mid-term
    review mission suggested a set of performance indicators to be integrated into the supervision and
    reporting activities of the PO with the support of GCC. However, nothing was done. Maybe, the team
    could have paid even more attention to this matter. Such indicators were requested again in subsequent
    supervision missions and in the framework of ICR preparation. Their status is in Annex 1.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    Bank performance was satisfactory because of the dedication and continuity of staff, despite often
    contradicting signals from management (see Section 7.1).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    The Government (SPC, now SDPC) was very keen for the project and was pressing the Bank to speed



                                                     - 8 -

    up preparation.     They were very cooperative and submitted a Statement on Technology Policy
    developed in coordination with a number of relevant organizations (section 3.5). They also prepared a
    Statement on the Technology Development Project, clearly stating their intentions and policy
    framework. They promptly established an agent (STIC) to manage the on-lending for the investment
    component of the project. Because the rules and regulations were in a state of flux at that time in
    China, SPC had to revise this arrangement. Negotiations were delayed to December 1994 and the
    Government submitted a revised proposal for the financial agent (GCC) at negotiations.              Legal
    documents had to be reviewed and the signature of the financial agent agreement by the borrower
    became a condition of effectiveness. This took some time and effectiveness only took place in February
    1996.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    Given the lengthy preparation of the project through loan effectiveness, and the fact that all ERCs had
    been approved by the Bank, implementation could have been expected to proceed faster than it did.
    However, dealing with 47 ERCs in a wide range of industries and spread through the whole country
    proved more cumbersome than expected. Finally, the project closing date had to be extended by 18
    months. As discussed above, the ERCs have not responded positively in providing the performance
    indicators as recommended by the Bank team since the appraisal and during supervisions of the project.
    This is partly due to the Government's reluctance in directing the ERCs to comply with this
    requirement. Many ERCs are also still reluctant to share financial information as reflected in the
    performance indicators recommended by the Bank team. They considered this to be confidential.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    In the early stages of the project, the Project Office (PO) was understaffed and needed to strengthen its
    skills in supervision of a highly complex project. This was promptly remedied by adequate staffing of
    the PO. Given the original allocation of loan funds for GCC to undertake capacity building of staff
    and training, this money has not been fully utilized for the intended purpose partly because GCC did
    not want to shoulder the loan liability. It has not recognized the fact that during project implementation
    and through interaction with the Bank, they will be in a better position to avail of good training
    opportunities for its staff, especially overseas training. It was only through repeated discussion on the
    training issue that GCC availed of the training towards the end of project implementation.

    The overall length of procurement was much too long. The process from issuance of bid documents to
    contract documents lasted in excess of 15 months. This was detrimental to the ERCs given their
    reliance on high technology equipment with a relatively high level of obsolescence.             The Bank
    suggested various actions to address these problems, but procurement remained slow throughout
    project implementation.

    Progress reports submitted by PO/GCC focused mostly on procurement activities. Repeated attempts
    by the Bank to have PO/GCC give more comprehensive report on achievement of project objectives
    and in particular the establishment of a statistical data base on ERC implementation and ERC business
    plans remained unanswered.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Given the complexity of the project, the overall borrower performance was satisfactory. Contacts with
    the Bank were good and in most cases, except for matters noted above, agreements reached with
    supervision missions were implemented promptly. All covenants were complied with.

8. Lessons Learned



                                                      - 9 -

Simplify procurement procedures. The overly complex procurement procedures adversely affected
the efficient procuring of advanced research equipment and technology. Although procurement delays
are common to all Bank projects, it was particularly detrimental in this case given the rapid
obsolescence of the equipment and technologies to be acquired.             Almost all parties concerned
contributed to the overall delay of the process: (a) local procedures were cumbersome: it took 2-3
months for MEIO (Mechanical, Electrical Import/Export Office) to complete the review process,
something that is beyond the control of the implementing agency. This should be a subject for
discussion between the Bank management and the Chinese government in the overall context of
efficient implementation of projects; (b) ERCs also contributed to the delay either through delay in
submission of necessary information/documentation for procurement process, and in some cases,
holding off procurement decision in anticipation of newer technology which will be in the market in a
few months time; (c) procurement agencies: due to lack of comprehensive experience in processing
Bank projects and following Bank procurement guidelines, much unnecessary delays occurred; (d)
Bank procedure is cumbersome: Although in the spirit of decentralization of procurement tasks to field
office, the experience is far from perfect. A lot of coordination among the procurement staff in the
field office and the headquarters, as well as further streamlining of procurement procedures, is still
needed. Most of the factors contributed to the delay could be viewed as trivial yet detrimental. Unless
concerted and dedicated efforts to improve the process by both sides (government and the Bank) are
implemented, the delay issue will continue to surface in all future projects. Not only were the local
procedures cumbersome, but the Bank also contributed to the delays. This is clearly referred to in the
partner comment that "the World Bank management system is too old to meet the need of rapid
development" (section VI).



Conversion to corporate status. The process of converting the ERCs into corporations raised many
problems of asset allocation, ownership definition and the establishment of new management rules.
This was unavoidable given the lack of "market culture" in traditional research institutions. Due to the
diversity of product lines as well as manufacturing sectors included in this Project, the conversion
experience and all the problems encountered could serve as lessons for all future prospective
conversions for a wide array of SOEs.

It is interesting to note that one of the important differences between the ERCs and the general SOEs in
the country is the research objectives of the ERCs. One of the original design objectives for the ERCs
is to diffuse technologies, in particular those that have positive environmental impacts, in the economy
and to create a competitive environment to stimulate production. The ERCs are encouraged at their
initial conversion stage, and especially under the country-wide SOE reform process environment, to
focus on financial self-sufficiency to produce prototypes and customized products and services. It is
of little surprise that one can observe that this type of manufacturing process has been carried far
beyond the initial prototype production. In striving for financial independence, many ERCs have been
mass producing the products of their own technological creation with the objective of marketing the
products for their own financial benefits, rather than marketing/diffusing the technologies through
patents. It is difficult to gauge how many of the ERCs are indeed engaging in manufacturing, in
addition to their main business of research, since due to the many complicated organization structures,
many ERCs are independent subsidiaries of some parent company whose business is in manufacturing
and marketing of products, while others are directly linked to similar companies.

This is an interesting phenomena which was not anticipated during project design stage. While there
are good rationale for ERCs to manufacture products from their own technology, it will defeat the
purpose of technology dissemination which is one of the mission objectives of the ERCs. It is therefore


                                                 - 10 -

    up to the Government to establish guidelines on how far the ERCs could pursue their own financial
    independency through manufacturing process. These types of issues should be carefully thought
    through in the formulation of overall reform of the research institutes.

    Improving reporting on performance.          The Bank team repeatedly gave suggestions to the PO for
    collecting performance indicators of the ERCs. Given the number and dispersion of the ERCs, this
    proved an impossible task. Instead of asking for a total coverage, it may have been better to settle for a
    sample. The performance of selected ERCs could have been easier to follow in details. However,
    given the industrial and regional dispersion of the ERCs, a sample would probably not have been
    representative of the whole.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    I. INTRODUCTION

    The State Development and Planning Commission (SDPC) began working on a national plan for
    establishing engineering research centers (ERCs) in 1989 and started to construct the centers in 1992.
    So far 95 government-supported ERCs have been established, 47 of which are financed by the World
    Bank (WB) loan, which was approved by the State Council in 1993. The Loan Agreement was signed
    in October 1995 and became effective in February 1996. The total investment was US$ 200 million
    (which was later on reduced by $3.02 million) and 130 million Yuan in support funds.

    The project will focus on supporting the establishment of ERCs in three main areas which were
    electronic information technology and its application, chemical engineering and new materials, and the
    efficient utilization of energy and environmental protection. In addition, part of the loan will be used to
    strengthen research in metrology, and develop the Productivity Center. The overall objectives of the
    project were to promote the reform of China's management system of science and technology and
    improve the relevant technology policies; to spread the use of technology; to transform some research
    institutes into profit-oriented companies, that is, ERCs; to establish a certification environment based
    on engineering and system integration for the translation of scientific and technological achievements
    into productive forces; and to improve the technology public services.

    II. OVERALL EVALUATION OF THE PROGRESS OF THE PROJECT

    1. Fundamental changes have taken place in China's technology policy environment.

    Over the past 13 years, China's national economy maintained sustained, rapid and sound development.
    Tremendous achievements were made in reform and opening up. The GDP almost tripled. China came
    up to the sixth place in the world in terms of the aggregate economy.
    On December 11, 2001, China became a member of the WTO. This brought historic opportunities for
    China's economic development, restructuring, technological innovation, reform and opening up.
    Progress in major policy reform is as follows(See detail in Annex 1):

    1) A legal system has been established in conformity with the socialist market economy.

    In 1986 the General Principles of the Civil Law was promulgated. In March 1999,the amended
    Constitution was adopted and the Contract Law of the People's Republic of China was promulgated .




                                                     - 11 -

2) A technological innovation system with enterprises as the main players is taking shape.

Reform of the management system of science and technology started in 1985. By the end of 2002, over
1,000 research institutes directly under the central government had been transformed. In 1993 the Law
for Progress in Science and Technology was promulgated. The Law for Promoting the Translation of
Scientific and Technological Advances into Productive Forces was enacted in May 1996.

3) The industry structure has been improved and great efforts have been made to develop high
tech industries.

In 1994 the tax system was reformed to promote economic restructuring. The project was officially
exempted from import tariffs and import-related VAT in 1997. In 1997 the State Council promulgated
the Provisional Regulations Exempting Articles for Research and Teaching from Import Taxes. In
1998 the SDPC officially worked out a national plan for the development of high- tech industries. The
State Council introduced in June 2000 the Certain Policies Encouraging the Development of the
Software Industry and the Integrated Circuit Industry. In 2002, the central government put forward that
efforts should be made "to optimize and upgrade the industrial structure so as to bring about an
industrial pattern with high and new technology industries as the leader, basic and manufacturing
industries as the kingpin and the service industry developing in all areas."

4) The development of the labor market makes the flow of human resources possible.

In July 1994 the Labor Law was promulgated in order to protect the lawful rights and interests of
laborers. The flow of human resources is made possible by the development of the labor market. The
preferential policy toward returned personnel attracts a large number of scholars to return abroad to
start their businesses in China.

5) The system for protecting intellectual property is becoming increasingly perfect.

The Patent Law, the Copyright Law, the Regulations for Protecting Computer Software, the
Trademark Law, the Law Against Competition by Inappropriate Means and the Price Law constitute
the legal system protecting intellectual property and safeguarding fair market competition.

6) The environmental protection law is becoming more and more stringent.

In December 1989, the Environmental Protection Law of the People's Republic of China was adopted
and implemented. In 1999, the Circular on Accelerating the Development of the Environmental
Protection Industry was promulgated. In 2000, the Catalog of State-Guided Clean Production
Technologies in Key Industries was promulgated.

2. All ERCs have changed the way they operate.

1) Forms of transformation

All the 47 ERCs have converted into corporations. To break up, 21 of them have converted into LLCs.
Eight have transformed into SLCs. Ten have become the R&D centers of enterprises. Eight have
converted into SOEs.

2) Establishing diversified corporate governance


                                                - 12 -

During their conversion, ERCs have activated their stock assets by means of asset reorganization or
replacement. This has promoted the adjustment of the internal structure of enterprises and their product
mix. Diversified corporate governance has been established in accordance with the Company Law.

3) Establishing a market-oriented operation mechanism

ERCs have converted from research institutes into market-oriented corporations. They have established
a virtuous circle of research, development, production and marketing in order to attain the objectives of
industrial management and sustainable development. ERCs are also developing new high tech
industries.

4) Performance

According to incomplete statistics, over the past five years the 47 ERCs transferred about 1500 major
research results, implemented 85,000 technology transfer contracts and established over 60 subsidiaries
(including joint ventures). Aggregate gross sales revenue from technology services is about 12 billion
Yuan.

3. The development of the verification environment for projects has greatly improved the
scientific and technological innovation capacity and the ability to translate research results into
productive forces and to apply advanced technology.

1) Improving engineering conditions

ERCs used the WB loan to import advanced equipment and technological and used the domestic
support funds to extend construction and installation projects or build new ones and set up relevant
public facilities. According to incomplete statistics, about 600 million Yuan was spent on civil
engineering involving 230,000m2. Certain engineering capacity has been built in the three areas of
information technology, new materials, and new energy and environmental protection technology. This
has promoted the technological progress in traditional industries and improved their level.

2) Training personnel

ERCs used the WB loan and domestic support funds to offer training in operation management,
financial management, law, investment, transformation. Geared to domestic and foreign markets, ERCs
have strengthened international academic exchanges, and trained a number of management personnel,
technicians, financial personnel and backbones of industries. The total number of employees of ERCs
is now 6,868, of whom 1,687 have senior professional titles and 1,923 have intermediate professional
titles, accounting for over 50% of the total.

4. The National Institute of Metrology(NIM) and the Productivity Center(PC)

The equipment and facilities the NIM bought with about $4.98 million of the WB loan are now
basically in place. Most of the equipment bought or produced with domestic support funds is also in
place. The tasks for 96% of the projects have been accomplished. With the completion of the 4,300m2
Force Measurement Building, the NIM now has a first-class force measurement laboratory in Asia.
The NIM has increased its international exchange and improved its service capacity. With the
completion of the Petroleum Thread Experimental Building, the NIM has advanced measuring


                                               - 13 -

machines, such as the Three Coordination Measuring Machine.

The PC provided enterprises with services in the spread and application of mechanical standardization,
the quality management system (ISO9000), CAD technology, enterprise management consultation, the
environmental management system (ISO14000), mechanical safety and advanced manufacturing
technology as well as in personnel training and information. By 2002 the Productivity Center has
offered enterprises 30 items of technology transfer and services and held 30 training courses for 7,500
trainees.

III. THE IMPORTANCE OF THE PROJECT

Generally speaking, ERCs played the following four important roles in the implementation of the
technology development project: promoting the development of China's high tech industries; promoting
industrial technological progress and solving the country's major engineering technology problems;
serving as a good example for other research institutes and academies; activating their state assets and
promoting the adjustment of their internal structure and product mix by means of asset reorganization
or replacement.
Facts show that over the past decade of development, ERCs made institutional innovation in
accordance with the modern enterprise system. They followed the lead of the market in translating
major research results into projects and in developing system integration. They persisted in improving
the competitive edge of the industry and created a first-class engineering verification environment. They
played a significant role in promoting the organic integration of science and technology and the
economy, accelerating the translation of research results into productive forces and developing
competitive industries with their own intellectual property rights. They were of great immediate and
far-reaching significance for making China's industries more competitive and for improving the quality
of the national economy.

IV. EXPERIENCE AND THE MAIN EXISTING PROBLEMS

1. Experience

1) The overall planning and arrangements made by the SDPC for the project were of great guiding
importance for the general pattern and development of the project.

2) The scientific and strict project selection procedures made it possible to select the best possible
projects.

3) In accordance with the principle of proceeding on a selective basis, ERCs were established in such
major advanced areas as information technology, advanced manufacturing, new materials, energy and
environmental protection. All this promoted the development of industries.

4) The complete organizational system and strict management procedures, and the coordinated relations
of consultation and cooperation between different authorities ensured the orderly and smooth
construction of projects under difficult and complex conditions for a long period of time.

5) While the construction of the projects was in progress, the government formulated many guiding
policy documents in favor of the construction, greatly promoting the development of ERCs.

2. Main problems


                                               - 14 -

1) The procurement procedures were complex and it took a long time to complete procurement
inspection. This adversely affected the advanced nature of the procured equipment and made it
impossible to apply the equipment promptly. This also affected the progress of projects to some extent.

2) Revolving funds were paid into the special account too slowly to meet the requirements of progress.

3) The conflict between the rapid development of high technology and the excessively long procurement
process affected the progress of projects.

4) After ERCs converted into corporations, some problems were found with ownership definition and
management.

V. THE PROJECT DEVELOPMENT PLAN

1. In light of the Company Law and the modern enterprise system, the transformation will be deepened,
efforts will continue to improve enterprise management, strengthen the training of first-class scientists
and management personnel and sharpen the competitive edge of enterprises.

2. The asset structure and resource allocation will be improved by means of reorganizing assets and
attracting new shareholders and investment.

3. Technological innovation will be accelerated. New products will be developed to meet market needs.
New vitality will be injected into enterprises.

4. Domestic and foreign markets will be developed. Research results will be translated into productive
forces more quickly so that enterprises will sustain sound development.

5. Operation plans and medium- and long-term sustainable development plans will be worked out for
enterprises. A system will be established and improved for evading risks.

VI. EVALUATION OF THE WB

When China prepared the feasibility study of the WB-financed technology development project, the
bank sent many delegations on their inspection tours of China and offered its guiding opinions.
Throughout the implementation process of the project, the WB offered effective oversight and
guidance. In addition, the bank actively cooperated with the Project Office of the State Development
and Planning Commission in holding relevant training courses and workshops. This played a positive
role in promoting the establishment of ERCs. However, the WB's management system is too old to
meet the need of rapid development.

VII. EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT OFFICE AND THE GOLDEN CHINA
CORPORATION

1. Evaluation of the Project Office (PO)

PO of the SDPC was established in 1994. As the management body of the project, PO has these main
responsibilities: to exercise overall management, coordination and oversight; to handle the day-to-day
administrative affairs ; to handle the payments for projects; and to provide guidance for the solution of


                                                - 15 -

    the problems arising from the establishment of ERCs and formulate and promulgate a series of relevant
    policy management documents. PO held meetings and training courses on the management and
    transformation of ERCs. It promptly informed the ERCs of the new requirements and proposals for
    their development. The work of PO played an important guiding role in speeding up the establishment
    and transformation of ERCs and in ensuring the sound and effective operation of ERCs. It played a key
    role in implementing the project smoothly.

    2. Evaluation of the Golden China Corporation (GCC)

    GCC was authorized by PO to handle the relevant specific matters for implementing the project and the
    recovery of the loan. To be more specific, GCC organized the goods procurement, entrusted Zhongji
    International Tendering Company or Zhongyi International Tendering Company to invite tenders,
    evaluate them and sign contracts. Moreover, GCC helped PO with relevant work. The work of the
    corporation was unanimously endorsed by project undertakers.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                  - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
A. Relevant policy framework for continuing A. Support the process of ERC                     A. Achieved (see details at the end of this
reforms in technology policy and institutions implementation                                  table)
- Intellectual property rights (IPR) law;     - Revision and enforcement of IPR law;
- Reform the legal system of technology       - Established nationwide professional court
contracts;                                    system;
- Tax reform to promote development of        - Education and dissemination of IPR;
technology company and capital gains;         - Review of relevant legislation to simplify the
Improving the mobility of scientific and      approval requirements;
technical personnel.                          - Re-examine the fiscal and regulatory regime
                                              for venture capital financing;
                                              - Develop a social security system to facilitate
                                              mobility of technical personnel.
B. Transformation of part of research and     B. Corporatization of 100 % of the ERCs in      B. Achieved
development institutions into                 five years of operation of the project          Corporatization status (as of 2002):
market-responsive technology development                                                      LLCs: 21 ERCs ; SLCs: 8 ERCs
corporations, the ERC businesses                                                              SOEs : 8 ERCs
                                                                                              R&D Centers of enterprises : 10 ERCs
- Restructuring R&D institutions into more    No. of ERCs with individual and foreign         4 ERCs
commercial oriented entities and ERCs as      equity holders: 4
independent technology corporations;
- ERCs entirely responsible for own           No. of ERCs with Business Plans: 47             47 ERCs
development and survival in the market place;
development and /or adaptation of clean
productivity-enhancing technologies in
China's industries.
                                              Financial indicators:
                                              a) Aggregate gross sales revenue from           1,240 (RmB million)
                                              technology services
                                              b) Net profits                                  172.68 (RmB million)
                                              c) Aggregate return on equity                   N/A
                                              d) Aggregate current ratio
                                              Technology development and diffusion:           From 1996 to 2002, including all ERCs and
                                                                                              two public service institutions
                                              a) Aggregate no. and value of:                  a) 26,459 contracts of technology transfer,
                                              - technology services (patents, royalties,      domestic and foreign
                                              know-how, cross-licensing, technical
                                              services, cooperative research agreements,
                                              technology transfer contracts, engineering
                                              design, training):
                                              - domestic and foreign, from inception up
                                              through end of 2002
                                              b) Aggregate no. and value of products and 1,656 items of key R&D achievements, in
                                              prototypes                                      which:
                                                                                              577 New products and prototypes
                                                                                              508 Licenses approved in domestic and
                                                                                              foreign
                                                                                              571 R&D achievements
                                              c) No. of spin off companies created            Achieved: 58
                                              (including JVs), up to 2002
C. Strengthen technology public services                                                      Achieved
- Modernization of the NIM                    Development of Norms and Standards              No. of norms and standards developed: 10
Modernization of the Norms and standards to Provision of services to industry                 No. of services provided: 250,000
facilitate introduction of new products and   Diffusion and adoption of internationally       No. standards diffused: 3
services                                      recognized quality standards
- Support to Productivity Center (CITPMI)     - Dissemination of technology improvement       No. of services provided 10,000
                                              and techniques
                                              - Training of SMEs' personnel to improve        No. of people trained: 7,500
                                              product quality, management, popularizing
                                              R&D, administration and enforcement of
                                              technology laws/regulations, especially IPR
D. Training




                                                                 - 17 -

- Establishment, operation and management National workshops organized for ERCs  Achieved: From 1996-2002,5 workshops for
of LLCs, and management training on market ERCs management training              the purpose of said were held, and about 870
oriented technology based enterprises;                                           people attended
- Operation and management of GCC;                                               Achieved: From 1998-2002, 9 staffs of GCC
Training on project management and                                               in 4 teams conducted study tour on the said
monitoring, and training GCC's evolving to a                                     purpose.
technology financing institution;
- Consulting services and study tour in                                          Achieved: 12,676 person*days of training
financing and management of technology                                           and study volume in 250 teams sent by
enterprises                                                                      ERCs conducted study tour on the said
                                                                                 purpose.


I. The Technology Policy Environment in China

Fundamental changes have taken place in China's technology policy environment. Over the past 13 years
from 1989, China's national economy maintained sustained, rapid and sound development. Tremendous
achievements were made in reform and opening up. The GDP almost tripled. China came up to the sixth
place in the world in terms of the aggregate economy.

On December 11, 2001, China became a member of the WTO. This brought historic opportunities for
China's economic development, restructuring, technological innovation, reform and opening up. However,
it also adversely affected and presented challenges to the macroeconomy and some industries.

Laws and regulations for protecting intellectual property in China

1.        Trademark Law (adopted on August 3, 1982, enacted on March 1, 1983, revised on February 22,
1993 and enacted on July 1, 1993).
2.        Patent Law (adopted on March 12, 1984, enacted on April 1, 1985, revised on September 4, 1992,
enacted on January 1, 1993, revised again on August 25, 2000, and enacted on July 1, 2001).
3.        Paragraph 3 on Intellectual Property, Article 5, General Principles of the Civil Law (adopted on
April 12, 1986, and enacted on January 1, 1987).
4.        Copyright Law (adopted on September 7, 1990 and enacted on June 1, 1991).
5.        Regulations for Protecting Computer Software (promulgated on June 4, 1991, and enacted on
October 1, 1991).
6.        Law Against Competition by Inappropriate Means (adopted on September 2, 1993, and enacted on
December 1, 1993).

The legal system compatible with the socialist market economy

1.        General Principles of the Civil Law promulgated in 1986.
2.        Amended Constitution adopted in March 1999 to give Deng Xiaoping Theory the leading role in
China's socialist construction and to establish the basic principle of ruling the country according to law.
3.        Contract Law of the People's Republic of China promulgated in March 1993 to combine the
former Economic Contract Law of the People's Republic of China, Law of the People's Republic of China
on Economic Contracts Involving Foreign Interests, and Law of the People's Republic of China on
Technology Contracts.
4.        Opinions about limited liability companies and stock limited companies promulgated in 1992.
5.        Company Law of the People's Republic of China promulgated on December 29, 1993, enacted in
1994 and revised in 1999. The law was formulated in accordance with the Constitution in order to meet the
need of establishing a modern enterprise system, standardize the organization and behavior of companies,
protect the lawful rights and interests of companies, shareholders and creditors, safeguard the public and



                                                          - 18 -

economic order and promote the development of the socialist market economy.
6.      Circular of the State Council on Implementing Certain Policy Measures for the Large-Scale
Development of China's Western Regions issued on October 26, 2000, and implemented as of January 1,
2001.
7.      Circular of the State Council on Certain Opinions of the Ministry of Science and Technology
About Establishing a Venture Capital Mechanism issued in December 1999. The circular stressed the need
to develop a capital market conducive to the development of high tech industries, guide and standardize
venture capital activities and promote the sound development of venture capital undertakings.
8.      Regulations of the State Council on the Registration Management of the Enterprise Legal Persons
of the People's Republic of China promulgated in June 1988.
9.      Provisional Measures of the Ministry of Finance About the Risk Management of the Financing
Guarantee Institutions for Small and Medium Enterprises promulgated and implemented on March 26,
2001. The measures were designed to standardize and strengthen the management of the financing
guarantee institutions for small and medium enterprises, prevent and control guarantee risks and promote
the vigorous and steady progress in the work of financing guarantee for small and medium enterprises.

Policies, laws and regulations for supporting industrial restructuring

1.      Law of the People's Republic of China for Progress in Science and Technology (adopted on July 2,
1993, and implemented as of October 1, 1993).
2.      Law of the People's Republic of China for Promoting the Translation of Scientific and
Technological Advances into Productive Forces (adopted on May 15, 1996, and implemented as of October
1, 1996). The purposes of the law are to promote the translation of scientific and technological advances
into productive forces, accelerate scientific and technological progress and promote economic and social
development. The law provides the legal guarantee for the translation of scientific and technological
advances into productive forces.
3.      Decision of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council on Strengthening Technological
Innovation, Developing High Technology and Carrying Out Industrial Management of Technology (August
20, 1999).
4.      State Industrial Technology Policy promulgated on June 21, 2002. This is a technology policy
program for industry, agriculture and national defense-related technology industries. It is a document for
guiding the behavior of main market players.
5.      Catalogue of the Current Industries, Products and Technologies Encouraged by the Government to
Develop (2000).
6.      Catalogue of Industries with Foreign Investment (first promulgated in 1997, promulgated again on
March 11, 2002, and implemented as of April 1, 2002).
7.      Circular of the State Council on Certain Policies Encouraging the Development of the Software
Industry and the Integrated Circuit Industry issued on June 24, 2000. The circular was designed to promote
the development of China's software industry and integrated circuit industry, increase the innovation
capacity of the information industry and make the industry more competitive internationally, and give
impetus to the transformation of traditional industries and the upgrading of products.
8.      Regulations of the State Council on Rewarding National Scientific and Technological
Achievements issued in 1999. The following science and technology awards were established in order to
reward the citizens and organizations for their outstanding contributions to scientific and technological
progress, organize and arouse the initiative and creativity of scientists and technicians and accelerate the
development of science and technology: the National Supreme Science and Technology Award, the
National Natural Sciences Award, the National Technological Invention Award, the National Award for
Progress in Science and Technology, and the Award of the People's Republic of China for International
Cooperation in Science and Technology.


                                                    - 19 -

9.      Decision of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council on Accelerating the Progress in
Science and Technology issued and implemented on May 6, 1995.
10.       Regulations of the State Council for the Management of Technology Import of the People's
Republic of China promulgated and implemented on December 10, 2001. The regulations were designed to
standardize the management of technology import and safeguard the order of technology import.

Technology market and tax support policies, laws and regulations

1.      Decision on the Reform of the Management System of Science and Technology issued by the
Chinese government in 1985.
2.      Circular on Certain Tax Questions Concerning the Implementation of the Decision of the CPC
Central Committee and the State Council on Strengthening Technological Innovation, Developing High
Technology and Carrying Out Industrial Management of Technology (effective as of October 1999).
3.      Provisional Regulations of the State Council on Exempting Articles for Research and Teaching
from Import Taxes (promulgated in January 1997 and implemented as of April of the same year).
4.      Law of the People's Republic of China of the Administration of Tax Collection (adopted in 1992
and revised in 1995 and 2001). The law was designed to strengthen the administration of tax collection,
standardize tax collection and payment, safeguard the country's tax revenue and protect the lawful rights
and interests of taxpayers.
5.      Opinions of the State Administration of Tax Concerning the Administration of the Collection of the
Income Tax from Small and Medium Enterprises (issued on February 3, 2000)
6.      Circular of the Ministry of Finance, the State Administration of Tax and the General
Administration of Customs on the Relevant Tax Policies Encouraging the Development of the Software
Industry and the Integrated Circuit Industry (promulgated on September 22, 2000).
7.      Individual Income Tax Law of the People's Republic of China (promulgated and implemented in
1980 and revised in 1993 and 1999).

Policies, laws and regulations supporting
the flow of scientists and technicians

1.      Report of the Commission of Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense and the State
Economic Restructuring Commission on the Experiments in Promoting the Flow of Human Resources,
Restructuring and Deepening Reform in Science and Technology Departments (issued on October 28,
1992).
2.      Regulations on the Administration of the Human Resources Market (issued on speech 11, 2001
and implemented as of October 1 of the same year).
3.      Labor Law of the People's Republic of China (adopted on July 5, 1994 and implemented as of
January 1, 1995)

Environmental protection and energy laws and regulations

1.      Environmental Protection Law of the People's Republic of China promulgated and enacted on
December 26, 1989. The law was designed to protect and improve the living environment and the
ecological environment, prevent and control pollution and other public hazards, safeguard people's health
and promote the development of the socialist modernization program.
2.      Circular of the State Council on the National Ecological Environmental Protection Program issued
on November 26, 2000.
3.      Law of the People's Republic of China on the Economical Use of Energy adopted at the 18th
Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Eighth National People's Congress on November 1, 1997, and


                                                  - 20 -

implemented as of January 1, 1998.
4.       Circular of the General Office of the State Development and Planning Commission, the General
Office of the Commission of Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense and the General
Office of State Economic and Trade Commission on the Program for the Development of New Energy and
Renewable Energy issued on January 5, 1995.
5.       In 1999, the Circular on Accelerating the Development of the Environmental Protection Industry
was promulgated.
6.       Circular of the State Economic and Trade Commission on the Catalogue of the National Clean
Production Technologies for Key Industries (1st edition) issued on February 15, 2000. The catalogue
involves the five key industries, namely, the metallurgical, petrochemical, chemical, light and textile
industries, and 57 clean production technologies.

II. The international conventions on intellectual property
China has joined

So far 31 international conventions on intellectual property have been adopted. Twenty-seven of them have
become effective (only one of them has become invalid). Most of these conventions are managed by the
World Intellectual Property Organization. China has joined 14 international conventions for the protection
of intellectual property:

1.       Convention Establishing the World Intellectual Property Organization: June 3, 1980.
2.       Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property: March 19, 1985.
3.       Madrid Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Marks: October 4, 1989.
4.       Universal Copyright Convention: October 30, 1989.
5.       Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT): China became its 64th member state on January 1, 1994. And at
the same time the China Patent Office became the PCT's Receiving Office, International Search Office and
International Preliminary Examination Office.
6.       Nice Agreement Concerning International Classification of Products and Services: August 9, 1994.
7.       Protocol Relating to the Madrid Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Marks:
December 1, 1995.
8.       The Strasbourg Agreement concerning the International Patent Classification (IPC): June 19, 1997.
etc.
Output Indicators:
                                                                  1
            Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                    - 21 -

     Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)


      Project Cost by Component                  Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate           Percentage of
                                                   US$ million                 US$ million                  Appraisal
 Equipment                                                     207.70              218.881                   105.4%
 Technical Assistance                                            20.70             23.052                    111.4%
 Facilities                                                      37.10             77.833                    120.5%
 Existing Assets                                                 27.50
 Working Capital                                                 26.30
 Pre-operation                                                    6.90             35.214                     83.4%

 Others                                                           9.00
 Public Services
 NIM                                                             10.00              8.63                      86.4%
 PC                                                              0.705              0.415                     58.6%
 Consultants Services and Training                                1.00              1.30                      130%
 Total Baseline Cost                                           346.90
 Physical Contingencies                                          40.10             365.30                     90.9%
 Price Contingencies                                             15.00
 Total Project Costs                                           402.00              365.30                     90.9%

 Total Financing Required                                      402.00              365.30                     90.9%

Explanation

(1) Expenditure of Goods
(2) Technical Services, Consultants Services and Training
(3) Works
(4)The expenditure of "Others". The "Others" includes the "Circulating Fund" (Working Capital) and the costs
    which cannot be calculated in TA, Services and Training.
(5)On page 77of SAR, domestic investment of PC is 120 million RMB yuan( about 0.14 million US$), so the
    project cost of PC is about 0.34 million US$.




                                                             - 22 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (In US$ million
equivalent)

                                                 Procurement Method1
        Expenditure Categories          ICB         NCB      Other2    N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works (ERCs)                         0.00         0.00     0.00     106.00    106.00
                                       (0.00)       (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
2. Goods (ERCs)                        148.30       23.00     5.70     37.00     214.00
                                      (148.30)     (23.00)   (5.70)    (0.00)   (177.00)
3. Services (ERCs)                      0.00         0.00    12.30     33.00      45.30
   Technical Services                  (0.00)       (0.00)   (12.30)   (0.00)    (12.30)
4. Consultants Services and Training    0.00         0.00     5.00     20.00      25.00
(ERCs)                                 (0.00)       (0.00)   (5.00)    (0.00)    (5.00)
Public Services                         0.00         0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
                                       (0.00)       (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
Equipment                               3.70         1.00     0.00      3.40      8.10
                                       (3.70)       (1.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
Tech. Services                          0.00         0.00     0.50      2.60      3.10
                                       (0.00)       (0.00)   (0.50)    (0.00)    (0.50)
Consultant Services and Training        0.00         0.00     0.50      0.00      0.50
                                       (0.00)       (0.00)   (0.50)    (0.00)    (0.50)
                                        0.00         0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
                                       (0.00)       (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)

                 Total                 152.00       24.00    24.00     202.00    402.00
                                      (152.00)     (24.00)   (24.00)   (0.00)   (200.00)




                                              - 23 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/ Latest Estimate) (In US$ million
equivalent)*

                                                                   Procurement Method         1

       Expenditure Categories                        ICB               NCB            Other   2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works (ERCs)                                      0.00              0.00             0.00           77.83         77.83
                                                   (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods (ERCs)                                    138.43               6.0            30.531          43.92         218.88
                                                  (138.46)             (6.0)          (30.53)          (0.00)       (174.96)
3. Services (ERCs)                                  3.822              0.00             7.02           (0.00)        10.84
  Technical Services                               (3.82)             (0.00)           (7.02)          (0.00)       (10.84)
4. Consultants Services and                          0.00              0.00             5.46           6.757         12.21
Training (ERCs)                                    (0.00)             (0.00)           (5.46)          (0.00)        (5.46)

5. Others (ERCs)                                     0.00              0.00             0.00          35.213         35.21
                                                   (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
 (ERCs)(1+2+3+4+5)                                 142.25               6.0            43.01          163.71         354.96
                                                  (142.25)             (6.0)          (43.01)          (0.00)       (191.25)
Public Services                                      3.44              0.00             2.06            4.84         10.34
(6+7+8+9+10)                                       (3.44)             (0.00)           (2.06)          (0.00)        (5.50)
6. Works                                             0.00              0.00             0.00            1.45          1.45
                                                   (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
7. Equipment                                         3.44              0.00             1.80            1.44          6.68
                                                   (3.44)             (0.00)           (1.80)          (0.00)        (5.24)
8. Tech. Services                                    0.00              0.00            0.0325          1.254          1.28
                                                   (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.032)          (0.00)       (0.032)
9. Consultant Services and                           0.00              0.00             0.236           0.03          0.26
Training                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.23)          (0.00)        (0.23)
10. Others                                           0.00              0.00             0.00           0.673          0.67
                                                   (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
                                                   145.68               6.0            45.07          168.55         365.30
                   Total                          (145.68)             (6.0)          (45.07)          (0.00)       (196.75)
1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.


Explanation

(1) The disbursement category of non-competitive procurement was changed its value with Bank approval in
1998.
(2) The software procured in ICB.
(3) The value of "Others" includes the "Circulating Fund" (Working Capital) and the other costs which cannot
    be calculated in TA, Services and Training.
(4) The expenditure about USD 1.25 million from the China government to support the exhibitions, meetings
    and seminars of "transformation of R&D institutions into market-responsive technology development
    corporations".
(5) Some ERCs used additional funds which were not included both in the World Bank loan and domestic
counterpart funds and were not calculated in this schedule. This part of funds in the schedule was mainly
from domestic funds. And the word bank loan was mainly used on equipment procurement.
(6) This part of funds was mainly used on equipment procurement.




                                                                   - 24 -

Project Financing by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
                                Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate         Percentage of Appraisal
      Component                      US$ million                      US$ million
                             Bank         Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.    CoF.        Bank     Govt.      CoF.
                            194.30                 196.00    191.25          163.71           98.4%          83.5%
 Investment (ERCs)


   Public Services
           NIM               5.00         5.00                 5.25            3.38         105.0%           67.6%
           PC                0.20        0.503                 0.20            0.21         100.0%           42.0%
           T. A.             0.50         0.50                0.061           1.252          12.0%4           250%
          Total             200.00        6.00     196.00    196.75          168.55           98.4%          83.4%

Note: 1. "Co-Financer"-Existing research and development institutes, design institutes and enterprises, see para. 4.25, SAR
       2. The form of facilities, existing equipment, domestic loans and cash provided as equity investment by sponsoring
         institutions.
       3. N.B.F. = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants under
         trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements for
         items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.

Explanation

(1) TA fund of GCC and the costs of inviting foreign experts.
(2) The expenditure about USD 1.25 million from the China government to support the exhibitions, meetings and seminars of
    "transformation of R&D institutions into market-responsive technology development corporations".
(3) On page 77of SAR, domestic investment of PC is 120 million RMB yuan( about 0.14 million US$), so the project cost of PC is about
    0.34 million US$.
(4) This part of funds was mainly from domestic funds. And the World Bank loan was mainly used on equipment procurement.




                                                                  - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/25/1992                6    TASK MANAGER (1); TEAM
                                             ASST. (1); TECH. SPEC. (2);
                                             FIN. ANAL. (1); OPER. ANAL.
                                             (1)
              10/08/1992                6    TASK MANAGER (1); OPER.
                                             ANAL. (1); FIN. ANAL. (1);
                                             TECH. SPEC. (1); TECH.
                                             TRANSFER SPEC. (1);
                                             RESEARCH POLICY ANAL.
                                             (1)
              02/24/1993                4    TASK MANAGER (1); TECH.
                                             TRANSFER SPEC. (1); FIN.
                                             ANAL. (1); OPERATIONS
                                             SUPPORT (1)
              08/10/1993                7    TASK MANAGER (1); TECH.
                                             SPEC. (2); TECH. POLICY
                                             SPEC. (1); TECH. LAW SPEC.
                                             (1); FIN. ANAL. (1); CONS. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/03/1993                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             TECH. SPEC. (2); TECH.
                                             LAW SPEC. (1)
              12/05/1994                3    ENGINEER (1); LAWYER (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              09/28/1995                3    ENGINEER (1);                      S               S
                                             TECHNOLOGY
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             CHEMICAL ENGINEER (1)
              11/04/1996                3    LOCAL STAFF-ENGINEER (1);          S               S
                                             CHEMICAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCE (1)
              10/01/1997                4    TEAM LEADER (1); TECH.             S               S
                                             TRANSFER SPEC. (1); LOCAL
                                             STAFF-ENGR. (1); LOCAL
                                             STAFF-OPER. ASST (1)
              04/16/1998                4    LOCAL STAFF ENGINEER (1);          S               S
                                             LOCAL STAFF
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER SP
                                             (1); TEAM LEADER (1)
              06/15/1999                5    TEAM LEADER (1); TECH.             S               S
                                             TRANSFER SPEC. (1);



                                              - 27 -

                                                   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                   PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                                   BUSINESS/MGMT. CONS. (1)
               10/22/1999                      4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                                   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                   (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                                   (1)
               04/28/2000                      4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                                   INDUSTRIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                   (1); BUSINESS/MGT. CONS.
                                                   (1)
               11/17/2000                      6   MISSION LEADER (1);               S    S
                                                   INDUSTRIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                   (2); DISB.SPECIALIST (1);
                                                   LEAD PSD SPECIALIST (1)
               10/26/2001                      5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                                   INDUSTRIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                   CONSULTANT (1);
                                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                   (1); DISB. SPECIALIST (1)
               06/25/2002                      5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                                   INDUSTRIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                   (1); DISB. SPECIALIST (1);
                                                   CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           Not available                     682,043/a
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            "
  Supervision                                      "                     549,082/b
  ICR                                              "
  Total                                            "                     1,231,125
/a Includes Identification through Negotiation.
/b Includes Supervision through ICR.




                                                   - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Annual Progress Reports
Annual Audit Reports




                                      - 31 -

- 32 -

