Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3847-CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Technology Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 2, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3847 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 2, 1995, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Engineering Research Center" means an engineering research center, 
organized and existing as a state owned enterprise, limited liability company or other 
form of legal entity under the laws and regulations of the Borrower, to which the 
Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(b)
"Financial Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and GCC pursuant to Part A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Financial Agency 
Agreement.
(c)
"GCC" means the Gold China Science & Technology Enterprise Development 
Corporation, a company established and existing under the laws and regulations of the 
Borrower.
(d)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project under Part A of 
the Project to be carried out by an Engineering Research Center utilizing the proceeds 
of a Sub-loan.
(e)
"Project Office" means the project office established by the Borrower 
within SPC to execute the Project. 
(f)
"SPC" means the Borrower's State Planning Commission or any successor or 
successors thereto.
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(h)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out 
of the proceeds of the Loan to an Engineering Research Center for an Investment 
Project.
(i)
"Technical Services" means copyrights, licenses, trademarks, patents, and 
technical know-how.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred million dollars 
($200,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
Page  3
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount 
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable 
during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Project Office with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate engineering, technological and financial practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project through the Project Office in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment 
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and of the 
Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the 
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
Page  5
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Financial Agency Agreement has been entered into 
by the Borrower and GCC.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Financial Agency Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and GCC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and GCC in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category             Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)   Goods under Part A        177,000,000      100% of foreign
      of the Project                             expenditures, 100%
                                                 of local expendi-
                                                 tures (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 75% of
                                                 local expenditures
                                                 for other items
Page  7
                                                 procured locally
(2)   Technical Services         12,300,000      100% of foreign
      under Part A                               expenditures, 100%
      of the Project                             of local expendi-
                                                 tures (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 75% of
                                                 local expenditures
                                                 for other items
                                                 procured locally
(3)   Consultants'                5,000,000      100%
      services and
      training under Part
      A of the Project
(4)   Goods under Part B          4,680,000      100% of foreign
      of the Project                             expenditures, 100%
                                                 of local expendi-
                                                 tures (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 75% of
                                                 local expenditures
                                                 for other items
                                                 procured locally
(5)   Technical Services            500,000      100% of foreign
      under Part B                               expenditures, 100%
      of the Project                             of local expendi-
                                                 tures (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 75% of
                                                 local expenditures
                                                 for other items
                                                 procured locally
(6)   Consultants'                  520,000      100%
      services and
      training under Part
      B of the Project
                                ___________
      TOTAL                     200,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 31, 
1994.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods and Technical Services under contracts not exceeding $250,000 
equivalent; (b) consultants' services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent for firms and $50,000
equivalent for individuals; and (c) training, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the reform of its 
technology policies and strengthening of the related institutional and regulatory 
framework so as to increase industrial productivity and develop the market for 
technology.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Engineering Research Centers
 
Financing of specific investment projects of Engineering Research Centers to 
identify, adapt or develop technology to meet the needs of Chinese industries.
Part B:
Technology Public Services
 
1.
Strengthening of the Borrower's National Institute of Metrology by:  (a) 
upgrading of measurement and testing equipment for maintenance and improvement of 
primary standards; and (b) improving its institutional capacity to meet demand for 
measurement standards and quality control services, through provision of consultant 
services and staff training. 
2.
Strengthening of technology services in technology and productivity diffusion by 
the establishment of a machinery productivity information and training center within 
the Borrower's Research Institute of Machinery Science and Technology with design 
services and informational materials.
3.
Development of human resources in the technology and technology related areas by 
providing consultant services and training relevant government officials and staff 
from GCC, Engineering Research Centers, and producers and users of technology.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
November 1, 2000                                       3,840,000
May 1, 2001                                            3,980,000
November 1, 2001                                       4,120,000
May 1, 2002                                            4,265,000
November 1, 2002                                       4,420,000
May 1, 2003                                            4,575,000
November 1, 2003                                       4,735,000
May 1, 2004                                            4,905,000
November 1, 2004                                       5,080,000
May 1, 2005                                            5,260,000
November 1, 2005                                       5,445,000
May 1, 2006                                            5,640,000
November 1, 2006                                       5,840,000
May 1, 2007                                            6,045,000
November 1, 2007                                       6,260,000
May 1, 2008                                            6,485,000
November 1, 2008                                       6,715,000
May 1, 2009                                            6,955,000
November 1, 2009                                       7,200,000
May 1, 2010                                            7,455,000
November 1, 2010                                       7,720,000
Page  9
May 1, 2011                                            7,995,000
November 1, 2011                                       8,280,000
May 1, 2012                                            8,570,000
November 1, 2012                                       8,875,000
May 1, 2013                                            9,190,000
November 1, 2013                                       9,515,000
May 1, 2014                                            9,855,000
November 1, 2014                                      10,205,000
May 1, 2015                                           10,575,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                         
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                         
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                           
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                        
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                        
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                         
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
Page  10
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.  The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension.  
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.  With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part D.1(a) of this Section, the Bank's prior 
approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the 
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension of the 
bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes 
of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof, Technical Services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis 
of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 
2.56 thereof).
2.
Except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 hereof, goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$24,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof, goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $14,000,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three  suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Contracts for proprietary items, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$9,000,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods, to be procured in accordance 
with Part A.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
Page  11
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall 
be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the 
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard 
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less that $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not 
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contracts value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (a) amendments to contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or  above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
Financial Agency Agreement
 
1.
The Borrower shall, through SPC/Project Office, enter into a financial agency 
agreement with GCC, on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Bank, under which GCC shall, inter alia: (i) be responsible for an Investment 
Project's financial appraisal and supervision, facilitating Sub-loans and procurement, 
and handling the disbursement and repayment of such Sub-loans as financial agent; and 
(ii) collect on behalf of SPC a fee of 0.85% of each Sub-loan amount from the 
concerned Engineering Research Center.
2.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financial Agency Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Financial Agency Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Part B:
Engineering Research Centers
 
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall, through GCC acting as its financial agent, make 
Sub-loans to Engineering Research Centers for Investment Projects approved by the Bank 
in accordance with
Page  12
paragraph 2 below, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including: (i) 
repayment of principal amount of Sub-loan over a period of up to 20 years, including 
up to five years of grace; (ii) payment of interest on the amount of the Sub-loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate calculated in accordance with 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (iii) payment of commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time at the rate stated in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement; and (iv) foreign exchange risk to be borne by the concerned 
Engineering Research Center.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that 60% of each Sub-loan would be eligible for 
conversion to equity shareholding of the Borrower in an Engineering Research Center, 
selected by the Borrower and the Bank, on the date such Engineering Research Center is 
converted into a limited liability company in accordance with the applicable laws of 
the Borrower.
2.
Investment Projects shall be selected by the Borrower in accordance with 
technical and financial criteria satisfactory to the Bank. All Sub-loans shall be 
submitted to the Bank for
approval.
3.
When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with (a) a 
description of the Engineering Research Center and an appraisal of the Investment 
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; (b) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, 
including the schedule of amortization thereof; (c) a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for the conversion of the proposed Engineering Research Center into a limited 
liability company under the laws of the Borrower, within a period not to exceed five 
years; (d) a description of the management structure and evidence of the appointment 
of managers comprising representatives of all sponsors/promoters of the proposed 
Engineering Research Center;
and (e) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby GCC, on behalf of the Borrower, shall 
obtain by written contract with the Engineering Research Center or by other 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower, including the right to:
(a)
require the concerned Engineering Research Center to implement the 
approved plan for conversion to a limited liability company;
(b)
require the concerned Engineering Research Center to carry out and 
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records;
(c)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(e)
require that: (i) the concerned Engineering Research Center shall take 
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in 
such amounts, as
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or 
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable 
by the Engineering Research Center to replace or repair such goods;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
Page  13
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the concerned Engineering Research Center and to the benefits to be 
derived from the Investment Project; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the concerned Engineering Research 
Center to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Engineering 
Research Center to perform its obligations under its contract with GCC.
Part C:
Technology Public Services
 
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) training under Part B of the Project shall 
be carried out in accordance with a training program, and (b) any studies under the 
said Part shall be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and a time 
schedule, satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Overall Project Implementation
 
1.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain the Project Office 
with functions, powers, and resources required to, inter alia, monitor, coordinate and 
supervise the overall implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall undertake a mid-term review of the progress of and prospects 
for implementation of the Project with the Bank no later than December 30, 1997. 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
Page  14
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from theLoan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  15
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
