Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8232-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
KADUNA/XATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(REDESIGNED KADUNA ADP)
MAY 31, 1989
Western Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division - IV
Ts documd aeuth  a rstiktd   a~ and may be used by   i*KWS odd In e
thei oflkfdu dut"s Its comitets mAay not otherwise be discosed wtotWorld Bank ewdon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(May 1989)
Currency Unit     -     Naira (3)
US$1.00     -     N7.50
M1 (100 kobos)    -     US$0.13
VEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated all weights and
measures used in this report are wetric.
1 metric ton tm ton)  -   2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)        -   2.47 acre (ac)
1 kilometer (km)      8   0.62 mile (m)
1 meter (m)           =   3.28 feet (ft)
i milimeter (mm)          0.04 inch 'fn)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



-  ±  -                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP       -    Agricultural Development Project
ADPEC     -    Agric. Development Project Executive Cormittee
APMEU     -    Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
ARMTI     -    Agric. and Rural Management Training Institute
ASCON     -    Administrative Staff College of Nigeria
ATAP      -   Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
AZAP      -    Arid Zone Afforestation Program
BES       -    Block Extension Supervisors
CFA       -    Cooperative Financing Agency
CFPS      -    Commercial and Financial Policy Statement
EAP       -    Environmental Action Program
EEC       -    European Economic Community
FACU      -    Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FADP      -    Funtua Agricultural Development Project
FASCOM    -    Farmers Agricultural Supply Companies
FDF       -    Federal Department of Forestry
FDU       -    Fadama Development t'nit
FGN       -    Federal Government of Nigeria
FORMECU   -    Forestry Monitoring, Evaluation and Coordination Unit
FSC       -    Farm Service Center
FTM       -    Fortnightly Training Meeting
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
GPC       -    General Purpose Committee
IAR       -    Institute for Agriculture Research
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
ILCA      -    International Livestock Development Center
KADP      -    Kaduna Agricultural Development Project
KDADP     -    Kaduna Agricultural Development Project
KDSG      -    Kaduna State Government
KTADP     -    Katsina Agricultural Development Project
KTSG      -    Ratsina State Government
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
LGA       -    Local Government Authority
MANR      -   Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MDT       -    Manpower Development and Training
MIS       -   Management Information System
MOA       -   Ministry of Agriculture
MTRM      -    Monthly Technology Review Meeting
NLPD      -    National Livestock 'Project Department
NSCA      -    National Seed Certification Agency
NSS       -    National Seeds Service
OFAR      -    On-Farm Adaptive Research
PBMS      -    Planning Budgeting Monitoring System
PCR       -    Project Completion Report
PFT       -    Project Facilitation Team
PME       -    Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
PMU       -    Project Management Unit
PY        -    Project Year
RIC       -    Rural Infrastructural Coordination
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
SAP       -    Structural Adjustment Program
SAR       -    Staff Appraisal Report
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditure
T&V       -    Training and Visit
VEW       -    Village Extensions Workers
WID       -   Women in Development
WUA       -   Water Users' Association
sU



NIGERIA
KADUNAIKATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Redesigned Kaduna ADP)
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................  1-3
I.  INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND...............................    I
II. JUSTIFICATION FOR THE REDESIGN             .        .          3
III.  THE REDESIGN PROJECT .....................................    6
IV. THE DETAILED PROJECT FEATURES              .       .          11
A.  Agricultural Services ............................       11
B.  Rural Infrastructure .........................           19
C.  Commercial Agricultural Services ....................   25
D.   State MANRs .   ........................................   28
E.   Project Management ..................................   30
F.  Federal Support .....................................   33
V. ( ,TS AND FINANCING                 .....                     35
A *  Cost Estimates ......................................   35
B.   Proposed Financing ................... . ...........   39
C. Procurement                    .....    40
D. Disbursement                   .....    42
E.  Auditing ansd R^epa,th ............. Requi.rezeiL.6 ........................ 44
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                 ..                     45
A.   Federal Coordinating Role ...........................   45
B.   Implementation of Statewide ADPs ....................   45
C.  Environmental Considerations ........................   50
VII.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC    ANALYSIS ..........................   51
A.   Demand, Markets and Prices           . . . .            51
B. Financial Analysis                . . .....  53
C.  Federal/State Financial Implications         ...    54
D.  Economic Analysis            .     .      ...... .....   55
E.   Benefits and Risks ..... . .. .                         55
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........................   59
ANNEXES
1. Minutes of Technical Discussions
2. Project Cost Summary by Components and Financing
MAPS
IBRD 21199: Nigeria: Soil Types, Rainfall, and Crops



NIGERIA
KADUNA/XATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Redesigned Kaduna ADP)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiariess            Federal Republic of Nigeria; and Kaduna and
Katsina States.
Amount:                   US$ 122 million equivalent
Terms:                    Unchanged from Kaduna ADP (Ln. 2436-UNI) terms.
Payable over 20 years, including five years
ofgrace, at standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:          The Federal Government would on-lend USS 58.0
million to Kaduna State, and US$ 63.7 million to
Katsina State on the same terms and conditions as
the Bank loan. The States would carry the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:      The project would continue and amend the
assistance provided to the erstwhile Kaduna State
in the new Kaduna and Katsina States with the
following core activities: (i) intensified and
unified extension services, adaptive research and
contract seed production; (ii) small-scale
irrigation development; (iii) veterinary
services; (iv) input supplies, including
encouraging the role of private retailers;
(v) strengthening cooperative rural credit
institutions; (vi) essential rural
infrastructure; and (vii) strengthening the
capacity of the state ministries of agriculture
and natural resources (MANR) for policy
formulation, planning, and expenditure
implementation.



-2-
Re-estimated Proiect Costs:
Local     Foreign    Total
G  .  *Us$ Miiioo ....... 
A.   RedesiRned ADPs
1.  Technical and Agricultural
Services                              7.0         4.8      11.8
2.  Rural Infrastructure                 13.1        42.3      55.6
3.  Commercial Services                   4.4        18.7      23.1
4.  Project Management                    3.3         4.4       7.7
5.  State MANR                            0.1         0.7       0.8
Total Base Costs                     27.9        70.8      98.7
Physical Contingencies                2.7         6.5       9.2
Price Contingencies                   2.5         3.5       6.0
Total Redesigned Project Costs 8/        33.1        80.8    113.9
B.   Original Proiect (upto 1988)             37.2         31.2     68.4
C.   Front-end Fee                               -          0.3      0.3
D.   Total Proiect Cost                       70.3        112.3    182.6
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                        -       122.0    122.0
Federal Government (FG)                  24.0            -     24.0
State Governments (SO)                   36.6           -      36.6
Total                                60.6       122.0    182.6
Estimated Disbursementst
upto
IBRD Fiscal Year              1939       1989        1990      1991
(...... US$ Million ...... )
Annual                     -         36.9        31.2      22.7
Cumulative                 31.2      68.1        99.3    122.0
a/   Of which US$12.5 million in duties and taxes.



-3-
Benefits and Risks: The re-designed project would (i) strengthen statewide
agricultural services, including extension, adaptive
research, soil conservation, afforestation rural road
rehabilitation/maintenance, rural water supplies,
input distribution, marketing; (ii) strengthen the
policy formulation, planning and expenditure
implementation capacity of state MANRs; and
(iii) strengthen rural credit institutions by helping
the establishment of a Cooperative Financing Agency in
each state. Benefits should thus be felt across each
project state. Even with the limitations of
available technology, the project would increase the
value of agricultural production and farm income as
output shifts to higher value cash crop enterprises
(horticulture, cotton, livestock and crop
combinations) in respor-se to the new economic
environment. The project would continue the process
of role clarification and rationalization between the
public and private sectors for delivering agricultural
services at the state level. Th' Ain risks are
that: (i) the effort to continue the rationalization
of the longer term organization of agricultural
services at the state level would move at a slower
pace than anticipated; anid (ii) the project's
investments in rural infrastructure, particularly its
maintenance, would not be sustained after project
completiuu. The first risk would be minimized by the
project's emphasis on building consensus within each
state for organizational reforms before these are
implemented through a mutually agreed phased action
program, which does not disrupt the availability of
essential services and the second risk would be
minimized by the projects' strong emphasis on
rehabilitation and by the initiatives to strengthen
the role r-ed capacity of the LGAs which are charged
with this function.
Rate of Return:     Overall Project                16X
Rural Water Supply             8e
Rural Roads             Above 15Z
Small-Scale Irrigation        482
Mao2s:  IBRD 20937



NIGERIA
KADUNA/KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Re-designed Kaduna ADP)
I.   INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
The Loan (2436-UNI)
1.01      The Kaduna ADP loan for US$122 million was approved by the Board
on June 7, 1984, and became effective on July 17, 1985. The closing date
was established as December 31, 1989, and has not been extended so far.
Project implementation and disbursements have been slow, impeded initially
by the political problems, as well as weak management (particularly with
respect to procurement). As of May 4. 1989, a total of US$33.8 million had
been disbursed from the loan. Following the bifurcation of the state and
recent management appointments, project implementation and disbursements
are expected to improve considerably. The closing date is proposed to b-.
extended by two years from December 31, 1989 to December 31, 1991.
The Bifurcation of the Proiect
1.02      On September 23, 1987, the Federal Governmtnt of Nigeria (FGN)
carved out Katsina State from the former Kaduna State. While the area
co_vered by the new Katsina State (22.662 sq km) is smaller than that
covered by the new Kaduna State (43,000 sq km), Katsina has a larger
popullatien (approximately 5.2 million) than Kaduna State, which has an
estimated population of 2.9 million. The new Katsina State is the lesser
developed of the two, has a poorer agricultural resource base, and a higher
population density.
1.03      The bifurcation of ':he erstvhile Kaduna State necessitated the
bifurcation of the former Kaduna ADP into Kaduna and Katsina ADPs. On
December 30, 1987, the FGN appointed a Bifurcation Committee for the
project consisting of the representatives of the two states under the
chairmanship of the Federal Agricultural Co-ordinating Unit (FACU),
representing the FGN. The Committee recommended that from the US$25.7
million which had been drawn from the Bank loan at the time of the
bifurcation of the former Kaduna State, the new Kaduna State would be
liable for US$13.2 million, while the new Katsina State would be liable for
US$12.5 million; the agreed criteria being the location of project assets,
all of which had been financed from the loan. Of the un-drawn Bank loan
facility of US$96.3 million, US$44.9 million was allocated to Kaduna State,
while US$51.4 million was allocated to Katsina State. Nigerian project
staff were assigned to the two state ADPs according to their origin, while
expatriate staff were given the option to join either of the two ADPs.
1.04      The Bifurcation Committee also recommended that the opportunity
of the amendment of the project documents should be used to re-design the
project in order to reflect changed economic circumstances and new
implementation strategies whicl. had been agreed between the isank and FGN
for other ADPs in Nigeria, particularly to incorporate the lessons of ADP



2
experience documented in the recent OED report !I. The report of the
Bifurcation Committee was accepted by the FGN and the two states; FACU
proceeded to re-design the new state ADPs in April 1988. As part of the
re-design, the project's name is proposed to be changed to Kaduna/Katsina
ADP.
1.05      Bank policy requires that the loan savings exceeding 5Z of the
approved loan be cancelled or re-programmed with the approval of Senior
Management. The Bank's management decided that in the process of effecting
the amendments to the Loan and Project Agreements necessitated by the
bifurcation of the former Kaduna State, the loan savings should be re-
programmed along the lines described below.
Review and Anproval Process.
1.06      The re-designed project was prepared by FACU with active
involvement of the state governments concerned. The draft re-design
appraisal reports for the two new state ADPs were reviewed at a joint
review meeting in Kaduna in July 1988 between the Bank, FACU, and the two
states. The Bank team consisted of Mess:s. Wambia (mission leader),
Rambocus, and Sreekantiah in July 1988. The technical discussions to
review and agree on the re-designed project proposals with the states and
FGN representatives were held in Washington between November 28 and
December 9, 1988. The minutes of the technical discussions are attached to
this re-design arpraisal report (Annex 1). This Bank Re-design Staff
Appraisal Report (Re-design SAR) has been prepared by Mr. Wambia with
assistance from Mr. Ranade.  the cost tables were prepared with assistance
from Ms. L. Kiang. The report should be read along with the original
Kaduna ADP Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 4512-UNI of September 30,
1983), the Bifurcation Report prepared by the KADP Bifurcation Committee in
May 1988, and the re-design SARs prepared by FACU in June and September
1988.
1.07      At the time of the preparation of the Bank Redesign Staff
Appraisal Report, US$90.77 million of the Bank loan was undrawn which has
been allocated between the two states using the criteria suggested by the
Bifurcation committee (para 1.03). Out of the total loan amount of
US$122.0 million, the amounts accruable to Kaduna and Katsina states are,
respectively, US$58.0 million and US$63.7 million. The loan amount of
US$0.3 million is allocated as a front-end fee.
1.08      The draft Letter of Amendments to the Loan and Project
Agreements and the Re-designed SAR would be sent to the States and the
Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (FMFED) for their
review before final discussions, which took place during May 15 to 17,
1989. The revised package would be submitted to the Board for its
approval.  After Board approval, the Letter of Amendments to the Loan and
Pro sct Agreements would be sent to the States and the Federal L.nistry of
Finance and Economic Develupment for their countersignature. At that
1/ Rural DeveloPment, World Bank Experience, 1965-86, OED, April 1988.



juncture, the legal amendments would become effective, and the process of
bifurcation would be complete.



-4-
II.   JUSTIFICATION FOR THE RE-DESIGN
The Need for Re-design
2.01      The slow rate of implementation of the Kaduna ADP (Loan
No. 2436-UNI), possible loan savings arising from the naira deval.uation,
and the bifurcation of the erstwhile Kaduna State in September 1987 has
necessitated the re-design of the Kaduna ADP, which would now be split into
Kaduna and Katsina ADPs respectively. The changed economic circumstances
in Nigeria since the collapse of oil prices and the subsequent
implementation of the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) has also made it
necessary to re-design the former Kaduna ADP with a view to ensuring
sustainability of project institutions and benefits, accelerating the pace
of implementation, and ensuring cost effectiveness. The re-designed
project is still envisaged as part of a time slice of a national program
for agricultural development.
2.02      The Bank, and the representatives of the states and FGN agreed
that the bifurcation of the state (and therefore the project) presented an
opportunity for necessary re-design of the project for the following
reasonst
(a) The implementation record of the project, the FGN's and states"
expressed desire to re-program potential loan savings expected
to accrue from the steep devaluation of the naira (from
US$1.0-Naira 0.8 in 1984 to US$1.0-Naira 7.5 in May 1989), the
changed macroeconomic situation, and the need to bring the
project's design in line with new ADP implementation strategies
agreed between the Bank and PGN. provided the justification for
re-designing the project. These new implementation strategies
are reflected in the recently negotiated MSADP II and MSADP III,
and in the final two years of implementation of Kano and Bauchi
ADPs.
(b) A recosting of the original project using the actual
im?lementation exchange rate suggests that, if the project had
been implemented within the appraisal time (1984-1989), the
project would have costed approximately Naira 569.2 million
(US$187.2 million). The original appraisal cost and the
disbursement of the Bank Loan at 632 were estimated at
Naira 127.2 million (US$193.5 million) and US$122 million,
respectively. By the end of December 31 1988 the project had
actually spent US$68.5 million, with US$31.2 million as the Bank
disbursement and US$90.8 million as the amount of the Bank Loan
undrawr. With 63? as the agreed disbursement share of Bank
financing of the erstwhile Kaduna ADP, the amount of loan yet to
be disbursed for the original project would have been US$74.8
million.
(c) The erstwhile RADP was among the less successful of ADPs in
Nigeria (largely due to political factors which retarded the



pace of implementation), and therefore strategies and actions
are required which would accelerate implementation with in the
new closing date of December 31, 1991 (i.e a two year
extension).
(d) Agreement has been reached between the Bank and the states to
implement a broad range of policies and strategies aimed at
accelerating the pace of project implementation, and enhancing
the sustainability of project benefits and institutions. The
re-design of the Kaduna ADP incorporates the findings and
recommendations of the Bank's review of rural development
projects, and the imnlementation strategies for ADPs which has
been agreed between the Bank and the Federal Government of
Nigeria (FGN).



- 6 -
IIM.   THE RE-DESIGNED PROJECT
A.   Proiect Re-design
3.01      Proiect Re-design.   The principal re-design improvement from
the lessons of Kaduna ADP and the experience of other ADPs is the increased
attention to sustainability of project investments and service institutions
after completion, and the emphasis on using methods which accelerate
disbursements and project implementation, with a view to completing
disbursements by December 31, 1991, the proposed new closing date. As part
of the re-design, the physical targets of the project have been reduced
under the rural roads and increased for the small-scale irrigation schemes
by pump and a new rural water supply component. The targets are divided or
proportionately between the two states. However, a majority of the
physical works are to be implemented by contract rather than by force
account. Also, a greater emphasis has been placed on rehabilitation and
maintenance than was the case under the erstwhile Keduna ADP.
3.02      The physical targets are proposed to be adjusted as follows:
under the rural roads component, the target for new construction is to be
reduced; and the irrigation target acreage is proposed to be increased.
The funds previously earmarked for the reduced rural roads targets would be
re-allocated to road rehabilitation, small-scale irrigation and a new rural
water supply program. Other physical targets of the project remain largely
identical to those agreed under the erstwhile Kaduna ADP, and are divided
proportionately between the two states
(a) Agricultural Services
3.03      Original DesiRn.  This component was referred to as "Farm and
Crop Development' under the erstwhile Kaduna ADP. It included extension
for rainfed agriculture covering 620,000 ha; fadama irrigation development
covering 34,000 ha; and agro-forestry, land reclamation and soil
conservation throughout the state. The total component costs (excluding
management services), were estimated at Naira 52.1 million (US$65.4
million). By December 1987 (the year for which the latest performance data
is available), a total of 2,735 farm trials had been and 18,891
demonstration plots established.
3.04       Re-desicn ProDosale.  Similar to the original design, under the
re-design, the agricultural services component would consist of extension
services, agro-forestry, soil conservation, and land-use planning programs
over the same area spread in the two states, at a cost of US$13.8 million
for the next three years (Annex II). The aims of re-design under the
agricultural component of the project would be to strengthen the
effectiveness of the extension system through unification of extension
services, replacement of the Training and Demonstration (T&D) system of
extension with the Training and Visit (T&V) system, strengthening of the
linkages between research and extension (through a system of sponsored
research contracts), and increasing emphasis on environmental and resource
management programs.



3.05       As a part of the redesign and in conformity with the revised
sector development objective of sustainability, the states and the Bank
have agreed tot (i) unify the extension services of the state MANRs and
the ADPs (particularly livestock and farm-forestry, and soil conservation);
(ii) phase out the demonstration plots which are maintained by extension
agents under T&D, and replace them with farmers' corner plots (T&V
technique); (iii) equip all extension agents with appropriate means of
mobility; (iv) introduce a system of sponsored research between the ADPs
and the Institute for Agricultural Research, Zaria; (v) intensify
agro-forestry, soil conservation, and land use planning program;
(vi) assign a central role to the private sector and smallholders in
improved seed multiplication and distribution, and improve its
effectiveness by reducing the number of ADP-owned farms from 10 (about
1,!15 ha) under the previous KADP to 3 each for the new Kaduna and Katsina
ADPs (about 50 ha each), and establish a commercial seed pricing policy;
and (vii) experiment with a program to license private livestock
veterinarians, and to gradually phase out subsidies on animal drugs and
vaccines.
(b) Rural Infrastructural Services
3.06      Original Desian.  This component was previously labelled "Civil
Works" under which were included the construction (all by force account) of
about 1,400 km of feeder roads, 75 medium and small scale dams principally
for stock watering, and construction of project buildings and staff houses.
The total component costs (excluding management services), wer:e estimated
at Naira 68.4 million (US$ 98.2 million). As of December 1987, the
project's achievements under its rural infrastructure program were: 411 km
of new roads constructed, and 395 km rehabilitated; and in addition to this
2 dams had been constructed.
3.07      Re-Design Proposals.  The aims of the rural infrastructure re-
design are to increase the efficiency or cost effectiveness of
implementation, expedite implementation, improve maintenance regimes,
encourage the role of the private sector through contracting, and encourage
cost recovery and beneficiary contribution to maintenance through the
formation of users' groups. The bulk of the program would be implemented
by contract (the ADPs would hire the contractors). A program of training
and equipping of Village Mechanics to maintain water supply and fadama
irrigation facilities in their communities was agreed for each state.
3.08      Under the redesigned project, the original target for new road
construction of 1,400 km of rural roads has been increased to 1,511 km
(400 km in Kaduna and 700 km in Katsina). Future road construction will be
done by contract.  The project would rehabilitate by force accow.t feeder
roads of 300 km in Kaduna and 400 km in Katsina States.   Routine
maintenance of feeder roads will be done by force account. A rural water
supplies component with a target for a construction of 78 minor earth dams
(28 in Kaduna and 50 in Katsina); completion of 14 pilot boreholes in each
state; construction of 1000 boreholes (400 in Kaduna and 600 in Katsina);



- 8 -
and 650 wells (150 in Kaduna and 500 in Katsina) has been added. All of
the rural water supply program will be implemented by contract.
Finally, the program of small scale irrigation (fadamal
development by pump has been increased from 2,000 ha of fadama to 17,400 ha
(8,700 ha in each state). These represent increases from the target of
6,000 ha (3,000 ha in each state) which had been proposed by the states
prior to the technical discussions. 2/
3.09      The costs for rural infrastructure component for the remaining
three years of project implementation are estimated at US$ 64.2 million.
'he states and the Bank have also agreed to: (i) implement the rural roads
mechanical rehabilitation and maintenance by fully utilising the existing
Corce account capability, and to accelerate its implementation with
contractors; (ii) recruit engineering consultants to prepare an inventory
of road construction equipment suitable for rehabilitation in the project
states, and to rehabilitate them before purchasing any further new
equipment; (iii) strengthen the capacity of selected (one or two) Local
Government Councils (LGCs) on a pilot basis to carry out routine manual
maintenance of feeder roads with support from ADPs, using some of the
rehabilitated equipment to establish their initial force account
capability; (iv) implement pilot programs to increase the contribution and
role of beneficiary communities in the construction and maintenance of
rural water supplies; and (v) organize farmers into Water Users'
Associations (WUAs) to assume responsibility for installation and
mairtenance of drinking water and small-scale irrigation.
(c) Commercial Services
3.10      Original Design.  The Kaduna FASCOM was established under the
erstwhile Kaduna ADP, with the responsibility for procuring and selling
farm inputs and implements. The target for fertiliser sales for the
project was 200,000 tons per year. The component was costed at Naira 29.3
million (US$44.4 million). As of December 1987, the FASCOM had
distributred 1,874 tons of improved seeds, 335,832 tons of assorted
fertilisers, and 26,700 litres and 26 tons of agro-chemicals.
3.11      Re-Design Proposals.  The objectives of the re-designed
commercial services component ore to enhance the financial sustainability
of such services, encourage the role of private enterprise in the provision
of such services, and establish rural savings cooperatives. The component
2/ The targets which had been agreed during the technical discussions were
10,000 ha for Kaduna and 20,000 ha for Katsina. However, upon closer
examination, the agreed targets were thought to be unrealistic, both
financially as well as in terms of physical implementation capacity, even
by contract. Also agreed during technical discussions, but omitted in the
current re-design document due to lack of funds and a more realistic
assessment of the states' physical implementation capability, was the
completion by contract of 2-3 medium scale (2-3,000 ha each) irrigation
schemes.



- 9 -
is costed at US$ 26.4 million for the next three years. The physical
targets for inputs distribution remain largely unachanged. Funds are
earmarked for studies on development strategies for cooperatives and rural
marketing and storage. Most of the actions and policies agreed related to
the operations of the state-owned Farm Supply Companies (FASCOMs) which
were created as commercial wings of the ADPs. Each FASCOM would adopt a
Commercial and Financial Policy Statement aimed at making it financially
self-sustaining. Finally, the states agreed to prepare programs for the
partial or complete privatization of their FASCOMs during the next three
years; and appoint cooperatives and private firms as retail agents to the
FASCOMs.
3.12      The states and the Bank have agreed to:  (i) allow the
management of farmer supply companies (FASCOMs) the latitude to set retail
prices aimed at meeting profit objectives established by the Board of
Directors; (ii) appoint consultants to recommend policies and actions
which would lead to eventual partial or complete privatisation of FASCOMs,
with farmers becoming shareholders; (iii) direct the expansion of FASCOM
retail activities to remote or less developed areas which have a high
agricultural potential but where the private sector is unable or unwilling
to provide input supply services; (iv) support the role of private traders
and cooperatives in input supply at the retail level through agency
arrangements and technical assistance from FASCOMs, and where feasible sale
or leasing of FASCOM retail outlets to private traders and cooperatives;
(v) establish a Farm Enterprise Development Service (FEDS) in each FASCOM;
(vi) establish a self-sustaining Farm Enterprise Development Venture
Capital Fund (FEDVCF) in each FASCOM 3/ to provide guarantees or r4.sk
capital for pilot programs promoted under the project to commercialise and
privatise seed multiplication, land-use planning, seedling distribution,
animal health, input retailing services, and maintenance of rural water
supplies and fadama irrigation facilities. These pilot programs are
intended to coordinate commercial and financial assistance programs which
are proposed to be provided to firms and individuals in support of the
privatisation pilot programs of the project; (vii) establish and manage
(through the FASCOM and with the participation of livestock farmers'
groups) a Veterinary Drug Revolving Fund for the sale of drugs and vaccines
for animals.
(d) State Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANRs)
3.13      Re-Design Proposals.  An MANR component was not included in the
previous project. The strengthening of the capacities of state ministries
of agriculture (MANRs) for state-level sector planning, expenditure
programming and implementation, policy formulation, and regulatory control
(including over the ADP) is one of the cornerstones of the Bank's strategy
for supporting sustainable agricultural development in Nigeria. Total
costs for this component, which consists primarily of long term technical
3/ Consultants would be recruited by each FASCOM to examine the feasibility
of establishing the FEDS and FEDVCF along the lines described above.



- 10 -
assistance and studies to the MANR for planning, are estimated at USS 0.8
million.
3.14      The states and the Bank have agreed to improve the quality of
sector expenditures and strengthen principal service institutions
(especially the ADPs and MANRs) by: ti) strengthening the capacity of the
MANR for sector policy formulation, planning and expenditure programming;
(ii) conducting reviews of agricultural institutions (under the direction
of the MANRs) with a view to improving their effectiveness, efficiency, and
sustainability; and (iii) undertaking in-depth studies to examine the
prospects and requirements for establishing cooperatives into mainstream of
commercial activities, establishing Cooperatives Financing Agencies (CFAs)
in the project states along the lines of the Bauchi CFA, and for improving
produce storage and marketing in the project states.
(e) Proiect Management
3.15      Re-Design Proposals.  The erstwhile Kaduna ADP had the highest
complement of expatriate staff among all ADPs in Nigeria. Since the
bifurcation of the project, the proportion of Nigerians among the newly
appointed senior management staff in both states has increased. Additional
measures were agreed with the states to strengthen project management
(especially in manpower development and finance) and accelerate project
implementation in both states. Previously costed at Naira 29.4 million
(USS 44.2 million), the component is now expected to cost US$8.7 million.
Specific measures which were agreed with the states to strengthen project
management and finance are as summarized below.
(i)       Proiect Finance and Stores.  Streamlining the internal
procurement procedures of ADPs, the states agreed to
establish a Procurement Unit and a Tender Committee in each
ADP.
(ii)      Manpower Development and Training.  Increased emphasis on
manpower development and training, and for that purpose
appoint consultants for a fixed term to design and
implement manpower development programs.
(iii)     Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation.  Strengthening of the
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) Units of the ADPs
in each state through staff re-deployment, recruitment of
better trained staff, an intensified training program, and
provision of necessary computers.



- 11 -
IV. DETAILED PROJECT FEATURES
A.   Agricultural Services.
1.   Extension Services
4.01      Kaduna and Katsina states each have 43,400 and 22,662 sq km
respectively, of which 20,220 and 17,705 sq km respectively are under
cultivation by about 586,000 and 863,000 farm families respectively. The
redesigned project would aim at reaching some 300,000 farm families in
Kaduna state and 500,000 farm families in Katsina state respectively.
4.02       Under the erstwhile KADP, the number of Village Extension
Workers (VEWs) was reduced progressively from 1,135 in 1985 to 625 in 1986
as part of the effort to improve the effectiveness of the services. Over
3,000 group meetings were organised and 8,437 demonstration plots
established by the extension services to impart improved farm practices to
farmers (1986 data). Both states maintained parallel extension services
for crops, livestock, farm-forestry, soil conservation etc. Experience
with the recent introduction of the Training and Visit system of extension
(under wh'ch all extension services are unified) has demonstrated the
greater operational and cost effectiveness of a unified extension service.
Therefore, an important aspect of this component would be the introduction
of the T&V system (a change from Training and Demonstration - T&D) and
unification of all extension activities under the ADP. At the village
level, extension messages would be communicated through fortnightly visits
and applied through corner plots established and maintained by farmers.
This represents a shift from the use of demonstration plots maintained on
farmers' land by extension agents under the T&D system. One VEW would be
expected to cover about 1000 farm families. The ratio of Block Extension
Supervisors (BESs) to VEWs would be about 1:8. To guard against the risk
of over-staffing the ADP extension services, the ADP would not exceed the
ratio of VEWs and BESs to farmers specified above without the approval of
the ADPEC. Monthly Technology Review Meetings (HTRKs) and Fortnightly
Training Meetings (FTMs) to train extension agents and update the knowledge
of Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) and expose the VEWs to research would
be held regularly. Farmer training would be carried out through group
meetings using audio visual aids and on their own corner plots.
4.03      The project would disseminate the benefits of using fertilisers,
im?roved seeds, and use of pesticides and herbicides, and applying the
recommended cultural practices. For advanced farmers, the project would
concentrate on the more intensive use of fertilisers based on tested soil
requirements for selected farmers. Soil testing would be done in
laboratories which would be under the management of the Chief Research
Officer. For the fadama areas, the extension activity would consist of
improved cultivation practices and more intensive agricultural practices
based on irrigation, as well as the management of small scale irrigation
facilities.



- 12 -
4.04      The re-designed project would fund communication support for
extension services, equipment and vehicles, civil works, technical
assistance, MTRMs, FTMs, and other inc*remental operating costs. In
addition, extension staff would undergo refresher courses once every three
years. Courses would aim to update professional skills, would be
residential at a research or training institute (mostly at ARMTI), and
would be for about 4 weeks duration. The courses wauld cover (i) technical
aspects of crop and livestock production; (ii) extension methods; and
(iii) supervision and management of extension programs. The
(a) unification of extension services, and (b) adoption of the T&V system
of extension (which implies in part replacing demonstration plots
maintained by extension agents with corner plots maintained by farmers)
would be completed in each state by June 30, 1990.
4.05      Women in Apriculture(WIA).  The erstwhile KADP does not have a
specific WIA program, although some form of WIA extension is provided
through the home economics programs of the states. While virtually all
rural women engage in agricultural processing, some also participate
throughout the entire agricultural season from weeding through harvesting
and even marketing.  Many are owners or caretakers of small livestock.
The farm enterprise is characterized by separate plots for husbands and
wives who usually have different income streams and resources. Few farm
women are currently reached by extension services. The re-designed project
would adopt a phased approach to providing direct support to women in
agriculture in the two states with programs tailored to specific extension
zones. However, extension for women farmers would be part of the unified
system. Some retrained home economists would be used to increase numbers
of female VEWs, thus enhancing capacity to reach women farmers where
cultural conditions necessitate female agents. The WIA program would be
reflected seperately in the annual work programs of each ADP, and that each
ADP would submit its first WIA program to the Bank for review before
June 30, 1990.
2.   Apro-Forestry and Land Resorce Manaaement
4.06      Agro-Forestry.  The redesigned project's agro-forestry component
is aimed at increasing the acreage planted to trees by strengthening ADP
agro-forestry services through increased production of nursery seedlings
and upgrading existing nurseries. Availability of seedlings at farm level
will be 4acreased, from the erstwhile KADP annual target of 0.27 million
seedlings to 2.7 million seedlings during the project period using eleven
nurseries in Kaduna state, and 1.045 million seedlings from seven nurseries
in Katsina state. The project provides for establishment in each state of:
(a) about 50 fodder tree lots of size 0.25 ha each on farmers' land;
(b) 500 biological soil conservation plots (each 0.25 ha) on eroding
agricultural lands; (c) 650 units of wind-breaks/boundary trees (each being
250 m long in Katsina and 400 m long in Kaduna) on private farm-lands;
(d) tree nurseries (11 in Kaduna and 7 in Katsina) to distribute fuelwood
and fruit tree seedlings; and (e) 40 units of community woodlots in Katsina
state (each 5 ha) and 90 community woodlots in Kaduna state (each 5 ha).
The FASCOM in each state would have the primary responsibility for
marketing the seedlings, beginning with fruit seedlings. The beneficiary



- 13 -
comminuties would be provided with seedlings (as much as possible at cost
for non-fruit seedlings, and at cost-plus prices for fruit seedlings) and
other inputs by the FASCOMs, and extension advice by the ADPs. There would
n,t be any demonstration woodlots to be maintained by the ADPs or FASCOMs.
Rather, extension service staff would assist farmers to establish corner
plots on their own farms. The village communities will be involved in
joint participation for initial planting and post planting care and
management. However, before any major expansion of the initial seedling
production capacity is undertaken, demand projections for tree fruits would
be made by the FASCOMs. Fruit and forage tree production would be
undertaken with project resources only to the extent that trees are
saleable at marke. prices with individual farmers and cooperatives
organized by the iASCOMs to act as retailers, and the FASCOMs as LGA-level
wholesalers.
4.07      As an experiment in commercializing agro-forestry through the
private sector, each FASCOM would establish two pilot programs of seedling
marketing. One type of program would appoint selected "entrepreneurs" as
franchisors, and a second type would appoint selected 'entrepreneurs" as
contractors. Franchisors would receive a franchise at cost (all on credit)
including a standard package of messages and tree nursery, and a command
area. Contractors would be paid on a task basis, with clear incentives and
criteria established for assessing their success as contractors. The
states would ensure that each FASCOM would submit to the Bank by June 30,
1990 its plans for appointing, training and equipping at least 5
franchisors and contractors each. Close coordination would be established
between the ADP, FASCOM, and the programs of the Bank-supported Forestry II
project (which would work through the unified state/ADP extension se-,vices
at the farm level and the MANR Forestry Department off-farm), and the EEC
supported agro-forestry project in Katsina State. To eliminate duplication
in the agro-forestry between FACU and FORMECU and ensure proper
coordination in this regard, FORMECU would be represented on the
Agricultural Services Committees of both Kaduna and Katsina ADPs.
4.08      Soil Conservation and Erosion Control.  The re-designed project
would implement EAPs (Environmental Action Programs) under their soil
conservation and erosion control components. While the erstwhile KADP had
a soil conservation program, more emphasis was placed on demonstration
activities, and on mechanical solutions to soil erosion than is intended to
be done under the redesigned project. The focus under the re-designed
project in each state would be on extension services, vegetative solutions
(particularly vetiveria grass, contour farming, minimum tillage, and alley
farming), and on-farm activities by farmers, but not to the total exclusion
of preventive or development activities by the ADP. Moreover, the
extension services for soil conservation would be part of the unified
services. The conservation measures using civil works where necessary
would be concentrated on spot repairs. The project provides for necessary
machinery, plant, equipment, vehicles, staff and operating funds to
efficiently carry out the above functions. The erstwhile KADP constructed
43,500 meters of contour bunds, 18,500 meters of terraces, about 10,000
meters of diversions/waterways, and aligned 200 km of rural feeder roads.
Under the re-designed project, the targets for soil conservation and land
development are as summarised below. In Katsina state: (a) Kankiya



- 14 -
LGA-civil works and planting of hedges to correct gully and stream bank
erosion in 12 locations at Gyaza, kunduku, Danjaku. Dangani, Runjin Idi,
Yardua, Rimaye, Yaya Doro, Karfi, Ingawa, and Kankiya; (b) Dutsin-Ma
LGA-civil works and planting of hedges to correct bank erosion in six
locations at Kuki, Bagagaji, Urima, Rawayau, Makera, and Tsauri;
(c) Malumfashi LGA-civil works and planting of hedges to correct gully
erosion in 3 locations at Makaurachi, Dankajiba, and Malumfashi; and
(d) Funtua LGA civil works and planting of hedges to correct gully and
stream erosion in 7 locations at Yankawi, Gwauruwa, Daudawa,
Kadisau-Maigora Road, Tandama, Funtua-M/Ruwa Road, and Kurami. In Kaduna
state, soil conservation works and planting of hedges are planned on
farmlands covering about 80,000 ha; and reclamation works to correct gully
erosion. Project resources would not be used to support land clearing
programs or resettlement schemes in either project state; and payments for
civil works will be certified by the FACU Rural Infrastructure Coordinator
only if the works are accompanied by the planting of appropriate hedges and
other anti-erosion vegetative protection mea3ures.
4.09      Each state would have a project-funded erosion control component
to be carried out by the extension service, to deal with the serious risks
of environmental degradation, particularly in Katsina State. It would also
include minor civil works, and planting along contours of Vetiveria
zizanioides, a grass that helps stabilize the soil and control erosion, to
rehabilitate land.
4.10      Land Use Plannint.  The project would support a Land Use
Planning (LUP) program in each state to (a) conduct soil profile and
fertility studies; (b) prepare land use maps; and (c) prepare land
capability maps with details on areas suitable for cultivation, forest
reserves, horticultural/fruit tree development, water retention and storage
potential, layout of feeder roads, run-off patterns and potential for
reducing soil erosion etc.
3.   Agricultural Research
4.11      Under the erstwhile KADP, 2685 farm trials were conducted (1986
data). The applied research program, based on multi-disciplinary
diagnostic studies of farming systems, has been testing varieties,
implements, and agronomic practices on farmers fields along with carrying
out related research on experimental farms. Experience has shown that
farmers were not adapting or were oaly partially adopting the technologies
developed and advocated by the research scientists. This situation has
highlighted the need for ADPs to establish on-farm adaptive trials (OFATs).
4.12     In each state the ADP would retain a small field trials unit in
each of the main ecological zones for adaptive research work, both on
station and on farmers' fields. This component would bring research staff
into a closer contact with farmers and extension staff, and would provide
an opportunity for programs to be designed in relation to the constraints
perceived by farmers. Problems include: (a) location specific fertilizer
component needs; and (b) the integration of new short season cowpeas,
groundnut and sorghum varieties into existing farming systems. Work in the



- 15 -
redesigned ADPs would proceed in a step-wise fashion: (a) diagnostic
surveys of typical farming systems would be done to determine key
constraints by project research and extension staff; (b) when new
technology is needed work would begin on the diagnosed problem at the
concerned national research institute and in due time the institute would
make recommendations; (c) adoption trials of the institute's
recommendations on the state's trial units and representative farmers'
fields; (d) the extension service would then persuade farmers to try the
successful technology on corner plots and to review findings at MTRMs; and
(e) analysis of the results obtained from the corner plots of farmers.
This approach is now being tried with initial success under MSADP I and
several other ongoing ADPs.
4.13      Applied research programs in each project zone will be headed by
a Zonal Research Officer (GL12). The Zonal Research Officer will be
assisted by two zonal research teams, each with an agronomist and a subject
matter specialist (SMS). The zonal officers will be closely associated
with all OFATs in their zones, as well as with the extension service staff.
The Zonal Research Officer will report to the Chief Agronomist at the
headquarters who will provide oversight for the ADP research programs as
well as for seed multiplication activities. Funds have been provided in
the redesigned project for ad-hoc research consultancies deemed necessary
by the project management units of each ADP in consultation with the Bank
or PACU as appropriate. However, the bulk of OFAR would be conducted by
IAR Zaria (or in some cases the National Cereals Research Institute-NCRI
for rice and tuber crop technologies) on contract from the ADP. In
addition to financing normal agricultural research activities, the project
would finance the re'ibilitaion and reactivation of metereological
equipment and facilities to cover all research stations and tree nurseries
in each project state.
4.14      To improve the quality of the research effort, and strengthen
the linkage between between extension and research, the re-designed project
would fund new programs of sponsored adaptive research between Kaduna and
Katsina States on the one hand and IAR Zaria (or NCRI) on the other. The
research component would, in addition to providing for a research unit for
field trials within each ADP, involve staff of national research
institutes, universities and extension services. It would fund equipment,
vehicles, trials materials and transport costs as well as sponsored
adaptive research contracts with the national research institutes for the
provision of specific scientific services. FACU would assist the ADPs in
each state to prepare and negotiate memorandum of understanding on
sponsored adaptive research with one or more research institutes to seek
and receive assistance and support in MTRMs, diagnostic surveys, and
problem solving research. Each ADP would submit its research contracts and
adaptive research work program to the Bank for review and approval before
June 30 each year. The research contracts and work programs would pertain
to the following crop seasons, which usually begins in September in the
project states.
4.15     Arrangements under che erstwhile KADP for the Intsitute for
Agricultural Research (IAR) at Zaria to provide soil testing facilities for
the ADP have so far proved to be ineffective. The project would make a



- 16 -
renewed effort to rely on the IAR for the soil testing work, and would also
maintain simple and modest soil testing laboratories for meeting immediate
needs in each state ADP. The laboratories would be used by all the
sections of the ADP in need of laboratory services (i.e., there would not
be seperate laboratories for land-use planning, the irrigation section,
water supply, or rsvral roads sections).
4.16     The risk of disaster owing to locust and grasshopper invasions is
high in the project states. In particular, there is an urgent need to
augment the understanding of the locust problem which has re-emerged as
serious in the northern states. Therefore, the project would fund a study
of this problem in northern Nigeria.
4.   Seed Multiplication
4.17      Under the erstwhile KADP, a total of 1515 ha was cropped for
improved seed production. By end of 1986, an aggregate of 1389 tons of
seed had been produced and distributed (out of the project target of 8500
tons). The re-designed project would continue to support in each state a
cereals/pulses seed service to farmers. The states' intervention is
intended to ensure that those species and varieties of crops which can
benefit producers are available, and that the quality of seed is
satisfactogy.  However, unlike the seed multiplication component under the
erstwhile KADP, the re-designed project will rely on outgrowers-for seed
supply and will use the ADP seed farms only to meet the shortfalls in
supply.  There are five seed multiplication farms in each of the project
states (560 ha in Katsina and 955 ha in Kaduna).  Only three of these farms
would be rehabilitated in Katsina, and two in Kaduna state.  In each state,
one seed farm would be dedicated to pasture seed production. In line with
state and FGN agricultural policy priorities and the states' agticultural
potentials, crops like  rice, sorghum, soybeans, groundnuts, cowpeas,
maize, and millet would be the main crops selected for seed multiplication.
Foundation seeds would be produced by private farmers and the ADPs under
contracts with the National Seed Service (NSS). FASCOMs would purchase
foundation seeds from NSS and coordinate the production of certified seeds
through contract growers. Seed certification and quality control would be
the responsibility of NSS, while planning of seed requirements and
technical support services for all aspects of the seed production and
processing would be provided by the ADPs. The capital and operating costs
of plant, equipment and machinary for seed processing and qual-.y control,
as well as working capital for purchases from contract growers, are
included in the project. Provision of staff under seed multiplication
component will be tailoreds over time proportionate to the magnitude -)f seed
multiplication and procurement activity.
4.18      Wholesaling of certified seeds would be done through the
FASCOM's input distribution network and to the extent possible, licensed
private dealers would be used for retailing seeds. Prices charged for seed
would reflect full cost recovery plus reasonable margins for profit at both
foundation seed and certified seed levels. Specifically, seed prices would
cover full cost of production, procurement, transportation, processing and
storage costs, overhead and depreciation charges plus adequate profit



- 17 -
margins for marketing. Since the high potential demand for improved seed
in the country can only be met with a much wider seed grower participation
in seed production, contract growers would be paid sufficient high premiums
over prevailing commercial grain prices to induce them to enter seed
growing contracts. Prices paid to contract growers would be agreed with
them in advance of planting, taking into account large fluctuations
observed in commercial grain prices between harvest and planting time.
5.   Livestock Development
4.19      Although estimates show that the erstwhile Kaduna state was well
endowed with livestock, the KADP did not have a livestock development
component, since the Second Livestock Development Project (Ln. 2737-UNI)
was expected to cater for all the state's requirements. However, the
experience of KADP has demonstrated the need for the ADP to have a
livestock component, especially under the unified extension service.
Therefore the interventions of the Second Livestock Development Project at
the farm level would be implemented through the ADP, while off-farm
interventions would be implemented by the Livestock/Veterinary Departments
of the state MANRs. Through the ADPEC, close coordination would be
established between the ADP and all the other agencies involved, including
the National Livestock Development Project (NLPD).
4.20      Animal Traction.   Animal traction was not an important
component under the KADP, since tractors were preferred by both farmers and
state authorities as the means to extenC the cultivated area beyond the
limits imposed by labor constraints. The SAP has made tractors and
similar motorised forms of farm mechanisation financially and economically
unviable, even to most large-scale farmers. Consequently, an important
thrust of the redesigned project would be support for crop/livestock
integration and the adoption oc animal-powered traction to overcome
constraints on draft and mecha. ical power supply. Given the present crop
technology, the combined crop:  .imal farm enterprise provides one of the
most attractive options for farmers to expand crop acreage and
significantly iD_rease farm incomes. Equally important is the fact that
only by using livestock to build soil fertility can crop yields be
maintained over the long term in the face of rising fertilizer prices and
growing population pressure on land. Additionally, in the absence of a
properly functioning rural credit system, livestock product sales enable
crop farmers to purchase crop inputs. Research by the International
Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) has shown that crop farmers with
livestock in Africa use higher quantities of crop inputs than those with no
livestock.
4.21       The four work oxen training schools in Kaduna state, and three
similar moribund schools in Katsina state would be rehabilitated under the
project, and credit facilities would be provided to farmers through the
NLPD to purchase work bulls and equipment. Farmers will not only be taught
how to train and manage work bulls, but also how to establish fodder banks,
improved parture lots, and crupits. To this end, the existing herd owned
by the state governments will be culled and split up between the
ox-training schools. Credit facilities would be provided through NLPD for



- 18 -
farmers to procure young work bulls and equipment. The re-equipment of the
work oxen schools is covered under the manpower development and training
program.
4.22      The re-designed project would provide facilities, equipment
(e.g., ox-carts), and implements at the training centre and finance
operating costs to train ADP staff and farmers in animal traction. In
order to spread knowledge of animal training methods and the cultivation
capacity of animal-drawn equipment as widely as po3sible throughout the
states, training courses would be short and intensive and would include
courses for extension staff who would be instrumental in spreading the
program. Each ADP would submit their plans for the animal traction
programs by June 30, 1989, and thereafter along with the annual work plans.
4.23      Pasture Development.  Although some attempt has been made to
test and multiply new pasture species in the project states, the full
potential from improved pasture development has not been realised.
Replanting of seed pastures at Layin Hinista Farm in Katsina state and at
other training centres in Kaduna state will be promoted under the re-
designed project through the extension service in close collaboration with
the seed multiplication and researci program. The production of pasture
seeds, and phased replanting of existing pastures seed production areas has
been costed under the seed multiplication component of the project. It is
envisaged that initially 3-4 tons of seeds of legumes would be produced in
each state, rising to 8-9 tons by project year three, and similar
quantitites of grass pasture seeds will be produced from existing swards.
4.24      VeterinarY Services.  In each state the re-designed project
would help improve animal health services. Provision is made for:
(i) rehabilitation and procurement of essential equipment for veterinary
clinics; (ii) an electrical generator, and minimal laboratory and vaccine
equipment for each state headquarters; (iii) vehicles for mobile diagnostic
services; (iv) a revolving drug fund; (v) equipment and facilities for
private rural veterinary practitioners; and (vi) in Kaduna state a survey
to establish levels of tsetse infestation and trypanosomiasis challenge.
The states would take complementary initiatives in moving to full cost
recovery for drugs and vaccines, and the licencing of private rural
veterinary practitioners. The ADPs states would work closely with the
state veterinary services and professional societies to draw up modalities
for privatising veterinary services in a phased manner. To start off the
program to promote private veterinarians, the ADPs would sponsor two
entrepreneurial programs in each statek one modelled as a franchise, and a
second one modelled as a contract arrangement. In each case, selected
veterinarians would be equipped and trained by the ADPs, and be assigned
command areas for a fixed period. The states would charge full
replenishment cost for all drugs and vaccines sold by their veterinary
departments beginning from December 31,1989; and the mechanism for
licensing private rural veterinary practitioners (incorporating at least
two test cases of franchising an,: contracting in each state) would be
established, after consultation with the Bank, by June 30, 1989.



- 19 -
B. Rural Infrastructure
1.   Engineering Services
4.25      To support project activities and management, the re-designed
project provides funds for the construction, rehaAilitation, and
maintainance of administrative buildings, staff housing, guest houses,
laboratories, fencing of seed farms and pastures, nurseries etc. The
workshops and all engineering services/works would be under the charge of a
Chief Engineer to be recruited by each ADP not later than June 30, 1990,
and whose qualifications and experience would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Each ADP would maintain their existing vehicle repair workshops for routine
maintenance and minor repairs of their vehicle fleets. These workshops
would be stocked with essential spares and tools. Experience in Nigeria
(including KADP) has demonstrated that most ADP vehicle workshops are high
cost operations, and are not always the best means to keep the vehicle
fleet in good repair, hence machine down-times in excess of 50 are common
among ADPs. Therefore each ADP would (a) rely on contracted private sector
workshops or workshops managed by state Ministries of Works for the bulk of
their vehicle repair and maintenance work; and (b) submit plans to the Bank
by June 30, 1990 indicating how they intend to maintain their vehicle fleet
by contract with external workshops. Such maintenance contracts,
especially when established with local private workshops, have the added
advantage of promoting the local economy in the project states.
2.   Feeder Roads
4.26      The rural roads network is limited in the project states
(especially in Katsina) and has deteriorated in some parts of the states to
a condition which prevents or seriously impedes the movement of farme,s'
supplies and produce during the rainy season, and multiplies the cost of
transporting produce during the wet season by a factor of two or three.
The condition of other state roads is variable but in general they are now
less of an impediment to agricultural marketing than feeder roads. As of
December 1987 under the KADP, a total of 411 km of feeder roads were
constructed and 395 km of feeder roads were rehabilitated (out of a project
target of 1400 km).  The experience of Funtua ADP (FADP) and KADP suggests
that the combined feeder road targets of the re-designed project would be
more readily achieved if the program is implemented by contract rather than
by force account. There is also evidence (based on the experience of some
MSADP I states) that this is a more cost effective alternative.  Provision
has therefore been made through a special disbursement category for the re-
designed project to execute the bulk of its rural roads program by
contract. Nevertheless, the ADPs in each state will retain their existing
force account capability, both to execute a minimal toad construction and
maintenance program, and to meet emergency needs of the project.
4.27      Under the re-designed project, the objectives of the feeder
roads component would be to: (a) strengthen the institutional capacity of
the ADP to prepare, implement and monitor feeder road programs by contract;
(b) introduce uniform acceptable evaluation procedures for ranking feeder
roads based on actual and potential usage in order to establish p.iorities



for investments; (c) institute systematic periodic, recurrent and routine
maintetnance regimes; (d) reduce transportation costs on feeder roads by at
least 50X, which would stimulate the integration of rural markets and
directly improve farmers margins for marketed crops; (e) develop
minimum-cost techniques for large-scale rehabilitation of feeder roads;
(f) encourage private sector participation in rehabilitation and
maintenance of feeder roads; and (g) revive the capability of selected LGCs
in feeder -oad maintenanca. The selection of roads for rehabilitation and
periodic maintainance would be limited to those programs (packages) which
have an economic rate of return of at least 15X. The analysis would be
done using a Bank analytical model currently in use by FACU and other ADPs.
Construction of new feeder roads, rehabilitation, and periodic maintenance
would be done by contract; while recurrent maintainance would be done by
force account using the existing ADP force account capability. Routine
maintenance would be done by LGCs on contract from the ADPs, which would
reimburse the LGCs at an agreed rate (currently N=2,000 per km) for work
done satisfactorily. Initially, ADPs would do the actual routine
meintenance as they wean LGCs on a phased program to assume responsibility
for routine maintenance to standards of performance and financial
responsibility required by the project. Over the re-designed project
period the feeder road programs would have the following targets:
Kaduna    Katsina      Total
Construction              - Km:        400       700         1100
Rehabilitation            - Km:        300       400          700
Maintenance               - Km.        300       300          600
4.28      The project would employ the 'spot improvement' technique for
feeder roads rehabilitation, which is a minimum-cost operation to achieve a
pre-determined level of service. This would generally be all-weather, but
accepting occasional one or two-day traffic interruptions when seasonal
watercourses are in peak flood flow. Minimum cost geometric standards
adequate for the anticipated traffic volume will be adopted. Periodic
maintenance is the replacement of laterite or gravel pavement lost by
attrition, and is required at 5 to 10 year intervals depending utpon traffic
volume. Recurrent maintenance is the annual, re-grading and re-compaction
of road pavement, and removal of road-side drain silt and vegetation by
machine intensive operation. It would be carried out on all rehabilitated
roads. Routine maintenance is a day-to-day hand-labor operation on all
rehabilitated roads to clear culverts, side drains and turn-outs, and
rectify wash-outs and pot-holes as they occur, cutting off grasses on the
shoulders and removal of fallen branches and other obstructions. Maximum
effort is needed during, immediately preceeding and following, the rainy
season.
4.29      All of the new construction work will be executed by contract.
The contracts would be bulked per state, and put to local or international
tender, depending on the value of the contract. There are an adequate
number of interested local contractors, some with international affiliates,
to provide a competitive environment. The states (with the assistance of
FACU) would each prepare an annual rural roadworks program which would,



- 21 -
among other things, define the extent of roadworks to be done by force
account and/or contract; and (b) the FACU RIC would have the responsibility
to submit the work program to the Bank no later than August 31st of each
year.
4.30      Existing ADP workshops and spares stocks in Kaduna and Katsina
would be maintained as back-up engineering units, and any excess capacity
would eventually be phased out. With FACU assistance each state would
monitor the cost and product of its force account unit over the first two
years of project implementation to compare the efficiency of alternative
methods of road construction and maintenance. These costs would be
inclusive of all overheads and would therefore enable a valid comparison to
be made with costs and products using contractors. These comparisons would
be compiled by the project and submitted to FACU on a format designed by
the latter, and be ready for review with the Bank by December 31, 1990.
4.31      LGCs are constitutionally responsible for maintaining feeder
roads in their jurisdiction. The ADPs in each state, with assistance from
FACU, would assist LGCs which meet agreed qualifying criteria to carry out
routine maintenance of rehabilitated roads in their jurisdictions. To
qualify, a: LGC's unit responsible for routine road maintenance must have
an adequate staff capability, including at least one qualified road
engineer/technician, as determined by the ADP Zonal Engineer. The project
would finance the recruitment and training of LGC engineering staff as
technical assistance, as necessary, and provide each LGC with necessary
hand tools and simple machines (non-hydraulic) and equipment for routine
road maintenance. The LGC-ADP standard contract would be agreed with the
Bank for each state prior to its adaptation for use. FACU would assist
each state ADP to design and negotiate the rural road maintenance with
their respective LGCs. The first set of such draft ADP-LGC rural road
maintenance contracts for at least two LGCs in each state would be prepared
by the ADPs with assistance from FACU, and submitted to the Bank by
June 30, 1990.
4.32      The ADP's Engineering Unit would assist the LGCs to develop
effective manual road maintenance programs. The LGC would agree to engage
and provide hand labor on the scale of one length-man per 3 or 4 km of
rehabilitated road and one headman per 8 lengthmen. The project would
supply a bicycle for each headman and handtools for each lengthman.
Each ADP's Chief Engineer would agree annual routine maintenance programs
with respective LGCs in advance, and would provide them with a simple work
specification. A cost per km based on the ADPs standard costs established
in collaboration with FACU engineers would be agreed between project and
LGCs, who would pay headmen and lengthmen under their normal payment
procedure, and would be reimbursed by the project monthly for all work
carried out to a satisfactory standard as certified by the FACU Rural
Infrastructure Coordinator.
3.   Rural Water SuPplY
4.33      Background.  Under the KADP, the rural water supply component
consisted of the construction of 25 medium dams (100,000 cubic meter



- 22 -
capacity) and 50 small dams (50,000 cubic meter capacity), and only 12
boreholes. All works were to be performed by contract. In the event, very
few contracts were issued by the KADP. As of December 1987. only 5 dams
had been constructed, but the borehole target had been exceeded, with 23
constructed.
4.34      Experience with water supply programs in ADPs in neighboring
states has demonstrated the potential for significantly improving farmer's
access to clean water for human (and thereby releasing labor for
agricultural activities) and animal use rapidly by drilling boreholes and
constructing open dug wells on contract. The average costs of boreholes
has gradually been reduced (through experience and competition) from about
US$15,000 to about US$12,000. Open dug wells are much cheaper, averaging
between US$;,500 and US$3,000 each.
4.35      Less than 52 of the rural population in the project area as a
whole (but particularly in Katsina state) has access to clean water, and
the condition of many of these supplies is unsatisfactory. The re-designed
project would therefore provide for a much expanded rural water supply
program in both states than that which was envisaged under KADP, and is
considered an important means of increasing the availability of farm labor
which is a critical constraint on increased production. The bulk of the
program would be implemented by contract, both for efficiency reasons and
in order to achieve the ambitious targets during the implementation period
of the re-designed project. To ensure that the rura! water program takes
off on schedule (a) each state would submit its program to the Bank through
the FACU RIC by August 31, 1990, and thereafter each year by the same date;
and (b) the program would detail the extent of works to be done by
contract.
4.36      Boreholes and Wells.  The project is already in the process of
implementing a pilot program of boreholes per LGA in each state. Tender
documents for these have already been prepared and would be issued to
approved contractors soon. Solar power pumps would be installed on 5 out
of 14 boreholes in each state on an experimental basis, and FACU would
provide technical assistance in the selection of types and locations.
These pumps would be studied for their viability.
4.37      The proposed investments would be based on an initial review of
the needs of the rural sector. The first phase of the rural water supply
program provides funds for construction of 1000 boreholes (400 in Kaduna
and 600 in Katsina) and 650 wells (150 in Kaduna and 500 in Katsina) in the
two states. The target would be expanded in consultation with the Bank
depending on a number of factors, such as: the implementation capacity of
each state, willingness of the beneficiary communities to contribute 10X of
the capital costs either in cash or kind, the success in establishing
successful Water User's Associations (WUAs) and training and tooling of
village mechanics, and the overal. standard of maintenance achieved. Each
state would recruit consultants initially to study the hydrology, determine
specific locations and design the boreholes/hand pumps etc., to provide the
basis for the tendering and selection of suitable contractors. Each
borehole or well would be sheltered with irrigated trees and bushes planted
by the contractor and maintained by the village mechanic as part of the



- 23 -
anti-desertification program of the project. To the extent possible, tree
nurseries and shelter belts supported by the project would be located near
the wells and boreholes as a means to reduS the irrigation costs of the
programs.
4.38      Based on the experience in project states, one well would likely
be able to serve the needs of about 400 farm families. Training of
village mechanics at each site would be the responsibility of contractors
who would be supervised by the Fadama Development Units (FDU's) of ADPs.
The project would assist LGCs to establish self-managed (WUAs) to raise
funds for spares, operational maintenance and eventual replacement, and to
train and equip local village mechanics to repair and maintain the pumps.
The trained village mechanics would each be assigned "command areas' within
which they would be responsible for routine maintenace of the wells and
boreholes, and be paid a fee by the ADP initially (collected from WAs),
and subsequently directly by the beneficiary community. The ADP would be
responsible for recurrent and periodic maintenance of the facilities, and
reqularly inspect the quality "f work performed by the village mechanics.
For the purpose of overseeing the proper maintenance of the water supplies,
recruiting and training village mechanics, and establishing WAs, the ADPs
could issue contracts to private firms as part of the construction
contract, at least for the first year period of operations. Each ADP would
submit plans to the Bank, by September 30, 1989, for (a) assisting the
formation of at least 5 WUAs each year; (b) training and equipping at least
5 village mechanics; and (c) beneficiaries contributing at least 1O0 of the
capital costs of a borehole or well (either in cash or kind) before siting
a borehole or well in their community.
4.39       Earth Dams.  Earth dams in which surface water can be collected
are another source of water supply which the redesigned project would fund
in each project state. They are especially suitable as a source of water
supply for animals or humans in areas where there are insufficient
quantities of underground water. The KADP project to date has built 5 dams
in Kaduna and none in Katsina state. The redesigned project provides for
construction of 28 earth dams in Kaduna and 50 dams in Katsina, all by
contract. The design of the earth dams would be done by consultants who
would be recruited on terms and with qualifications satisfactory to the
Bank. Each earth dam would be sheltered with irrigated trees and bushes
planted by the contractor and maintained by the ADP as part of the
anti-desertification program of the project. To the extent possible, tree
nurseries and shelter belts supported by the project would be located near
the earth dams as a means to reduce the irrigation costs of the programs.
As a condition for siting an earth dam, the beneficiary community would
contribute at least 102 of the capital costs, either in cash or kind. To
the extent that the ADPs have the capacity to build additional dams by
force account, they would extend the targets beyond those which has been
established above. In both states, the ADPs have a force account capacity
to construct 18 dams each, while Katsina ADP plans to rehabilitate an
additional 47 dams similarly.



- 24 -
4.   Irrigation
4.40       Fadama Development.  There is a considerable scope for
developing small scale irrigation in both states. At present, irrigation
development is at quite different stages in each state. The preliminary
estimates suggest that Kaduna and Katsina have about bO,000 ha and 46,000
ha of fadama areas, respectively. The project w .ld aim at developing
8700 ha of washbores and shallow tubewells, starting with 1500 ha in the
first year, 3000 ha in the second year and 4200 ha in the third year, in
each of Kaduna and Katsina states. These targets will be adjusted upward
depending on the results of preparation studies by consultants recruited by
ADPs in each state. Studies would be conducted by consultants recruited by
each state with terms and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, and the
results of the studies would be submitted to the Bank for review and
comment by each ADP before actual construction begins.
4.41       The implementation of the fadama development programs would be
done by the project as well as contractors. The contractors would be
supervised by consultants appointed with the Bank's approval. A minimum
15Z overall economic rate of return will be required for the program in
each project sttte. Provision is made for the purchase or lease of hand
drilling sets, bailer drilling equipment, and rigs to be used by the FDUs
and contractors. The emphasis will be on the hand drilling sets and bailer
drilling equipments. By 1990 the project will establish at least 50 bailer
teams which will be enccuraged to eventually spin off from the ADP and
start the contracting business.
4.42       There is a high premium on the ready availability of water for
irrigation, and unsubsidized fadama irrigation has already been
demonstrated in adjacent states to be highly profitable. An indicator of
the high profitability is the fact that until credit facilities became
available recently in the adjacent states, otherwise poor farmers readily
paid up to N-400 (at one time equivalent to US$400) cash to have a tubewell
installed on their farm with capacity to irrigate up to 2 ha. The payback
period for tubewells (now costing around N-1,500) installed on a one ha
fadams planted to vegetables is reckoned to be 1.5 years.
4.43       The project would also train and equip local village mechanics
to repair and maintain the pumps. The trained village mechanics would each
be assigned "command areas' within which they would be responsible for
routine maintenace cf the pumps, and be paid a fee by the farmers.
4.44       Surface (Gravity) Irrigation Schemes.  In both states there are
some small to medium scale surface irrigation schemes under the state
governments which have been only partly completed. The re-designed project
would complete a number of these schemes which may be economically viable,
provided the states are willing to transfer such schemes to the
jurisdiction of the ADPs. In the interest of speed and efficiency, all
such surface irrigation schemes would be completed by contract following
Bank procurement procedu&res.



- 25 -
4.45       In Kaduna State 2 schemes have been identified (Kuzuntu-2000 ha,
and Kagoro-1,000 ha) out of a possible 9, which appear to be the most
viable for completion under the project; a similar number of schemes
(Manlle-1000 ha, and Jare River Basin-1000 ha) have been selected in
Katsina State. If agreement can be reached through on-going discussions
between Katsina State and FG( ta transfer Zobe Dam from FGN jurisdiction to
the State's jurisdiction, an additional 2000 ha of fadama development would
be added to the medium-scale irrigation program. WUAs will be formed under
the command of these schemes. The groups would operate and maintain water
channels by beneficiary contribution in cash or kind. Each ADP would
develop, and submit to the Bank by June 30, 1990, the structure and
operating procedures for WUAs, and form at least two pilot WUAs. Given the
experience of Bida ADP, a lot of attention needs to be given at an early
stage to sustainability of the farmers' groups and farmers' responsibility.
4.46       FACU is presently making an in-depth review of these schemes and
will make recommendations on which ones should be completed under the re-
designed project. The Bank would review these recommendations before the
related irrigation works are undertaken. Funds have been provisionally
earmarked to complete 2 schemes in each state, for a total area of about
4,000 ha in each state. In areas where these schemes would be completed,
groups of farmers would be organized by the ADPs to form WUAs and would be
assisted to obtain credit from local banks to purchase materials for
construction of on-farm water channels. The groups would operate and
maintain the channels by beneficiary contribution of in cash or kind.
Each state ADP, with help from FACU, would recruit consultants on terms and
with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank no later than March 31, 1990,
to prepare feasibility studies and supervise the execution of the
irrigation works.
C.   Commercial Services
1.   Farm Supply Companies (FASCOMs)
4.47       Farm Inputs.  Under the erstwhile KADP, a total 335,831 tons of
fertilisers, 16,701 litres of herbicides, 25.7 tons of pesticides, 2,067
units of sprayers, and 1,126 units of ploughs were sold to farmers in both
states. Under the re-designed project, loan funds would be provided to the
states for non-fertilizer inputs (seeds, herbicides, pesticides, seed
dressings, water pumps, animal drawn equipment including carts,
agro-processing machinery and miscellaneous tools). Funds for
non-fertilizer inputs would be sufficient to meet estimated demand for the
first year, and for incremental demand thereafter. The re-designed project
would fund limited rehabilitation of wholesale warehouses and essential
bulk transport fleet in both states.
4.48       The FASCOMs supported by the project would be expected to
operate as profit making enterprises, with the objective on ensuring their
self-sustainability following project completion. To that end, the states
would ensure that the FASCOMs are allowed the lattitude to price their
inventories in such a way as to assure their ability to: (a) replenish
their inventory using imports through the foreign exchange market;



- 26 -
(b) realize a minimum rate of return on assets (RTA) of at least 102; and
(c) realize an annual growth in volume sales of at least 5X. The state
governments would retain their influence through the Board of Directors of
the FASCOMs. Such pricing lattitude would ensure that the FASCOMs remain
competitive relative to other sources of farm inputs, and at the same time
do not undercut private traders through subsidised sales, which would in
the long run be against the interest of farmers who benefit by having
alternative sources of farm inputs. This pricing policy would also ensure
that project inputs are only applied to economically viable enterprises.
a draft Commercial and Financial Policy Statement (CFPS) outlining a set of
principles to be adopted as a guide the operations of the FASCOMs in each
state has been discussed with the states. Each FASCOMs would modify the
draft CFPS along principles to be agreed with the Bank, and adopt its own
final version of the statement from March 31, 1990.
4.49       An important objective of the KADP was the privatisation of the
FASCOM, but there has been almost no progress in this regard. Under the
re-designed project, efforts to diversify the shareholding of the FASCOMs
in each state would be redoubled. The main objective would be to sell
shares of the FASCOMs to retailers (e.g through a charge on their wholesale
purchases from the FASCOMs), private investors, and farmers, either as
individuals or as cooperatives. Consultants with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank would be recruited by each FASCOM's
Board of Directors to prepare privatization plans for the follow-up project
to Kaduna/Katsina ADPs. The study by consultants would begin in each state
by June 30, 1990 and be completed by 1991. The consultants would be
recruited and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The
FASCOM in each state would be responsible for overseeing the study. In
addition, the re-designed project would develop a program in the FASCOMs to
promote the role of the private sector (traders and cooperatives) as
retailers and wholesalers of farm inputs. The program would include
business advice and training, facility renovation or rental (of FASCOM
owned premises), and agency appointments. The long run objective is that
from January 1, 1992, FASCOMs in each project state would limit their
inputs trading operations to one wholesale outlet per LGA, and their
supplies would be retailed through private distributors and cooperative
stores.
4.50       To promote the role of private traders in input supply in the
project states, the FASCOMs would appoint an number of such traders and
cooperative organisations to act as cheir retail agents, and to phase out
their operations in such locations. Each FASCOM would submit a list of
private retail agents it has appointed to act as its retail agents along
with the procurement plans for each subsequent year.
2.   Farm Mechanisation
4.51       The re-designed project would promote the adoption of
appropriate farm mechanisation through importation of farm implements by
the FASCOMs for sale to farmers at full price. Among the implements to be
promoted by the FASCOM and ADP would be animal drawn ridgers, tool bars,
multi-crop seeders, power tillers, and low horse-power tractors. To the



- 27 -
extent that there is a technical capacity and need for developing locally
appropriate farm machinery, the FASCOM would award such design and/or
fabrication contracts to competent firms (local or overseas as
appropriate). If the subsequent machinery turns out to be popular with
farmers (i.e., meets farmers' felt needs), the FASCOM would award a larger
contract to competent engineering firms to fabricate larger quantities for
sale through the FASCOM's retail outlets. While the project (through the
ADP) would recruit farm mechanisation specialists to provide extension
advice and promotion to farmers, the actual importation, demonstration and
sale of farm machinery would be done by the FASCOMs on a commercial basis.
Accordingly, the farm mechanisation component has not been costed
seperately, but rather as part of the input supply component. To lay the
analytical foundations, identify possibilities, and recommend a strategy
for promoting appropriate farm mechanization through a subsequent project,
the project would finance a study in each state. Each ADP would recruit
the consultants to carry out the study by March 31, 1990, on terms of
reference and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Agro-Processina
4.52       The re-designed project would promote the use of appropriate
low-cost agro-processing machinery such as threshers, dehuskers, hullers,
decorticators, oil extractors, and grain milling equipment. To the extent
that there is a technical capacity and need for developing locally
appropriate agro-processing machinery, the FASCOMs would award such design
and/or fabrication contracts to competent firms (local or overseas as
appropriate). If the subsequent machinery turns out to be popular with
farmers (i.e meets farmers' felt needs), the FASCOM would award a larger
contract to competent engineering firms to fabricate larger quantities for
sale through the FASCOMs retail outlets. While the project (through the
ADP) would recruit agro-processing specialists to provide extension advice
and promotion to farmers, the actual importation, demonstration and sale of
farm machinery and agro-processing equipment would be done by the FASCOMs
on a commercial basis. Accordingly, the agro-processing component has not
been costed seperately, but rather as part of the input supply component.
To lay the analytical foundations, identify possibilities, and recommend a
strategy for promoting appropriate agro-processing technologies through a
subsequent project, the project would finance ar. agro-processing study in
each state (to be undertaken as part of the farm mechanization study).
4.   Storage
4.53       The need for improved on farm storage has been more acutely felt
over the past few years all over Nigeria following bumper harvests in 1985
and 1986. Following the good rains experienced in 1988, another bumper
harvest comparable to 1986 is expected. Post-harvest losses are high, and
are variously estimated by experts in Nigeria as ranging between 10-20Z of
production, particularly for maize. Therefore, the project would promote
on-farm storage of farm produce through importation of lined gunny bags and
storage bins (if necessary designed specifically on order) by the FASCOM
for sale to farmers. FASCOMs would recruit consultants under the terms of



- 28 -
reference acceptable to the Bank to do studies on the storage losses which
will be completed by March 31, 1990.
5.   Cooperatives
4.54       The potential for improving farmers incomes through the
development of voluntary and farmer nontrolled commercial cooperatives is
thought to be significant in each of iLhe project states. However, the
experience in the development of cooperatives all over the developing world
(including Nigeria) suggests that such cooperatives have to be carefully
nurtured, and that they should not be part of any Government organisation
(including an ADP). Therefore, the project would finance studies by
FASCOMs in each of the respective states to review the feasibility and
recommend a development strategy for establishing successful agricultural
commercial cooperatives. The studies would be started before March 31,
1990, and undertaken by consultants (probably as part of the rural credit
study) and on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
6.   Rural Credit
4.55        Under the KADP, the need for providing credit to farmers for
purchase of farm inputs or to undertake capital development programs was
limited for a number of reasons, among them: (a) an overvalued exchange
rate made imports relatively cheap; (b) the project did not have fadama
irrigation, farm mechanisation, or agro-processing components requiring
farmers to make high cost capital iavestments; (c) the low input/output
farm technologies applied by most farmers in the project states did not
warrant any credit; and (d) farm product prices were fairly high due to the
shortages of food occassioned by sluggish food production.
4.56        The situation has changed dramatically over the past few years
with the introduction of the SAP, the successful promotion of
input-intensive farm technologies, and with the introduction of fadama
irrigation programs now proposed under the redesigned project. The
devaluation of the naira since 1986 has resulted in a 400-5002 increase in
non-fertilizer input prices. With major inputs like pumps increasing in
cost from N400 to N2,000 each, farmers will need short- and medium-term
credit to continue using these inputs. Credit would also be needed for the
sale of pumps and tubewells for small-scale irrigation, and of animals for
traction and crop/livestock mixed farming. Apart from unofficial sources,
there are very few functioning rural credit channels available to farmers.
There exists a network of credit and marketing cooperatives throughout each
state which need to be revitalized for making them commercially viable.
Experience with Bauchi's farmer-owned and controlled Cooperative Financing
Agency (BCFA) has demostrated the potential for creating successful
farmer-owned credit cooperatives with limited support from the ADP,
provided the state does not interfere in the organisation's operations.
The project therefore provides for an in-depth study to examine the
requirements for establishing Cooperative Financing Agencies (CFAs) rlong
the lines of Bauchi CFA in each statei The studies would be started before
I



March 31, 1990, and undertaken by consultants (as part of the cooperative
development study) and on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
D.   State MANRs
4.57       Background.  The KADP did not have a state MANR component.
Experience with supporting ADPs throughout Nigeria has demonstrated that
MANRs tend to become less effective with the ascendancy of ADPs. In some
instances, ADPs have began to assume responsibility for policy formulation,
regulatory control, and other functions which properly belong in the MANRs
purview.  In yet some cases (the majority), MANRs have continued to provide
the same services in parallel to the ADP. The result is that vital
functions suffer through a confusion of roles, and the resulting
organizations (the ADP and MANR) are in the long-run unsustainable. The
objective of the re-designed project for the state MANR is to begin the
process of gradually (a) eliminating duplication between MANR and other
state agencies; (b) build the role of the MANR as the supervisor of the
ADP; and (c) make the MANR the formulator of policies, regulations and
programs, and the ADP its implementing agency. In this first instance, the
project would support the strengthening of policy and planning in the MANR,
and sponsor an institutional review under the MANR's auspices.
1.   Sector Policy & Strategic Planning
4.58       The capacity of the MANRs in the project states to plan
effectively for sector development is constrained by the lack of suitable
staff, equipment, reliable data and inadequate budgetary support for the
planning function. In each state, the re-designed project would finance
the costs of consultants, training, equipment, vehicles and incidental
costs to prepare or up-date (five and ten year) resource constrained sector
long-term development plans and strategies based on national priorities,
and the state's comparative advantage. To assist each state with the
detailed preparation and implementation of this project component, the
project would finance a Chief Planning Officer or Adviser in each MANR for
three years. Each state would: (a) prepare a monitorable action plan for
strengthening its planning capacity in each of the areas listed above, and
submit it for review by the Bank by June 30, 1990; and (b) recruit a Chief
Planning Officer or Advisor by March 31, 1990.
2.   Institutional Review
4.59       To streamline the provision of agricultural, rural
infrastructural, and commercial agricultural services, the re-designed
project would finance the costs of a Review of Agricultural Institutions in
each state. The terms of reference of Review Team would be agreed with
each state. The Review would cover the terms of reference, operations, and
policies of key agricultural public service institutions with a view to:
(a) eliminating duplication and redundancy; and (b) improving efficiency
and financial sustainability through possible restructuring. In each



state, the review is expected to cover the MANR, ADP, and one or two major
agricultural parastatals. The first priority of institutions to be
reviewed in each state would be assigned to the MANR and ADP.
4.60       Thq State Governor's ADP Executive Committee (.ADPEC) in each
state would constitute itself into a State Agricultural Review Committee,
with the Team Leader of the Review Team as ex-officio member and Secretary,
to oversee and implement the recommendations of the Review. The State
Governor's Office would be the likely Review Secretariat. The Agricultural
Institutions Review Team would be recruited by June 30, 1990. Each Review
Team would consist of at least a Team Leader (public administration
expert), a state finances expert, a financial analyst, and an agricultural
services specialist. To the extent possible, the Review Team would be
staffed by Nigerian experts. Other members would be recruited into the
Team as required after consultation between the State Commissioner
responsible for agriculture and the Bank.
4.61       To initiate and guide the Review, FACU would organize one
seminar in each state, with representation from the states, FGN and the
Bank. Within about three months of the beginning of its work, the Review
Team would submit an Inception Reptrt identifying the scope of work and
program to the State Agricultural Institutions Review Committee and the
Bank. The Inception Report would be reviewed and agreed between the state
and the Bank. The Review Team is expected to complete its work before
December 31, 1990. In order to ensure the digestability of the Review
Team's recommendations, the Team would prepare a series of
decision-oriented Review Papers. The Review Team would aim to complete
each institutional review within three months. The Review Team's Draft
Final Report would form part of the background material for the preparation
of a follow-up project.
E.   Proiect Management
1.   Administration and Personnel
4.62       Each ADP would have an Administration Department headed by a
Chief Administrative Officer, and whose incremental costs would be funded
by the project. The department would function as the secretariat for the
Program Manager, in addition to providing security, personnel and staff
services, and performing registry functions. The department would also be
responsible for recruitment and grading of staff, and manage the
unification of extension services, transfers of staff from the MANRs to the
ADPs. In the case of Katsina state, the department would have major
responsibility to work with FACU Project Facilitation Teams (PFTs) to
ensure a smooth project take-off in the new state. The appointment of all
TSC staff, extensions of their contracts, terms of their employment, and
their terms of reference, and the appointment of the Program Manager, Chief
Planning Officer, Financial Controller, Chief Agricultural Officer,
officers in-charge of the irrigation, water supply, and rural roads
programs, and Chief Engineer of the ADPs; and cf the Managing Director/
General Manager and Financial Controller of the FASCOMs, would be subject
to the approval of the Bank on the FGN's recommendation. The Bank and FGN



have already approved the appointment of several senior managers and TSC
staff for both Kaduna and Katsina ADPs and EASCOMs, where they were
represented at most of the interviews. By agreement with FACU., the Bank
and FGN (through FACU) would be represented at future interviews for all
TSC staff as well as for the remaining above senior staff.
2.   Finance, Accounts and Stores
4.63       The main functions of this department, to be headed by the
Financial Controller, would be to ensure that standard, up-to-date
computerised accounting systems and controls are introduced/maintained for
financial management, stores procurement and issue, and internal audit.
FACU's 'SUN Accounting System" software package ;would be installed in each
ADP to ensure comparability of their accounts with those of other ADPs.
Stores issues and procurement would be centralised for the ADP, and
overseen by a Stores Controller and supporting staff with suitable
qualifications in stores management and procurement. ADPs and FASCOlis in
Nigeria, including those in the project states, have typically experienced
considerable difficulty in attracting professionally qualified and
experienced accounting and stores management staff. The Financial
Controller for the ADP and Chief Accountant for the FASCOM are the key
staff that the ADP Program Manager and FASCOM Managing Director rely on for
day-to-day operational control of their organisations. It is therefore
absolutely essential that the right candidates are recruited for these
posts, and that a vigorous training program is instituted for developing
the right caliber of Nigerian staff to succeed expatriates. In the
meantime, the project states would adopt any one of the following stop-gap
measures to obtain the right caliber staff:  (i) seek a secondment from
staff of auditing firms for a three year period; (ii) offer consultancy
terms of service for qualified Nigerian staff; and finally (iii) recruit
expatriates on TSC terms.  In order to ensure that they qualify in time to
replace either TSC staff or consultants, each FASCOM and ADP would send at
least three suitable staff (each) for overseas professional accounting
training early in 1990.
4.64       The Finance and Stores department would be responsible for
maintaining disbursement records of state, FGN and Bank financing of the
project, and preparation of annual and quarterly budgets. Until the ADPs
are converted to permanent rural development authorities, the historical
accounting convention would be applied for the accounts of ADP. All ADP
expenditures would be treated as development expenditures and would be
expensed as incurred. However, fixed assets would be depreciated over
their estimated useful lives. The FASCOMs however would maintain seperate
accounts based on the accrual principle, and with inventories valued so as
to assure that they are priced at levels which enable the FASCOMs to
replace or increase their inventories using foreign exchange purchased in
the foreign exchange market.
4.65       Procurement and materials management in most ADPs are generally
handled by individual department heads, and there is need to increase the
sense of cost-consciousness, especially in engineering and extension
functions. This problem is most frequently manifested by high level of



inventories (often inappropriate ones) maintained by many ADPs, coupled
with unacceptably high machine and vehicle down-times, and by premature
cannibalization of machinery and equipment notwithstanding the availability
of foreign exchange (through on-going Bank project loans). FACU's
Procurement Assistance Unit is being established under MSADP III to provide
more intensive assistance in procurement and stores management to ADPs
including these two. Senior level finance and stores professionals would
be appointed, in each ADP not later than June 30, 1990.
3.   Manrower Development and Training (MDT)
4.66       Technical competence in many aspects of agricultural project
management and implementation has now been established in Nigeria, the
major exception being in financial, stores and maintenance management.
However, both Kaduna and Katsina ADPs still rely on a large contingent of
TSC staff (number) to a greater extent than all other ADPs in Nigeria,
despite KADP being one of the 'older" ADPs. Therefore, ADP's manpower
development programs will emphasize management development, but not at the
expense of technical training, especially in agriculture.
4.67       The primary objective of the  MDT component is to manage the
training program of the project, particularly to ensure that qualified
Nigerian nationals are available to replace TSC staff at the expiration of
their contracts. In addition, the MDT department would conduct the
orientation and induction of staff for the various programs. The
department would be headed by a Chief MDT officer, and would work closely
with ARMTI and establish contacts with local and overseas training
institutions. Due to the difficulty experienced by ADPP in recruiting
qualified accounting and finance staff, the MDT program would place
particular emphasis on overseas training of at least three suitable project
staff in each ADP and three in each FASCOM for professional accounting
(ACCA or equivalent) qualifications. Staff identified for overseas
accounting/financial management training would be at least Higher National
Diploma (HND) holders, and would be selected no later than June 30, 1990,
and after successfully completing their training, the staff would be bonded
to serve the project for a five year period.
4.   Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation (PME)
4.68       To assist the Program Manager to plan, monitor the progress and
evaluate the impact of the redesigned project, there is be a PME department
in each ADP whose incremental costs would be covered by the project. It
would be responsible for preparing project quarterly, semi-annual,
conducting special surveys, and annual performance reports for internal
management use, as well as for submission to FACU, APMEU, and the Bank.
The PME department would also be responsible for implementing the Planning,
Budgeting and Monitoring System (PBMS) in consultation with FACU, and for
conducting market surveys. The PME department would have the coordinating
responsibility (under the direction of the Program Manager) for ensuring
that all covenants agreed with the Bank and FGN are compiled wtth, and
would act as the principal operational contact between the ADPs and the



Bank/FGN during supervision missions.  Finally, the PME department would be
responsible for preparing Mid-Term Reviews (MTRs) and the Project
Completion Reports (PCRs) in collaboration with APMEU and FACU, and for
preparing a follow-up project.
4.69       The department would have the following units, each headed by a
suitably qualified staff: Planning, Management Information System (MIS),
Evaluation, Survey, and Data Processing. The department would be headed be
a Chief Planning Officer reporting to the Prog-am Manager, with appropriate
experience and post-graduate degree level training in economics and/or
statistics. To up-grade the quality of PME staff, MDT would design and
implement intensive training programs in collaboration with local and
overseas training institutions. Ideally, the PME department should be
staffed exclusively with staff with at least HND qualifications. The ADPs
should make an effort to maintain the number of non-secretarial and
administrative staff in the section to less than 50. Each ADP would submit
programs to strengthen their PME departments along the lines outlined above
before March 31, 1990 for the Bank's review and approval.
F.   Federal Support
it.70      This is an auxilliary but essential component which is not
funded under this project. The FGN agencies concerned (FACU and APMEU
primarily) are funded under other on-going projects.
1.   FACU
4.71       Start-up activities for the re-designed Katsina ADP and
re-start-up activities for Kaduna ADP have been undertaken by FACU through
its Project Facilitation Teams (PFTs) following the pattern already applied
in the Multi-State ADPs. The PFT entails a 4-week intensive program
involving state counterpart staff and FACU consultants/experts covering the
various sub-programs/components. The PFTs provide orientation training for
state counterparts and other key staff; develop a First Year Plan,
including a detailed plan for the ensuing quarter; set up personnel,
accounting and other administrative systems. FACU would also supervise the
projects regularly on behalf of the FGN, and accompany Bank supervision
missions as appropriate.  FACU staff would also train project personnel in
the SUN Accounting System, and the PBMS system.
4.72       MSADP III provides funds to FACU to employ local and foreign
consultants to carry out studies or to provide short-term expert advice on
project-related issues. Some of the studies to be undertaken include
examining ways to expand the role of rural micro-enterprises and women in
agriculture, effect of declining rainfall on crop production in Katsina,
comparison of force account and private contracting in roadworks,
preparation of annual roadworks, diversiification of agriculture and
introduction of new crops in Kaduna.



2.   APMEU
4.73       APMEU would undertake quarterly and mid-yearly review of project
performance and send report of the same to the Bank, ADPEC, FGN and the
Bank. These reports would constitute a critical source of review
independent of the ADPs and FACU, which are more closely involved in
project implementation. In addition, APMEU' would assist the PME department
to prepare survey programs, train enumerators, install data processing
software programs and train the staff on its use.



- 35 -
V. COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      BackRround.  Total project costs under the KADP were estimated
at US$193.7 million in 1983 (SAR Report No. 4512-UNI dated September 20,
1983), for which a Bank loan of US$122 million (632 of project costs) was
approved by the Board in 1984. The FGN was supposed to contribute US$39
million (20X of total)s while the Kaduna State government was supposed to
contribute US$24 million (12Z of project costs). The rest of US$9 million
(5Z of project costs) was supposed to be contributed by project
beneficiaries. Between July 1985 (when the loan became effective) and
November 30, 1988, the sum of US$31.2 million had been disbursed by the
Bank. As of December 31, 1988 1/, the project expenditures have been
estimated at Naira 182.6 million, equivalent to US$68.4 million.  Only
US$31.2 million had been disbursed from the Bank loan of US$122 million,
compared with the appraisal projection of US$116.5 million.
5.02      Revised Cost Estimate.   As shown in the following tables
(Tables 1, 2 and 3) the re-designed Kaduna/Katsina ADP, including the
expenditures already incurred since the loan became effective, is now
costed at Naira 1,110.8 million (US$182.6 million): of which Naira 1.7
million (US$0.3 million) relate to the front-end fee; Naira 455.5 million
(US$89.4 million) relate to Kaduna ADPs and Naira 655.3 million (US$92.9
million) relate to Katsina ADP. Total project costs for the remaining
1989-91 development period are now estimated at Naira 928.3 million
(US$113.9 million): of which 429.9 million (US$52.9 million) for Kaduna
ADP; and Naira 428.9 million (US$51.0 million) for Katsina ADP. The
project costs are summarized in Annex II and the detailed cost estimates by
states are contained in the Working Paper on the cost-tables. 2J
5.03      Of the revised project cost of US$182.6 million over the entire
implementation period (i.e., since 1985), the Bank would finance US$122
million, 67Z of total project costs. In accordance with the criteria used
by the Bifurcation Committee, US$58.0 million would be allocated to Kaduna
ADP, while US$63.7 million would be allocated to Katsina ADP. FGN's total
contribution to the re-designed project (i.e., since 1984) would amount to
US$24.0 million 3/ (132). The State Governments would contribute US$36.6
1/ The latest year for which the project expenditure data are available
from the Quarterly Reports of Kaduna ADP and Agricultural Projects
Monitoring and Eveluation Unit (APMEU).
2/Cost tables are inclusive of the front-end fee, while the summary
financing plan presented in Tables 1 through 3 separates the front-end fee
from the component and disbursement categories.
3/ US$ 20 million between 1984-88; and US$ 4.95 to Katsina ADP and 4.96 to
Katsina ADP for the 1989-91 period.



million 4/ (212) of the project costs. Kaduna and Katsina State
Government contributions are largely limited to the payment of estimated
taxes and salaries of local project staff. The total cost of the project
after the devaluation of Naira in 1987 is estimated to be US$124.4 million.
The Bank loan fox this period is US$95.3 million which is 77? of the
project cost. The financing plan by expenditure category and by state are
summarized below. It should be noted however that the estimates for
exenditures since 1984 are deducedlinferred as balancing items.
Table 1. SUNMARY PROJECT FINANCING PLAN FOR TOTAL PROJECT
(in US$ Million)
IBRD      FGN       SG      TOTAL
(a) By Project Component
Agriculture                                  7.5       3.2      3.1      13.8
Rural Infrastructure                        54.3       3.0      6.9      64.2
Commercial Agricultural Services            22.0       2.2      2.2      26.4
Project Management                           5.9       0.5      2.3       8.7
MANR                                         0.8         -        -       0.8
Expenditure for 1984-89                     31.2     15.1      22.1      68.4
Front-end Fee                                0.3                          0.3
Total                                      122.0     24.0      36.6     182.6
(b) By Disbursement Category
Buildings and Houses                        17.0       1.8      1.0      19.8
Vehicles, Tractors, Equipment, etc.         12.4       1.4      0.6      14.4
Internationally Recruited Staff              6.9      0.4       0.3       7.6
Chemicals and Implements                    16.5       1.3      0.6      18.4
Contracts for Roads, Water Supply and
Fadama Irrigation                        35.4      3.3       2.1      40.8
Salaries and Allowances                        -         -      9.7       9.7
Incremental Operating Costs                  2.3      0.7       0.2       3.2
Expenditure for 1984-89                     31.2      15.1     22.1      68.4
Front-end Fee                                0.3         -        -       0.3
Total                                      122.0     24.0      36.6     182.6
4/ Computed as US$ 23.2 since 1984; USS 7.8 from Kaduna State; an US$ 6.9
from Katsina State.



- 37 -
Table 2. SUMMARY PROJECT FINANCING PLAN FOR KADUNA ADP
(in US$ Million)
IBRD      FGN        SG     TOTAL
(a)  By Proiect Component
Agriculture                                   4.0       2.0      1.4        7.4
Rural Infrastructure                         23.2       1.1      3.3       27.6
Commercial Agricultural Services             11.3       1.1      1.1       13.5
Project Management                            2.7       0.3      1.0        4.0
MANR                                          0.4         -        -        0.4
Expenditure for 1984-89                      16.4       8.1     12.0       36.5
Total                                        58.0      12.6     18.8       89.4
(b) BY Disbursement Cateaora
Buildings and Houses                          7.3       1.0      0.2        8.5
Vehicles, Tractors, Equipment, etc.           6.1       0.7      0.3        7.1
Internationally Recruited Staff               3.7       0.2      0.1        4.0
Chemicals and Implements                      8.8       0.7      0.3        9.8
Contracts for Roads, Water Supply and
Fadama Irrigation                         14.4      1.5      .0.7      16.6
Salaries and Allowances                         -         -      S.1        5.1
Incremental Operating Costs                   1.3       0.4      0.1        1.8
Expendit:ure for 1984-89                     16.4       8.1     12.0       36.5
Total                                        58.0      12.6     18.8       89.4



- 38 -
Table 3. SUMMARY PROJECT FINANCING PLAN FOR KATSINA ADP
(in US$ Million)
IBRD      FGN       SG      TOTAL
(a) By Proiect Component
Agriculture                                   3.5      1.2       1.7       6.4
Rural Infrastructure                         31.1      1.9       3.6      36.6
Commercial Agricultural Services             10.7      1.1       1.1      12.9
Project Management                            3.2      0.2      1.3        4.7
MANR                                          0.4        -         -       0.4
Expenditure for 1984-89                      14.8      7.0     10.1       31.9
Total                                        63.7     11.4     17.8       92.9
(b) By Disbursement Categorv
Buildings and Houses                          9.7      0.8       0.8      11.3
Vehicles, Tractors, Equipment, etc.           6.3      0.7       0.3       7.3
Internationally Recruited Staff               3.2      0.2      ,0.2       3.6
Chemicals and Implements                      7.7      0.6       0.3       8.6
Contracts for Roads, Water Supply and
Fadama Irrigation                        21.0       1.8      1.4       24.2
Salaries and Allowances                         -        -       4.6       4.6
Incremental Operating Costs                   1.0      0.3       0.1       1.4
Expenditure for 1984-89                      14.8      7.0      10.1      31.9
Total                                        63.7     11.4      17.8      92.9



- 39 -
B.   Proposed Financing
5.04    The actual annual allocations would be determined through a proper
budgeting procedure which already involves FACU and all the ADPs. FGN
would include in FMAWRRD's annual budget FGN's annual contributions to the
ADPs, and that the SGs would include in their annual budgets their
contributions to the ADPs.
5.05      Proiect and Special Accounts.  Project and Special Accounts
exist for KADP, and by mutual agreement both states (through the ADP
Financial Controllers and Project Managers) are signatories to the Special
Account.  The KADP Special Account had a limit of US$1.0 million.  Since
November 198E (after the technical discussions), seperate records of
withdrawals have been maintained for each ADP, retroactive to the date of
the bifurcation (September 25, 1987). The Bank would adjust the loan
disbursement records to reflect the seperate liabilities of each state
under the Kaduna ADP loan, which would be re-named Kaduna/Katsina ADP loan.
5.06     Kaduna and Katsina ADPs would each open and maintain a Special
Account (Account No. 1) denominated in dollars (Account No. 1) in which
they would receive US$1.0 million deposits from the Bank which would be
reimbursed periodically. The deposits would be used to prefinance goods
and services which are reimbursable under the loan. The ADPs would also
each open and maintain separate Proiect Accounts (Account No. 2) in a local
commercial bank to receive the project contributions of its SGs :and the FGN
quarterly in advance. The amount of deposits estimated to be payable in
1990, which would be denominated in naira, would be as follows:
Initial Deposits in Account No. 2 (Protect Account)
(USS Million)
SG             F%N
Kaduna        0.75            0.13
Katsina       0.83            0.18
Total         1.58            0.31
_                =



- 40 -
5.07    Indicative annual financing requirements for each ADP are given in
Table 4.
Table 4. ANNUAL FINANCING PLAN /REQUIREMENT
(in US$ Million)
(a) Combined Proiect.
Pre-89    1989      1990       1991      Total
IBRD                 31.2      36.9      31.2      22.7       122.0
FGN                  15.1       4.0       3.0       1.9        24.0
SG                   22.1       5.5       4.5       4.5        36.6
TOTAL.               68.4      46.4      38.7      29.1       181.6
(b) Kaduna ADP.
Pre-89     1989     1990       1991      Total
IBRD                 16.4       18.5      12.4      10.7       58.0
FGN                   8.1        2.0       1.5       1.0       12.6
SG                   12.0        2.8       2.0       2.0       18.8
TOTAL.               36.5       23.3      15.9      13.7       89.4
(c) Katsina ADP.
Pre-89     1989     1990       1991      Total
IBRD                  14.8      18.1      18.8      12.0       63.7
FGN                    7.0       2.0       1.5       0.9       11.4
SG                    10.1       2.7       2.5       2.5       17.8
TOTAL.                31.9      22.8      22.8      15.4       92.9
NB: All the tables may not reconcile perfectly due to the effects of
rounding.
C. Procurement
5.08      Procurement arrangements for the remaining period of the project
(1989-1991) are summarized in Table 5. All goods and services financed
under the Bank loan would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.
All contracts exceeding US$300,000 (except for civil works) would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Whenever
possible, purchases would be grouped into packages of at least US$300,000.
Purchases valued at less than US$300,000 but above US$60,000 would be
procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). Purchases for groups of



- 41 -
items valued at less than US$60,000 would be made through international or
direct competitive shopping on the basis of at least three quotations. For
goods and services subject to ICB, a pre-qualification process would be
followed in accordance with Bank guidelines. All technical assistance
staff (whether short term or residential), auditors and study teams
recruited under the project, and locally recruited staff at or above Heads
of Department (including the ADP Chief Executives), would have
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank. Documentation for procurement would conform to standard bidding
documents for goods, services, and civil works which has  been distributed
to the ADPs and FASCOMs in both states. Procurement plans for both ADPs
for 1989, based on the Redesign Report prepared by FACU and the results of
the technical discussions last held in Washington, have been submitted to
the Bank. All bidding packages for goods and works over US$300,000
equivalent would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Each each ADP
(including the FASCOM) would submit its procurement plan to the Bank's
approval by no later than November 30 for each following year. The
procurement plans would detail the methods of procurement for tie various
disbursement categories for the project during the plan year.
Table 5. AMOUNT AND METHOD OF PROCUREMENT FOR 1989-91
(US$ Million)
(IBRD shares in parentheses)
ICB      LCB   Others    Total
1.   Building and Houses                              -     20.1         -     20.1
(17.3)             (17.3)
2.   Vehicles, Tractors, Equipment,               12.3       2.0         -     14.3
Office Equipment, and Spare Parts           (12.3)                       (12.3)
3.   Internationally Recruited Staff,                 -        -       7.7      7.7
Consultants, Experts and Specialist's                           (6.9)    (6.9)
and Overseas Training
4.   Chemicals and Agricultural Implements        18.3         -         -     18.3
(16.5)                      (16.5)
5.   Contracts for Roads, Water Supply,           20.4      20.4         -     40.8
and Fadama Irrigation                       (17.7)   (17.7)              (35.4)
6.   Incremental Operating rosts                     -         -      3.2       3.2
(2.4)    (2.4)
7.   Local Staff Salaries                             -        -      8.3       8.3
Total                                        51.0      42.5     19.2    112.7
(46.5)   (35.0)    (9.3)   (90.8)



- 42 -
D.   Disbursement
5.09      The remaining Bank loan would be disbursed over a three year
period from April 1989 through January 1992.  It was agreed that the
Katsina and Kaduna states would have concluded a subsidiary loan agreement
with the Federal Government by September 30, 1989, and amendments to the
Loan Agreement have been approved the two states and FGN. Disbursements
are based on the assumptions that the historical disbursement rate of KADP
(US$10 mn p.a.) can be doubled by implementing the bulk of the physical
works program by contract. The disbursement profile for ADPs in Nigeria is
eight years with 86Z disbursed after six years. Most of these were first
time projects, designed for a five year implementation period, and which
like Kaduna ADP experienced significant start up delays. Most of the
implementation was based on force account (much like the erstwhile Kaduna
ADP). FGN and the states have now chosen to have shorter and smaller
projects which are considered as phases of a longer term program. Unlike
the earlier ADPs, in Kaduna and Katsina the programs are on-going (actuaily
mid-stream) and basic institutions already exist. The disbursement period
of three years is considered possible but very ambitious. Given that
Katsina State has had experience with previous Bank (Funtua ADP), much of
the infratsructural program would be implemented by contract, both states
have rmaintained the momentum of implementation notwithstanding the effects
of the bifurcation, and that FACU would provide start-up assistance which
has proven effective in previous ADPs, disbursements should accelerate.
5.10      The proposed allocation of loan proceeds and the disbursement
percentages are given in Table 6.
5.11      Reimbursements for approved expenditures for (i) purchases duly
batched and less than US$20,000, and (ii) incremental operating costs and
general services would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(SOEs). All supporting documents for SOEs would be held by the project
units for review by auditors and Bank supervision missions. Withdrawal
applications would be aggregated in amounts of at least US$20,000 prior to
submission to the Bank for reimbursement.



- 43 -
Table 6. SUMMARY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ Million)
Amount of the Loan Allocated   Z of Expenditure
Category                      Kaduna    Katsina   Total       to be Financed
Buildings and Houses                  8.8      10.3       19.1     100S foreign
(1.4)     (0.3)      (1.7)     75Z local
Vehicles, Tractors,                  14.1      13.9       28.0      100? foreign
Equipment, Office Equipment,        (10.1)      (9.6)    (19.7)     80  local
and Spare Parts
Internationally Recruited Staff,    4.9         4.2        9.1     1002
Consultants, Experts and             (1.2)      (1.0)     (2.2)
Specialists and Overseas Training
Chemicals and Agricultural           11.5      10.6       22.1     1002 foreign
Implements                           (2.6)     (2.9)      (5.5)     80? local
Contracts for Roads, Water           14.4      20.7       35.1     1002 foreign
Supply, and Padama Irrigation        (1.0)     (0.8)      (1.8)     80Z local
Incremental Operating Costs  51       1.3       1.0        2.3     100? foreign
802 local
Front-end Fee                                              0.3
(0.3)    100?
Unallocated                           3.0       3.0        6.0      -
Total                                58.0      63.7      122.0
(16.4)    (14.8)    (31.2)
5/ This includes the travelling expenses and house rent, general office
expenses, and the expenses related to building maintenance and printing and
statiionery.



- 44 -
E.   Auditing and Reporting Requirements
5.12      Each ADP and FASCOM would keep financial records in accordance
with sound accounting practices to reflect their operations and financial
positions, and would have the accounts including special accounts and SOEs
audited annually by a firm of independent external auditors acceptable to
the Bank. The audited accounts and the avditor's report, including (a) the
Management Letter (Long Form), (b) an audit of project physical works
(buildings, roads, water supplies, irrigation, etc.); and (c) a statement
as to whether or not Bank funds had been used for their intended purpose,
would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal
year.
5.13      Each ADP and FASCOM would prepare annual budgets, work programs,
and procurement programs based on re-design estimates, as amended. With
the assistance of FACU, a uniform budget would be introduced in 1989 (if no
already in practice), which would adequately portray project activities,
unit costs, budget variances by cost centers, benefits, and productivity;
and form the basis of a proper management information and accounting
system. At the time the annual work program and budget are prepared, each
ADP and FASCOM, with the assistance of FACU as necessary, would also
prepare a procurement program for the coming year, giving items and
quantities required, sources of funds, timing and procurement methods
(whether ICB or other). The programs would be submitted along with the
annual budgets to the Bank for its information and comment. The ADPs would
prepare quarterly cash flow statements, which would be submitted to the
Federal Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (FDRD) and the
Bank, and would operate on the basis of these statements. On the basis of
the approved budgets and procurement program, FGN and the SGs would make
budgetary allocations and thereafter would release the necessary funds
quarterly in advance.
5.14      Each ADP would submit quarterly reports and management accounts
to FDRD and the Bank showing actual and budgeted expenditures, statements
of progress achieved and objectives for the forthcoming quarter by each
project component. The quarterly reports would contain summaries of
expenditures and use of funds to date. The management accounts would
contain key operating ratios, particularly on inventories, down-time, and
(in the case of the FASCOM) return on total assets and turnover.
5.15      Completion Review.  After completion of the project APMEU would
prepare a Project Completion Report for each ADP, analyzing the
implementation of the project and its impact in relation to its objectives,
and would submit them to the Bank within six months of the closing date.



VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Federal Coordinating Role
6.01      FHAWRRD has overall responsibility within FGN and to the Bank as
the federal sector ministry to ensure that the project is being implemented
by the states and the implementing agencies on schedule and in conformity
with the agreed policy and institutional framework and the loan and project
agreement. FMAWRRD plays a crucial role in the budgeting process, ensuring
that the agreed upon level of federal funds is budgeted annually for all
Bank-supported projects in the sector, and also that the funds are then
released quarterly to the entities. FMAWRRD coordinates other Federal
ministries and agencies which have roles in areas of activities covered by
the ADPs through a Project Coordination Committee (PCC). The role of the
PCC would be particularly crucial in assisting the ADPs obtain FHWARRD
financial support, and approval for the construction of minor earth dams as
contemplated under the project.
6.02      The PCC is chaired by the Director of Agriculture and Rural
Development, FMAWRRD and would include the Directors and Heads of the
following FMAWRRD units: Directors of Water Resources, Fisheries,
Forestry, the National Livestock Department, ARMTI; and Heads of the
National Seed Service, FACU, APMEPU, FORMECU, the Rural Agro-Industrial
Development Scheme (RAIDS). In addition, the Director of Agricultural
Services, Federal Ministry of Science and Technology and the Program
Managers of all ADPs would be members of the PCC. The PCC meets
semi-annually to review progress of the ADPs and to resolve any
coordination issues that may have surfaced. FACU serves as the secretariat
of this committee.
B.   Implementation of the ADPs
6.03      Overview.  A feature of ADPs is that their activities at the
state level include functions carried out by more than one ministry. In
both states, the MANR is responsible for technical agricultural activities
and input supply; the Military Governor's Office (and through it, the LGCs)
is responsible for rural road construction and maintenance; and State Water
Boards have nominal responsibilities for rural water programs. To
coordinate ADP activities, an ADP Executive Committee (ADPEC) has been
established in each state which includes representation of the above
groups. In both states the ADPEC is headed by the State Governor.
6.04      A clear relationship between the ADP and MANR would be
established, with the ADP effectively becoming the implementing arm of MANR
which would eventually provide overall policy guidance. The central thrust
of the re-designed project should remain firmly in its technical
agricultural components of extension and research, in which the ADP would
eventually be each state's sole functionary. All the other services in the
agricultural sector which the project would engender and the extension
service amplify (water supplies, roadworks, irrigation, seed



multiplication, veterinary services, input supplies) would graduate outside
the umbrella of the ADP over time and move into the private sector or
become the responsbility of cooperatives or LGCs.
6.05      Thus roadworks would revert to LGCs; irrigation management would
be turned over to WUAs; seed production would increasingly depeiid on
private outgrowers and other organizations; the LGCs or State Water Boards
would take over rural water supply management; and input distribution would
be privatized. Ultimately, the ADP would under this scenario evolve as a
unified extension and field trials service. The ADPs would no longer
implement road construction programs through large force account
operations. Instead major road works would be contracted to the private
sector and routine maintenance would be done by LGCs. Rehabilitation would
be done by the existing force account. The responsibil.ity for rural roads
would gradually devolve to state agencies which have direct reRponsibility
for rural roads, once their capability has been strengthened. The Bank is
discussing with FGN the possibility of supporting a Rural InfrastrucLure
Proiect whose aim would be to start the process of identifying and
strengthening such institutions in selected pilot states. Also the ADPs
would progressively rely more on the private sector to deliver commercial
inputs in lieu of their own operations. Both the above initiatives
involving the private sector are expected to save costs and establish a
sustainable basis for continued activity. Similarly, state MANRs would be
strengthened in their essential policy formulation, regulatory, disease
control, planning, budgeting, and expenditure implementation function. The
membership and terms of reference for the main project implementation
organizations, i.e., ADPEC and its two sub-committees; and ADPMU and its
sub-committees are described below.
6.06      ADP Executive Committee (ADPEC).  An Executive Committee
responsible to the State Governor in Council would oversee the project.
ADPEC would be chaired by the State Governor, and the Commissioner for MAN&
would be the Deputy Chairman. Other members of the ADPEC would include the
State Commissioners for Finance and Economic Planning, Works and Transport,
Special Duties; the Secretary to the State Government, the Director of
FDRD, the Director General of Land and Surveys, Commissioner of Justice,
the Head of FACU, the General Manager of the relevant River Basin
Authority, the State Director of DFRRI, the Director-General MAWR, and the
ADP Program Manager as memberisecretary. ADPEC would meet at least once
every two months. In addition to policy, financial and coordination
matters, ADPEC would approve the annual budget and work plan, appointment
of principal staff, and ensure that adequate funds would be available.
ADPEC would approve all contracts estimated to cost an amount above US$
100,000. Each ADP would create an internal Tender Committee to approve all
contracts; provided however that all contracts estimated to cost more than
US$ 25,000 and up to US$100,000 would be cleared by the State Commissioner
Agriculture.   Contracts requiring ADPEC's approval (i.e., above USS
100,000) would first be recommended by the ADPMU Tender Committee. The
Tender Committee would be chaired by the ADP Program Manager, and would
include other members of the ADP Management Unit (ADPMU). The Chief
Administrative Officer ADPMU would serve as secretary to the Tender
Committee. The ADPEC may appoint sub-committees as and when needed.



6.07      Two sub-committees would be established under the ADPEC: an
Agricultural Services Sub-Committee; and an Infrastructure Development
Sub-Committee. The Agricultural Services Sub-committee would coordinate
services to farmers. The Director-General MANR would chair the
sub-committee, and its members would include the: Chief Planning Officer
MANR, ADP Program Manager, Chief Technical Officer ADP, Chief Agricultural
Officer (MANR), FASCOM General Manager/Managing Director, and two
representatives of the elected State Farmers' Council. The Infrastructure
Development Sub-committee would coordinate infrastructure programs. It
would also be chaired by the Director-General MANR. Its other members
would include the Chief Planning Officer MANR, the ADP Program Manager, the
Chief Community Development Inspector in the Ministry of Local Government
and/or Cooperatives, the Chief Civil Engineer (Ministry of Works), and the
ADP Chief Engineer.
6.08      The ADP Management Unit (ADPMU) would have responsibility for
operating the ADP, under the policy guidelines and direction of the
Commissioner MANR, and in accordance with the conditions of the amended
Project Agreement and the amended Subsidiary Loan Agreement. In addition
to the various heads of operational departments reporting to the Program
Manager, he would oversee the work of four support departments
(Administration and Personnel, Finance and Stores, MDT, and PME). Each ADP
would have an Executive Management Committee chaired by the ADP Program
Manager, and consisting of all ADP Heads of Departments and Zonal Managers;
the Committee would meet at least once every month.
6.09      For administrative purposes, each ADJ would have two zones,
which would each be headed by a Zonal Manager and have appropriate
technical and support staff. The zones would he responsible for day to day
implementation of ADP activities. A Zonal Development Committee would be
constituted in each zone to plan and review programs and to facilitate
coordination and cooperation between different agencies and farmers'
organizations operating in the zone. These committees would include zonal
representatives of the ADP, LGCs, the State Farmers' Council, and other
recognized farmers' groups in the zone.
6.10   The ADP's extension activities, which would include all smallholder
crop and livestock production activities, as well as agro-forestry,
agro-processing, land-use planning, and soil conservation. The activities
would be coordinated for the first time, and unified in one structure
modelled along the lines of the Training and Visit (T & V) system.
Experience with T & V in on-going ADPs has been positive on three
accounts. It has led to a streamlining of extension activities with
parallel operations minimized. T & V has also improved the linkages
between farmers and researchers which had been almost non-existent in
Nigeria for many years. Finally, by incorporting home economics staff in
the T & V system, the ADPs have begun to address the technical needs of
women farmers who form the most important part of the farming population.
The most critical agricultural service change from the ADP programs put
into operation would be the funnelling of all the advice on crop
prodwction, livestock husbandry, agro-forestry, product processing and
marketing, and home economics through a single faucet, the Village
Extension Worker (VEW).



6.11      Additional support for the infrastructure development program
would be provided by the Rural Infrastructure Coordination (RIC) division
of FACU Kaduna and supporting consultants, particularly in the preparation
of road contracts. Engineering consultants recruited by FACU would assist
the ADPs in preparing annual infrastructure programs, ensuring they
selected meet economic criteria; and overseeing private contractors.
6.12      Each ADPMU, in consultation with LGCs in the state, would select
candidate roads for rehabilitation. The ADP, assisted by consultants
employed by FACU, would identify the highest priority agricultural areas
adjacent to all-weather roads of the state network. Those roads would be
ranked for agricultural significance by the established FACU procedure. An
economic rate of return (ERR) would then be computed for each road using
Bank HDM3 model which equates benefits from reduced vehicle operating costs
against costs of road rehabilitation and maintenance over 20 years. The
ADP, with FACU's assistance, would compile a roadworks program for each
state, identifying which roadworks would be implemented by contract and by
force account. Under the guidance of FACU, the ADP would prepare bidding
documents for one or more contracts in each state to be put to tender
following World Bank guidelines and in accord with International Conditons
of Contract for Works of Civil Engineering Construction. The preparation
documents would specify pre-qualification standards and procedures for
prospective bidders, and FACU and the consultants who may have assisted in
the preparation of the roadworks program would participate with the
Infrastructure Division in the pre-qualification procedure. Similarly the
economic viability of the force account activity would be reviewed
continually by the ADPs, FACU and the Bank and the units would be disbanded
and equipment auctioned off when they become uneconomic. FACU would design
and supervise the monitoring/review exercise in consultation with the
Bank. The ADPs would discuss the results of the comparisons with the Bank
during annual (thematic) infrastructure supervision missions. It is hoped
that such results can be available not later than December 31, 1990, s0
that the lessons of experience can be incorporated in any follow-up project
which may be contemplated for Bank financing. All ADP professional
engineering staff would attend training courses in contract administration,
contract management and soil testing during the project. ARMTI would
organize the courses.
6.13      In conformity with the strategy for roadworks and arrangements
agreed between the Bank, FACU, and MSADP II and III states, the ADPMU would
no later than August 31 each year furnish to the Bank and FACU the
roadworks program detailing the methods of procurement it will use (force
account and contract) proposed for the following year. The ADP's force
account capability would be limited to the existing capacity.
6.14      ADP reimbursement claims for contract payments would be
supported by FACU certification that the work has been carried out to
specification and in accord with the contract, and would be subject to
annual external audit. FACU may delegate site inspection to consultants
satisfactory to the Bank at its discretion.



6.15      A Rural Water Unit headed by a Principal Water Engineer and
supported by Zonal Water Engineers would implement the rural water
program.  The unit would work with the extension staff and LGCs to idenitify
target communities who would be selected based on their willingness to
contribute to part of the capital cost of the installation and all of the
recurrent costs. Before the rural water and irrigation programs are
implemented, the ADPs would conduct feasibility studies, and submit the
findings of these studies to the Bank for review and comment. The Rural
Water Unit, assisted by FACU, would prepare tender documents for borehole
construction and handpump procurement which would follow ICB guidelines.
6.16      Commercial Agricultural Services.  Distribution of agricultural
inputs would be handled by semi-autonomous FASCOMs. They would be operated
on strictly commercial terms, with explicit state/ADP contributions to
subsidies or financing of items to be sold on non-commercial terms. The
FASCOMs would aim to achieve a reasonable return on total assets (RTA) net
of their total costs including overheads and inventories, with assets
valued at replacement costs, consistent with the objective of promoting the
role of the private sector in retailing input supplies. They would scale
their operations and set their pricing policies in conformity with this
objective. The commercial and financial objectives, strategies, and
policies (especially with regard to profit and turnover objectives) of each
FASCOM would be codified in a Commercial and Financial Policy Statement
(CFPS) drafted along lines agreed with the states duing technical
discussions, if necessary with the assistance of consultants. The
Statement would be adopted by the FASCOM after approval of the Board.
6.17      An important institutional development objective of the pruject,
which is partially aimed at ensuring the sustainability of input supply
services, is the privatization of the FASCOMs, whether through joint equity
participation or out-right sale to the private sector or well functioning
cooperatives. This is in conformity with the general direction of Federal
agricultural policy, and was agreed during KADP negotiations as the
corporate structure of Kaduna FASCOM, i.e., that it would not be a
parastatal. Progress with implementing this objective under the erstwhile
KADP has been negligible, and in fact the FASCOMs were maintained as
parastatals.
6.18      Agreement was reached with the states during technical
dicussions that: (a) each FASCOM would appoint retailers in sufficient
numbers (about 40) and locations to act as its agents throughout the state;
and (b) consultants would be recruited to prepare Corporate Plans, which
may include privatization plans for both FASCOMs. There are several
possibilities for achieving the above objective. One possibility which
could attract the participation of private interests would be for the state
government to hold minority shares (say about 20Z) indirectly, such as
through a holding company or the ADP. The rest of the shares could be held
by input retailers in the state, farmers' organizations such as Farmers'
Unions, cooperatives, and a large private firm with expertise in input or
agricultural trade. The private firm with trading expertise could be
responsible for managing the farm supply company, perhaps on a Management
Contract basis. Private retailers and cooperatives could pay for their
shares through a charge on the purchase price of inputs supplied by t1he



FASCOM. The managing company could acquire its shares through a
profit-sharing arrangement. The FASCOMs could recruit internatio;,ally a
General Manager to help formulate and implement the corporate proposals as
well as the promotion of private retailers.
C.   Environmental Considerations
6.19      The project's potential for harming the environment could come
from four sources: (i) over-exploitation of acquifers as a result of rural
water supply and small-scale irrigation programs; (ii) the inappropriate
use of agricultural chemicals; (iii) reducing fallow; and (iv) soil erosion
resulting from sub-standard road rehabilitation or maintenance works. The
project would take steps to avoid these problems. Before the small scale
irrigation and rural water supply programs are started, each state would
complete the ongo*ng study of its underlying acquifer. Each annual program
would take account of the study's findings as to how large an area can be
tapped without harming the acquifer. The initial scale of the proposed
program is so small that there is little risk under the project. On the
issue of chemicals and possible toxicity, each state MANR, and specifically
each state's extension service, would inform FACU of products which are
currently in use. FACU would then inform each MANR which of these products
are considered unsafe (based on World Bank guidelines) and these messages
would be passed to farmers. The states Chief Agricultural Officer (CAO)
would have direct responsibility to coordinate action to prohibit sale of
harmful chemicals within each state.
6.20      The project's animal traction component would be expected to
have a positive impact on the environment. Integration of livestock in the
farming system would increase the organic material within the soil, both
from the rotation of leguminous crops with cereals and from incorporation
of animal manures. This would result in the reduction of wind and water
erosion, the addition of soil nutrients and, in particular, improvement in
the water and nutrient holding capacity of the soil. The project's effect
on availability of animal drugs and mobility of veterinary services would:
(a) decrease animal mortality and so increase the number of animals
available for crop and livestock integration; and (b) extend the
geographical area where cattle, particularly work bulls, could be kept
protected from trypanasomiasis by chemotherapy. The extension program
would also promote farm-forestry, soil conservation, and proper land use
through the land-use planning program, which would lower the impact of
soil degredation.Finally, with regard to roads, private contractors, LGCs,
and ADPs would undertake their works to specified standards agreed with
FACU and the Bank. If any of them failed to meet these standards, they
would be declared ineligible for further Bank funded work.



VII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS 61
A. Demand. Markets and Prices
7.01      Demand.  Nigeria is a net importer of food, and while
indications are that total food production probably kept pace with
population growth over the past decade, this does not allow much for an
increase in per capita consumption that could be associated with iiacriasing
incomes. Furthermore, recent policies of the Federal Government
(particularly import bans and devaluation of the naira, both of which have
limited the availability of cheap imports) have increased the demand for
the staple foods which form the bulk of agricultural production arising
from the project's initiatives.
7.02      Markets.  The food crop marketing system in the project states
is dominated by small private traders and farmers. The system is
relatively competitive and efficient, but lack of information within and
between markets, inadequate storage facilities and high transportation
costs often result in very high spatial price differentials and seasonal
variations. The provision of market information by the FASCOM in each LGA
would help farmers improve their market information and identify market
outlets for any occasional marketable surpluses. The program of road
improvement would help the movement of crops from farm to market where such
facilites are lacking.
7.03      Prices.  Food prices in Nigeria have increased at a higher rate
than inflation over the past five years. albeit with pronounced spatial,
seasonal and year-to-year variations. The devaluation of the naira since
1986 has removed the major source of distortion between economic and
financial prices of most agricultural products, but a fair amount of
distortion still exists, caused by import bans and fertiliser subsidies.
Financial and economic farmgate prices in the project states used in the
economic and financial analysis are the averages for the first half of the
6/ Due to lack of data and time, it was not possible to conduct a proper
economic and financial analysis of the project. However, given the improved
macroeconomic incentives for the agricultural sector, and the re-
structureing of the project in favor of more cost effective methods of
implementation and of policies favoring long-run sustainability objectives,
the economic rate of returr. is expected to improve over the original ERR
estimate of 16Z. The magnitude of the potential improvement has however not
been estimated. The following discussion is therefore based largely on
analysis done for MSADP II states (Kwara, Niger, and Gongola). It should be
noted however, the economic circumstances in the project states are
somewhat different from those of MSADP II states, particularly in Katsina,
which is much drier, and the ERR should therefore be interprated
cautiously. An alternative economic and financial analysis may be found in
the SARs prepared for this re-designed project by FACU.



year 1988 and assumed to remain constant until 1992. Notwithstanding the
high level of fertiliser subsidy and the protection accorded to major
cereals by import bans, the data indicate minimal nominal protection
coefficients (NPCs) for some major tradeable cereals. In 1988 in Kaduna,
the average farmgate price of maize was 790 naira per ton compared to an
estimated imported parity price of 1228 naira per ton. Similarly, paddy
rice is sold for 1,200 naira per ton in Kaduna and Katsina respectively,
compared with an import parity price of naira 948 per ton.
7.04      Analytical Assumitions.  For purposes of financial and economic
analysis, the following basic assumptions have been mades (i) the
opportun2.ty cost of capital is 12Z; (ii) for non-tradeable outputs,
domestic retail prices are adjusted to border values using a standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.85 for 1989-90 and 0.92 thereafter; (iii) land
is not a constraint in the southern part of Kaduna state while it is a
constraint in the remaining part of Kaduna State and all of Katsina state;
(iv) labor is a constraint; (v) labor availability is uniform througnout
the year at 750 mandays per adult equivalent 7/ (vi) demand for labor
varies seasonally, and is reflected in the rural wage rate, which averages
5 naira per day; (vii) the fertiliser subsidy is assumed to be phased out
over a four year period, beginning at 502 in 1989, 40Y in 1990, 30S in
1991, and 02 in 1992; (viii) except for fertilizers, agricultural input
prices will continue to reflect import parity prices in financial terms;
(ix) the economic prices of fertilizers remain constant throughout the
project period (1989-1992); (x) the current relative price regime is
maintained throughout the project period.
7.05      A five percent net average adoption rate is assumed by project
year 3 for purposes of estimating the production effect of the extension
program. This means that by year 3 in each agro-ecological zone, 52 of the
farm families on average adopt the new farming technologies promoted by the
project. Thereafter, production is assumed to grow at 52 p.a., slightly
faster than population. This assumed growth rate is consistent with that
experienced in other areas after the completion of ADPs. The impact of
farm inputs, irrigation, and fertilizer has been related to the incremental
yield. Useful nutrients assumed to be available from appropriate
fertilizer is 35 kg per 100 kg. The incremental production for each
kilogram of fertilizer nutrient used is estimated as follows: maize 5 kg;
sorghum (northern project areas) 3 kg; sorghum (southern project areas)
4 kg; millet 3 kg; groundnut 2.5 kg; rice 6 kg; and cowpea 1.5 kg. The
incremental production from one kg of improved seed (one of the project's
main initiatives) is assumed to be: maize 10 kg; sorghum (northern project
areas) 10 kg; sorghum (southern project areas) 8 kg; millet 8 kg; rice
10 kg; cowpea 1.5 kg; and groundnuts 50 kg. The amount of seed required
per ha is: maize 15-20 kg; sorghum 10 kg; millet 7 kg; rice 60 kg; cowpea
20 kg; and groundnuts 50 kg. Sprayers are depreciated over three years,
and water pumps over two years. The crop yields "with' and 'without"
7/ There are about 1.17 million farm families in the project states. Each
farm fanily is assumed to have three adult equivalents of labor: two adults
and four children providing the labor equivalent of one adult.



- 53 -
improved technology are assumed to remain constant, with the former at a
higher level.
7.06      A typical fadama farmer in the project states has 6 ha of
cultivable land, but cultivates only 3 ha. He irrigates only 1 ha during
the dry season if a pump is available, and 0.5 ha if none is available.
The most prevalent crops grown on fadama are rice and high value vegetables
such as onions and tomatoes.
B.   Financial Analysis
7.07      Farm Incomes.  The focus here is on the benefits to
participating farm families, which have been evaluated in terms of
benefit-cost-ratios (BCRs) on use of inputs and improved technology
promoted by the project. For this purpose, increased inputs use is equated
with increased yields and better farming practices. Therefore, the
benefits of the agricultural component has been related to input use rather
than to what might happen on a given area of land. This approach is
particularly appropriate for the mixed cropping systems which predominate
in the project states, and for which an estimate of the yield of any one
crop poses considerable problems.
7.08      In order to assess the farmers' financial incentive to adopt the
technology recommendations of the project, analysis was made of the
profitability of adoption of the recommended technologies on several farm
models which have been constructed to depict the income effect on a
representative farmer from each ecological zone of the project area, with
the improved technology. An interesting result is that all the scenarios
show a higher profitability once the improved technology is adopted.
7.09      Commercial Services.  With regard to farm inputs, the analysis
of the financial viability of FASCOMs (which excludes fertilizer
operations) assumes that there will be no official price control on farm
inputs sales prices charged by FASCOMs or retailers, and as was agreed
during KADP loan negotiations, that the FASCOMs would be privatized and be
able to charge wholesale market prices to its retailers. It is assumed
that a wholesale profit mark-up of 20X would be required on the
ex-warehouse replacement inventory cost. This is a reasonable provision,
given the need to finance future growth requirements and build up an
adequate capital base to withstand potential losses. The volume sales of
the FASCOMs are assumed to grow at 52 per annum throughout the project
period. The historical rate of volume growth of input sales in KADP was
1OX a year between 1986-88. Under MSADP II, a financial analysis of the
FASCOM operations using projected market prices to estimate revenues,
indicated that a 20Z mark-up on the inventory replacement cost is required
in order for the FASCOM to obtain a Return on Total Assets (RTA) of 5Z in
1989, and 1OZ in 1990 and 1991. While an analysis of the required mark-ups
for Kaduna and Katsina FASCOMs has not been attempted, similar mark-ups can
be expected to be required in the case of both FASCOMs under this re-
designed project.



_ 54 -
C. Federal/State Financial Implications
7.10      The project would generate little direct Federal or State
government revenue, as farmers' output is not taxed directly. Some
indirect public revenue generation can be expected as the project increases
the level of economic activity in the states, but precise quantification is
not possible or meaningful. However, some state revenue is expected from
taxes on profits earned by FASCOMs. The Federal and State governments
would, therefore, need to sustain not only their contributions during the
project investment period, but also project activities thereafter. This
burden falls nearest on the states since they would pick up the annual
costs of the ADPs after the project investment period.
7.11      State Financial Capability.  The financial condition of the
project states is generally weak. The latest available information (from
the 1987 Annual Report of the Central Bank of Nigeria) on the overall
finances of each of the project states covers the period 1984-87. It
indicates the following: (a) total expenditures for the country as a whole
have increased by only 32 in nominal terms, and actually declined for the
erstwhile Kaduna; (b) on average, the states finance 202 of their
expenditures, and (c) the erstwhile Kaduna had overall deficits in their
budgets for all the three years under review. Therefore, increasing the
World Bank contribution to 77Z of the totalproject cost would accelerate
the speed of implementation.
7.12      Sector ExMenditure.  The data indicates that the erstwhile
Kaduna state spent an average of 20? of its public expenditures on
agriculture and the Kaduna ADP was almost synonymous with the sector budget
itself. Kaduna State's contribution to the re-desigued project is estimated
at US$16.8 million, of which US$9.9 million has already been disbursed.
Similarly, Katsina's contribution to the project's financing is estimated
at US$21.1 million, of which US$13.3 million has already been disbursed.
The incremental financing requirements of the projects from both states
(US$6.9 million for Kaduna; and US$7.8 million for Katsina) are therefore
quite modest.
7.13      The percentages and magnitudes of the incremental expenditures
(US$14.7 million for both states) are such that they could only be met from
the states' own resources after project completior., and even then only if
the measures proposed under the project are implemented vigorously. The
measures are expected to result in the following revenue enhancements and
cost reductions: (a) the productivity of sector public sector expenditures
would be increased, through restructuring and other reforms; (b) user
charges may reduce the expenditures on capital development and maintenance;
(c) revenue and net income covenants and freedom from state intervention in
input pricing for FASCOMs ought to reduce the need for state subsidies;
(d) road maintenance costs are expected to be reduced if private
contractors replace ADP force account operations; (e) expenditures on
extension may be reduced significantly following the unification of
services, which would eliminate duplication; (f) the Review of Agricultural
Insitutions may recommend institutional reforms and other measures which
may reduce duplication and parastatal costs/losses; (g) the overall scale
of sector expenditures might be reduced, although this is not very likely



- 55 -
since savings from revenue measures and restructuring would probably be
applied to other priority expenditures; and (h) the risks of the states
incurring unsupportable expenditures as a result of poor implementation of
this project would be monitored closely, and losses would be cut early.
7.14      Implications for the Federal Budget.  FGN's contributions to
Kaduna and Katsina States would be US$ 29.9 million by the time the project
is completed.  Over the next three years, the requirement for FGN financing
is very modest (US$ 20.1 million). The demands on FGN financing amount to
less than 102 of the projected level of Federal annual capital expenditure
for agriculture. This amount would be consistent with the overall level of
budgetary resources that the Bank has recommended FMAWRRD allocate annually
to the national ADP program. Considering the total size and composition of
the Federal budget, this appears to be reasonable.
D.   Economic Analysis
7.15      Economic Rate of Return.  A 32 adoption rate, which is
consistent with the record of the past projects has been assumed for the
spread of new technology for the crops grown in the project area. On this
basis the following growth rates are assumed for the production of various
crops: sorghum 2.5Z, millet 1.52 maize 72, rice 52, beans 32, groundnut 22,
cotton 52 and yam in Kaduna 32. Assuming constant relative prices, the
project is expected to result in an annual increase in food production at
the end of the third year of about 140,000 tons including 80,000 tons of
grain.  On that basis, ERRs have been estimated as follows: Kaduna 182 and
Katsina 152. The analysis is done over a 20-year period and includes all
project economic (incremental) costs. It also assumes that investment
costs of the redesigned project cease after the third year, and that
recurrent expenditures in the fourth year are equivalent to 502 of the
total projects costs in the third year and increase by 52 annually
thereafter. The only project benefit included is the farmgate economic
value of incremental production. The sensitivity analysis indicated that
the project is relatively sensitive to cost escalations, ar.a to delays in
benefits or implementation. A 20Z cost escalation would reduce the ERR to
162 and 122, respectively, for Kaduna and Katsina.
E. Benefits and Risks
Benefits
7.16      Summary.  The project's overriding benefit would come from its
initiatives to streamline the structure of state agricultural institutions,
and to improve the quality, availability and sustainability of agricultural
services. These initiatives can be summarized as follows:
(a)  Under the project the capacity of the state MANRs for policy
formulation, planning and expenditure budgeting would be
strengthened; and a major Review of Agricultural Institutions
would introduce reforms to make the services more efficient and
sustainable over the long-term. The recommended organizational



- 56 -
changes arising out of the Review would be introduced during a
follow-up project.
(b)  The project would unify and strengthen state agricultural
extension services and establish the vital link between
research, extension and farmers. The unification of the
extension service around the T & V system would reduce the
number of parallel services. By strengthening the management
systems for these services, the project would have a positive
effect on the productivity of the large current expenditures.
(c)  The adaptive rese&rch program would be strengthened to work with
existing farming systems to find improvements in practices that
could then be passed through the extension service.
(d)  The seeds program would improve the reliability and availability
of local certified seed.
(e)  By promoting the role of the private sector in the distribution
of agricultural inputs, seeds, roadworks, rural water and
irrigation development and maintenance the project would improve
the efficiency of distribution, development and maintenance,
minimize costs and develop long-term sustainability.
7.17      Padama IrriRation.  Although it is hoped that a mucu larger
acreage would be brought under fadama irrigation under the re-designed
project, for purposes of analysis, it is assumed that only 6,000 ha of
additional fadama will actually be developed, which figure might be more
realistic. Although this is a significant increase in the irrigated
acreage in the project states, it is less than 1OZ of the estimated fadama
development potential of any of the project states. The additional
irrigated acreage has an incremental output potential of 47,500 tons, of
which 28,000 tons is expected to be equally divided between rice and high
value vegetables each. The ERR for the fadama irrigation sub-project was
estimated under MSADP II to be 49Z; a similar ERR is assumed for this re-
designed project as well.
7.18   Roads.  The project will construct 800 kms of new roads, and
rehabilitate or maintain an additional 633 km in both states. Several
approaches to determining the economic viability of rural road investments
are available. For the purposes of evaluating of the rural roads program
in this project the consumer surplus method which stresses the
quantification oZ vehicle operating cost savings has been chosen as the
most suitable approach. Employing this methodology, a random sample of
rural roads in the project area will be monitored for a weekly period
during preparation to determine average daily traffic counts (ADTCs). We
expect that more than 60Z of these rural roads have ADTCs of 25 vehicles
per day or greater which is the cut off point for a 15? ERR given the
project's estimated cost of up-grading and maintaining one km of rural road
(N=40,000), an assumed 52 p.a. growth in traffic volume, and vehicle
4



- 57 -
operating cost savings per km of N=0.8 8/. Since the project's rural roads
program would cover less than 201 of the rural roads in the project states,
the program also falls within the envelope of rural roads which are
estimated to have sufficient traffic to justify improvements. While the
analysis clearly under-estimates the ERR of the road component in that it
ignores the potentially more significant producer surplus generated, it
clearly indicates that the proposed roads investments can stand on their
own economic merit. The roads component yields very high returns,
reflecting the fact that the roads component protects a very large sunk
investment at relatively modest costs. Detailed ADTCs and estimated
improvement costs would be undertaken for each road prior to its selection
to ensure that all roads upgraded under the project meet acceptable
economic criteria.
7.19      An important project benefit would be the assistance given to
the LGCs for routine, labor-intensive rural road maintenance. Not only
would this approach be the least-cost solution to routine maintenance, but
it would also be institutionally correct, given the LGCs' statutory
responsibility for rural road maintenance. Helping to improve the
management and organizational structure of the LGCs would meet an important
long-term project objective of developing a sustainable local structure for
providing services to the agricultural sector.
7.20      Water.  The project will construct 71 minor earth dams, 1,028
boreholes, and 300 wells. The average installation costs of each borehole
is US$ 14,400. The investment in the borehole is assumed to have an
economic life of 20 years and annual maintenance costs per borehole are
assumed to be US$1,440 (10? of the investment costs). The economic
analysis of the rural water component assumes that one borehole or well
serves 400 families per day for 365 days a year. A beneficiary farm family
is assumed to have 6.5 members, each of whom requires 15 litres for
domestic use per day. A nominal economic value of US$0.1 per 1000 litres
has been assumed. Thus, each borehole produces *dater with an estimated
economic value of US$1,423.5 per year. The ERR estimated on that basis for
the rural water component is 8Z, which is acceptable considering that the
analysis does not take into account other benefits such as improved health,
the value of trees and crops planted around boreholes or wells, or animals
watered. The inclusion of these benefits would put the ERR over the 12?
cut-off rate. The cost per rural family is estimated at US$12.8, which is
within the range of costs of similar projects in Sub-Saharan Africa. The
project's rural water component would provide significant social benefits
(improved health). Although health benefits and time savings have not been
quantified, Bank sector work has indicated that major investments in rural
water supply in Nigeria are warranted and can be justified on the basis of
8/ The methodology is further detailed in Economic Appraisal of Roads, a
World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 610, October 1983, by H.L beenhakker and
AA.M. Lago.



- 58 -
time savings alone, estimated at two hours per day for every farm
family. 91
Risks
7.21      The difficulties involved in efforts to unify the agricultural
extension system, streamline its operations and establish an efficient and
effective operation pose the greatest risks to the agricultuial program.
The project would counter these by developing a wage incentive scheme to
motivate extension officers and by improving their training and mobility.
FACU's strengthened cadre of extension specialists would continue to help
ensure that an efficient extension structure is established based on
Nigerian experience.  The primary risk of the infrastructure program would
be failure to maintain project investments. Such risks are minimized by
project assistance to strengthen the capability of the LGC's, who have the
institutional responsibility to maintain rural roads, and by selection of
communities for rural water investments according to their willingness to
contribute to construction and maintenance costs. The project would also
train village water supply mechanics who would then offer their services to
communities on a fee basis. The main risk with the commercial services
program is possible failure or slow progress in privatization of input
supply operations. This risk is reduced to some extent by the provision of
only incremental import requirements of the FASCONs under the redesigned
project, which would limit the major advantage (access to foreign exchange
for imports) that FASCOMs would enjoy over their competition; and the
requirement for market pricing of farm inputs sold by FASCOMs.
9/ Nigeria: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Memorandum, September
330, 1986, Annex 2-2, para 20. Draft Report No. 6203-UNI.



- 59 -
VIII. ASSURANCES AND AGREEMENTS
8.01     During discussions, the following agreements on the new actions to
be taken under the redesign were reached between the Bank and the
representatives of Kaduna and Katsina States, and the Federal Government.
These are over and above the agreements reached in the erstwhile Kaduna
ADP.
A. Conditions of Disbursement
8.02      Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Katsina State and Kaduna State would
have concluded a subsidiary loan agreement with the Federal Government by
September30, 1989 (para 5.09).
8.03      Amendments to the Loan Agreement have been approved by the FGN
and Kaduna and Katsina States (para 5.09).
B. Agricultural Services
8.04      Unification of Extension System.  The states would unify and
consolidate the extension se::vices. This would require the removal of
redundant staff who would not be needed for the implementation of the
project from the payrolls of ADPs (para 3.05).
8.05      Women in Agriculture.  Each ADPMU will furnish to the Bank by
June 30, 1990 for its review the program prepared to support women in
agriculture (para 4.05).
8.06      Sponsored Research.  Each state would conclude research
contracts with the relevant national research institutes, for priority
research topics, emerging from the MTRMs, which would be acceptable to the
Bank by June of each year (para 4.15).
C. Rural Infrastructure.
8.07      In each state the construction of new feeder roads,
reh.bilitation, and periodic maintenance would be done by contract; while
recurrent maintenance wculd be done by force account using the existing
force account capability (para 3.08).
8.08      Each ADPMU shall furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1990 its
detailed plans for the maintenance of its vehicle fleet under contractual
arrangements with external workshops.
8.09      Each ADPMU would, no later than August each year, furnish to the
Bank and FACU the roadworks program detailing the methods of procurement
(private contractors and force account) it will use fuze the following year
(para 4.29).



- 60 -
8.10      With FACU's assistance each state would compile the comparisons
of the cost of force account and contract works for roads and then submit
to the Bank for review by December 31, 199' (para 4.30).
8.11      Community Participation in Maintenance.  ADPs would prepare, for
the Bank's review and comment by September 30, 1989, a plan for carrying
out the proposed rural water maintenar.ee through community participation
(para 4.38).
8.12      Strengthening LGC Rural Road Ma!ntenance Capacity.  The ADPs,
with FACUs assistance, and after the Bank's review would establish by
June 30, 1990: rural road maintenance manual.; standard ADP-LGC contract;
and qualifying criteria for participation of two LGCs (one in each state)
in the rural infrastructure component (on reimbursement from the ADPs) to
carry out routine maintenance of rehabilitated roads in their jurisdictions
(para 4.31).
8.13      Organization of Water User's Associations (WMAs).  The states
would submit to the Bank by June 30, 1990 the structure and operating
procedures for the WUAs and form at least two selected pilot associations
in each state (para 4.45).
8.14      Each ADPMU shall with the assistance from FACU employ no later
than March 31, 1990 consultants to prepare feasibility studies for , and
supervise the execution of the irrigation project works (para 4.45)
D. Commercial Services
8.15      Seed Production and Pricing.  The ADPs would rely on contract
growers for at least 75Z of seed production, and seed purchase prices paid
to outgrowers and selling prices to farmers would be at prevailing market
prices. The certification standards to be followed would be those
established by NSS (para 4.18).
8.16     Agro-forestry:  FASCOMs would prepare plans for appointing,
training and equipping at least five selected entrepreneurs as franchisers
and five selected entrepreneurs as contractors for participating in the two
pilot programs of seedling marketing. Such plans will be submitted to the
Bank for review by June 30, 1990 (para 4.07).
8.17     Pricing of Animal Drugs and Vaccines.  Each state would charge
the full cost for all drugs and vaccines sold by its veterinary department
and the mechanism for licensing private rural veterinary practitioners
would be established after consultations with the Bank, by December 31,
1989 (para 4.24).
8.18      Pricing of Non-Fertilizer -nputs Soli' by FASCOMs.  The
management of FASCOMs would be allov,ed the latitude to set prices for their
wholesale-level inventories in order to achieve an adequate return on
assets with inventory costed at replacement value (para 4.48).
.



8.19      Privseization of Input Supply-  FASCOMs would promote the role
of the private sector as retailers and wholesalers so that the FASCOMs
would be able to limit their operatior.s to one wholesale store per LGA, by
December 1991 (para 4.49).
8.20      Privatization of FASCOMs.  Consultants with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank would be recruited by June 30, 1990 by
each FASCOM's Board of Directors to prepare privatization plans for FASCOMs
and the study would be completed by 1991 (para 4.48).
8.21      Each PASCOM would modify the draft Commercial and Financial
Policy Statement along principles agreed with the, and adopt its own final
version of the statement from March 31, 1990 (para 4.48).
8.22      FASCOMs would recruit consultants under the terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank to do studies on on-farm and off-farm storage
facilities, possibilities of establishing agricultural commercial
cooperatives and Cooperative Financing Agency (CFA) along the lines of
Bauchi CFA, and a strategy for promoting inputs farm-mechanization, and
such studies will be completed by March 31, 1990 (paras 4.51,4.53,4.54,and
4.56).
E. State MANRs.
8.23      Sector Policy & Planning.  Each state would prepare a
monitorable action plan for strengthening its planning capacity and recruit
a Chief Planning Officer or Advisor by March 31, 1990 (para 4.58).
8.24      Review of Agricultural Institutions.  Each state would recruit
an Agricultural Institutions Review Team by June 30, 1990. The team would
consist of at least a public administration expert (Team Leader), a state
finances expert, a financial analyst, and an agricultural services expert.
The Review Team would complete its work by December 31, 1990 (para 4.59).
F. Project Management
8.25      Each FASCOM and ADP would send at least three suitable Nigerian
staff for overseas professional accounting training early by March 31, 1990
(para 4.67).
8.26      Each ADP would submit programs for strengthening their Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation unit by March 31, 1990 for the Bank's review and
approval (para 4.69).
G. Procurement
8.27      Each ADPMU and FASCOM shall furnish to the Bank no later than
November 30 each year a project procurement plan satisfactory to the Bank
for the following year.



Annex I
Page 1 of 23
KADUNAIKATSINA ADP
(Reoesigned Kaduna ADP-Loan No. 2436-UNI)
Minutes of Technical Discussions %ith Katsina State Delegation
1.        A high-powered Katsina State delegation led by the
Hon. Commissioner for Agriculture, Alh. Mohammed Amin Abdulla1hi 1/, visited
Washington DC from December 5 to December 7th for negotiations on the re-
design of Kaduna ADP (Ln. 2435-UNI).  Since the redesign documents were not
ready, it was agreed that the opportunity presented by the visit of the
State delegation would be used for technical discussions. The discussions
are a follow-up to the Kaduna Sate discussions which were attended
partially by Mr. O.F.J. Oyaide, Federal Director of Agriculture and Rural
Development, and Prof. A.O Falusi, Head of FACU who were in Washington for
other loan negotiations. The delegation also met with Mr. Anand Seth,
Division Chief, Agriculture Operations, West Africa Department.
AGREED AGENDA
2.        The following agenda was agreed and covered during the technical
discussions:
(a) Interim disbursements arrangements for Katsina ADP;
(b) the need for re-design of the project;
(c) reasons for the delay in finalizing the re-design
exercise;
(d) the documentation required;
(e) the processing schedule;
(f) the re-design proposals presented by the Bank and the State
delegation;
(g) procurement issues; and
(h) appointment of senior Katsina ADP staff.
l/ Other members of the delegatJoa were Hon. Commissioner for Finance and
Planning Alh. Kasimu Ibrahim, Solicitor-General Saddik Abdullahi Mahuta,
and Program Manager KTADP Yusuf Nalado. The Bank team consisted of Messrs.
Makwata J. Wambia, Senior Economist and Project Officer for KTADP, and
Ms. Vimila Abraham, Disbursements Officer.



Annex I
Page 2 of 23
INTERIM DISBURSEMENTS ARRANGEMENTS
3.        The Bank proposed, and it was agreed by all parties (including
Dr. Ramsey Mowoe, Assistant Director, External Finance, Federal Ministry of
Finance, who was attending other negotiations) that:
(a)  The Federal Government (Federal Ministry of Finance, External
Finance Department) would authorize and submit two additional signatories
from Katsina ADP for purposes of disbursements from the KADP loan account.
This would remove the obstacle to smooth implementation of both ADPs
presented by the need for Kaduna ADP officials to countersign each
withdrawal application from Katsina ADP. A target date for such a letter
reaching the Bank was tentatively set at December 19, 1988. However,
Kaduna ADP officials would still have to countersign withdrawals from the
Special Account, which would continue to operate in the nsame of Kaduna
ADP.
(b)  Pending the receipt of th- letter from the Federal Ministry of
Finance authorizing and authenticating the two Katsina ADP signatories, the
Bank will maintain separate records of wittdrawals for Kaduna and Katsina
ADPs retroactive to November 1, 1988.
(c) The last disbursement application paid by the Bank on the loan
account was on November 1, 1988. As of that date, the total amount
disbursed from the loan was US$31.2 million. From that date onwards, the
Bank will keep separate records for Kaduna and Katsina ADP withdrawals.
For that purpose, the Bank has opened two sub-accounts (A-for Kaduna, and
B-for Katsina) for each disbursement category to record disbursements to
each State ADP.
(d) Katsina State delegation undertook to send to the Bank by
courier, immediately upon their return to Katsina but not later than
December 19, 1988, the latest information on disbursements by each loan
category accruing to Kaduna and Katsina State respectively. This would up-
date the statement prepared by the Bifurcation Committee showing
disbursements as of September 30, 1987. The information is necessary to
enable the Bank to prepare new loan allocations among the various
disbursement categories and between the States, since total allocations
(past and future) must add up to US$122 million.
THE NEED FOR RE-DESIGN
4.        The Bank and the State delegation agreed that the bifurcation of
the project presented an opportunity for necessary re-design of the project
for the following reasons:
(a) The erstwhile KADP was among the less successful of the ADPs in
Nigeria (largely due to political factors which retarded the pace of
implementation), and therefore strategies and actions should be proposed
which re-assure the Bank's Management and State authorities that



Page 3 of 23
implementation would be more rapid following the re-design than has
hitherto been the case.
(b) There are considerable loan savings arising from the devaluation
of the Naira since the Bank's Board approved the Kaduna ADP on June 7,
1984. The savings are estimated at between US$30-50 million. The Bank's
policy is to cancel loan savings arising from devaluations, or from cost
savings on the project targets as approved by the Board. In view of the
Federal and State Governments' (both Kaduna and Katsina) stated preference
to retain the loan savings, there was a need to re-program these savings, a
process that was time consuming.
(c) The Bank and FGN feel the need, which was shared by the State
delegation, to re-design the project in order to incorporate the agreed
sector implementation strategy which is aimed at improving the
sustainability of project investments, institutions, and benefits (see
Attachment I).
(d) In view of the preference of both States to retain the closing
date as December 31, 1991, strategies for implementing the project to
ensure full disbursement of the remaining loan amount (US$91 million) over
a period equivalent to the prior life of the loan (which became effective
on July 17, 1985) during which only US$31 million was disbursed were
required. Agreement was reached to pursue a dual track approach to
implementations full use of the existing ADP force account capability* in
parallel with contracting and active encouragement of the participation of
the private sector in project activities in order to achieve the ambitious
targets, utilize project resources efficiently, and spread the secondary
benefits of the project to entities outside the ADP and FASCOM, especially
those which generate off-farm employment and promote rural enterprise.
REASONS FOR THE PROCESSING DELAY
5.        The State delegation and the Bank agreed that there had been a
lengthy delay in finalizing the re-design of the project. Both States had
been under the impression that the redesign appraisal report which had been
prepared by FACU following the Bank's re-design mission in July originated
from the Bank, and were therefore surprised that the Bank maintained that
it was not yet ready for negotiations with the necessary documentation.
DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED
6. '      The Bank representatives and Management explained, and the State
delegation agreed, that further documentation was required to present the
re-design to the Bank's Board, the State Executive Council, and the Federal
Executive Council for the necessary approvals. In addition to preparation
of a final re-design report reflecting the comments of the States on the
FACU re-design report, amendments were required to the Loan Agreement
between the Bank and FGN, to the Kaduna State Project Agreement (between
the Bank and Kaduna State) and to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (between



Annex I
Page 4 of 23
Kaduna State and Federal Government). In addition, a new Katsina State
Project Agreement, and Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Katsina State and
FGN were required. The Bank would be responsible for preparing all the
documents and amendments listed above except for the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, which are traditionally prepared by the Federal Ministry of
Justice.
PROCESSING SCHEDULE
7.        Following the agreement to facilitate direct disbursements to
Katsina ADP, it was agreed that the schedule for negotiating the re-
designed project could be extended from January to February 1989, since
implementation would now proceed at a much faster pace, especially in view
of the agreement reached with the State delegation on the essential
elements of the re-designed project, the appointment of senior ADP
management and staff by both States, and given the Bank's approval of all
pending procurement cases.  The following processing schedule  was agreed
between the Bank and the State delegation:
(a) As soon as the delegates return to Katsina, they would send the
latest statement of loan and project expenditures (reflecting State and FGN
contributions if possible) pertaining to each State to the Bank for
inclusion in the re-design documents not later than December 19, 1988. A
similar request was made to the Kaduna State delegation when it visited
Washington last week.
(b) The re-design Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and legal documents
would be presented to the Bank's Management for approval and authority to
negotiate by December 31, 1988.
(c) The Bank would send the approved set of documents to the States
and FGN by January 16, 1989, together with an invitation to negotiations.
Given the extent of agreement reached between the Kaduna and Katsina State
delegations and the Bank on the essential issues of the re-design of the
project, the negotiations are expected to be smooth and routine.
(d) Based on the above schedule, negotiations are expected to be
held in early February 1989, and are tentatively set for February 6, 1989.
(e) The negotiated Kaduna/Katsina ADP loan documents would be
presented to the Executive Councils of each State and the Federal Executive
Council for their approval. State approvals are expected to be facilitated
by the early involvement. and clear comitment to the projects already
demonstrated by the Federal Government, and State Governors and their
Commissioners of Agriculture Finance and Justice in the re-design efforts.
A tentative target date for obtaining State Executive Council approval was
set at February 27, 1989, and for Federal Executive Council approval at
March 6, 1989.
(f) Following the approval of the negotiated re-design documents by
the State and Federal Executive Councils, the re-designed Kaduna ADP (to be



Annex I
Page 5 of 23
re-named Kaduna/Katsina ADP) would be presented to the Bank's Board for its
approval. It is hoped that this would be possible before the end of March
1989, and a tentative target date of March 27, 1989 was proposed.
(h) The legal documents pertaining to the erstwhile Kaduna ADP would
continue to be in force, and the legal documents pertaining to the re-
design would become effective (a) immediately upon the signature of the
Project Agreement by Katsina State and Subsidiary Loan Agreement by both
Katsina State and the Federal Government; and (b) the fulfillment of any
other terms and conditions which may be agreed between the Bank, FGN, and
the States during the negotiations.
The above schedule largely represents the necessary legal technicalities
required to formalize the bifurcation and every effort would therefore be
made to ensure that it does not jeopardize the smooth implementation of the
project in either State.
THE MAJOR RE-DESIGN PROPOSALS
8.        The Bank and Katsina State delegation presented the essential
elements of their proposed amendments to the re-designed project. The
first half of the technical discussions was based on excerpts from
Chapter IV (The Re-designed Project) of the draft SAR incorporating the
rationale for the re-designed project, its objectives, and the essential
elements of design. The Bank complimented the Katsina State delegation for
their thorough and well prepared written proposal which formed the basis of
the second half of the technical discussions. The Bank and the Katsina
State delegation agreed on the following essential elements of the re-
designed project, subject to review and approval of the Bank's Management:
(a) Agricultural Services
(i) Unification of extension services;
(ii) strengthening of the system of Sponsored Research between
Katsina ADP and Zaria Institute for Agricultural Research
(IAR);
(iii) intensification of the agro-forestry, soil conservation,
and land-use planning programs, with emphasis on labor
intensive and low-cost vegetative (i.e non-mechanical)
solutions to soil conservation. The land-use planning
program would emphasize mapping and identification of land
potentials;
(iv) assigning a central role to the private sector and
smallholders in improved seed multiplication, processing
and distribution, partially by reducing the number of ADP
seed farms and establishing a seed pricing policy which
encouraged the participation of the private sector,



0 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 23
contract outgrower farmers, and adoption of improved seeds
by farmers;
(v) the emphasis on animal traction, pasture development, and
animal health services; and
(vi) various pilot programs of financial and technical
assistance to encourage the participation of private
farmers, cooperatives, and firms in the marketing and
distribution of tree seedlings and improved seeds, and
provision of land-use planning and animal health services.
The technical and financial assistance for the pilot
programs would be coordinated by the FASCOM, with technical
input from the ADP.
(b) Rural Infrastructural Services
(i) EngineerinR Services: Strengthening of ADP engineering
services, including the construction and rehabilitation of
werkshops, staff housing, office buildings, and
laboratories for the projects; and encouragement of
equipment and vehicle maintenance contracts between the ADP
and private workshops in Katsina State on a pilot basis.
(ii) Feeder Roads and Rural Water Supply: Construction of an
additional 700 km of feeder roads, and rehabilitation of
400 km of roads by, and maintenance of roads all ADP roads,
all by contract; first priority would be assigned te
maintenance of existing ADP roads, followed by
rehabilitation of ADP roads (especially those built under
Funtua ADP), and lastly the construction of new roads; full
utilization of the existing ADP force account capability
for rural road works; establishing a capacity in Katsina
ADP for implementing rural road and water supply programs
by contract; immediately conducting an inventory of road
works equipment available in the State which can be
repaired economically, and rehabilitating them for
subsequent allocation to LGCs which become eligible to
participate in the technical assistance program of the
project; pilot programs to provide financial and technical
assistance to firms and individuals wishing to operate as
rural road and water supply maintenance contractors to
Katsina ADP; establishing Water Users' Associat4ons (WUAs)
by the Rural Water Supply Divis on to maintain rural water
supply facilities and organize community ownership and
participation in the construction and maintenance of rural
water supplies; assisting Katsina ADP, LGCs implementing
rural road and water supply programs in collaboration with
the ADP, and their contractors to obtain financial and
technical assistance available under the Bank-funded
Infrastructure Development Fund Project; providing



Annex I
Page 7 of 23
technical and financial assistance on a contractual basis
to strengthen LGC capacity to maintain feeder roads and
rural water supply facilities in their jurisdictions using
labor intensive methods on a pilot basis; and construction
of about 500 boreholes and 50 earth dams by contract;
rehabilitation of about 300 boreholes, 500 wells, and 50
earth dams by fully utilizing the existing ADP force
account capability and by contract.
(iii) Irrigation: A new fadama irrigation program was added,
with significantly expanded targets for Katsina ADP to
20,000 ha (from 3000 ha. in the most recent proposals),
with the bulk of the program to be implemented by contract
(the ADP itould hire the contractors) and by full
utilization of the ADP force account capability which would
be strengthened following the recent approval by the Bank
for the acquisition of drilling rigs and hand drilling sets
by the ADP; completion by the ADP of 2-3 medium scale
irrigation schemes owned by the State with a command area
of about 2000 ha (subject to a satisfactory feasibility
analysis by consultants appointed with the Bank's
approval); establishing Irrigation Water Users'
Associations (IWUAs) to perform functions similar to those
of WUAs; to the extent possible, the ADP would charge full
cost to beneficiaries of the fadama development program,
and credit would be provided through the proposed
Cooperative Financing Agency (CFA) to assist farmers to
phase in the capital costs; and a program of training and
equipping of Village Mechanics to maintain water supply and
fadama irrigation facilities in their communities.
cc) Commercial Services
Mi) The FASCOM: Financing of FASCOM imports an a three year
declining basis; a monitorable program of commercial and
financial policies by which the FASCOM would replenish the
equivalent inventory previously financed by the Bank lr n
through purchases of foreign exchange on the FEM;
assistance to the FASCOM to formulate a Commercial and
Financial Policy Statement (see Attachment II)
incorporating policies to guide the operations of the
company towards self-sustaining profitability; recruitment
of consultants by March 31, 1989 to assist the State with
preparation o# a Corporate Plan to strengthen the
management of the FASCOM, strengthen its financial base,
and prepare a program for its privatization during the next



Annex I
Page 8 of 23
three years 2/; appointment of cooperatives and private
firms as retail agents to the FASCOM; establishment of a
Farm Enterprise Development Service (PEDS) with staff not
exceeding 10 whose qualifications would be satisfactory to
the Bank, and a US$ 500,000 Venture Capital Fund (FEDVCF)
in the FASCOM to coordinate commercial and financial
assistance programs which are proposed to be provided to
firms and individuals in support of the privatization pilot
programs of the project 3l; and establishment of a
Veterinary Revolving Drug Fund. The operations of the
Veterinary Revolving Drug Fund would be overseen by a Board
of Trustees on which livestock owners would constitute the
majority.
(ii) Farm Mechanization. Agro-Processing and Storaget Provision
and sale, at unsubsidised profit making prices by the
FASCOM, of on-farm storage merchandise, machinery and
implements; and provision of technical and financial
assistance to entrepreneurs and cooperatives in related
fields through the FASCOM and by assisting entrepreneurs
and cooperatives to obtain to access the Bank-assisted
Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Project (SMSE). Kaduna
State delegation undertook to investigate possibilities of
making contract arrangements between the ADP, cotton
ginners, textile mills, and the FASCOM to support the rapid
expansion of cotton production and processing in the State.
A progress report on the arrangements would be submitted to
the Bank by March 31, 1989.
(d) State MANR
(i) Sector Policy and Strategic Planning: The State delegation
welcomed the Bank's offer to provide technical assistance
to the MANR in sector planning and policy formulation,
strengthen its capacity to oversee the operations of the
ADP, which is its imilementing agency; and assist the
State to prepare a Perspective Sectcr Plan (dovetailing on
the National Perspective Sector Plan which is currently
undar preparation by FMAWRRD), and a Medium-Term Sector
development plans. Consultants would be appointed by
March 31, 1989.
(ii) Institutional Review: A program of technical assistance to
the MANR to conduct an Institutional Review of the key
2/ The State delegation undertook to send to the Bank Annual Reports and
Accounts for the FASCOM for the past three years by pouch immediately upou
their return to Katsina.
31



- 70 -
Annex I
Page 9 of 23
state agricultural institutions (primarily the MANR and
ADP) aimed at rationalizing their roles and improving their
efficiency, eliminating duplication, and ensuring long-term
sustainability using the policy framework agreed between
the Bank and FGN. Consultants would be appointed by
March 31, 1989.
(iii) Studiest Consultants would be appointed by March 31, 1989
to conduct a feasibility study prepare plans for the
establishment of a CFA along the lines of the successful
Bauchi CFA, which members of the State delegation and the
Bank's representatives had studied. The consultants would
be retained for a period of one or two years to implement
their recommendations. additional studies which would be
financed under the project would cover Storage,
Cooperatives, Aquaculture, Rehabilitation of Road-works
Equipment, and Farm Mechanization.  Consultants would be
appointed by March 31, 1989.
Ce) Project Management
(i) Proiect Administration and Management: Consultants would
be appointed by the State by end of March 1989 to review
the staffing and organizational requirements of the ADP
with a view to identifying the ideal staff compliment,
training requirements, and recommending the ideal
management structure. Redundant staff would be redeployed
from the ADP on a schedule to be agreed with the Bank
during negotiations (tentatively June 30, 1989). There was
a need to ensure that a strong candidate for the post of
Chief Technical Officer (CTO) for the Project was
recruited. To assist the project to effect a quick start-
off on its agricultural program in 1989, the State would
recruit a consultant from a research institute, university
or other suitable source for a fixed term period by
March 31, 1989.
(ii) Proiect Finance and Stores: The project would establish a
Procurement Unit bv March 31, 1989, and send one or two
staff from the Unit to the Bank for on-the-job training ae
soon as possible; and the project would establish an
internal Tender Committee, adopt procurement review
procedures which have been agreed between the Bank and FGN,
and are being adopted by other ADPs throughout the country.
Emphasis would be placed on improving MIS and
computerization of financial services.
(iii) Manpower Development and Training: The project would
place very special emphasis on manpower development and
training, and for that purpose appoint a consultant for a
fixed term to design and implement a manpower development



- 71 -
Annex I
Page 10 of 23
program for the ADP while the substantive Chief MDT Officer
is on overseas training.
(iv) Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation: Through staff
redeployment, recruitment of better trained staff, an
intensified training program, and provision of necessary
computers, the PME Unit would be strengthened.
PROCUREMENT ISSUES
9.   (a)  The Bank and State delegation agreed that procurement had not
proceeded smoothly in the recent past. The Bank representatives informed
the State delegation that the Bank had made a conscious effort to enforce
the Procurement Guidelines, and that as soon as the projects become
familiar with the Guidelines, disbursements would be expected to improve.
The Bank requested the State authorities to institute firm instructions and
high standards for the preparation and submission of Bank-acceptable
procurement documents in the ADP and VASCOM.
(b) The project would immediately recruit consultants to prepare the
1989 Procurement Schedule for ADP and FASCOM, as well as all other
procurement documents to ensure that satisfactory documents are submitted
to the Bank by early January 1989.
'c) There was agreement on all outstanding procurement cases, most
of which would be re-submitted to the Bank after being prepared by
consultant to be recruited immediately by the project. In addition, the
Bank and the State delegation discussed and agreed on the method of
procurement for major items of expenditure in 1989, and that the project
would submit a Procurement Schedule along the lines agreed during the
discussions, and annually thereafter.
(d) The Bank approved the proposal of the State delegation to start
construction of 49 open-dug wells (approximately 7 per LGA), at an
estimated cost of about Naira 441,000 through local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures. As a one-time exception, the Bank approved the method of
recruitment oi the contractors by the State for the construction of the
open-dug wells, which involved obtaining quotations from in-State
contractors and negotiating contract rates with them. The Bank's
representatives explained the need for the State to invite quotations for
all non-ICB procurement from out-of-State firms in the interest of ensuring
that the most competitive quotations available in the country are obtained.
This need was appreciated by the State delegation, which however expressed
cor^sern that similar requirements should apply to other States using
proceeds of World Bank loans.
(e) The Bank and the State delegation agreed that the State could
immediately proceed to procure urgencly required items for the project by
direct international and local shopping, provided such shopping did not
exceed US$300,000. To the extent possible, the items to be so procured



- 72 -
Annex I
Page 11 of 23
would all be purchased as one bid, and therefore the project would invite
quotations from two or three firms.
(f) The bulk of the rest of the procurement would be by ICB, and the
schedule would be arranged in such a way as to minimize the number of
individual procurement documents to be submitted to the Bank (preferably no
more than 4 sets of procurement documents would be submitted for review in
1989).
APPOINTMENT OF SENIOR PROJECT STAFF
10. (a) The State delegation presented the recommendations of the State
Interview Panel for the senior staff of the ADP and FASCOM. The Bank
endorsed all the recommendations of the Interview Panel, and commended the
State for maintaining very high standards for the recruitment of project
staff. Further interviews for vacant positions (including Zonal llau..agers)
are likely to be scheduled for January 1989, and the State delegation
expressed the hope that the Bank's representative would be able to attend.
(b) The Bank would be prepared to finance the appointments of
Nigerian staff recruited on fixed term contracts in lieu of expatriates,
provided their terms of reference, qualifications, and terms of employment
were agreed with the Bank prior to their recruitment. In addition, the
Bank would need to be satisfied that adequate arrangements were being made
to train replacements for both fixed term and expatriate staff. In the
MANR, possible need for fixed term recruitment of such staff was identified
the Commissioner's Office for the posts of Chief Agricultural Officer and
Chief Planning Officer/Adviser. In the ADP, possible areas of need for
such recruitment had been identified in the posts of Chief Technical
Officer, Chief Engineer, and Chief Manpower and Train'-, Officer. In the
FASCOM, the areas of need were identified in the posts of Financial
Controller, Commercial Manager, and Manager of the Rural Enterprise
Development Service.
(c) To allow flexibility to implement the recommendations of the
consultants who would be recruited to prepare the Corporate Plan for
KATFASCOM, recruitment for senior staff and management would be slowed down
for the time being.
ANNUAL VISIT TO WASHINGTON
11.       The Bank and the State delegatiGn agreed that the visit of the
State delegation to Washington was very useful in resolving project
implementation issues, and provided for concerted attention and interaction
between the Bank and the State officials. Accordingly, the Bank invited
the State to visit Washington next year in November for similar
discussions, and asked that the documentation prepared by the State should
include the following year's Work Program and Budget, as well as a
Retrospective Report covering the implementation experience in 1989.



- 73 -
Annex I
Page 12 of 23
Signed this December 7, 1988:
For Katsina State;                             For the IBRD
Alh. Mohammed Amin Abdullahi                   Makwata J. Wambia
Commissioner for Agriculture                   Senior Economist
Kasimu Ibrahim                                 Alh. Nalado Yusuf
Commissioner for Finance and Planning          Project Manager
Saddik Abdullahi Mahuta
Solicitor-General
CC:  Dr. Ramsey Mowoe, Assistant Director, Federal Ministry of Finance and
Planning, Lagos.
Chief. O.F.J. Oyaide, Federal Director of Agriculture and Rural
Development, FMAWRRD, Abuja.
Prof. A.O Falusi, Head of FACU, Ibadan.
Mrs. Oseni, Federal Ministry of Justice, Lagos.
Mrs. V. Abraham, Disbursements Division.
Ms. 0. Vela, AF4AG
Mr. Kafu Awunyo, Senior Counsel.
Africa Information Center



- 74 -
Annex I
Page 13 of 23
KADUNA/KATSINA ADP
(Redesigned Kaduna ADP-Loan No. 2436-UNI)
Minutes of Technical Discussions with Kaduna State Delegation.
1.        A high-powered Kaduna State delegation led by the Hon.
Commissioner for Agriculture, Alh. Mohammed N. Sambo 41, visited Washington
DC from November 28 to December 1st for negotiations on the redesign of
Kaduna ADP (Ln. 2436-UNI). Since the redesign documents were not ready, it
was agreed that the opportunity presented by the visit of the State
delegation would be used for technical discussions. The discussions were
attended partially by Mr. O.F.J. Oyaide, Federal Director of Agriculture
and Rural Development, and Prof. A.O Falusi, Head of FACU who were in
Washington for other loan negotiations. The delegation also met with
Mr. Anand Seth, Division Chief, Agriculture Operations, West Africa
Department, and Mr. Caio Koch-Weser, Director, West Africa Department.
AGREED AGENDA
2.        The following agenda was agreed and covered during the techn"cal
discussions:
(a) Interim disbursements arrangements for Katsina ADP;
(b) the need for redesign of the project;
(c) reasons for the delay in finalising the redesign
exercise;
(d) the Documentation Required;
(e) the Processing Schedule;
(f) the redesign proposals presented by the Bank and the State
delegation;
(g)  procurement Issues; and
41 Other members of the delegation were Hon. Commissioner for Finance and
Planning Alh. Musa Zakari, Solicitor-General Yahaya Abubakar, Acting
Program Manager KADP Col. S. Sarup, and Chief Administrative Officer Mr.
W. J. Yayok. The Bank team consisted of Messrs. Makwata J. Wambia, Senior
Economist and Project Officer for KADP, and Kafu Awunyo, Senior Counsel;
and Mesdames. Vimila Abraham, Disbursements Officer, and Olinda Vela,
Procurement Assistant.



- 75 -
Annex I
Page 14 of 23
(h) appointment of senior ADS staff.
INTERIM DISBURSEMENTS ARRANGEMENTS
3.        The Bank proposed, and it was agreed by all parties that:
(a)  The Federal Fovernment (Federal Ministry of Firance, External
Finance Division) should authorise and submit two additional signatories to
the loan account from Katsina ADP. This would remove the obstacle to
smooth implementation of both ADPs presented by the need for Kaduna ADP
officials to courtersign each withdrawal application from Katsina ADP.
(b) As soon as the Bank receives the letter authorising and
authenticating the two Katsina ADP signatories, the Bank will maintain a
seperate record of withdrawals for Kaduna and Katsina ADPs.
(c) The last d3sbursement application paid by the Bank on the loan
account was on November 1, 1988. As of that date, the total amount
disbursed from the loan was US$31.2 million. From that date onwa_ds, the
Lank will keep seperate records for Kaduna and Katsina ADP withdrawals.
For that purpose, the Bank will open two sub-accounts (A-for Kaduna, and B-
for Katsina) to record;
(d) Kaduna State delegation undertook to send to the Bank by
courier, immediately upon their return to Kaduna, the latest information on
disbursements by each loan category accruing to Kaduna and Katsina State
respectively. This would update the statement prepared by the Bifurcation
Committee showing disbursemente as of September 30, 1987. The information
is necessary to enable the Bank to prepare new loan allocations among the
various disbursement categories.
THE NEED FOR REDESIGN
4.        The Bank and the State delegation agreed that the bifurcation of
the project presented an opportunity for necessary redesign of the project
for the following reasons:
(a) The erstwhile KA*P was a%ong the less successful of the AtIPs in
our Nigeria portfolio, and therefore the Management of the Bank and the
States wish to be reassured that actions are proposed which assure that
implementatio- would be more rapid following the re-design than has
hitherto been the case.
(b) There are considerable loan savings arising from the devaluation
of the Naira since the Bank's Soard approved the Kaduna ADP in 1985.  The
savings are estimated at between USS30-50 million. The bank's policy is to
cancel loan savings arising from devaluations, or from lower cost
implementation of the approved prnjrct targets.  In view of the Federal and
State Governments' (both Kaduna and Katsina) stated preference to retain



- 76 -                         Annex I
Page 15 of 23
the loan savings, there was a need to re-program these savJngs, a process
that wf time consuming.
(c) The Bank and FGN feel the need, which was shared by the State
delegation, to redesign the project in order to incorporate the agreed
sector implementation strategy which is aimed at improving the
sustainability of project investments, institutions, and benefits (see
Attachment I).
(d) In view of the preference of both States to retain the closing
date as December 31, 1991, strategies for implementing the project to
ensure full disbursement the remaining loan amount (US$ 91 million) over a
period equivalent to the prior life of the loan during which only US$31
million was disbursed were required. Agreemert was reached to pursue a
dual track approach to implementation: full use of the existing ADP force
account capability, in parallel with contracting in order to achieve the
ambitious targets.
REASONS FOR THE DELAY
5.        The State delegation and the Bank agreed that there had been a
lengthy delay in finalising the re-design of the project. Both States had
been under the impression that the re-design appraisal report which had
been prepared by FACU following the Bank's re-design mission in July
originated from the Bank, and were therefore surprised that the Bank
maintained that it was not yet ready for negotiations with the necessary
documentation.
6.        Documentation Required.  The Bank representatives and Management
explained, and the Sti. e delegation agreed, that further documentation was
required to present the re-design to the Bank's Board, the State Executive
Council, and the Federal Executive Council for the necessary approvals. In
addition to preparation of a final re-design report reflecting the comments
of the States on the FACU re-design report, amendments were required to the
Loan Agreement between the Bank and FGN, to the Kaduna State Project
Agreement (between the Bank and Kaduna State) and to the Subsidiary L"an
Agreement (between Kaduna State and Federal Government). In addition, a
new Katsina State Project Agreement, and Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
Katsina State and FGN were required. The Bank would be responsible for
preparing all the documents and amendments listed above except for the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, which are traditionally prepared by the Federal
Ministry of Justice.
7.        Processing Schedule.  Following the agreement to facilitate
direct disbursements to Katsina ADP, it was agreed that the schedule for
negotiating the re-designed project could be extended from January to
February or February 1989, since implementation would now proceed at a much
faster pace, especially in view of the agreement reached with the State
delegation on the essential elements of the re-designed project, the
appointment of senior ADP managyment and staff by both States, and given



- l I -
Annex I
Page 16 of 23
the Bank's approval of all pending procurement cases. The following
processing schedule was agree& between the Bank and the Slate delegation:
(a) As soon as the delegates return to Kaduna, they would send the
latest statement of loan and project expenditures (reflecting State and FGN
contributions if possible) pertaining to each State to the Bank for
inclusion in the re-design documents not later than December 15, 1988. A
similar request would be made to the Katsina State delegation when it
visits Washington next week.
(b) The re-design Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and legal documents
would be presented to the Bank's Management for approval and authority to
negotiate by December 31, 1988.
(c) The Bank would send the approved set of documents to the States
and FGN by January 16, 1989, together with an invitation to negotiations.
Given the extent of agreement reached between the Kaduna State delegation
and the Bank on the essential issues of the re-design of the project, and
assuming that similar agreement could be reached with the Katsina State
delegation which was expected in Washington on December 5, 1988, the
negotiations are expected to be smooth and routine.
(d) Based on the above schedule, negotiations are expected to be
held in early February 1989, and are tentatively set for February 6, 1989.
(e) The negotiated Kaduna/Katsina ADP loan documents would be
presented to the Executive Councils of each State and the Federal Executive
Council for their approval. State approvals are expected to be facilitated
by the early involvement and clear commitment to the projects already
demonstrated by the Federal Government, and State Governors and their
Commissioners of Agriculture Finance and Justice in the re-design ef-Forts.
A tentative target date for obtaining State Executive Council approval was
set at February 27, 1989, and for Federal Executive Council approval at
March 6, 1989.
(f) Following the approval of the negotiated re-design documents by
the State and Federal Executive Councils, the re-designed Kaduna ADP (to be
re-named Kaduna/Katsina ADP) would be presented to the Bank's Board for its
approval. It is hoped that this would be possible before the end of March
1989, and a tentative target date of March 27, 1989 was proposed.
(h) The re-design would become effective (a) immediately upon the
signature of the Project Agreement by Katsina State and Subsidiary Loan
Agreement by both Katsina State a-d the Federal Government; and (b) the
fulfilment of any other terms and co.iditions which may be agreed between
the Bank, FGN, and the States during the negotiations.
The above schedule largely represents the necessary legal technicalities
required to formalise the bifurcation and every effort would therefore be
made to ensure that it does not jeopardise the smooth implementation of the
project in either State.



Annex I
Page 17 of 23
THE MAJOR RE-DESIGN PROPOSALS
8.        The Bank and Kaduna State delegation both presented the
essential elements of their proposed amendments to the re-designed project.
The first half of the technical discussions was based on excerpts from
Chapter IV (The Re-designed ProJect) of the draft SAR incorporating the
rationale for the re-designed project, its objectives, and the essential
elements of design. The Bank complimented the Kaduna State delegation for
their thorough and well prepared written proposal which formed the basis of
the second half of the technical discussions. The Bank and the Kaduna
State delegation agreed on the following essentia. elements of the re-
designed project:
(a) Agricultural Services. (i) Unification of extension services;
(ii) strengthening of the system of Sponsored Research between Kaduna ADP
and Zaira Institute for Agricultural Research (IAR); (iii) intensification
of the agro-forestry, soil conservation, and land-use planning programs,
with emphasis on labor intensive and low-cost vegetative (i.e non-
mechanical) solutions to soil conservation. The land-use planning program
would emphasise mapping and identification of land potentials;
(iv) assigning a central role to the private sector and smallholders in
improved seed multiplication, processing and distribution, partially by
rationalising the number of ADP seed farms and establishing a seed pricing
policy which encouraged the participation of the private sector, contract
outgrower farmers, and adoption of improved seeds by farmers; (v) the
emphasis on animal traction, pasture development, and animal health
services; and (v) various pilot programs of financial and technical
assistance to encourage the participation of private farmers, cooperatives,
and firms in the marketing and distribution of tree seedlings and improved
seeds, and provision of lard-use planning and animal health services. The
technical and financial assistance for the pilot programs would be
coordinated by the FASCOM, with technical input from the ADP.
(b) Rural Infrastructural Services
(i) EnRineering Services: Strengthening of ADP engineering
services, including the construction and rehabilitation of
workshops, staff housing, office buildings, and
laboratories for the projects; and encouragement of
equipment and vehicle maintenance contracts between the ADP
and private workshops in Kadurna State on a pilot basis;
(ii) Feeder Roads and Rural Water SUDpl: construction,
rehabilitation of an additional 300 km of feeder roads, and
rehabilitation and maintenance by contract; full
utilisation of the existing ALP force account capability
for rural road works; establishing a capacity in Kaduna ADP
for implementing rural road and water supply programs by
contract; immediately conducting an inventory of road works
equipment available in the State which can be repaired



Y9                          Annex .
Page 18 of 23
economically, and rehabilitating them for subsequent
allocation tg LGCs which become eligible to participate in
the technical assistance program of the project; pilot
programs to provide financial and technical assistance to
firms and individuals wishing to operate as rural road and
water supply maintenance contractors to Kaduna ADP;
establishing Water Users' Assciations (WUAs) to maintain
rural water supply facilities and organise community
ownership and participation in the construction and
maintenance of rural water supplies; assisting Kaduna ADP,
LGCs implementing rural road and water supply programs in
collaboration with the ADP, and their contractors to obtain
financial and technical assistance available under the
Bank-funded Infrastructure Development Fund Project;
providing technical and financial assistance on a
contractual basis to strengthen LGC capacity to maintain
feeder roads and rural water supply facilities in their
jurisdictions using labor intensive methods on a pilot
basis; and construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of
about 600 boreholes, 150 wells, and 28 earth dams by fully
utilising the existing ADP force account capability and by
contract;
(iii) Irrigation: expansion of the fadama irrigation target for
Kaduna ADP to 10,000 ha, with the bulk of the program to be
implemented by contract (the ADP would be the contractor)
and by full utilisation of the ADP force account capability
which would be strengthened following the recent approval
by the Bank for the acquisition of drilling rigs by the
ADP; completion by the ADP of 2-3 medium scale irrigation
schemes owned by the State with a command area of about
2000 ha; establishing Irrigation Water Users' Associations
(IWUAs) to perform functions similar to those of WUAs; to
the extent possible, the ADP would charge full cost to
beneficiaries of the fadama development program, and credit
would be provided through the proposed Cooperative
Financing Agency (CFA) to assist farmers to phase in the
capital costs; and a program of training and equiping of
Village Mechanics to maintain water supply and fadama
irrigation facilities in their communities.
(c) Commercial Services
(i) The FASCOM: Financing of FASCOM imports an a three year
declining basis; a monitorable program of commercial and
financial policies by which the FASCOM would replenish the
equivalent inventory previously financed by the Bank loan
through purchases of foreign exchange on the FEM;
assistance to the FASCOM to formulate a Commercial and
Financial Policy Statement (see Attachment II)
incorporating policies to guide the operations of the



P.;ge 19 of 23
company towards self-sustaining prfitability; recruitment
of consultants by January 1989 to assist the State with
preparation of a Corporate Plan to strengthen the
management of the FASCOM, strengthen its financial base,
and prepare a program for its privatisation during the next
three years; appointment of cooperatives and private firms
as retail agents to the FASCOM; establishment of a Farm
Enterprise Development Service (FEDS) and a US$500,000
venture capital fund (FEDVCF) in the FASCOM to coordinate
commercial and financial assistance programs which are
proposed to be provided to firms and individuals in support
of the privatisation pilot programs of the project; and
establishment of a Veterinary Revolving Drug Fund;
(ii) Farm Mechanisation. Agro-Processing and Storage: provision
and sale, at unsubsidised profit making prices by the
FASCOM, of on-farm storage merchandise, machinery and
implements; and provision of technical and financial
assistance to entrepreneurs and cooperatives in related
fields through the FASCOM and by assisting entrepreneurs
and cooperatives to obtain access to assistance available
under the Bank-assisted Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
Project (SMSE).
(d) State MANR
gi) Sector Policy and Strategic Planning: The State delegation
welcomed the Bank's offer to provide technical assistance
to the MANR in sector planning and policy formulation,
strengthen its capacity to oversee the operations of the
ADP, which is its implemeneting agency; and assist the
State to prepare a Perspective Sector Plan (devotailing on
the National Perspective Sector Plan which is currently
under preparation by FMAWRRD), and a Medium-Term Sector
development plans.
(ii) Institutional Review: A program of technical assiatance to
the MANR to conduct an Institutional Review of the key
state agricultural institutions (primarily the MANR and
ADP) aimed at rationalising their roles and improving their
efficiency, eliminating duplication, and ensuring long-term
sustainability using the policy framework agreed between
the Bank and FGN.
(iii) Studies: Consultants would be appointed by end of January
1989 to conduct a feasibility study prepare plans for the
establishment of a CFA along the lines of the successful
Bauchi CFA, which members of the State delegation and the
Bank's representatives had studied and admired. The
consultants would be retained for a period of one or two
years to implement their recommendations. Additional



-1 Ni -Annex I
Page 20 of 23
studies which would be financed under the project would
rover Storage, Cooperatives, Aquaculture, and Farm
Mechanisation.
(e)  Proiect l'anagement
(i) Project Administration and Management. Consultants would
be appointed by the State by end of March 1989 to review
the staffing and organisational requirements of the ADP
with a view to identifying the ideal staff compliment,
training requirements, and recommending the ideal
management structure. Redundant staff would be redeployed
from the ADP on a schedule to be agreed with the Bank
during negotiations (tentatively June 30, 1989). In view
of the engineering background of the selected Project
Vanager, there was a need to ensure that a strong candidate
for the post of Chief Technical Officer (CTO) for the
Project There was recruited. To assist the project to
effect a quick start-off on its agricultural program in
1989, the State would recruit a consultant from a research
institutes, university or other suitable source for a fixed
term period by March 31, 1989.
(ii) Proiect Finance and Stores. The project would establish a
Procurement Unit by March 31, 1989, and send cne or two
staff from the Unit to the Bank for on-the-job training as
soon as possible; the project would immediately reduce the
number of Procurement Agents to two firms to be agreed with
the Bank, by June 30, 1989; and the project would establish
an internal Tender Committee, adopt procurement review
procedures which have been agreed between the Bank and FGN,
and are being adopted by other ADPs throughout the country.
(iii) Manpower Development and Training.  The project would
place very special emphasis on manpower development and
training, and for that purpose appoint a consultant for a
fixed term to design and implement a manpower development
program for the ADP while the substantive Chief MDT Officer
is on overseas training.
(iv) Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. Through staff
redeployment, recruitment of better trained staff, an
intensified training program, and provision of necessary
computers, the PME Unit would be strengthened.
PROCUREMENT ISSUES
9.   (a)  The Bank and State delegation agreed that procurement had not
proceeded smoothly in the recent past. The Bank representatives informed
the State delegation that the Bank had made a conscious effort to enforce



Annex I
Page 21 of 23
the Procurement Guidelines, and that as soon as the projects become
familiar with the Guidelines, disbursements would be expected to improve.
The State delegation also informed the bank that very firm instructions and
high standards for the preparation and subsmission of Bank-acceptable
procurement documents had been put in place, and improvements were
expected.
(b) There was agreement on all outstanding procurement cases, which
were approved. In addition, the Bank and the State delegation discussed
and agreed on the method of procurement for major items of xpenditure in
1989, and that the project would submit a Procurement Schedule along the
lines agreed during the discussions, and annually thereafter.
APPOINTMENT OF SENIOR STAFF
10.       The State delegation presented the recommendations of the State
Interview Panel for the senior staff of the ADP and FASCOM. The Bank
endorsed all the recommendations of the Interview Panel, and commended the
State for insisting on very high standards for the recruitment of project
staff.



- 83 -
Annex I
Page 22 of 23
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
KADUNAIKATSINA ADP
ADP IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
COMPONENT           OBJECTIVE
O&M                  1.   No duplication with MANR, others.
2.   Structure/staffing which is sustainable
Extension            1.   Unification of MANR, Forestry and Livestock
2.   Replace Demonstration Plots with Corner Plots
3.   Mobility with ownership
4.   Sustainable intensity of extension
OFAR                 1.  Link to national system - contract Res.
2.   Priority trials agreed with Bank
Seed                 1.   Contract growers to supply at least 75Z of seed.
2.   Reduce ADP own farms
3.   Transfer responsibility for seed distribution to
FASCOMs
4.   Retail price at 252 above grain market price
Input Distribution  1.   Privatization. at retail level
2.   Promote role of cooperativds
3.   'Privatization' of FASCOMs (Phased Program)
4.   FUll cost plus pricing/ROR



-84-                         Annex I
Page 23 of 23
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
Fadama               1.   Gather groundwater information
2.   Accelerate pace of development
3.   Training of mechanics for maintenance of pumps
4.   Full pricing
S.   Promote local manufacture of spares
Rural Roads          1.   Shift emphasis from force account to contract
2.   Promote LGA role in routine maintenance
3.   Achieve high equipment utilization rates for
force account
4.   Emphasize maintenance over new construction
Rural Water          1.   Promote role of Water Users Association in
routine maintenance
2.   Training of local mechanics
3.   Promote local manufacture of spares
Soil Conservation   1.   Cost effective means... less engineering and
vegetative methods.
2.  'integrate soil conservation as part of extension
effort
Plannina             1.   Document sector development strategies for each
state
2.   Strengthen MANR capability in planning, policy
formulation, expenditure programming, and ADP
oversight
M&E                  1.   Focus evaluation role with APMEPU
2.   Support appropriate investments
3.   Rationalize organizational structure and staffing



KADUNA ADP
NiAERIA
KADUSA AND KATSINA - LOP
IREDISIGNtD KADUtNA DP PRo0tell
financing Plan by Suaey Accounts  *
MORID OmN       FEDERI  GOVERIRENI sElN1fCI*RY   s5lf GOVERNMENIT             lotal
,,  ------------------  ............  ..    .............  .........- - ---.......  l lo a .  D tl.   o    
MoDunt     I       Amount   I                           Aount I           Mount       S      hr'. Each.      Taes) Tr
1. INWESINEll COSTS
IL WltoDiUGS UD
CiVil tDS                            1. S96.96 86.22      324.33    3.78         -      -     Sb?.92  30.00   8. 579.22  16. 19    6.688.2*        1.033.09    657.92
8. EUIREtNI                             1.8t 5.6? 89.98         0.40    0.02         -     -     209 U   10.00   2,095.72   3.95    1,883.79               2.31    209.57
C. VEHICLES/PLANT NACII.               2i260.57 90.00          -0.00   -0. 00       -          -  2U.40  t0.00   2,533.97   4.78    2. 280.57             -0.00    253.40
0. 1F8066  IRRiGATIN(NCONTRACT)        13618.59 86.81          59.48    3.19         *     -      181.45  30.00   t ,64.53   3.52    1,457.39           220.68    38. 45
t. RATER SuPL
MAIER SUPtPY  ICONTRAC9I             7.261.03 88.81       268.16    3.39         -      -     836.47  10.00  84364.66  15.78    6.536.39             991.80    836.47
..-- --     -- -  ...  ..........    ........... ....... ........ ...... ---.. ------  --------   ------  ...... .....  ....... ....... ............ ............. ........ .. ... .........  ..
Sq-To3al MAIER SUPPtY                   7.263.03 66,88        267.16    3.19               -     836.47  to.0O   8,364.6   35.7r8    6.536.39           993.80    616.47
f. RURAL ROADS
ROAD  CONSTRUCTbON ICONT0R4CI        3, 86.85 86.79        142.62    3.21        -      -     444 94  30.00   4,449.41   8.39    3.474.05            530.42    444.94
ROAD RENA3itiAIION iCONTRACT)    I,684.89 86.80            62.16    3.20         -      -     394 12  30.00   1943. 17   3.66    1. 5.927            23t.08    194.12
........- -----.  9.............................. ............. ...... ...  ----  ---   -----  ----   ........... ........ .. ......... ... .  ..............  ..... ....
Sob-totalI RURAL ROADS                  5 546.73 86.80        204.78    3 20         -     -     639.06  *0.0   0. 390.S7  32.06    4. 990.01          763.50    639.08
6. 16R0 INPUTS MND OPERATIONS           6 ,73.88 s 90.00        0.00    0.00                     968 76  I0. "    9,687.u64   8.28    8 731.88             0.00    968.76
N3. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
IRAINtING AND STUDIES              3?57.80 69.65          6.08    0. 15        -            3-1b 00  t0.00   3,959.96   7.47    3 U57.88             6.08    396.00
1. YEtiUtE CAPItAL tUND                   130.so 90.00         *0.00    0 00               -      14.50  3O 00       145.00   0.27       130.50          -0.00      34.50
..... ..... ... ... .. .... ... . .. .. ...  ... ... ... ..  . ... . ... . ...... ......... . .....  ..... ... ... .. ..........  ............. ..
Total 11NVIST3IEN1 COSTS                  38,396.63 BB.02        862.1      3.9 8                 4.362. 13  10.00  43.621.26  62.30   36.243.62        3J035.S2  4.362.t3
It. REC3*RREN1 COSTS
....... ............
A. SALARIES AND
aLt GNCES                                                -          -                     5.063.02 100.00   S.063.02   9.55               -       4,303.57    759.45
B. ECUIPNT OP£ERA41ONS                   826.10 78.27        123. 26   11.73       -      -     10o.54  10.00   t 0f5.43   1.99         330.98         618.91    105.54
C. VEHICLESMANT OPERATIONS             1.077.91 75.44       208. 2   14.56         -      -     142.89  10.00   1.428.92   2.70         245.44       1,040.58    142.89
S. INCRIEHNIAL OPERAIING COStS        13340.02 73.05        310.S5   38.N          -            183 44  t0.00   3,834.41   3.46          96.23       1.554. 74    183.44
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      3,244.03 34.58        642.5    6.85               5- 6494.90  58.57   9,381.17  17.70            612.65       1.t57.80  1,193.33
lotal O ttem                               4,640.U  78.56    1605. 06   2.84             -     -   9.857.02  8L80  53.003.04 *00.00   36.9*I.27          10,533.32  5.553.45
.aasnsas. a,,..  aaan.n.a9 ass..:.  as::a..    ass.$&*a  n.sa  *sat* ass                :..u 544   assassaeas  sstassags saas s.aSass
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....,................. ... .. $tE....... ........... .|..... ... .. .s. .......... s..... ...... g................. .......... ............... ............ .................. ........
Nay 25. 1989 1: 13
Not that te cootibutelon of the Feder1 al novetomt I adJusted uward whil,- that Of th  State Government is adj " t                                                                       0
downward  b   the following  formula  to the teXt.   For the firs   two yeao they  share  In   qual aiount  locAl taxe   anddutl e
(except for salarles)  and  In the third  yer the State Govornmet contributes fully  to the dutlie   and  local tans.                                                                     N
0 M



KADUNA AD?
11 1G1 1*
ISIUSIUIO MAOUWA AOP PIull CII
lunaionva  Plan I? Proj.cl C-4w-ensfts*
wUsI '0001
nmoat 81       5E101t ML 6215101T 611tfC11160    51A1E 60v11111         Total
.... ....... .    ..............  .........  .. ........... .... .........Local   hadc.  Out 'es   a
awmt       I        .moln      I    Agwome  I       hoomt    3       h.m1       2     lot bw .  Ixl  Tax",)       lox"s
I. 122641101111111081                      1,2lb1. 30 2. 1?     81.11    2.11                 1.6M.,16  11.172  2. :B2.74   1.01     se08. 32     .814.30    400.12
2.8AO-FOll5IR?.
*llO.OKSIU?                               $19. 19 16. se     10.14    ?.10                   326.0o 31. 64    S1111.23   I 12      241.63        166.0 :l 04 is
SOlt coIISIw*iioU                         103.24 43.06        6.16    3.66            1-21.13  113.261    229 19   0.41            6U.i6         141.84     3014
1*110Om  PIMIIB                           11.10o 63.9        2668 0    4.12                   M 0. 14  21.91   034.94   1. is      443.10        2816131   104. SII
5%6-totl 610161011S1.
IM 1UK  P1A1116                         1. M03 26 31        111.62    S 64                   11246  36. 00   2.010 41   3.94       1s?149      1. 00  60   122023
23 aICrtioUhL INSIACI                        11. 43 13.22       so0190    3.? of                160.1?  2261      196.49   I.11       461.62        211. 14    61123
4. 1110 10L11*II0Ult  851111                 116.01 10.01       31.60    4.1 S?                 20.60  21. 36     822.26   1. SS      421.6?        301.43     69.26
S. 1121S1063 K012L0611
WhIuIUII   5601111s                       212.42 89.2?       20.30    3.16                    144.6U  26. 95    131.6GI   1.01     29.0          gas. 10    16 62
M*-total tIVIlIOCI K111t4P11N1               312.42 60.2?       20.30    3.6 T      .            44.86  26.99     131.6:   1.01       203.09        161,to10    162
Sib-lotel *AGICuLtumt                         4.0O.614494.04      292 30    S.0 2                3.113-19  42.0:   1.411.61  13.06    2,846.26       3. 692. 9    612.0?
1. fiCIEROM 080$0
01UI81 11At1                           20,323.6St 64 38     80? U6    3 21                 2.013336  12.26  24.0649?7  41.44   18.146 63       3. 499SS  2.436.??
2. 16916*1101                              2,033.62 83. 111    103 16   2.96                    472.28  13.46  3219. 61   6.62    2,649.18           M0.171    31? 10
Stfip-loal RURA  11116011EC1111  5(021161    22.2"T.23 84 26      011.14    3.30       .         3.42566  12.41  27,1194.63  12.06   20.7916-11      4.002.34  2.196.4?
C. COIRCIMi 1161111
I 185111  suppLy CUPaNI 4831105            0.902 47 83.30      111.06    0.69                 2,066. 42  11.80  13.081.06  24.60   10. 109.01     1, 227.0OS  1 351100
o  CoPiUIIV  *111*1C111 LoUN   fell          400. 10 11 72       I so    I 42                    123. 13  22.61   126.60   1.06       311.46        :03.6?     ST 74
1.*1o1aI 101111118 siIVIlIs                  it.3 to."683. 00     124 12    0.02                 2, 191.6 SS 6.60  1362.084  21.?   10,666.49        1.231.62  1.400.13
0. 0101106400I SIPPUBI s1110815
M11 *6111115118110  moo0                  310.1666.6:f       31 32    6 31                    110.16  21.0     196.60 G    1.615   220 40        266.26     60.04
eAND aANIu tlslIO lo.uSl                   m1.01l 63.12      41.66    1.42                    I . 6. 14  26.66  161.1it   1.06     191.323       206.2?t    60.00
111111168I, SIMS001U &11C0111
1108 lows1                                141.83174.09       20153    4 01                    161.36  21.90     136.12   IX2       423 t0        23048      16104
*10 1V*L*Ala ION1106 01111 NS              S 40 641130      410 1% .292                     32L.30  31.168    613.6U    I 61      311 22        411.66    1001to
3*31116 KV11L01Uh11111
M11 11*1111116No1  IRG II. 11.            903.66 11. 24      :0.16    1.46                   219.16  23.26   1,200.0S  2.21        M 82.0        229. 06    126.01
1*1.1.1  111*60E1I SUPPORT 119111S            2,618.02 U6.14      169.93    4.22                 t1,662.03  21.93   32020.691  1.4:1   1,"G6.64      1.100.06    431 26
SIIIIIGIC 91*111111                       211. 666  60L       02 0    0.11                    20.,44  10.,00    264.42   0.94      211.06          0.01s    26.44     4             14
2. 1115111U10tout 1011111                    133 92 60.06        6.06    3.01t                   :1S.1   10.00     :11.11   0.29      133.6U          6.46     Is.1 SS
sk* Intel SIlA   UNUl                           280606091 6S         8 30   141                     44.00  10 00      42991   0.63       366 94          1.03     44 00                01
talso v1%biwtSn                                4 1. 04o 6  15 %I    $.109 to    2 84               '8611 02  18 60  9200 4' :00 0'0  '365. 916. 21    10.%33 32 S.11%3 49
...8*1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....                                            .
pay 2l. 106 1113
*  Note that the contribution of the FedeIAlP Go0vernment  JIB adjusted  Ilpwrd whle that Of the State GOVernment1 10 adjusted
downward by the following formula In the text. For V*' first two year. they share In equal amount local taxes and duties
(except for salaries) and In the third year tho Stat.. Governmtent contributes, fully to the duties and local taxes.



KATSINA ADP
NIGERIA
KADUNA AND IU1SINA - APP
IREtESItNED ACDOlA hDP PRlOJICII
finacinug Plan by Susry Accowns *
lUSS '000l
MORO BANtK    FEOERMt GOVERNNIENI BEINE ICIAR    SIAIL GOVERNMENT      lotal
...........     . ............;.-------.*.-...--- ............. . ....... ................         tocal   (Exl.    Duties  a
bmt        1      Amont u           unt             hAwunlt    1     Amunt    I       for. Exch.     T1esal       lox
34s.3..34 .:*tt   *tStiSt3%  nasalS =SS.t: 1*22  at .3S::: 33C23S  :tttaaZ$ 353253  2SCUfiiSCPS   t*tttt$tifl*t   aslCa.a
1. INlESTlENT COSiS
A.  ultDoINS AND
Civil  NOKIS                      9.944. IS 06. 24    433.46    3. 16       -         1. tPl 07  I0. 00  1t. *30, 67  1.6U    9. 000. 45  1. 377. is  I. 193.0?
B. EIUIPIIENT                        1. 599.83 89.37       0.48    0.03        -       *     ? 70  10.00   1. 777.01   2.91    I.S996.94        2.37    177 70
C. VENICtES/PLANT NMCH.              3.254.44 90.00        -0.00   -0.00                   361.60  10.00   3. 516. OS  5.92    3,254.44        -0.00    361.60
0. f0AM  IRRIGAIIONICONTRACII        1.618.59 86.81       59.48    3. 19             -     185.45  10.00   1,864.53   3.0f    1,457.39        220.68    16 *4
E. WATER SUPPtl
............
UATER StUPPtL ICONIRACII         10.490.71 86.80      381.06    3.20              -   1.208 64  10.00  12.086.41  19.79    9.438.89      1.438 89  1.208.64
Sub-TotIl MAIER SUPPLW              10. 490. 71 86.80    28? 06   3. 20        -         1, 208 64  10.00  12. 086. 41  19.t9    9. 43E. SI  1.438. 89  1.208 64
1. RURAt ROADS
ROAD CONSTRUCIIOII ICONIIRACT     6. 446 15 6. 81     237.26    3. 19       -     -    742. 60  10.00   7 426.01  12. 16   5 ,02. 44       680.97    742. 60
ROAO RENABILItAtION (CONTRACT)   2,497. 4 86.79        90.76    3.21        -    -    283 14  10 00   2. 831. 44   4.64    2. 210. 76      337.94    282. 14
..... .. ...........  .... .... ........ .............
S.*-Total RR^AL ROADS                8.903.69 86.80      328.02    3.20              -   1,025.7S  10.00  10.257.45  16.80    8,013.20      1,218.51  1,025.75
6, AIt  INPUTS ANO OPERATIONS        7.643.39 90.00        0.00    . @0              -    84J.27  10.00   8U92.65  13.91    7,643.39            0.00    849.2?     -
N. IECNlAl.*I  ASSISIAICE.
TRAINING "D StUDIES              3,228.71 89.63        6 08    0.1?              -    359.42  10.00   3.594.21   9.l89    3,228.?1          6.08    359.42
I. VEtNTUE CAPITAL FUND                  3.92 90.00       -0.00   -0.00        -     -      0.44  10.00        4.35   0.01        3.92                    O.-44
total INWIST1IENT COSIS                46.686. 42 87. 72    1. 214.57    2. 28    -     -  5.322. 33  10. 00  93.223.33  87. 16  43.637.33     4.263. 66 5. 322.33
It. RECURRENI COSTS
. ....................... .
IL SALARIES AND
0LtOl1ANCES                             -    --                   -       -     -  4.8S  13 100.00   4.586. 13  7.51             -      3.898.21    687.92
S. E5UIPIEN7 OPERATIONS               310.40 78.27       46.52   11.73        -     -      39.66  10.00     396.57   0.65      124.33        232.59     39.66
C. VENICltES/PtANt OPERATIONS       1.108.7 75.41       214.44   14.59        -           147.00  10.00   1,470.01   2.41      250.82      1.072.19    147.00
O. INCRENENTAL OPERATING COSTS      1,025.75 73.82      224.86   16. 18       -           138.96  10.00   1,389.57   2.28      126.31      1,124.30    138.96
total REWORENI COSIS                    2,444.72 31.17      485.82    6.19        -    -  4,911.75  62.63   7.842.28  12.64        501.46      6,327.29  1,013.53
lotal Disbursmt                         49. 131. 14 80. 46    1 700. 39    2.78          -  10,234. 08  16.76 61,069.61 100.00   44. 138.79    t:. S90.9S  6.335.6 
;:s2z4s:a 5..ss  ;:33Z,.a,sa  -z.ts..  a,.: .a3,   .:s::a;9l 5ssZss  334S1s:2S 2l8ss% X5SASS6884 *14232S&SUS4   a3t1:5:*
way 29. 198w 17: IS
o  Not  that the contribution of the Federal Covernt to adjust     upward while that of the State bvermnt  o adjust                                                      o
dowward by the  olloving formula  1n the text.  For the first two yers the   share In equal amount local taxes and duties                                             *I0
(except for  alaries) and  ;n th. third  yer the state Goverr.mt contritee fully  to  the duties and  local taxes.



KATSINA ADP
13016Ill A
EADIINIA AND 88793kb   1311'
WGISIGNWItI 610318 *07l 7311,4t11
I-ramicng Plan by Projec t r,,nq,-nont s*
wuss *0001
110*10 BANK1    131D1RA  C0VIRMlffly8111MCIAIRY38    SIAI1 GDVIRwNN.l          total
IoceI  Il.cI   Out,on 
Am.o,n    IS       LAo.-         I    Amw,,nt I            .,       IS     hmxnwt      I      For  3,cl,       4...i        la.wt
A 8GOCN3IJIURI
I  13318130N8SIRkICIs                          1. 11  10 4698         100 11    2 Tb                     Iall 3 10212   2. b43 94   17 A?           309 IS      3.868 as    44% As
2  80110 90819191
soft EDIISIRVAIlo AOND£
I*9D USE PtANNING
£GR0-l0RI SIR?                                 110 96 6? 38         2% 431   10O                        12%1 22 27 14      AlI 61   0 36        211 32          199 97      Jo 16
Solt CONSERVAlloN                              30) 24 43 06         8a78    3 66                        37? 73 13 28       239 71   a 39         68 16          Sol 84      29 74
SAND U'. PlANNING                              116i 69 49 14         7 13    3 00                       III 64 47 86       23? 46   0 39         88 17          120 11      28 74
S,b total AC80-408191N1.
Solt cousrawallo. Acio
IAND USE PlANK ING                            130 90 56 55          41 32    4 40                       16863 39 01        938 as    154        367 41         462 35    309 04
3  8GR3C11IUNAl RISIARCH                          4978869 12           2983I    41 ?"1442 26 31                               716 11   I II        378Si           219 46      7s810
4  1630 INIIIIPIICAI3ON  IZONESI                  109 99 70 as         41 19    6 26                        172 It 23 66      727 78   I 19        333 90          311 to      la 30
I IIVEsTocP. DIEVEIOPMINII
WI(REINART SENVICIs                            220 is 68 90         to 09    3 12                        91 73 28 38       323 is   0S 13       1279            104 1       31 62
Sub t0383 tiVISIOCP. O(VOPEIIIU                  '#23 386810s          10 09    3 32                         St1732838s       323 18   0153         162 79         1047        213t62
S.*  too*# LGRICuiDIURI                            3.412 24 14 ER8       22? 11    ISs8                      2 610 09 41 73   S. 349 88  10 40    2.111 89          3.033 06    746 94
S. R93386 O E  SIRASU3CIU8E SERVICES                                                                                                                                                                        O
I  341*93 80A01 MD1
AURAL MAIER                                28,404.4 881 41       1 149. 5?   3I41                     3 69 70 1I 10  33. 239. 70  14 43   25. 378 79          4. 116 62  3.344 29
2  3FRIIGAIION                                  2.892 33 84 39         99 49    2 90                        443 12 12 92   3.436 32   S 63    2.623  13            46 130    349 to
Si*-?olaI AuRAt INFR8SVRICVIIR( SERVICES          31. 296 19815 33    3. 241 02    3 39                      4. 133 42 33 2?  36. 671 03  60 06   27.999 92         4.983 72  3.8693 39
C  cONIICIAI SERVICES
I  1*31308  Supply COIIPANY  1381108          10. 28? 02 82 48         7? 24    0 62                     7. 108 b9 38 91  i2. 472 88  20 43   30. 068 02        I. log..88  S.9 mis
2  COOPOBAIIVI FINANCING AGINCY 11CIA)            423 00 U90            S 23     I30                         47 36 -0 00       473 so   0. 78       400 09          26 la      47 36
Sida-lotal COW 33RC1At SERVICES                   10.710801 82 13         82 4?    0 64                      7 III 91 16 b1  12.946 42  21 20   10.468 II           1. 1318 2  l. 342 49
0  UNAUN8hIN3 SIPPOII 16*811*1
PROJICI N"ANCIINIT
AND ADNI*ISIR8IION  INQI                      304 79 60 II          39 08    7Iit                        190 01 32 24      1t49 92   0 90       3174 49         313 49      bI 9
AND ARNINISIRAIIDNI 11)0311                   21  49 S8 %4          42 41    7 0?                       ?06 49 34 39       boo 42   0Ss8        183 67          310 so      61is
PIIIANCE. 120811 AND 81C13ON11
no a louts767 4376O00                                               171%3     376                        s 989120 22       9.39St   161         097133          381260    10398o
PIRVN3NG mol3083N6
AN0 48*66*1108  t33 S 2081S3                  882 94 6? 02         21 is    I 96                        399 10 31 03   1.287 62   2 II          762 20          381 62    343 go0
NANPOSIIN DIV3IMPIC1I1
AN0 188183MG 1130 a 3KG dRm I                 912? 06 ?7 21         14 73    I 70                       261 63 23.11'   1.232 42   2 02         894 23          207 04    131 I,
Sub lotal 888A46*413  SUP3'GNI S331V163S           3.26,471 it0 34       116 91    7q 99                      . ISO IS2 268G?   4.5134. 33   I 62    2. 7023 92      1.431- 3*    109 OS
I  stIICA PO12GW AN0                                                                                                                                                                              4046
ST8AIM(IC PIAIIIINC                           211688989 a            030    0 It                         28 44310.00       284 42   047         211 03            091s      28 44 
2  18S111U110N8A3 R1V33K                          .ii 92 86 09          608    3 93                          Is Ss 10. 00     311 11   0.21         I3I 92           600        Is 11
i.,A total Still 8888                                389- b0 88 Si          1 t8    I 41                        44 00 to000       439 97   0272        388 94            7 03      44 00              "
lot81 94busbwentan                                  49. 333 14 60 46    1.700 i9    2i 78oD '234 08 36.716  63.061 61 100 00   44. 338 79                             10.190 91  8.133  8?,
-Ray 21. 3989 17 1I
*  Not., that the  contribution  of the Feder-al Government to mdi usbu   upward  while that of the Stat. Government is adjusted
downward  by  the  following formula  In the  text.   For- the first two years  they  share  In equal amount  local taxtes, and duties
(except for salaries)  and  to the  third  year the State  Governmgnt contributes fully  to  the duties  and  local taxes.



KATSMNAi ADP
4114106ND611NA- D
IREIIISIOIIO 0389)6 381' PIWJitci
I iamnting Mla by Project Coqwwtans of
loss 04001
Naolt gml      IlDElAt GOVOSHIW  1IFIIIIA611  slAtt OMOwMMI              Total
... .......      .... .........  ....     .     ......I.....  .....    .....   tocal   (l1*cI.  Oatses  
About      IT      hmnt        I    Aiunt   I        b.aatt     I     84otmI    I       for. Oxch.     la"1s       lawes
I. LULUosIU S66v1CLS                        1.212. 10 46 98     100.13    2 25        -1.831 12 802  2, 3643 94   8 97    1. 309.la                 1.8as8as    448 68
Las UiSE PLAItING
A611O4OlI511Y                              310. OZ 62.36      2S.41    8 s0                      128. 2? 21. 14   461.6S   0.16      211 12             S 199? 806
soIl CON$IIVAIIDU                          103.24 43 06        8.28s    3 66                    122>1853 26       239 .1   0.39       68 IS        141 64      297?4
tAl LISI Pt&"4611                          110. 69 49.14       2. 13    3 00       -113.54 47 86                 23? 46   0 39        as 12        120. 8     28 74
SIA-lotal ACl0F03t$l' 1
soft causcmvAlionme~
MAD UiSE PLAININO                          830.90 56.88o      41. 32  -4.40                     366.63 39.08     038.88   1.84       361.48        462 26    IDS 04
3. MUICULIIJEAI ff5S0161                      492.818 69.82      29 83    4 Ii        -            18. 42 25 21     216 13   I I?       370 8?        219 46     is 10
I. SLID HIIl1ipticiCl0I  OZONIES              809.9 AS20.08      41.89    a 26        -112. 19 23.66                "21.8s  1.1to       332 00        318 88     is630
S. tIVostoa KoVEtfPENzI
vfIElINUIT SIRVICLS                        221.3se W8.0o      10 09    3. II       -              1.223 28 38     323.1IS   0853     109.29         IN04 2?    382
S#*4941oa  tiVISIOCI KtVtOIItlEN              221. 366U.8O    . 10 09    3 12                       Ot 913 28.38     323.t8  0.83I      182 29        tot i?      38052
Sido ltotl AGNIICIIlIII                        3472. 24 54.68      322.88    38 se                  2. 650. 09 41.13   D.2340 8   10.40    2.121 89    3.031 06    746 94 
S., 1t1*A. INFlASTIIICIUIE SLVICIS
1. INDIK  moanOS as                                                                                                                                                                          %O
SEAL HATER                              28. 404, 48 88. 48    1. 1488S2    3.48               3.689 T0 11. 10  33.2)9.20  84.43    8. 328 29     4.816 62  3.344 29
2. lImGAtIdN                                9.89M. II 8 4.19     99.49    2920        -443.22 12.92   3.428 32   8.63    2,821. 12                    418. 10   34"  tO 
Stb-fatjal RuntL lINeStRucOU#. SIIVICOS       SI29.8"S    88 6.33    1,248. 02    3.3    -          4 131. 42 IT. 21  36.628.02  60.08   "22.9999      4,981.2  2 .693 39
C. COIUIICI&t SlfllltS 
I. IAIIURS SUPPLT COIAN? IFASCOS           10, 287.0s 82>14      22.24    0 62                   2. 108.89S 16 91  12,472.64  20.43   10. 0161.02   1. 109 6U  1.29M  13
2. CUOMBATIVE tiwINlUCI  AUg66 666*)          421 04868.6 811,    S23    1 tO                       42.36 10 00      423.88   0.28      400.09         36 14    42 se
Stit-I.tal COIUICICIA  SIIvICIS               10.2060of 82,21       82 47    0 64                   2.155.05 1S 61  12,948.42  20 20   10.468 11        1. 138 82  1.342 41
* NMAUOILNI SUPPORt SERVICES
POOJEC  I ...ILNU.........
aIAn  UINISfuIRAIICI10                    330.29 68IS        39 08    I1 t1O00832214                            849 91   0090       124 49        313 41     61 94
P2OJ1CI IIAIIAOIFNEI.
AID IINIMISIIAIION 1.1011                  3S1.411 88 4       42.48    20                       206"O49 34 39    600.413  0028       181 82        2108 Ss     8 Is
SINAICI. STORES AID ACCOUNTS
1108 ZONES                                 767.43 28.80        128S3    1.28                    *196.98 20.22    083.91   1. 61      692.23        189.88    I0S9U
PLAJEIMO n0in 10111
AID EVLt?iATIIN 010I6201151                88.64 62.02        28.18    I 96                      M  990 31 03   1, 282.62   2.11      8 720        "1 82    14380o
NAIPOIIII 0(V110P1111
meg 11*11188 AO 8 11011.CI1                982.08 27 28        14 22    1.2                     268 63 21.88   1,232. 42  2.02       894 23        202.04    131 18
S%6totloal RANOIIINI SIIPPOII SiEtVICFS        2.264.1 2120 Id      Ila S?    2 99                  1,280.62 26 82   4,684.31   1.62    2.720  22       1.4135 22    809 08
I IAII RUNM
I. SECTOR bLa3T? AND                                                                                                                                                                  94
SIIA110ICPLAmiUG                          288088989a          0 30    o It                      28.44 10 00     26442   0.4?        21803           0.9 2s044                   1
2  INSIIIU2II11AI IIVIEN                      1339280se09         6. 08    3.91                     18.8810.80       188.881  0.21      133922          6.08      is8                 1-4H
0 1-4
StAt toW  lal hI   ONO                           309  0886888         b is   1.48t                     44.00 10.00      439.92   0212      360094          2.03      44 80            t
total b,sbgtwsinl                               49. 131. 14 80.46    1.200 39    2 28                 10,23408 16.26  61,068.81 100.00   44. 1362 9      10,8S". 98  0.335 82           a
Way 28, 1989 MI?:I
6 Note that thm cotributi on of the FederalI oVernomet I e dj oated upward wh IlIe that of' the State Goveirnment I. a djuse
downward by the following formula In the text. For the firab two years they share lot equa amount local taeso and duties
(except for salaries) and  In the third year the State Goenmn  cn butes futly  to the duties and  local taxes.



NIGCERI
LADUKA MM1 ULTSINA - 8OP
318KSIGNED 1O*1A ADOP PDVJIlII
Financing Plan by Sumary Arcoa  *
fuSS '000
uOtLD ta      FE1F11 GDVENLNNI 81NEf1ICIMR  SIIS IDOVSUI             tlolal
..6 .a .. -    --- ----                  -                1         W -        Ns
&mcunt    I      Aunt        I    homt  I         bru.,      I       Ammt    I        for. EuCh      #a11"a      lax"
I. INVESMENT tCDSIS
.. ..... ....... .. ..
A  SIIDIHCS ANO
CIVIL MODREtS                   17.341. 11 85.23     751. 79    3.11      -    -  2.0099 s          000  20. 109. a  l7 63  IS18. as   2.410.24   Lots o
8. EIIPILNI                          3.4s4.80s 89.98      096    0.02        -    -      IP 21  30.00    3.872.1)  3.40    3.40  *3  4.3               3n721
C. VEHICLtSIPLANI  NAVC.            5.535.902 90.00      -0.00   -0 o              -    bli 00  10.00   G6. 50.02   s. 3    S.55. 02         -00 as    *f5t
0. FADANA IRRIGATION ICONIRACI3     3.23?. 19 86.81     118.96    3.19       -     -    317.91  10.09   3.129.06  3.2    2.04. 70           441.31     31 21
t. WATER SUPPtE
MATER SUPPIT ICOINIRACI3        t7.75s 14 86.80      654.22    3.20                 2. 011 lt  10.00  20 45 1.07  17.93   IS.9M. 27    2.41.  H   2.165. 11
Sub-Total MATER SUPPLY             I? 751. 4 86.80      654.22    3.20       -    -  2.04,i. 11 10.00  20.451.07  317.3   IS.521          : 430. 69  2.64% It
F. RUR4t RLADS
ROAD CONSIAUCIION ICONTRACII     io. 30a.00 06.80    379.88    3.20       -    -   . lRt S4  3000   t 1.6S542  1t.41   S. 2114.         341.34t9  S. 1414
ROAD RENABIL3IAlION (CONIRACII   4.142.43 86.80      152.92    3.20       -    -    41 26  30.00   4.1m2 61  4.18    .712612             M8162      43126
....-  -    ----  ----  .  ..   ......   ..  -----   ----  --   -     --   -----   --- -- --   -- --   -- - -- -   -- - -- - -   ---------. ...
Su-tlotal RURIAL ROADS             14.450.42 86.80      532.80    3 20       *    -   3. 6'0 80  10.00   16.648 03  14. 5    13.003.2       3.3      3. G" 31.
G  AGRD INPUTS AND OPERATIONS       16. 362.26 90.0       0.00    0 0o       -         -    P.I; 1 01  10 00   18.180.29  15.64   16.362.26     00 o  . 1, 03
H. IECHNICAt ASSISIANC.                                                                                                                                                                CD
TRAINING AND SIUDIES            6. 786. 59 89.84     12. 5     . 01c           -    755 42  30.00    1.554.16  6.62    6.751n. 15  72S 42
1. VENIURE CAPITAL FUND               134.42 00.00       -0.00   -0.00                    so 94  10.00      149 35   0.13     134.42         -0.00      a4t                             I
los)l INVESITENT COSIS                85. 083.25 87.86    2.076.U8   2.14       -     -  l   3 46  10.00  s6.844."59  84.s0   11M.095        1.210.3   9.56446
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES AND
AItoNEtS                                     -                   -             -  9. %4'm S5 30000   9.649.15   8.46            -     6201la   F.44131
8. EOulpI3&NT OPERATIONS            I. 136. 5o 78 27   170.30   I 173       -            4  20  30.00    3.452. 00   C.?     455.30 so.5.0 S           45 26
C. ViHICLIS/PlANI OPLRAtIONS       2.186.487S42        422.55   14.8 M                                                                                 M Si  300  2.8983   2.54  4962  2. 33.11  2 n
0. INCRENtUlAL OPERAIINO  COSIS    2.365.?7? 1338      535.3 1 6.62                    13' 40  10.00    3 223.9t  233       2m.s54       2.6 1" Os    ina
Total RECURRENT COSIS                  S.s88.IS 33 03    1.128 66   6.5S              -  10.4--- b4 60 42   17.2N406  15. 10   3.314. 13    13. 4a"a   1.2ft 5
lotal oDsLwe.a.                        90.12.00 79 S8   3. 205.5    26A1                  20.' S I30  11.61  114.06865 l300.00  81.55.06     21. 32.2n  ll.8USD
.. . . . . ..... .. ..... . ... ... ... ...............    . . . . ..   ........ .......... . . . . . ...    .    .    ..  ..  ,..... ...  r.. ... . . . . .   -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
JIw 1, 193 35: 55
*  No., that Wh   contribution of the Fedel Govenwa nt ts adjsted  upward whil, that of th  State  Osuemeet Is adjusted
dow ard by tho following fomula In the texlt.  For the firat twoe Year  they ehare la equal amount lotal taes aN   duties                                              SX
(exceo  for salaries) and  'a the third year the State Gover_Amat contributes fully to  Oat daie  aod local taxes.
. .-4



.as MD a austin atw
DISIeFORANM  Dt tlli
3 .mwctmg Plan  e by Ptujmt c.sqis.ts
IlRt E6tt IE0Et CAll.lINT Elllltl5tlc   Slut, ClwtilIII    total
.........   ....... ... ......                          --.. --   -- -- -- .....I.... ................ . ...t4 , l acAl  &W M
t   X  _    X    _t   w         _I       X        _      s    zl~~~~~~~~hewd    fr flc  ttm  Aw
*.so;il CUItlEvloAN
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s .... _
soft 33S30 SIRVICI S                    2064 74390        36616   214      1.9 71091 5                   3 Ps  619  59 1 5   217 5 13  233       848*
2. Sl6A-14311301.
Soft coSts,uilua me0
3   R-*   1R SI8M 0                    309 t0.2T 9S2   5        68       f            45J,s22       *111 61 323         som i    * . 1 SD    to 93
SOl LCIuelSERIIW*101   s              204 o    43.0o6   817 5     378                 2no *5s  2S     47 49  0.e        33 133 331 St 0             -
IStl0 USE PllIIIIII                   7N3009            49i S   563    SU             41117735914   1.3171     1 01     533120        f z3   t333
~~~~~~~~~~... ............. ................... ......... .. ....... ..... .. .
5*b- total *IUO - IORI S?.
S3III 6a33R1311a1i01 llD
IUO loSE Pl*33136                    3.11 03 S780       309 4   I 25      -           t 39 30 3.4   3.no" 21  246n    3 24         I5 05    3
3. URICUaiclaim RISE                    3.0831 30 71 52    60 D1   *301                  370 E0O4 a4 3*.514 U 1          S. R409       918 Is   L .t g
* SEO1 ibltC110   1113P1C30  Il03(S3    l.0t607 0110       63 U9 n 932                   M  e 3   s7609  3.990    33       199         126 75371.W798
S. ant1SIRUC iVRE YLOII
... ....................
MZIEMIUIII nSlaVICIS                  593. 9 E. 980     30 39   O.                            I -  23 02 E  2. I a U7   01 45  615 0  2AL 1 0      a
.  . ..  ....  ..  .......  .  ......  .....  ..... ................ .. ..... ... 
SI&*3otal11 R 1 u1303nk 3 8 3S 3  9s3889 ts                303 13                        239 80  24      08018  019        43981  7934            9 
Si*-1,ta3*GICU3IUII                       t7471511 9434      9394   3.78                  9.181.14j U   a33.263    324    9.43*2 n       ,333   8.8389
6  CONRCIIAtlSIUUR SERVIE      tSS  B1  S64  tE                                                                       3 S                 TI 6e u 
2  3336*IUI                            9.629 733*         20379   S  29                  91031         9.949   W l8s"tw   497 9.131    943       7tb  _
1* total Rft IUR s353C3031 51311815      94.99318 U   6   2.bt 796 76   3 36             tSS9806 1t ?S  642891 CS8634   emIl            am  48  5 .                         e
t. COISVCI* SARWICIS-
.......... ............ ....
I. FSUC1S S II91 CONPAE! IFASt        23.089.4882 Of         430   e 7016              4.3110,  3838  A9s0 B  n2<   2n9 S"03         2.332 asP."  a
2. CtPtR4ti"i  3i3AC3IU6 CI 3Itf4        U29 l08t89 o2f    1                               0aIt  nO D   64 U  017 47  o    11U?          n 17 57    34t
S%*6-ota3 C lKIlI SERVICES               22.0Is U8288       207 39   01 8                 4.     3 838  21 s6 3   26,X   23 t 30  23. 348  2 .. tO19L 2il n
o 163866116 5620012 SENVICES
linac?IN SU*3O8UU31.  ic
PROICT Niomps
an p333353 333 00                     703 Si 63 40      74 40    6 it                 3301642a        . " a Go*   097   4191        Sig is    32 
an 10I3I3S31s3Ul   "WIm!,             709.46 61.04      643     7 14                  386 62 31 n     . t1 to  3.0 *      3 34          i n    130 24
U 31*31. SOKS0 Am ICOUSNIS
o a tistS                            3 .31326 16. 2     41 o0    2                    380 31 28.94    .1120     .      . 1 * St  32t03  413 a  t3 t2
M*D1V1tul3o3 t33MGS ZOISI           1. 362 17 E3. OS    1064   32 i                   727 a69 3SU    2.i0   3  so  I  3D11 *.3 7       2        194s
IWIESl VR DEV3PI1If
StiD       NmaIIIIu0o S   6 COR I    1.855.67 76 1      32 so    3 34                 S"  1224 0   2.433.35  213   312.714          4413 It    M 13
Stb-lotI NlUUCilEIII  SUPPEI SERVICES      .U2.713 9 23     308 93   30 2O 3321S27 .7 9842. i 13    1°4911S                             2.39111 .33                S
S. SICiO II  1 3   30
........0 4
1. SEclog PDtlc 410                                                                                                                                           01;
SIUCI*C3   PIoIIIKM                   Sit 369      0      059  e7   Is                 S6 a6 1000 6oSL as94  0s         11, s6         4*      8   On
2. 0tblwlmlolat 9t0.1 26011 ,4 86 09   32 0s   3 s.9 31  O3 183O  34.08    04 n                                           n3 .9 9t                sonis n      _
... ... .. . . . ... . ... ... . ..           . ......... .. -----------  .. ... ..... .... .. ... . ..  -----
1010   lomzs~                              2O.772 00 isSt   S.2055S     281                70.091018 toOSS10 II,55 Gon smou a     oBv   o210"sm
*  Ibta tat th.coetributloe of th   F alm  IGves t 1  is aduteid  Waird whil  that of the  S                         te v m t& is adjefj
*  d   rd byI th  followin fo        la t tt.                             te  e        t            1  e         bt    a    l           d     le
(e. cept for   s.lr.) sa  to th  third ye_  the Stat. Oo,ei.a  esorlhte   fulle  to th  #Alus sd loca  taxus.



RIOOMSI  AID kliSUNA 0  - 1140
I I.FlcmIng Plan~ by Projsut CuppotintnS*
.   . .........   ............                  ocal   lstud.    owt Io    I
9mn           A&ml         2              I      AwmA        I      bmault      I     For. Each.      lamni         loxo%
A. noicuttm                                   -1.                         --    .,   SJ,.L;..- 1..  .  .~..... ...II   ............ *5,8;*ts*S ..........  .    s85...
I.(1619SERVICES                       2.963 4943S4          to66S0    2 74        -366037                         .0   9 57          22?5            .4   S       0~0
2.oil.0* COSIR?.IN N
SOIl USE 53561011 ND
AMI-FORESWTR                                 830 IS 60.24       9IS5    69 -5                       451.87 32 79    1.311.9?   1. 21       456174         7659        1525
SoHl COIISIVAI 101                          206.46 43.06         1? S6    3.66                      255.45 53.26       479 49   0.42       136.33         262 69      5941
LAND0 USE PtIANIWG                           114 39 60t91        45 63    3 69                      411.7? IS. 14    1.111 60   I 03       531 B?1        506 35      133 55
Sub-1otaI *4R0l0-10RStR1.
LIND eiS  PiAUNING                         1.751 03 57.60       15914    5                        1. 119. 1036 94    3.02926o  2.60    1.124924         1. SSG 6      346137
3. bIwaCIII10AI 605169011                     1.063 30 is5 6i071    4at1                                370 60 2  47    1.S14 63   1.33        640 39        se06        163ts  1.4
4. SM1  JLIlPLicAIION hOlES)                  1.0866    70to06      63 Is    537                       36060s 24 57    f.550. 14   I 36        759 ST        623 01      167. 56
5. 1111E510CK oOELtopHIUI
'StS11I  SR'VlC-E,S,                   593.79 66.96        30.39    3.523                     236.60 21.42       6607 0a    1 5      415 III        2904?        94 44
S%b,l*t8I t1V111JOCm *vIIoUIV11I%   is3 705so                       3039    35b3                       235607o 7.49       660.768  0.75        47567?        247          914144
Sm*-lOtil *OOICUIIIIRE                           7,477.6? 54.34       bia.94    3.78                    S,763.88 41.88   13.161.50  12.06    S.,416.27        6.1722 II   1.6191 g
6. 111111 INIUASISIICIIIK 56611160
I. fliEng Rom  AND0                                                                                                                                                                                IC
193.     1*01                              4770950              19551       34                     6.641 03  ItS9   57. 324 65     025   43,5S" 42        5.01620o   I73 06
2. IMIGAIION                      5~~~~~~~~~~,J62736?J*I 7s 0325b    293                    SrIN  9   is    5. 944 'i    b 0     5.701            9.5 7005Il?50 o  n 
Sib-Total RURAL IUTRASTIIICIIRI SERVICES        54.S5J 626$4.60    2.1567 6    3.36                     7.5S9 06 1t.76   64.269 6S  S6 34   48.79M  73        6.606   6.469066
C. COIIIIERCIAI sOOVICES
I. TAIlRS SUPPLY7 COlIPANI IIASCOIII        21.189.48 82 90        194 30    0 16                    41111  4 2.66    24                    05?0            .2   4 266
2. COOPIRSIIVO IIUAUCING *01110? 10061  629 106169 12 as    1. 2?                     170 42 16954    1.013 41   0 SI        7715?S         I. (9       In500
Si-10ls1 COlMOCaI&  SERViCIS                    22.015 be 8? 06       "97 19    0 78                    4,341.419 16 36   26,573.26  23.30   21.354 60         2.467 4i   2,75.32
0. 116*460E11  5117903  SERVICES
AND *OIIIISIOAIIOU O110                      101571634           744      672                       330642966         1.1I"651   0.927      403921        S797 is     2"6a
M90EC6 IM11*604111.
A"1 *911111S1**11O1  189301                  769.46 61 04        64 II       24                     366.40 II 72    1. 15220   1.02        ITS3.00        60695       139.24
O 59116. 510*15 ANDO *CCOIU75
119 a MRS10                                1.313,26 76 32        47 06    2 13                      360.31 20.941   1.720 62   1.51    1. 121 03          413 06      16252t
*110 EVALAtIlou 11* S ZONES)               1.362 77 63 05        70.64    3.25                      721 69 33 66    2. 161 S0   I 89    1.019 42          oil so      244 %8
""POWER96 OEV11OPmuEI
6001TRANING M  So rnc. Clig                1,655. 67 16 26       3250O     134                      S4S.0922 40    2,433.35   2 13    1,1f27.14           446It        M6.1of
SmA-lolol 11*1*601011  5099031 SERVICES          5,942.73 5923        30Mgt         6                   2.332 65 27.17    8,584. 20 'B  .53    4,106.57       2,935.410    940.33
I. SECIR POLic? AND
STRATEGIC PEANINI1G                        SiI 368969a           0 60    0 II5.01.0                                   5654 00             50510                       56
2  INSIITUIIO11*1 111111111        ~~~~261.64 86609     12.15s   39to                       31 It 10.00       311. 10   3 2?      267 64           12 Is      31I
StAlt  RUN                                                                                                             ....  -  -   ...   ..........,,  t  .......  . .   z** *;s z;as  S..,
*Noto that tm  contributlom   af  tho Ftederal Goernomet INa adjusted  upward whil,. that of the  Stat. Government is adjustwed
dowmward by the  following  flormla  In tMe text.  FOr VWe  irst 'tio years they shaere  In equal amount local taxes and duties
(oexept for salaries)  anid In the third yea. the. Stat. Goermet  onrbutes fully  to the duties and  local taxes.



NIIGERIA                                        CHAD
SOIL TYPES, RAINFALL, AND CROPS
NIGER    mm                            1)'~~~~~~~~A,'    MJOR SOIL TYPES:
1AvNA
FASO                                                                                                  All~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~MuvWaIsoils
N14-~~~~~~~~~~~
IiDAN w D*swX l S 2KANO     n
et.ithsols
~j Rego~so
LAL X : a                                                     soils
12711  4*                 524 ffirn~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Jt* 
I LO ~~~~~~~'N'                                                        TAM~~~~~~~ M4or Crops
el . *F affl
Noflhem grdnm oe
Moced root crop &
ABEORIMMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~grmzn
I.       ~~Scxihem tre &
roo cop zon
%N    ZO0@ Stae Ca;daf
f~Riers
4064                              CALBA
4:76iAf tf G;uirwa                                     4064 m
POLOME-MRS  I    120 1W0
"JLES6    b4    od   b



