Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-3627-UNT
REPORT AND RECO1(NDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TP!
i TERKATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$122 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
KADU'A. STATE IN;TEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-May 18, 1984
This doemmet his  ret   i kt,huio ad may be med by redlpieuts omay is the penfw_me of
their oMil dute Ins otet may not oderwise be dislmd width   Wld Bank autherntim



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983       March 1984
Currency Unit      =       Naira (N)         N
US$1               =       N 0.72            0.75
Ni                         US$1.38           US$1.34
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric (m) ton       =     0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)               2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       =     0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP     -  Agricultural Development Project
ASP     -  Advanced Service Package
BSP     -  Basic Service Package
FARA    -  Federal Agricultural Recruitment Agency
FASCOC  -  Farmers Supply Company
FUA     -  Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FMG     -  Federal Military Government
FPP     -  Food Production Plan
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IRDP    -  Kaduna State Integrated Rural Development Project
KDADP   -  Kaduna Agricultural Development Project
KDSG    -  Kaduna State Government
KDAPNL  -  Kaduna Agricultural Project Management Unit
KDADEC  -  Kaduna Agriciltural Development Project Executive Committee
LGC     -  Local Government Council
LNC.    -  Liquified Natural Gas
mbd     -  million barrels per day
14OA    -  Kaduna State Ministry of Agriculture
ZDC    -  Zonal Development Committee
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTUJAL DEEL0PMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT S1TRR!AlRy
Borrover:             Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:          Kaduna State of Nigeria
Amount:               US$122 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                Payable over 17 years including 4 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:      The full amount of US$122 million wOuld be onlent to the
Kaduna State Government on the Same terms as the Bank
loan. The Kaduna State GOvernment would carry the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:  The project would seek to apply statewide the successful
experience of the Funtia Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 1092-UNI) which was located in the central
zone of Kaduna State.  SiIilar to its predecessor, the
project would consist of a package of farm support
services and physical infrastrucrture designed to benefit
some 430,000 smallholder farn1 fsilies throughout the
State. Support services would include extension advice,
improved seeds, farm inPut supply and crop protection
mea-ures. Physical infrastructure would include the
construction of feeder roads and small dams for watering
cattle.
To implement the project, the State iinistry of Agricul-
ture would be reorganized to accommOdate four zonal
units of management, each modeled along lines similar to
the Funtua management jait.  & number of senior posts
would be filled initiallY by Internationally recruited
staff and a training program would be undertaken to
upgrade local managerial and technical skills.  The
Federal Agricultural Recruitment Agency would recruit
senior staff, and consultant services -4u.ld be engaged
to support the project man'agement with Ipecialized
skills and services.
The technical risks of prOject implementation are not
great because the basic agricultural package is simple
and well tested. To reduce the risk of project progress
being imDaired by finanCial or managerial problems.
arrangements have been made to improve the flow of
counterpart funding and to furnish the project with
proper staffing.
This dcocument has a restricted distributoon and may be used by recipient only in the performance Of
their official duties- Its contents may not otherwise be discI'sed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
(including taxes and duties)
Local     Foreign      Total
-CS(US$mi llion)--
4anagement, Planning and Evaluation       16.2        9.2        25.4
Training and Staff Development              5.1       4.2         9.3
Extension                                 27.0        4.7        31.7
Agricultural Research                      4.5        2.2         6.7
Civil Works and Maintenance               47.9       26.0        73.9
Fadama Irrigation                           3.8       2.2         6.0
Seed Multiplication                        4.2        1.5         5.7
Forestry                                    3.8       1.9         5.6
Farmers Supply Company
and Farm Inputs                       19.8       13.0        32.9
Subtotal                                 132.3       64.9       197.2
Less pre-project level of
expenditure on staff salaries            -51.0         -        -51.0
Total Baseline Costs                      81.3       64.9       146.2
Physical contingencies                      4.8       3.9         8.7
Price contingencies                       27.2       11.6        38.8
Total Project Costs                      113.3       80.4       193.7
Front end fee                               -         0.3         0.3
Total Financing Requirements             113.3       80.7       194.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                      41.3       80.7       122.0
Federal Government                        39.0         -         39.0
Kaduna State Government                   24.0         -         24.0
Farmers                                    9.0         -          9.0
Total                                    113.3       80.7       194.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY          1985     1986      1987      1988     1989      1990
----US S million---- 
Annual           47.7     27.5      18.0      17.0      9.0       2.8
Cumulative       47.7     75.2      93.2    110.2    119.2    122.0
Rate of Return:   16 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:  4512-UNI dated September 20, 1983



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$122 million to
help finance a statewide project for agricultural development in Kaduna State
of Nigeria.  The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of
grace, with interest at the standard variable rate. The proceeds of the loan
would be onr-lent to Kaduna State on the same terms as the Bank loan and the
State would carry the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The civilian government of Nigeria was replaced by a military
government on December 31, L983. The assessment of the Nigerian economic
situation in this report is based largely on the work of an economic updating
mission of February/March 1984, a Structural Adjustment Loan Appraisal Mission
of October 1983 and a Public Expenditure Review mission of May 1983.  The
findings of a 1982 economic mission were reflected in a Country Economic
Report (No. 4506-UNI) which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
August 15, 1983. Annex I presents selected social and economic indicators for
Nigeria.
Background
3.       Nigeria, with a population of over 90 million in 1983, is the most
populous country in Africa. Among sub-Saharan Bank members, Nigeria accounted
for about 45 percent of gross output and more than 60 percent of regional
investment in 1980. Its GNP per capita is estimated at about US$860 in 1982,
which is twice the average for sub-Saharan Africa. While Nigeria, as a major
oil exporter since the early seventies, enjoyed a substantially improved
resource base from increased oil revenues, it still remains at a very early
stage of development in terms of socio-economic indicators, in which it
compares with other sub-Saharan countries.
4.       Following a civil war and 13 years of military rule, a new federal
constitution w.s adopted, and an elected civilian government came into power
in 1979. This government (led by President Shagari) was reelected in August
1983. The Nigerian military took over the government in December of the same
year. The new military government is led by General Buhari.



-2-
Macro-economic Developments
5.       Nigeria has been undergoing a rapid socio-economic transformation
since the upsurge of oil prices in 1973-74, which dramatically altered the
country's resource position. During the seventies, Nigeria's development
strategy was based on sustaining a high rate of growth and diversifying the
economy through the resources generated by the oil sector. The principal
objective of the policies pursued by the Nigerian decision-makers was to
translate the large oil revenues accrued-about US$1 00 billion in current
prices during the 1973-81 period--into invsestments in economic, social, and
physical infrastructure. While there have been some 'non-economic invest-
ments and waste, significant development gains were made in both economic and
social infrastructure. Transport infrastructure, particularly roads and
ports, expanded considerably. Power generating capacity tripled, and refining
capacity has more than quadrupled since 1973.  Manufacturing grew at an
average annual rate of 10 percent during the 1973-82 period although there was
a highly distorted investment structure. There also has been a rapid spread
of education at all levels; in particular, the primary enrollment ratio, which
was about 35 percent in the early seventies, has more than doubled.
6.       Developments were not as positive in some other ar-eas.  In agricul-
ture, overall output remained virtually stagnant during the 1973-83 period,
with the production of grains increasing at the same rate as the population
growth rate, but with the production of root and export crops declining
substantially. Within a decade, Nigeri- became a major food importer (US$2.7
billion of imports in 1982). This was caused partly by a sudden and rapid
growta of public expenditures, which outpaced the growth of public revenue,
and which, along with a dramatic expansion in domestic demand, resulted in
high rates of inflation. Inflation coupled with an appreciating domestic
currency pushed up domestic costs of production, thus putting the commodity-
producing sectors at a disadvantage vis-a-vis imports and non-traded goods.
This encouraged diversion of resources from commodity production to services
(including trade and construction). Both agriculture and industry became
"high-cost  producers.  Trade and exchange rate policies, which were formu-
lated in response to frequent swings in oil export earnings, were largely used
to dampen inflationary pressures or ration imports rather than to provide
appropriate incentives to domestic production. This was partly due to the
fact that, as a result of the fluctuations in thie world oil markets and their
impact on the balance of payments and government revenues, Nigerian policy-
makers were preoccupied with short-term crisis management.  This diverted
attention from the formulation of longer term policies to reduce the country's
dependence on oil and to strengthen the domestic productive sectors.
7.       The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) was prepared in 1980 when the
world oil markets presented a favorable outlook, Nigeria's oil exports for the
year amounted to US$25 billion and foreign exchange reserves exceeded US$iO
billion. The Plan, accordingly, reflected an ambitious investment program.
It envisaged total investment of N80 billion (US$120 billion) over the period
1981-85, half of which was to be invested directly by the Federal Government
and a quarter directly by the states - with the remaining quarter to be
invested by the private sector. Emphasis was placed on the development of
agriculture (through statewide agricultural support programs and massive



irrigacion schemes) and the creation of a substantial heavy industrial base
based on cheap energy (steel, petrochemicals etc.) both supported by sub-
stantial investments in infrastructure. Nigeria's development plans, however,
were overtaken by adverse developments in the oil sector which started in 1981
and have continued to date. In large part Nigeria's economic problems during
1981-83 were a reflection of the inability of Nigerian decisionmakers to cut
back on the momentum generated by embarking upon a massive public investment
program and a continued belief that oil markets (and Nigerian oil revenues)
would recover.
8.       In mid-1981 the world oil markets began to deteriorate sharply.
Nigeria's oil production fell by one third from its 1980 level of 2.06 mbd to
1.44 mbd in 1981, and subsequently declined further to 1.23 mbd in 1983.
Coupled with a decline in the oil price from a peak of US$39 per barrel in
1981 to US$29.91 per barrel in 1983, oil exports declined from US$25 billion
in 1980 to US$17.4 billion in 1981 and to only US$10 billion in 1983. The
Government was at first reluctant to come to grips with the situation,
counting, along with many other analysts, on a quick recovery in the world oil
market. Imports of goods continL d to rise to a peak of US$18 billion in
1981, resulting in a current account deficit of US$6 billion, which had to be
financed largely through the drawing down of foreign exchange reserves and
external borrowing. Confronted by a worsening balance of payments situation,
the Government reacted in April 1982 by introducing a number of austerity
measures aimed at stabilizing the domestic and external financial situation.
These measures failed to achieve the stabilization objective; imports of goods
in 1982 declined marginally to US$17 billion while resulting in a wider
current account deficit of US$7.3 billion. Reserves declined further to only
US$1.4 billion by the end of 1982, while trade payment arrears of US$4 billion
were accumulated.
9.       By 1983, however, previous measures in the form of quantitative
restrictions together with a growing reluctance of the trading partners to
extend further trade credits to Nigeria led to a reduced import level of
US$12.2 billion. Even so the current account deficit remained high at US$5
billion. This was largely financed by further accumulation of trade payment
arrears (US$3.8 billion), a process which had already begun during 1982.
Discussions with major overseas creditor banks resulted in the rescheduling of
the arrears owed to these institutions (for confirmation of letters of credit)
of about US$1.9 billion accumulated prior to August 31, 1983. Repayments are
to be made over a period of 31 months starting January 1984. In April 1984,
the Government completed negotiations to reschedule US$3-3.5 billion of the
remaining arrears incurred under 'open-account' inter-company import financing.
This agreement includes only those arrears which were not covered by export
credit insurance and reschedules the payments over a period of six years
including a grace period of two and a half years at an interest rate 1 percent
over LIBOR. The only outstanding arrears at this point are US$2-2.5 billion
insured by export credit agencies. It is likely that these remaining arrears
will be rescheduled on the same terms as uninsured debt.
10.      The deterioration in the external financial situation had a severe
impact upon the fiscal position of the Federal and State Governments as well
as on growth. Federally collected revenues fell from N15.2 billion in 1980 to



NI12.0 billion in 1983, because oil revenues account for an average of about
60 percent of total revenues. Until 1984, the Federal Government did not re-
duce expenditures in line with the reduced revenues, thus large budget deficits
appeared over the period 1981-83, with the deficit/GDP ratio 8 percent. In
order to finance these deficits, the Government borrowed from the Central Bank
and this coupled with the physical shortages of many imported commodities led
to an acceleration in the inflation rate, which soared to over 30 percent in
1983. As a result of a 30 percent decline in imports in real terms, domestic
output contracted ir 1983. In addition to the decline in manufacturing, the
construction sector suffered from an almost one-third decline in gross fixed
investment. In 1983, the decline in non-oil GDP is estimated at five percent,
while the GDP declined at an average rate of five percent per annum over the
1981-83 period.
11.      The prospects for the Nigerian economy in 1984 remain uncertain.
With oil export revenues estimated at US$11.1 billion (i.e. projected oil
exports of 1.04 mbd at US$30 per barrel), imports will have to be reduced
further from 1983 levels to accommodate higher debt service payments of about
US$4.3 billion in 1984. The adverse effects of a severe drought in the north
on agricultural production will place a further burden on imports. So far,
the Federal Military Government (FMG) has tightened import controls while
fiscal and monetary policy is predicated on the outcome of the budgetary
review process. The Government proposes to make reductions in public
expenditures and to this end has instituted a Project Review Committee which
is currently reviewing projects funded under the capital budget. All projects
will be categorized as  core" or  non-core , the former receiving full
funding, the latter being shelved pending future availability of funds or
abandoned. While an increase of 0.1 mbd in Nigeria's OPEC oil production quota
would generate US$1.0 billion annually in additional export revenues and
improve the economic outlook, in the medium term, real economic improvement
will depend upon the outcome of the negotiations with the IMF concerning an
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) and the adoption by the Government of policies
towards economic stabilization and the longer term goals of structural
adjustment and diversification of the economy.
Adjustment Policy Issues
12.      At present, the Nigerian economy faces two critical issues: first,
management of the short-run financial crisis and stabilization of the economy;
and second, longer-term structural adjustment of the economy by stimulating
productive sectors, lessening dependence on oil, and developing a wider re-
source base. With regard to the short term, the additional measures that the
FMG took in January 1984 to control imports and domestic expenditures may help
to arrest a further deterioration of the external and internal financial
situaticn. However, the external arrears need to be eliminated now, particu-
larly in view of the requirement for substantial external borrowing in the
near future. The IMF, which has been asked .o examine the possibility of
assisting Nigeria through an EFF, is taking the need for such rescheduling
into account in putting together a financing package to meet Nigeria's minimal
external financing requirements.



-5-
13.      While a rebound in oil revenues would help Nigeria to overcome the
cuirent crisis, it will not resolve the structural issues facing the economy.
More vigorous and consistent policies, beyond the measures taken to restore
'inancial stability; will be needed to bring about structural change. The
chief requirements comprise: (i) further incentives for efficient export
promotion and import substitution, including appropriate exchange rate,
tariff, and credit policies; (ii) complementary steps to strengthen the
balance of payments through judicious management of foreign borrowing and
external reserves; (iii) continued control of aggregate demand through
prudence in monetary, fiscal, and wage policies; (iv) improving the com-
position and implementation of public investment to increase its 'fficiency;
and (v) taking steps such as raising interest rates and improving tax
collection, to increase private and public savings and investment. These
policy areas accordingly form the basis of both the IMF's EFF and a proposed
Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL).
Prospects and Financing of Development
14.      Although Nigeria's exportable crude oil surpluses are expected to be
significantly reduced well before the turn of the century, the bulk of its
foreign exchange resources will continue to come from the hydrocarbon sectors
during the next twenty years. This will probably include liquified natural
gas (LNG) for which a major production facility is estimated to come on stream
near the end of the decade and some petrochemical as well as oil exports. To
maintain economic growth, major structural changes are needed in order to
adapt the economy to lower levels of oil export earnings. In the short-run,
the volume of Nigeria's oil exports is likely to be determined by the
uncertain conditions of the world oil markets rather than by the deliberate
extraction policies of the Government. It is projected that oil production
would rise to 1.6 mbd in 1986, from its level of 1.23 mbd in 1983.
I5.      Terms of trade are expected to deteriorate somewhat in the short run
and then to improve beyond 1986. However, gains from terms of trade will not
substantially alter the longer-run resource picture or the need for structural
adjustment.
16.      External borrowing requirements in the short- and long-term will be
substantial in view of slow improvements in oil export revenues, the need to
clear payment arrears, and the requirements of major ongoing projects. Tn
subsequent years the overall deficit is likely to remain large. Thus, the
balance of payments prospects for these years are particularly troublesome.
Large claims on foreign exchange earnings are due in the next six years,
essentially on account of trade arrears and repayment of public guaranteed
debt. Under conservative assumptions with respect to imports, borrowing
requirements for the period 1984-86 are estimated at about US$13.4 billion
(excluding the financing needs of a proposed LNG project). Even at this level
the investment program would have to be highly constrained. Since the level
of reserves is already quite low, further drawdowns cannot be used to finance
the deficit as happened in 1981 and 1982. Thus, quick disbursing external
borrowing is needed to fill the gap. Estimates of future debt service ratios
have had to be revised upwards in the light of lower forecasts of oil pro-
duction and prices and, more importantly, of the arrears. The debt service



- 6 -
ratio, which has been low until recently (around 9.6 percent in 1982 and 19.5
percent in 1983) will increase substantially. Under the terms of the recent
and proposed agreements to reschedule the trade arrears the debt service ratio
would jump to 35 percent in 1984, 39 percent in 1985, and thereafter gradually
decline to 22 percent by 1990. Nigeria's external financial situation
reflects a short-term liquidity crisis rather than a long-term insolvency
problem. While recognizing that Nigeria has a severe short-term debt problem,
especially over the period 1984-88, Nigeria is creditworthy for medium- and
long-term borrowing, provided sound economic policies are pursued by the
Government. Indeed, increased lending that would disburse over the next few
years when the debt service ratio is sharply increased and thus import
capacity sharply reduced, would be a vital component of the economic reform
and recovery program.
PART T  - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
17.      BatiK and IJA lending to Nigeria as of March 30, 1984 amounted to
US$2,428.3 million (,.et of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of March 30, 1984 was US$1,181.4 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,221.9 million. Agriculture accounts for about
47 percent of total commitments; transport, power, gas and water supply
together for about 38 percent; and education, industry, urban, and the post-
war rehabilitation loan for the remaining 15 percent. There have been only
two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 miillion; both are fully disbursed.
IFC has made five loans to borrowers totalling US$17.3 million, and six equity
investments totalling US$4.9 million. Of these amounts, US$5.8 million have
been repaid, cancelled., or sold. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
18.      As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil, public reve-
nues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run into
serious counterpart funding problems. This issue is particula-ly acute for
some of the state-level agricultural projects. The Bank, the Federal Govern-
ment, and the relevant state governments have taken various measures to alle-
viate the situation. The Bank has agreed to the reallocation of proceeds and
revisiol of disbursement percentages to speed up disbursements, and the
Federal Government has established a development loan stock scheme providing
supplementary loans for agricultural development projects in the states. As a
result, the prospects for state funding of Bank-assisted projects are now
brighter.
19.      In view of the efforts made by the Nigerian authorities and the
serious foreign exchange constraints projected for the coming years, we
propose to continue to respond positively to the Government's request for
additional financial and technical assistance. However, such assistance would
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Gas Technical Assistance Project approved by the Board on March
20, 1984.



- 7 -
not be fully effective without changes in the country's macro-economic and
sectoral policy framework. The Bank is therefore considering non-project
assistance aimed at supporting specific macro-economic and sectoral policy
initiatives; this included, in the first instance, the Fertilizer Loan
approved by the Executive Directors on September 13, 1983. The Bank is also
considering a request from the Government for a Structural Adjustment Loan.
20.      Provided appropriate policy changes are undertaken, an expanded Bank
lending program would aim primarily at the urgent diversigication of Nigeria's
economy to reduce its excessive dependence upon petroleum as a source of
foreign exchange and fiscal -evenue.  At the same time, the Bank would con-
tinue to support efforts to raise the productivity of the lowest income groups
and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. As in
recent years, the Bank would continue to provide major support to agriculture
and rural development, with particular emphasis on institution-building and
transfer of technology. These objectives are in line with the Federal Govern-
ment's priorities under the Fourth Plan, which places considerable emphasis on
agriculture, and on the need to use the proceeds of the country's oil revenues
to increase the productive capacity of the ecoromy, thereby raising the
standard of living of its population, particularly the rural poor. The Bank
would similarly support efforts to stimulate a well-balanced and integrated
development of Nigeria's industrial sector. This approach would entail a
combination of intensive sector work, policy dialogue with the Government, as
well as Bank assistance for industrial projects in crucial subsectors.
21.      Projects in agriculture and industry together should account for a
large share of Bank lending in the coming two or three years. Effective
support for the commodity producing sectors will also require strategic
investment in production-related infrastructure. There are opportunities for
the Bank to make a significant contribution in energy, water supply, and
highway maintenance. Similarly, there is a strong case for continued lending
for education. In this context, vocational, technical, and teacher training
would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the Federal
and state governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social
sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbani-
zation will continue to be addressed through a number of urban development
projects focussed on the needs of the urban poor. The Bank is also con-
sidering a reques- from the Federal Government to assist in overcoming the
country's health prcblems and has started a dialogue with the Government on
population issues.
22.      Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million in
FY1978 to nearly US$167 million in FY1983, Nigeria's disbursement performance
has lagged behind that of other countries in the region. In the last three
years, undisbursed balances have progressively increased and now stand at
55 percent of the USS2.4 billion in loans and credits approved. One of the
reasons for this development is the rapid expansion of the Bank's loan port-
folio since 1979 as well as the fact that a number of large loans, with
relatively large, planned disbursements during the early years, were extended
during this period, mainly for agricultural projects. In many cases, however,
disbursements have been slowed by long delays in loan effectiveness and insti-
tutional and management problems. Recently, the inadequate counterpart fund-



- 8 -
ing of projects by Federal and state governments, resulting from lower oil
revenues, has further slowed disbursements. Tne disbursement record in agri-
culture has been mixed. At least until recently, disbursements have been
generally faster in the case of integrated agricultural development projects,
but substantial shortfalls compared to appraisal projections have been regi-
stered in the tree crop, forestry, and livestock subsectors. Similarly,
education and power projects have been particularly slow in disbursing. The
FMG, with the assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now carefully
monitoring loan disbursements with a view to identifying problems early and
taking corrective action. Also, the Bank's measures to accelerate disburse-
ments under both ongoing and new projects are beginning to show results (para.
18) .
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.      Agriculture continues to play an important role in the Nigerian
economy despite the prominence of the petroleum sector.  Approximately 60 per-
cent of Nigeria's population is dependent upon agriculture for its principal
source of employment and income. Value added by agriculture accounts for
almost one-quarter of GDP, and almost 40 percent if petroleum production is
excluded. Although the volume of agricultural exports has suffered a major
decline in recent years, they still constitute the only significant source of
foreign exchange earnings apart from petroleum.
24.      Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of small-
holders, with the typical unit being a family farm of 2-4 hectares. The use
of modern inputs, such as fertilizer and improved seeds, or of aechanized
techniques is quite limited. As a result, yields are very low, and in some
cases have even declined because of deteriorating soil fertility. Rapid
development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising standards of education,
both of which contrast sharply with the poor returns to labor and drudgery of
traditional agriculture, have encouraged the drift of young people away from
rural areas. Consequently, there has been hardly any real growth in the value
added by agriculture during the past decade. At the same time, food prices
have risen precipitously as demand outstripped domestic supply. In the long
run, a prosperous agricultural sector capable of reducing the rural-urban
population drift can be achieved only through the application of more advanced
farming techniques that would provide significant increases in agricultural
incomes.
Country Policies and Performance
25.      Successive governments have emphasized the need to improve perfor-
mance in the agricultural sector. In the Third Five-Year Development Plan
(1975-80) the growth rate for agriculture was targetted at 5 percent per
annum; the estimated actual rate, however, did not exceed 1 percent. Annual
imports of food rose from about US$300 million in 1974 to US$2.7 billion by
1982, while agricultural exports declined steadily. If this trend were to
continue, it could result in a food deficit in 1990 of 11 million tons of
cereal equivalent, or about 40 percent of demand.



26.      The disappointing perforwance of the agricultural sector can be
attributed in large part to earlier policies which placed strong emphasis on
large-scale irrigation and intensively mechanized government-run schemes with
generally disappointing production results. At the same time, little was done
to develop essLatial support services aimed at the farming community a- a
whole. Despite the declared intentions in the Plan, smallholders, who produce
90 percent oE total agricultural output, were not the principal focus of the
agricultural stategy. The few government sponsored programs for the develop-
ment of smallnolder agriculture have suffered from poor management, a shortage
of funds, and from being stretched too thinly in order to cover all states.
Against this background, Bank-suppcrted agricultural development projects
(ADPs) have succeeded in achieving significant advances in smallholder agri-
culture.
27.      In October 1979, the government of President Shagari announced that
it would give high priority to agriculture and established a food strategy
commission in which the Bank was invited to participate. A final report
entitled the The Green Revolution: A Food Production Plan for Nigeria- was
published in ,May 1980 and the principal recommendations were accepted by the
Government.
28.      This Food Production Plan (FPP) recommended the adoption of a
4 percent annual growth target as the maximum that could be applied realisti-
cally to the agricultural sector. It is particularl,- noteworthy that, in
weighing the alternative strategies of large-scale mechanization against
support for smallholder agriculture, the FPP came down squarely in favor of
the latter. To supplement the program of Bank-supported ADPs, the FPP pro-
posed the immediate implementation of a concurrent smallholder program for the
residual areas not yet covered by ADPs. Ine nation-wide program would contain
most key elements of the ADP concept but in a less intensive package and with
lower managerial demands. The program was endorsed by the Government early in
1981 and, to support its implementation, the Bank made a loan (2029-UNI) for
an agricultural technical assistance project. The Bank has been asked to
assist further with a program of phased ADPs.
Development Constraints
29.      While ADPs have been successful -n achieving an impressive growth in
agricultural production (over 6 percent per annum in ADP areas between 1975
and 1980 against the national average of 1 percent), the implementation of
many ADPs has been significantly impaired during the past year by serious
shortfalls of local funding, particularly from the state governments, occasioned
by the steep downturn in oil revenues. This has led to delays in the expan-
sion of infrastructure and agricultural services, as well as an under-utili-
zation of project plant, equipment, and expertise. During the last several
months, the Bank has worked closely with the Federal and state governments,
and explored various avenues to alleviate the funding problems. In the
context of the Fertilizer Loan (2345-UNI), which was approved by the Executive
Directors on September 13, 1983, the Federal Government agreed to provide
special loans in 1983, 1984, and 1985 to assist state governments in meeting
their financial obligations to the ADPs. The Bank, for its part, has also
taken measures to improve the flow of loan funds to ADPs (para. 18).



- 10 -
30.      One of the principal constraints to the development of the sector is
the lack of effective agricultural support services. The transport of produce
is hampered by a lack of feeder roads. Many farmers have to travel long
distances to obtain fertilizers and other basic farm inputs which, in many
cases, are supplied only irregularly. Consequently, even with the prevailing
high levels of subsidies on farm inputs, farm production has not increased
signiticantly and has actually declined in some areas. Extension services are
generally deficient and the new technologies that are available are not
reaching farmers in remote rural areas. A greater effort is also required,
particularly by the agricultural research institutions, to improve the tech-
nical, economic, and financial analysis of farming innovations and adapt them
to the diverse socio-ecological conditions of Nigeria.
31.      Shortcomings in the efficiency of commercial support services to
agriculture have- also constrained growth. Agricultural supply services remain
almost entirely in the hands of the public sector, where administrative capa-
bilities are already overstrained. The marketing of food crops is usually
done by private traders, and is on the whole fairly competitive. The Federal
Government's Technical Committee on Producer Prices determines the guaranteed
minimum prices for the major grain crops every year. Since their prices are
generally much lover than prevailing market prices, state intervention througa
the Grains Board has seldom been necessary. A Bank mission recently visited
Nigeria to review the whole issue of agricultural product pricing, and it is
expected that the missionus recommendations will figure prominently in our
future dialogue with the Federal Government on structural adjustment.
32.      Government policies for the subsidization of farm inputs have not
always worked to the advantage of the farmers and, in the case of fertilizers,
have served to remove the incentive for private sector participation in the
distribution system, thereby creating problems of availability. This is now
being improved within the context of the Fertilizer Loan. Subsidies are to be
substantially reduced so that constraints on the availability of fiscal
resources will no longer limit the supply of fertilizer. Responsibilitv for
the procurement and distribution of fertilizer is to be transferred from the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture to an autonomous public company which, with
the assistance of consultants, is expected to handle the matter much more
effectively.
33.      An emerging constraint relates to agricultural credit.  As fertilizer
subsidies decline and retail prices rise, farmers' financing requirements will
rise significantly. Furthermore, the farier will also need to finance an
increased use of pesticides to provide the necessary plant protection to safe-
guard his greater cash investments in fertilizers. Seasonal credit is also
required to pay for the high-cost hired labor that is progressively replacing              9
traditional low-cost family labor. A study to examine this issue is being
financed under the Fertilizer Loan.
Development Prospects and Bank Role
34.      Given an appropriate policy framework, adequate institutional and
infrastructural support, and measures to overcome some of the constraints
mentioned above, Nigeria has the potential to achieve significant agricultural



- 11 -
production increases over the coming years. In this respect, the Bank will
continue to have a major role to pla,. Agriculture forms the core of the
Bank's lending to Nigeria: since 1971, 24 loans for agriculture totalling
US$1,133.4 million have been approved, and loans to this sector constitute
almost one-third of the proposed lending program for FY84-88. There have, so
far, been nine loans for the development of specific crops, forestry, and
livestock, three loans for the establishment of an agricultural management
training institute, an agricultural technical assistance project, and the
importation of fertilizer, and 12 loans for the comprehensive agricultural
development of target areas. A Project Performance Audit of the first three
ADPs, dated June 16, 1982, concluded that those projects had been implemented
satisfactorily, but that there was, in particular, a need for improved
adaptive research; perhaps the most important lesson of the earlier ADPs has
been that, in a relatively unknown farming environment, crop recommendations
should be simple and flexible, so that farmers can easily adjust their crop-
*          ping patterns to seasonal agro-climatic conditions and structural changes.
The proposed project takes account of the findings and recommendations of JED,
and would be an integral part of the Bank's efforts to stimulate a well-
balanced and integrated development of Nigeria's agricultural sector. This
approach entails a combination of intensive sector work, policy dialogue with
the Federal Government, as well as Bank assistance for agricultural projects
in crucial subsectors.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.      The genesis of the proposed statewide project is to be found within
its predecessor, the Funtua Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1092-UNI of
1975) which applied the same fundamental concepts of farm development to an
area in the central zone of Kaduna encompassing about one-tenth of the State.
The Funtua ADP had a significant impact upon farming in the project area.
Physical infrastructure was substantially improved with the construction of
520 km of all-weather feeder roads and 45 small dams. A network of 77 farm
service centers was established to provide inputs and extension services to
some 90,000 farm families. It is estimated that about 84 percent of these
farmers have responded positively to at least part of the package of services
offered by the project and have improved their farming practices with the use
of better seed varieties and with modest applications of fertilizer and pesti-
cides. As a result, total crop production increased by some 36 percent
between 1977 and 1980 and household real incomes by an estimated 40 percent.
This is lower than the projection made at the time of appraisal but nonethe-
less significant when compared with the previous static production pattern.
It is anticipated, moreover, that further increases will materialize during
implementation of the second stage state-wide project.
36.      During the mid-term review of the Funtua ADP in 1977, it was already
apparent that the basic goal of increased farm production was being achieved
and the Kaduna State Government asked the Bank to support a second-stage
project that would extend these benefits throughout the entire State. Pre-
paration of the statewide project was done by staff of the Funtua ADP in
conjunction with the Kaduna State Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The project



- 12 -
was appraised in April 1979, but project process,-g was delayed after
appraisal because it took time to reach full agreement with the State Govern-
ment on key matters of project organization. Furthermore, we had doubts about
the affordability of the project to Kaduna State because of the high fiscal
burden of fertilizer subsidies and these doubts were dispelled only recently
when the Federal Government agreed to phase out those subsidies. The post-
appraisal of trie project took place In March 1982, and negotiations were held
in July 1983. In the last two years,(Kaduna State has attempted to implement
a statewide Integrated Rural Development project on its own. Progress has
been slow, however, because of insufficient funding. This project will be
absorbed into the proposed Kaduna State ADP. Supplementary project data are
presented in Annex III and the Staff Appraisal Report (4512-UNI) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Pro_ect Area
37.      Kaduna State comprises seven percent of Nigeria's total land area and
has a marked climatic variation from north to south. The entire State popula-
tion is estimated at about seven million of which more than half derive their
principal livelihood from farming. The distribution of land among farm
families throughout Kaduna State is quite egalitarian and large farms are
rare. Most farmers cultivate between three and seven hectares held under the
traditional land tenure system. For an average family of between five and
six, smallholdings of this size yield an annual income that ranges from about
US$820 in the more arid north to some US$1,300 in the central and southern
parts of the State.
Project Objectives and Description
38.      The primarv objective of the proposed statewide project is to extend
to the whole State the benefits that accrued from the Funtua ADP. The same
vehicle would be employed for accomplishing the goal of increased produc-
tivity: a package of services to assist farm and crop development together
with strategic investment in supporting infrastructure such as feeder roads
and dams.
39.      In terms of farm and crop development the project would increase
production of both subsistence and cash crops on some 650,000 ha of land.
Farming practices would be improved by providing fertilizers, improved seeds
and crop protection measures. A key element of the project-which was not
part of the Funtua ADP--would be to strengthen the extension service by
improving its organization and effectiveness through the introduction of a
carefully structured training and visit system. The training of extension
workers themselves would also be a major focus of the project with the objec-
tive of upgrading their effectiveness in the field.  However, there would be
no substantial increase in their numbers.
40.      Experience has shown that most farmers in Nigeria are quite conserva-
tive in their adherence to traditional farming systems. New techniques that
can be applied profitably within those systems are readily adopted but innova-
tions that require more radical change have only limited acceptance within a
five-year project period. Accordingly the project is structured in such a



- 13 -
way as to offer both a Basic Service Package (BSP) and an Advanced Service
Package (ASP). Benefits from the BSP would accrue as a result of modest
applications of inorganic fertilizers, the use of improved seeds, increased
planting densities, and better control of disease, pests and weeds. Par-
ticipants in the ASP, in addition to using BSP inputs more intensively, would
also use oxen- and tractor-drawn implements, a wider application of sole-
cropping and improved crop storage. It is expected that some 70 percent of
farmers will adopt either one or the other of these packages.
41.      Special provisions would be made to encourage the better use of the
low-lying valley areas, known as fadamas, that are subject to seasonal flood-
ing. More efficient use of run-off water would be made through bunding and
ridging. Using simple and relatively inexpensive technologies, on-farm tests
would be made of small-scale irrigation equipment. In particular, low-lift
hand pumps and small motor-driven pumps would be employed to replace the
shadoof. Such an innovation would entail an adaptation of the traditional
shadoof gardens to accommodate a greater water supply. This would be achieved
with technical advice from the extension service.
42.      Civil works in support of the overall agricultural development effort
would include the construction of 1,400 km of feeder roads. In addition, some
75 small earth dams would be built for watering cattle. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that the Kaduna State Governm-at (KDSG) would ensure that the
project roads would be adequately maintained and repaired and detailed
proposals for the long term maintenance of the roads would be furnished to the
Bank not later than December 31, 1986 (Section 2.13(b) of the Project Agree-
ment). Project buildings would include housing for 178 senior and intermedi-
ate staff together with offices and stores.
43.      Staff training and development would figure prominently among the
project objectives. On-the-job training would be supplemented by staff devel-
opment programs for individual staff in key positions and for groups of staff
at medium and lower levels. The services of the Bank-supported Agricultural
and Rural Management Training Institute would be engaged for this purpose
together with specialized consultancy services. Overseas training would also
be provided wheze no comparable Nigerian facilities exist.
44.      The proposed project would also provide for 125 man-months of con-
sultant services in the areas of project accounting, marketing, and coopera-
tive development, agricultural research and post project development. Among
the studies to be undertaken by these consultants would be an early socio-
economic assessment of the effectiveness of project activities. These
benchmark studies would provide a basis for the subsequent project monitoring
to be undertaken by the monitoring and evaluat.on unit.
Project implementation
45.      The proposed statewide project would seek to utilize as fully as
possible the managerial and implementational experience gained under the
Funtua ADP. The management unit concept that has proved so effective under
that and other similar projects would be conserved. On the basis of igro-
ecological conditions, the projecc would establish four zones, each with its



- 14 -
own management under the overall coordination of a Kaduna Agricultural Project
Management Unit (KDAPMU) centrally positioned within the MOA. The formal
establishment of KDAPMU would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). Such an organizational arrangement would
entail a carefully structured hierarchy of responsibilities from state level
authorities through authorities at the zonal level to local level authorities.
46.      The present Agricultural Division of the MOA under the leadership of
an internationally recruited program manager, would be reorganized to form the
core of a project management encompassing key financial, administrative and
training functions. KDAPMU would provide centralized technical services to
zonal subproject units in overall planning as well as in the specialized
fields of civil engineering, land use planning, agricultural extension,
research and farm management. It would also provide a focal point of coordi-
nation and guidance for the management of the Kaduna State Farmers Supply
Company Ltd. (FASCOM) that has recently been established to supply inputs to
project farmers. To provide a coherent framework for project implementation,
KDAPMU would submit to the Bank and the FMG at least four months before the
beginning of each fiscal year, an annual work program including budget
estimates duly approved by KDADEC (Section 2.03(e) of the Project Agreement).
47.      Reporting to the program manager would be four zonal managers who
would have a large degree of operational autonomy in discharging their respon-
sibilities for project planning, budgeting and implementation within the
respect.ve zones. The responsibility for effective liaison with Local Govern-
ment Councils (LGCs) would lie principally with the zonal management units.
To fortify the skills both of zonal management as well as of central program
management, consultants specialized in management and accountancy training
would be engaged.
48.      The Farmers Supply Company (FASCOM) that the State has recently
established separately to handle the commercial activities of the project
would operate a chain of about 200 farm service centers to retail inputs and
agricultural equipment. A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the
Bank be provided with evidence to substantiate Kaduna State Government's
(KDSG's) cash equity contribution of at least N3.0 million to the capital of
FASCOH (Section 6.01(f) of the Loan Agreement).
49.      Staffing of both the specialized project activities and overall
management functions at state and zonal levels will be important for the
success of the project. Experience shows that in Nigeria there is a scarcity
of manpower with the capability and experience necessary to manage a project
of this nature. In twelve other ongoing agricultural development projects,
the Bank has encouraged state governments to recruit qualified Nigerians for               9
senior positions, but it has proved difficult to find suitable candidates. In
order to upgrade local skills, a program of intensive training is envisaged-
particularly at the start of the project-to ensure that a full complement of
managerial, technical and administrative staff can be mobilized at all levels.
The project also makes provision for the international recruitment of some
36 key managerial and technical staff, totalling 157 man-years. The recruit-
ment would be undertaken on behalf of the KDSG by the Federal Agricultural
Recruitment Agency (FARA) that was established by the Federal Government and



- 15 -
financed under the Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2029-UNI).
The appointment of a project manager, financial controller, chief engineer and
four zonal managers for KDAPMUJ as well as a managing director and financial
controller for FASCOM would be conditions of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01(d) of the Loan Agreement). To facilitate the recruitment of inter-
national project staff by FARA and the timely servicing of staff contracts, a
revolving fund would be established in a London commercial bank account
(Section 2.03(b) of the Project Agreement). The Bank would make an initial
deposit of US$500,000 into this account from the proceeds of the proposed
loan.
50.      The prominence of the project within the development effort of Kaduna
State warrants policy guidance at a high level of state government. For the
a        purposes of policy-making, coordination and review of the operational aspects
of the project, a Kaduna Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
(KDADEC) would be established. The Deputy Governor would chair this Commit-
tee, and the membership would comprise commissioners of pertinent ministries
and co-opted representatives from selected agencies, as well as the program
manager. Its responsibilities would include the review of project evaluation;
the review and approval of the annual work program and budget of KDAPMU; the
co-ordination of both State and Federal ministries' project-related activi-
ties; the approval of training policies; the approval of contracts valued at
N 60,000 or more; and the appointment of senior project staff. The estab-
lishment of KDADEC would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(c)
of the Loan Agreement).
51.      At the zonal level also there would be established Zonal Development
Committees (ZDC) which would bring together the senior zonal project staff and
representatives from local governments and from traditional councils. These
ZDCs would provide a forum for consultation and coordination to expedite
project implementation.
52.      It is envisaged that project implementation along these lines would
permit a smooth transition towards self-sustained development in the post-
project period. To facilitate this transition, agreement was reached at
negotiations that by June 1, 1987, KDAPMU would draw up and submit proposals
for the continuation of project activities beyond the project period in Kaduna
State for review by the Bank and FMG (Section 2.13(a) of the Project Agree-
ment). The project would provide consultancy funds to assist in formulating
*         such proposals.
Project Costs
53.      Total costs are estimated at US$194 million (including taxes and
duties of US$10 miLlion and the front-end-fee) 1/, of which the foreign
exchange component would account for 42 percent or US$81 million. A breakdown
of costs by major expenditure category is given in the loan and project
summary. An allowance has been made for physical contingencies equal to 5
1/ Excluding the cost of fertilizer, which is being financed partly
under the Fertilizer Loan (2345-UNI).



- 16 -
percent except for civil works where experience with other similar projects in
Nigeria indicates that 10 percent would be more appropriate. Price
contingencies are calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies and are
compounded annually using the following annual rates: on local salaries and
allowances 10 percent; on all other local costs -- 1983 - 15 percent, 1984 -
13 percent, 1985 - 12 percent, 1986/88 - 10 percent; and on foreign costs
1983 - 8 percent, 1984 - 7.5 percent, 1985 - 7 percent, and 1986/88 - 6
percent. On the basis of these considerations, total contingencies are
estimated at US$47 million - some 32 percent of base costs.
Project Financing
54.      The proposed loan of US$122 million would finance 66 percent of total
project costs net of taxes and duties and would be equivalent to the entire
foreign exchange cost of the project plus 36 percent of local costs.  The full
US$122 million would be onlent by the Borrower to Kaduna State on the same
terms as the Bank loan and the State would carry the foreign exchange risk.
The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and Kaduna
State would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.0L(a) of the Loan
Agreement). The Federal Government would finance 20 percent of total project
cost, amounting to US$39 million. Of the remaining US$33 million total
project cost, the Kaduna State Government would contribute USS24 million and
the participating farmers another US$9 million by way of purchasing farm
inputs. Their respective share in total project costs, therefore, would
amount to 12 percent and 5 percent respectively. These contributions are
based on incremental cost estimates. In addition, Kaduna State would maintain
its present expenditures in the project area, estimated at about N45.3 million
in current prices over the project period (Section 2.03(d) of the Project
Agreement) as well as any expenditures required to ensure the supply of
adequate and timely amounts of fertilizer, estimated at not more than 1242.0
million in current prices over the same period.
55.      A number of on-going Bank-supported agricultural development projects
are suffering from a failure of state governments to provide adequate counter-
part funding in a timely manner, largely because state reventes have fallen
due to lower oil prices and productivity. In some cases there have also been
administrative delays in passing Bank funds to the project unit.  The finan-
cing plan for the proposed project recognizes the current resource problems of
the State by limiting its contribution to 12 percent of total project cost.
In addition, the disbursement profile is such that the cash contributions from
the State rise through the project period to a level sufficient to sustain the
cost of the continuing project requirements after 1990. A Bank analysis of
Kaduna State finances indicate that this pattern of expenditures should be
affordable.
56.      In order to further minimize the possibility of counterpart funding
problems, agreements were reached during negotiations that: (a) as a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness, a commercial bank account would be opened for
KDAPMU with an initial deposit of ff4.7 million--equivalent to about five
months average counturpart funding during the first year of the project
(Section 6.01(b) of the Loan Agreement); (b) also as a condition of loan
effectiveness, the Bank would be provided with evidence to substantiate KDSG's



- 17 -
cash equity contribution of N3.0 million to the capital of FASCOM (Section
6.01(f) of the Loan Agreement; (c) KDAPMU would submit to FMG, KDSG and the
Bank, at least four months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, an
annual work program including budget estimates duly approved by the KDADEC
(Section 2.03(e) of the Project Agreement); (d) both the FMG and the KDSG
would provide their quarterly financial contribution to the project at least
three months in advance in accordance with the approved annual budget of
KDAPMU (Section 2.03(c) of the Project Agreement and Section 3.02 of the Loan
Agreement); (e) in the event that the project does not promptly receive
funding from the KDSG, FMG would pay directly to the project's commercial bank
account that part of the State's statutory allocation corresponding to its
approved annual budget for the project (Section 2.11 of the Project Agree-
ment); (f) the audited accounts of KDAPHU and FASCOM would be submitted to the
Bank within six months after each fiscal year together with statements from
the auditors certifying that Bank funds have been used for their intended
purposes (Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement).
Procurement
57.      Contracts for plant, vehicles and equipment valued at US$300,000 or
more would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The aggregate value of such items procured
through ICB is estimated at about US$61 million. Local competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be employed for
equipment contracts of US$60,000 or more but less than US$300,000. For
contracts of less than US$60,000, local competitive shopping would be
employed. Domestically-manufactured goods would be allowed 15 percent
preference or the applicable import duty, whichcver is lower, for purposes of
bid evaluation. Civil works contracts of less than US$3 million would be
exempted from ICB because experience shows that they would not be attractive
to foreign bidders. Roads and dams would be constructed on force account, but
the heavy equipment required for this work (valued at some US$12 million)
would be procured by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. The recruitment
of consultants and internationally-recruited staff and the provision of
overseas training (valued at some US$16 million) would be undertaken in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
58.      Disbursements would be made against 100 percent of foreign exchange
expenditures on vehicles, equipment and farm inputs other than fertilizer.
Where items are manufactured locally or purchased off-the-shelf, disbursements
would be made against 90 percent of local expenditures. For buildings, di:-
bursements would be against 90 percent of total expenditure. The salaries and
allowances of internationally-recruited staff, consultant services, and over-
seas training would be fully reimbursed. Local expenditures incurred for road
building and dam building would be reimbursed to the extent of US$15,500 for
each kilometer of road constructed and US$35,000 for each dam. Certified
statements of expenditure would be required as a condition of disbursement
together with certification from an independent consultant engineer that the
requisite roads and dams had been completed satisfactorily. On this basis
total disbursements are estimated at US$26.5 million against buildings,



- 18 -
US$39.6 million against vehicle and equipment and US$12.3 million for inter-
nationally-recruited staff, consultancy services, studies and overseas train-
ing, US$8.3 million against farm inputs other than fertilizer and US$22.3
million against local costs pertaining to road and dam construction. A
revolving fund would be established in a commercial bank account in London, in
order to make funds available for the early financing of salaries of interna-
tional staff and the allowances of overseas trainees that are reimbursable
under the loan. An initial deposit of US$500,000 would be made into this
account from the proceeds of the Bank loan (Section 2.03(b) of the Project
Agreement). Provision has also been made for retroactive financing of up to
US$500,000 to reimburse the cost of key internationally recruited staff that
may be engaged to assist in project start-up activities.
Economic Benefits
59.      The overall economic rate of return is estimated to be 16 percent.
Sensitivity tests show that, even if farmer adoption rates are only 70 percent
of targeted levels, the rate of return would still be an acceptable 10 percent.
60.      Most of the project beneficiaries would be drawn from the lowest in-
come groups in Nigeria.  The level of farm income in the project area amounted
to an average of only US$220 per capita in 1982---little more than the relative
rural poverty level which is estimated at US$207 for that year. If the project
achieves its target of raising farm incomes by about 35 percent in real terms,
it will have a major beneficial effect upon nutritional standards in the State
and will contribute significantly to raising the living standards of the
430,000 farm families directly benefiting from the project.
61.      In addition, the project is expected to yield a number of other
major, albeit non-quantifiable, benefits. The training of technical staff and
the development of appropriate institutions would strengthen the capabilities
of the MOA. This would facilitate the planning and implementation of future
projects in the State and set the stage for a smooth transition towards self-
sustained development in the post-project period. The project would also
demonstrate the viability of commercial development of support services and
the benefits of decentralizing public sector operations in agricultural
development, all of which may have a far-reaching and profound impact upon the
broader policies and programs of the Government in the agricultural sector.
62.      Other benefits are relatively modest.  Direct employment generation
would amount to some 33,000 man-years by project year 5 and would involve, for
the most part, a more intensive use of family labor. Some non-farm employment
in otl-r sectors would be induced, however, by the higher level of economic
activity in the project area.
Project Risks
63.      Smallholder agricultural development projects are inherently complex
and the full attainment of project benefits may conceivably be jeopardized by
delays in implementation and inadequate staffing. These risks will be reduced
by having as a condition of effectiveness the appointment of key project
personnel. Risks of a technical nature are not great because the technologi-



- 19 -
cal packages are simple and are supported by research data and experience
obtained from Funtua ard elsewhere in Nigeria. A major advantage for project
implementation will be the experience to date on the earlier Bank-assisted
Funtua ADP. Experience has shown that a common risk with this kind of project
relates to the insufficient or untimely provision of counterpart funding. It
is expected that this risk will be minimized in the case of the proposed
project because: (a) Kaduna State's share of project cost has been reduced to
an affordable level; (b) the pre-financing of project expenditures eligible
for reimbursement from the proposed Bank loan would be facilitated by making
an initial deposit of N4.7 million into KDAPMU's account; and (c) in order to
assist in project start-up costs, the project implementation schedule is such
that those items with higher disbursement ratios are implemented earlier.
Another risk experienced by some ADPs relates to the failure of fertilizer
b       supplies.  This risk would be reduced because the Fertilizer Loan (2345-UNI)
will permit an increase in the supply of fertilizer and will provide for its
timely procurement and delivery.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Kaduna State of
Nigeria, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement have been distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
65.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this Report. Additional conditions of loan effectiveness are
that: (a) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Kaduna
State shall be executed; (b) a commercial bank account shall be opened for
KDAPMU with an initial deposit of N4.7 million; (c) the Bank shall be provided
with evidence that a commercial bank account has been opened for FASCOM with
an initial deposit of N3.0 million from KDSG by way of cash equity contri-
bution; (d) arrangements shall be made with the Federal Agricultural Coordi-
nating Unit to improve the accounting and internal control system and
procedures for monitoring project expenditures and to assist in bringing up to
date the accounts of KDAPMU and FASCOM; (e) KDAPMU and KDADEC shall be
established; (f) a project manager, chief engineer, financial controller and
four zonal managers shall be appointed to KDAPMU; and (g) a managing director
and financial controller shall be appointed to FASCOM.
66.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.      1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 18, 1984



- 21 -                                          ANN EX I
Page 1 of 5
T A * L E IA
NIGERIA                - SOCIAL INDTCATORS DATA SHEET
NICERIA                             REFCREKCE CiOUPS (irItHTED AVERAGES) 7.
HOST                    t(uMST RECENT ESrIMATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOM          MIonLE INCIME
IY60-         1970- ESTINATh-     AFRICA S. or SAHARA   N. AFRICA & MID LAST
AREA (TROUSAPD 51. M)
TOTAL                             923.8       923.8       921.8.
ACRICULTURAL                      412.8       497.4       512.9
GCP PER CAPITA (9S$)                 200.0      130.0       810.0             1147.9                  1340.0
ENERGY CONS TION MRE CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     29.0        51.0      169.0              724.2                   811.4
PONLATI0H AMW VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  51598.0    66182.0    87603.0
UREZ  POPULATION (c CF TOTA-)      13.1        16.4       2C.9               28.5                    47.4
POPULATION PROJECTINIS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILl.)                         169.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                            623.4
YUAR STATIONAR  POP. REACHED                            2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      55.9        71.6       91.7               56.5                    36.0
PER SO. KN. ACRI. LAND          125.0       133.0      165.2              131.8                   449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURtE (2)
0-14 YRS                        45.4        46.6        47.7              45.9                    43.9
15-64 YRS                        52.3        51.0       49.9               51.2                    52.8
65 AND AMOVE                      2.1         2.4        2.4                2.8                     3.3
POPULATION GROUTH RATE SI)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.5        2.5                2.8                     2.9
URJA                              4.7         4.7        4.8                5.3                     4.6
CRUIDE BIRrH RATE (PER THOUS)      52.0        50.7       49.6               47.6                    42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)       25.3        20.8       16.6               15.2                    12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4         3.4        3.4                3.2                     3.0
FAHILY PLANNING
ACCEPtORS, ANN4UAL (THOUS)          ..        7.6        33.2/c
USERS (: OF MARRIED WOVE)          ..          ..
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     100.0       102.0       92.0               95.7                    97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)     83.0        U2.G       91.0               97.1                   102.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         45.0        44.0       49.0               56.0                    72.0
OF WHICH ANAL AND PULSE         10.0        10.0        11.0/d            17.2                    17.8
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH R.TE        42.4        35.0       27.8               23.6                    15.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YFARS)      38.7        43.7       49.1               51.9                    57.Z
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)     183.4       158.0      133.0              117.6                   104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                              ..          ..          ..              25.4                    59.3
URBAN                               .     .          .                     70.5                    84.9
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..              12.3                    37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPrLATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        73210.0    24670.0    12550.0             12181.6                  3536.0
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON          4040.0/e   5070.0      3010.0             2292.0                  1820.7
r                    POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                          3020.0/h   2220.0       1370.0/f          1075.4                   643.3
URBAN                           430.D7e    490.0       370.d7T            402.3                   545.0
RURAL                         25630.0Wo  18490.0       5490.07f          39Z6.7                  2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..         ..                 ..                    26.4
NOOSIIIC
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLR
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROWE
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                             3.0         2.2/         ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (? OF DVELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..          ..                ..                    46.2
URBAN                            81.3        42.4                            ..                    77.6
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..                ..                    16.1



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
r A ALE 1 1.  jA                               Page  2  of  5
:11JIGkA                  - SOCIiAL INUICAPrIJS  AlTA  di.L:T
StGII                                     IM"FLIMAlCI. 1RUUI-S (webirltatl av.AVIMb)7
hisI                         -Ir   RECI.Nfr .5StililArl) /Il
b i.Ctii.T  /i     :I10IJI.i. INCUNI.        KIUULI. LICUMI
iVUII-       IY7U- LStIIAAr-            AV ILA S. JF SAAHKA ... AFRICA & 'lI  L1\.Nr
EDUCATION
.%LJtSrLSlj LNKILLI.M'lr drlris
ILRl.lA1Y:   TOTAL                     Io.u         17.U         9J.IJ                g7.:                        B9.
IALf                      46.U         41.0            ..               IUJ.I                       LU4.D
FL;.%,%Li.                .1 7.u        27.0           .". n.                                         72.4
SECOMNAgY: rOTAL                        4.U          4.U         It.U                  17.2                       41.7
:IALE:                     (i..0 U.U                   ..                 J3.                         52.
FEnfALL                      .u          3.U           ..                 14.2                        31.2
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECIINDAKY)              4.8          d.S           1.L/1                5.2                        IU.3
PupIL-rEACIIER gAlro
PRIMARY                                30.0         34.0            ..                4Z.9                        31.Y
SLCONDARY                              19.U         21.U            ..                 2J.7                       23.3
ADULT LIrEKACY RATE (J)                  15.41e          ..         34.0                 37.1                        43.3
CONSUMPTION 
PASSES iSN CAilS/TaIUUSANU PUP            O.e.         0.9           1.4L1               15.8                       Id.0
KAlU  IUtCr.:VEKS/THOUS.NDU POP           1.d         19.J          hb.1                 97.8                      135.1
TV KECEIVECS/THOUSAIJO POP                O.U           1.1          5.3                 18.6                        45.b
.EcuseSAPLN ("DAILY UENLRAL
ilLEsuRsl) CIRCULATION
PER rlUusAND POPULATILO                  5.5          4.8           b.9/f               id-,                       Jl.U
CI;L1A AJ.L;UAL ArTL:J;UAHC/ICAPITA        ..            ..          0 .4                 U.                          I.7
LABOR FIIRCE
rurAL LAIOR IUKCL  ( rHUUs)          2171C.0       25992.U      31635.u
FEIIALC (PELcE:.r)                    41.3          4u.5         J9.6                 J4.1                        IU.7
AiiilCULTUNE (PERCEJT)                 71.U        b62.U          54.U                 50.d                       4Z.5
lL,uUSray (PESCENT)                    1U.U         14.1         19.u                 17.5                        Z7.8
PAAlIcIrAfILUt KArE (PERCEAT)
[IUrAL                                42._         J39.3         34.1                 37.u                        25.b
lALE                                   5U.J         47.3         44.U                 47.1                         45.4
FEtIALE                                34.4         31.5         28.4                   7.u                        5.b
ECUNOMIC DEPEXDS:CY dATIO                 1.1          1.2           1.4                  1.3                         1.8
INCOhC DISTRIWTION
PERCEST OF PRIVATE IXCOlIE
RECEIVED BY
IIICIIEST 5; OF HIOUSEIIOLDS             ..
IiC.IdST  ZO  OF HOUSCIIOLDS             ..
LI)IEST 20: OF HIOUSEIIOLJS              ..
LOWESr 40% OF IIOUSEiIOLDS               ..
POVERTY TARGET SROUPS
EssirLuATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY ICOME
LEVEL (UiS 1-EK CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        b96.0/k              534.2                       276.1
RUKAL                                    *-           *-        341.0/k              2n5.9                       177.1
ESTiLtArEu RtELATIVE POVERTY l.JCUHE
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        621.0/k              491.5                       4W2.O
AUL                                      ..           .. 2K.U7k                      188.1                       263.3
CSTIlLATEO POP. BELOW ADSOLUTE
POVESrY iNCUtIE LEVEL (Z)
URtBA                                    ..           ..            ..                  ..                        ZZ.U
RURAL                                    ..           ..            ..                   ..                       30.8
. OT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NlO T E S
/a  rhe group averzges for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic  edns.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniLform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, -DaLa for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970  between 1969 and
1971; and Aata for  flost Recent Estimate  between 1979 and 1981.
Ic  1914; /d 1977; Ie 19b2; /f 1976; /g 1972; /h Including ex-North Cameroon under British administration; /  Certain
fields of study previously clamsifled under other second level educatLion of vocational or technical nature are now
reported under general education; LI 1978; /k 1982.
lay 1983



-23-                                                         "TMEI
Page 3 of 5
rIesfacC It t.TC .w?at.
o-.. eSrf   t-a-  ea  ee  ia    leetst! y  tst  tie~Z "       ~&  -In eektrtt    e -I s -i,a   ttt  .                    saae   ae   .e        e.-a.sa
satitbe Itet  attieeata  eeat.ttt  aicatos        tssl  at-ittnasaE'   ' ..trsa1tdt                                        %dta-          settt   ta 
annie ....... .ot'ta.. lates. titeca. Ma  'tttetts. rattl   ea...c aeCSe sse'. '.aelW
_t              -       .jt_- Cs.tisa   k  ,a  e   ss..-i      etlfe                                      tt5-te"i.   et5   seti    i   it?a4fa   a
REtltettes   i -.1  Pasn   ?                 s.--a    ltettsatt  tiett eft~s~aCeredessOt.eta.  tut                                                    ra ateer            e
rates. itan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ito                                                                                       -L& .
Sa (stastaes ataka.-)                                                         *   itata' - nitiettet Otttdt-2    t CS-F4"      teatirtia
YS-s-lae ,atSts eSa  ae,         l   ace.       te.aaL   stare  'to.Itr                            rZ-LrT.......r t-a*senesris-
ta~ee5:et~       eaattta  ae  es  taaatttr  t  .ettr                           gaaeis  er erte  trea    FeLttt  iset fMeI.  fmetste
tlIS     0 4I-aae.mt         ate   -aea        t    .le                                         n..rse'oaete,atr'atte~patttfte   s
tall.     595         .-1     "-_&IILC C'CI IC   .. do15CCftatattI.e i-i p.ett CI.e W-tes   e-e   e    .. - L1- rt.d.ts- 1 tt
tuscy nat-n-s's c _ re_fU. -   es    taestcatsttat    two.              lefatsttitl9t  tegta -stl ttti r   saeL    %    t    eee
i-tat, esqt atsa! ssrt *tlaitt.   trtea  etteasi see -t ktstn   sastar  eteatta-9 e.ttif~~~ elaaasa~ srt.j latat, a tar te-Iatases a-seItae .4h
is's.                                                                 tttt leetattid~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W   P t- Irtat tsstfit  dtcdL
ea~astske.  te.  re.  ..~ea  et                                                 '~ a    s..'s'eVt:  tties  a. e...tt  p- tte   - r*-   inst
Fe-ealattaes eat. Z    - Cersit  tawlaele  rngestta  sea eats- it Va  S                s:  sae        ata    tte4tt.s -.-              -  be teaaLat  a.
sat n. t,aratatee'ein   atee-tat  erecsit  atac-N        .    sCe.-at.ekro ~R.  Iea- .   in -  leas                                                          ---Wca   eelstte  O
letetaga-a    taf --a.a.t,ee   aLt. -ai .aatect-   1-ac- tt        -Jtta,*   aCai tisje  ftat tea at si  tAtLu.a-rea-ttiatsest
CChai`C`C featk.tttatatt   t L.te tttat e.Je,                                                ea_slte   art..ahi
eaintag antI  'eetttt             eree   e  tet ee  s'  -a  lttt                          .9fl  5  litt5  t--te -L t d-sd  tstlw  -  t-   --L. eset. e          r -inst
ilsallatttileS5tt.  Iste  eeOt9 It  t -.stist ift atII flt   -aCe.tt511  tit                               iltS ttttratgC  Stias.arft                  aie
IngsCtte    ef eiesli    ',                 "       -. aeftaaetti   i  lCaS e12i wa.-     atesi ante J-- 9-ee datilsa L-e.-asr.
etete teat bars-as-sit Ic e1.sl a.t   a-at'.-ratr. eftt lasZe--.LW-ft
deans us sta  ntace.wea   oteast at rettCLI,, sie rtasiheae                       fleet. .t'-C-ttt  adC             fel -  ite   taat taa,tsS  teet
.%e C.atds        etati  a. 5. st-a  1   iaese  Cerkec                                    tae  tetes  ratale:  saeiratIs.  etteea yi
fahai   ttlt   to., as it`ZIsi  it-i.tte  ntI rIaetedotaar.tee  feect  teina
nor trattaeats gt-a'at'e  It s-.ez'ttt   fa -t6er a'.  osttepeat   it e6fea.t-sa-  a.M   a"hda-laa   tae   a
tsmatetta   -a _   tst                                                                tostet-tt at,est-  tat.?. edtte  1.5.1.-Cltt       ass   ies
~~rs~~; .nt. :s'o. arc  ea  sat..                                                     anSL CS   bileV aietr.11  a   i-raa    *.-e-. trttts .aa   st.te  e
c-     as. I-S.- atolts   last    Catd s  te   ts   ttetste  tedea-t-ass
"i  -     ---C.-ii -. r-ltilet.                                                           Itatse-    etelees(t-ret a  ateasetALIsetas  teaitalee
isesatt. M   rce-    atat -           Ctatart  40-tS were).  It-D.~fl .     ii                  tetlts-C                -LtO.  aetit. W'Ct h atr   -t1-a- . .ar  ars-s.ad.st
rareisatat  sart test 'ni--'- t-al-    ea      eCtsata-tl-                                tIrat   tts.iei   ttlet   et  att7z                       9    tsltcr
555 L stetata   t               -rdt?.t                                                        rae-ie
ieaierase   retetat-   a~ . t - r-ss - net steab tte etslitddt it-te  ttat -ha                          set)- tlt  ttttsait  telsZatSesS  S Srie]_a
ioeiatsea  sr ;t-, --a t-.  eeC at'-aCt._ ZC itilatlesa ti- ti-si-. I -1etfttateI  e.,                                                           'ISat   e  see
Cr     --Sn httt er t.etl       s.I   11..  It  t   ttM   51 etA-,                                                           Alt          -AIh     C`I``
gte- CIeallta.; ,5' -         -ta setqL t s. II.LIIII   . _            .                   m hanl.eCL
esea  -tt  t-t-h ; et1-see           - et-iMa           1 arth See   w.5 tld est              teea   eete    teeitslte)-Fsesrtncsls   e
frees ttteett.  a.   Mr.             Wst  ?dssatt e sa   di  bet t                              ettsrefts-'-
atI lstcesreatels- .559ase      h.et terait felt    tesle    -fte   sata'f  aait
-  taeI   at  - ts-te e.wed.)-                                             W .edi LtttSre  W it. en-1 eail eaatt p,-Cq reEttt  tat iteecteet %S      .
tartl Vt:T-     -L   -CS    P     .. na-eer                                                      peere   feSatrtsesa. srsrts  a-e. '.reedT  sre
-  airs  atI-  Is te e .     S r--                       ~     .-                           toattaser   r ra,   Is-f  -t  t-sea  atst.   'l   Ss    tieaa
rats   IC             .        `L.           -0 g.  wtr -earaetee5    i -i ter  lest.   .c'..E~-e   -arttlt
in-  a? L  F..* nS.---e  ea  ttas ls4e     4l-   Itte   -   eio                      ~           eLasaetee   sraaa   tnfat   esei- LSte   it is resde
Chlet Id  tae tai-as  sat-   Ista-     7teal. 4CeeSt   W,let gaece Cs-                        flea-  Crt        taetrtCet                 at-a    taea ra
ceits  a   ss an tslesit     savatss 'recetle atl assk tict.   Leam-f               slats flatt-I.
Af.t. snaCeei  a   Ia trete   eareae   (staedOtatfet-L                                                      *atatiICL!  l6-ttessdsl p- Ita-ali iattflar   rn   titae  stee
a~tnt. eed lw ss-ti. f eat             - ittetitss  essd   natalteed   eae.t-eeLs:z   t:Ied  tr See- tllC   -  IVt..
tlsi*  teed I  tied frsa-       s  eilaa  t   tePlste -et. (itrsttta - Fau-i hels lets  at rraasae   es   et  en
taCleat'te  wi  eise   s  a   se        srlittlsd   tarwL   a.   -     Lf eslarsats-rstl-Ztlstis'I lenin tItar5bets 
CL. eat IF - Sltrst. at C easte tt. CM aita.tsisc   sats                                       teeaeIaett-lts   e. aCet.eat-tet  ee sta
Cl,-   ?. tette  .-s::a.$   sf  t   e    os                                                      ecteaatr   itrascta                    itnra   se   atrfn:It
atsS5.lstatt  t   5  9 tt  a  tsi  ntl-   etIist-ea Ltatutrs    ttclr.e  a.   r                                                                   _Fas. a  tagtttatat 



24 -                                  ANNDEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT rg 1982                                        AUNUAL RATE OF GROWTHS. Constant Prices)
USS Iln. /1/    S               1975-80                    1981 /21             1982 /1I
GNP at Market Prices               70,106        100.0               3.1                     -7.6                 -4.2
Gross Doamestic Inve3tuent         16,815         21.0               1.3                      7.6                -18.8
Gross National Saving               9.070         12.9               5.2                    -31.4                -24.0
Current Account Balance            -7.341        -10.5
Exports Of GooCs.llFS              13.590         19.4               2.0                    -34.4                -19.1
imports or GoodS,uFS               19,989         28.5              15.6                    -7.1                 -31.9
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
Value Added /Il                 Labor Force /31              V.A. PER Worker
USS Iln.         s                  in.         S                  US  S        s
Agriculture                        152464         2T.8              19.6          59.8               87           W0.6
Industry & Mining                  27.709         39.0               6.2          18.9              4,320        199.5
Services                           27,847         39.2               7.0          21.3              3,975        183.7
Total/Average                  71,020        100.0              32.8         100.0              2,165        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                                    Central Governuent
(N Win.)       S of GDP                              (1  InO.)     S of GDP
1982 /I/  1982 /I/  19T9-8l 141                      1982 /Il  1982 /11 19T9-81 /is
Current Receipts                   12,620      26.4          29.5                        7.320      15.3          21.3
Current Expenditure                 9.612      20.1          20.1                        4,878      10.2          10.8
Current Surplus                     3.008       6.3           9.4                        2.442       5t1          10.5
Capital Expendituare                9.54T     20.0           18.0                        6.270      13.1          12.9
External Assistance(net)                                                                  261        0.6           0.6
ON-TI. CREDIT AND PRICES                          1976       1977      1978       1979      1980       1g98       1982
(Million N Outstanding End Period)
Noney and Quasi Money                            5,843     7.813      7.521      9.849    11,390    15.239    16,694
Bank Credit to Public Sector(net)                  551     2,309      3,143      3.313     3,539      6,299    10,328
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    2,382     3,459      4.485      5.126     6,741      8,917    10.567
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money & Ouasi Money as S of GDP                   21.6      21.7       22.2       24.3      30.9       32.3       34.9
General Price Index(197S=100,                    123.9      143.0     166.7      186.3     204.9      247.5      266.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                               21.7       15 4      16.6       11.8       10.0      20.8       7T7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                         -     319.1       36.1        5.1       6.8       78.0      64.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     34.8      45.2       29.7       14.3      31.6       32.2       18.5
Note:  All conversions to dollars In this table are at the average exchange rate prevaillng during period
covered.
/I/ Revised estimates. /21 Orficial estimates. /&1 Provisional.
13/ The data is derived from planning documents and refers to the number of 'gainfully employed'.
-Not Available.
April 18. 1984.



-25-                                ANNE I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOVS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1981-1983) 141
1981 /I/  1982 121  1983 131                                USS Wln.         S
(Millions US S)
Caports of Goods r-o-b-              17.718    12.930    1O.T30             Crude Oil               13.421       96.T
of which:Petroleuu                 17.162    12.751    10,350             Cocoa Products             225        1.6
Imports of Goods r.o.b.              18,390    16.838    12,254             Palm Products                85       0.6
Services & Income                    -4.803    -3,060    -3,208             Tin                          25       0.2
get Transfers                          -567      -373       -260            Other Commodities           127       0.9
Current account Balance              -6.042    -7.341    -4,992                       Total          13,582     100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1983 /5/
Dlrect Forelgn InVestennt                 165       358        365
Ret Official RLT Borrowing              811       758        980                                              US$ Mln.
of which: Amortization               -583      -477       1200
Public Debt, lnel. Undisbursed   15,504
Other Capital(Short-Teru)               409        496      -643            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Net Errors & Omissions                -1543      -689          0            Total Outstanding & Disbursed    11,756
Overall Balance                       -6200     -6418      -4290
Financing                              6200      6418       4290
====- -   - -        - ---            DEBT SERVrCE RATIO For 1983 /6/
Reserve Movements(Incr.-)             6.200     2.367        518                  __
Arrears                                   0     4,051      3.770                                                   t
Reserve Levels                        4,261     1,429      1,0929
Reserve as Month of Imports            0.18      O.OT       O.OT            Public Debt, inl. Guaranteed         17.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                              18.390    16.838    12.254
of whleh: Food                        3.154     2.786      1,875            Total Outstanding & Disbursed        17.9
Consumer Zoods             4,612      4,141     3.259
Intermediate Goods         4,682      4,342     3,13T
Capital Goods              5,942      5.569     3,983            IBRD/rDA LENDING (Feb. 29,1984) (Mililona S)
tATE OF EXCHANGE
IBRD     IDA /7/
197T: 1.00 = tISS1.57T
1979T  N1.00 = USS1.56                                                      Outstanding & Disbursed             848.0      36.7
1980: 31.00 = US$1.83                                                       Undisbursed                       1,091.4       -
1981: 11100 = USSt-63                                                                                         ---
1982: 11.00 = USS1.49                                                       Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   1,939.4        16.7
1983: NI.00 = USS1.39
/1/ Provisional. 12f Orriclal estimates. /3/ Stafr etiMate3.
/4/ OfficiaL estZa3tes for 1981 Jnd 1982.
/51 Excluding $5.9 biLlion short-term arrears.
J61 Ratio of NLT debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
171 As of February 1984.
.. Not AvalIable
April 18. 1984



- 26 -                                 AIMIE  I
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATUIEN OP BASK GROUP OPERATIONS IS NIGERIA 1/ 3/
tAs of March 7s. '931 IJ
loan Or                                                                 USS Millton
Credit                                                          Amount (leor cancellation) 2/
Suaber    Year       Borrower   Purp:oe                        Bank       IDA      Urdlaburaed
Twenty four loas  and two credits fully dabuned              62c.0      35.3
929     '973       S:geria     Educatton                      37.7                  0.6
1091     1975       Ntgeria     LI wtock                       21.C                  0.8
1191     '976       Niger-a    S.C. State Ol1 Pula             '9.0                 '0.9
1454      1977      Ntger-a     Agrie. Dew. taft.              27.0                  0-7
1455      '97       NigerIa     AgrlSc. Dea. Ayuzgbe           35.0                  0.2
1591     '978      SNgeri-a      uc. Est. Sallholder 01       50.0                  5.7
t 59T     97m       5_3B        IndustrIal Developrmnt         60.0                  22.0
1667     '979       Nig -a      Agrrc. Dew. Bide               25.0                  4.9                                           a
'566      1979      Stgert-a    Agi-. Dew. :lortf             27.0                 '1.7
1679      1979      P-Ngria     Forestry                       3'.0                  7.1
1711      1979      Nigeria     Water Supply - Kaduna          92.0                 73.3
'79       '1979     NIgeria     Agrc. & Rural Mg--t. Inst.      9.0                  6.6
'766      '980      SEPA        Power Lavo                    'Doo                  74.9
1767     '980       Nger'-a    Urban Develoment - hucSh        '7.8                 ".4
1838     '90         igegria    Agrl-c. Det. - Oyo-North       2a.0                 24.'
1854     '90        Sigeria     Agri4c. bet. - Ekit-Akoker    32.5                 22.9
'883      '980      Nger!M    Roads                          '08.0                 60.6
19e1      '8'       N.geria     Agritc. flew.  B-ucha         '7320                 69.0
'982     '9'        Sger_a     Ag4l-c. Dew. - Kano           '42.0                '05.5
2029      9S'       Nigeria     Tech. Asustaene-Agrlc.        47.0                 34 .7
2036     '9_2        tger-a    Water Supply - Aasmbra         6T.0                 60.3
2e05      '982     N1EPD        Powr - Distribution           '00.0                 96.2
2185     '962        :Igeria    Agilc. Dew. - Selksn          '47.0                29.0
2299     '983       !IDB       Industrial Dewelopent         '20.0                120.0
2345      1984      Nige--a     Fertilzer Import             250.0                227.8
2376     '984       Nigwria    Smal & loed-m Scale Industry  4.0                   41.0
Total                                              2368.0      35 3    ',22'.9
Of whtch has been repaid                            272.2       3.8
Total OutstandIng                                 2.095.8      31'5
2mount sold                        16.8
Of whicb 3h  been repstd           16.8               0-0
Total now held by Bank & IDA 2/      -            2,0_.8      31.5
Total un3tsbursed                                                       ,22' 9
B. SZA.,.r.7 OF -FC ISVESflClS
,A e?f March 3'. '984)
Fiscal                                               Type of       Amount In USS Nl21n
Year                                               BusIness       Loan    E ;quIty    Ttal
'964. '967.       Arewa Textiles Ltd.               tertile Wfg.   '_0       0.6      '.6
'954              Nigerla Industrial                Dew. tIn. Ce.            '.4      '.4
Developaent Bank Ltd.
'973              Funtua C'ttonseed                 Veg. Oil        1.6               '.6
Crushing Ltd.                     Cresting
'973              Nigerian klunintu=                Alcmtnia        3.0      0.3      '.3
Extrusten Ltd.                    Processutg
'974               If'-tga Sugar                    Sugar                    0.'      0.'
Estate
'g9o              TT!                               -extiles        6.2      0.7      6.9
98'              Ike~a ijHtel                      Touria          7.5      '.8      9.3
Total Cross Commtments                           '7.3      4.9     22.2
Less cancellattlns                              '.4      0.'      '5
Less sold and repasd                            2.8      '.5      4.3
Total Commitment now held by :rZ                 '3.'      3.3    '6.4
Undsbursed                                       0.5      '.8      2.3
SoJt yet effecItwe.
I/  ahestau1   of the projects lsted in Part A ta described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financed projects In execution. whteh   updated twice yearly and cIrculated to the Executtte
YXrecters on April 30 and October 3'.
2:' Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
3/  Mhta list does not include the Gas Techateal Assistance Project '525 ctllton) appr"ved bt the
Bank but not yet signed.



- 27 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Kaduna State Integrated Agricultural Development Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 12 months.
(b) Project prepared by: Funtua Project Management Unit for Kaduna
State.
a              (c)  First presentation to the Bank:  July 1977.
(d) First Bank mission to consider the project: November 1977.
(e) Departure of the Post-appraisal Mission: February 1982
(f) Completion of negotiations: July 1983
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) The Bank will make an advance payment of US$500,000 from the
proceeds of the proposed loan into a special commercial bank account
for use by FARA to assist in the early financing of the salaries of
internationally recruited project staff and the allowances of
overseas trainees eligible for reimbursement by the Bank (para. 49).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
the Kaduna State Government would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 54).
(b) As a condition of loan effectiveness KDAPMU and KDADEC shall be duly
established with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (paras.
45 and 50).
(c) As conditions of loan effectiveness, a separate commercial bank
account shall be opened for KDAPMU with an initial deposit of
4                    N4.7 million (para 56); and the Bank shall be provided with evidence
to substantiate KDSG's cash equity contribution of at least
N3.0 million to the capital of FASCOM (paras. 48 and 56).



- 28 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) No later than June 1, 1987, KDSG would provide the Bank and FHG for
their review details of proposals for the continuation of project
activities beyond the project period (para. 52).
(e) In the event that KDAPMU does not promptly receive funding from
KDSG, FMG would pay directly to the commercial bank account of the
project that part of the Statets statutory allocation corresponding
to the State's approved annual budget for the project (para. 56).
)



N                  i                G                    E                 R
.r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
BENIN
*2 f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j                                                                                                                                               hr~~~~~~~~~~~ 
*0                                                                                                                              A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:,j~.    ,.                              ,    iSE-1-
,   W    ,p^J/,, \ '    H       ^       R      t _        R                        ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stoe f Pro.ne C;
L      T   E. o_ts _      _        sch&  -
U         ORIA(          -I?                                                 -'AFI
4.                                  6.                                   5.                 _  _,o.



IBRD 15065R4
*i-                                ir                                           APRIL 19U
R
j   r        ,,.           IBRD ASSISTED
,.1    K                              AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
Aaricultural Developmnent Proiects:
COMPLETED:
wr7i ~ ~~-. Eqlu.-,~                                                                                   untuc (Loan It092-UNI)
L_ru                                            jJ    _ 1 {t 5 Gusau (toon 1099-UNI)
Gannbe (Loan 1164-UNII
f -                                                   /                                              t_ \ Aywrgba (Loan 1455-UNIN
-    0/.,-   Fo4 jia          X                                                                              [  Ia  EXISTING:
~ 1N 7/ITS                                 3   0   R   N                                             2                Lafic(Laaon454-UNI)
-- Shu                              MA  IDGUR-                                   Bido (Loan 1667- UNI)
,k                                 XfAl                                         Dari (Loan 1668-UNI]
Lis                                            r ca2,tjG_ STATEF            wJyOyo North (Loan 838 -UNI)
'O  STA                                                  61.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Elr Akoko (LoanI854-UNQ)
-~~~                  Saudi.Bc,h Sltat (Loon 1981-UNI)
__ -                      /     /          ~     k-                 -                               Sokolo State (Loan 2185-UNI)
}  >  /   -: _  t/SOt rHEgRNV   /                                  Kona Store (Loan 1982-UNI)
Kaduna State (loon
80\  }  ORIVO   ^    ! Jf                                   zW APPRAISED
3 A U / H   I                                     g                                               _ ! v  E  Soumnern Bw-no
Moaobillo
19AUCHI                                                                                                  W  0   UNDER PREPARATION(ADF):
Anambrsa Stare
'ma
Bendel
<  CHAD                       Cross River State
C.                               Rivers State
Ogun Sktat
Plateau State
L              A  LT  EN:   ,   ,\                                L.C-r                                                  Benue State
L5                LIAEA          --NT                                                                                   Training Projects:
; E, r,r, L/  <2)   S                                                                                          Agricultural and Rural
Management Training Institute
e-                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Loan 179-UNI)
r                                                                                                            ) / Tree CroPrpjects'
COMPLETED:
Xx  *r   -  --             6 |                     -                                                   -  -  '   Cocoa I I Loan 76G-UNI] orld
-.1.I >  /   i -                      Cocoa U (Loon O145UNI)
-Jr,                                                                                                                  CANCELLED:
C                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ondo OilPalmn(LoonI1192 UNI)
Son"el 0.1 Polm (Loon 1183-UNI)
ICa?s,nO Ala                                                     $                            *    .   EXISTING:
;        *__  Imo Oil Palm(Loonl919-UNIQ
!NK 'i \ _     .               |                                      Riven State Oil Poln (Loa m1591-UM)
I --  1   :  l             , :::::,. Foresr  (Loon 1679-UNI)
r-                             I --  I  (,4  >   ?                                                        APPRAISED-
~ R ji~ , S*                                         .....zt                   S    n                   rS2         C : -f~  Soc Ett (ml am
\ J 0Wfd^_ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roc,ss R"mr Stlel EmoWOil Polm)
sohiyets .n r.11.merers                                                        ,Igin re
69 No.ocl CooI.l                                                                                   COMPLETED:
Ste -  Pte foInce CoaplaIs                r                    L AIGERI      LIBYA      *        Rmce(LoonIl03-UNI)
A_roarts with schedul  serv.ces                  ALGERIA                  lot f- .T
Mc,n Roads                               31        _      -                                  LeLo
*  Rad.ays                                       MAL        NIGCR  ILwtock D 
R.vers                                   ',AL I         oA        CHAD  -                     (Loon 1091-UNI)
UPFS VOL?-"'%                L!: SuDAN               EXISTING:
Stare Boundor,e;                        -V5;'Ch  NI5ERIA I L                            3C
Internareonal Saundones                       1t~~~~~J.   =.                      Westen LUvestock Co Ronches
Wernar.onal Boundar> -tisrv....e                                    '-North-Eastern Cot Ranches
KttO"E Tf R5 1  O  ,0 CO 80 00 170 220 140 160                                                      AniaC -e3,  A nml X Pasture Investigato Cents
0  20 40 CO EJv lOt 120 -4 ISO                   RE RUi
_ ILOMETERS ,uwdaNJ~jnr ci ZAIRE                                                                             Grazing Reseves-Fulani Giro   Rance
r0 20   40   60   so  lt                 2-..  _r'4



