Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15144
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
KADUNA/KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
(LOAN 2436-UNI)
DECEMBER 4, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(May 1995)
Currency Unit         =        Naira
US$1.00            =        0.89 (at appraisal)
US$1.00            =        4.50 (at redesign)
US$1.00            =        80.00 (at closing)
Naira (100 Kobos)     =        US$0.01
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated all weights and
measures used in this report are metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)  =        2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)        =        2.47 acre (ac)
1 kilometer (km)        0.62 mile (m)
1 meter (m)           =        3.28 feet (ft)
I millimeter (mm)     =        0.04 inch (in)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP            -      Agricultural Development Project
ADPEC          -      Agricultural Development Project Executive Comnmittee
APMEU          -      Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
BES            -      Block Extension Supervisors
CFA            -      Cooperative Financing Agency
EAP            -      Environmental Action Plan
EC             -      European Community
FACU           -      Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FADP           -      Funtua Agricultural Development Project
FASCOKT        -      Farmers Agricultural Supply Company of Katsina
FASCOM         -      Farmers Agricultural Supply Companies
FDU            -      Fadama Development Unit
FGN            -      Federal Government of Nigeria
FSC            -      Farm Service Center
FTM            -      Fortnightly Training Meeting
GDP            -      Gross Domestic Product
GPC            -      General Purpose Committee
HND                   Higher National Diploma
IAR            -      Institute for Agriculture Research
KDADP          -      Kaduna Agricultural Development Project
KDSG           -      Kaduna State Government
KTADP          -      Katsina Agricultural Development Project
KTARDA         -      Katsina Agricultural and Rural Development Authority
KTSG           -      Katsina State Government
LCB            -      Local Competitive Bidding
LGA            -      Local Government Authority
MANR           -      Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MDT            -      Manpower Development and Training
MIS            -      Management Information System
MOA            -      Ministry of Agriculture
MTRM           -      Monthly Technology Review Meeting
NACB           -      Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NLPD           -      National Livestock Project Department
OFAR           -      On-Farm Adaptive Research
OND                   Ordinary National Diploma
PBMS           -      Planning and Budgeting Monitoring System
PME            -      Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
PMU            -      Project Management Unit
PY             -      Project Year
SAP            -      Structural Adjustment Program
SMS            -      Subject Matter Specialist
SOE            -      Statement of Expenditure
SPATs          -      Small Plot Adaptation Techniques
T&V            -      Training and Visit
VEAs           -      Village Extension Agents
WIA            -      Women in Agriculture
WID            -      Women in Development
WUA            -      Water Users' Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Sunmmary .........................................................i
Part I                  Project Implementation Assessment
1. Introduction ............................................1
2.  Project Objectives ...........................................1
3.   Achievement of Project Objectives ........................                                             3
4.  Major Factors Affecting Project ...........................                                             3
5. Bank Performance ...........................................                                            4
6. Borrower Performance ......................................                                             4
7.  Overall Project Implementation Performance ............                                                 5
8.  Overall Assessment of Project Outcome ..................                                                10
9.  Project Sustainability .........................................                                        10
10. Future Operations ...........................................                                          10
11. Key Lessons Learned ..........................................                                         11
Part II                 Statistical Annexes
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments .....................                                                      12
Table 2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits ..................                                                     14
Table 3.   Project Timetable ...............................                                                15
Table 4.  Loan/Credit Disbursements ...................                                                     15
Table 5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation.                                                       16
Table 6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation ........                                                     17
Table 7.  Studies Indicated in Project ...................                                                  18
Table 8A. Project Costs ....................................                                               20
Table 8B. Project Financing ...............................                                                 20
Table 9.   Economic Rate of Return .....................                                                    21
Table  10. Status of Legal Covenants .....................                                                 22
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual ......                                                         31
Table 12. Bank Resources - Staff Inputs ................                                                    32
Table  13. Bank Resources - Missions ....................                                                   33
Appendices
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Miscellaneous Appendices






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
KADUNA / KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan No. 2436-UNI
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Kaduna/Katsina States
Agricultural Development Project which was supported by Bank Loan No. 2436-UNI in
the amount of US$122.0 million to the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN), approved
on July 17, 1984, for on-lending to the State Government of Kaduna (and Katsina
subsequently) and became effective on July 17, 1985.11
2.    The loan was closed on May 5, 1995 after two extensions from the original closing
date of December 31, 1989. The Project was restructured in 1989 when the original
Kaduna State was bifurcated into Kaduna and Katsina States and the loan closing date
extended to December 31, 1993. After cancellation of US$7.5 million, it was again
extended to December 31, 1994 to allow more time for the Katsina component to
complete its program. An undisbursed loan balance of US$632,354.49 was canceled
effective May 5,1995.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Lewis G. Campbell, Agriculture and Environment
Division, West Central Africa Department, and was reviewed by S. Singh, AF4AE;
Cynthia C. Cook, Division Chief, AF4AE and Franz Kaps, Operations Adviser, AF4.
4.    Preparation of the ICR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission
from March 6 to 29, 1995, conducted in collaboration with the Federal Agricultural
Coordinating Unit (FACU) and the Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(APMEU) of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR). It is
based on information in the files, visits and discussions with Federal, State and Project
officials and beneficiary farmers. The Borrower's contribution to the ICR was coordinated
by APMEU and the preparation of the Borrowers' operational plans was coordinated by
FACU. A copy of the Aide-Memoire of the final supervision mission is attached as
Appendix A. The Borrower's Completion Report nor the Borrower's comments on the
Bank's Draft ICR had been received as of the date of this Implementation Completion
Report.
I/ The project was originally known as the Kaduna State Intergrated Agricultural Development Project.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
KADUNA/KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan No. 2436-UNI
Evaluation Summary
1.   Introduction.   The project, which covered the entire state of Kaduna, was
approved for Bank financing in 1984, five years after successful completion of an enclave
Agricultural Development Project (ADP) at Funtua. It faced operational problems from
its inception and while most of them were eventually resolved, these adversely affected
progress and therefore delayed completion. With the 1987 bifurcation of Kaduna State
requiring separate project implementing agencies, Katsina Agricultural Development
Project (KDADP) and Katsina Agricultural and Rural Development Authority
(KTARDA), for the respective new States of Kaduna and Katsina, the project was
restructured/redesigned to facilitate more effective management and to concentrate on
those elements which showed most promise. The Bank approved in May 1989 the
redesigned proposals which also provided for the extension of the loan closing date to
December 1991. This closing date was later extended twice, the last to December 31,
1994.
Project Objectives, Covenants, Costs and Financing
2.    Project Objectives and Components  The main objectives were to increase
agricultural production and productivity, raise rural incomes and foster greater food
security through the adoption of improved technologies by farmers.  The successful
application of these technologies depended on effective essential support services such as
extension, adaptive research, and infrastructures as well as competent staffing and
operating facilities of the implementing agency, all of which were provided for in the
project.
3.    Covenants. Key covenants provided for the establishment and effective operation
of a competent project management unit; provision of appropriate counterpart funding,
and annual work plans; adoption of practices to foster increased production and
productivity; measures to improve the management of the natural resources and to sustain
project operations; fair and efficient procurement procedures and strict financial recording
and accounting practices. Compliance was generally fair. Counterpart funding was
sometimes delayed and financial accounting was not always up to standard.
4.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The objectives were relevant to the existing
economic and social circumstances in the country in general and the project area in
particular. They were clearly stated and in line with government policies directed at
greater self-reliance in food; greater income generating opportunities for poor and
deprived rural communities; sustainable management of the natural resources and fostering



ii
an economic climate to favor free market activities and less dependence on government
intervention and support.
5.    Project Costs. Duration and Financing.  The Bank loan of US$122.0 rnillion,
representing 64 percent of the appraisal estimated total cost of US$194.0 million, was to
be disbursed over five years. The local costs of US$72.0 million was to be shared between
the FGN - US$39.0 million; Kaduna State - US$24.0 million and participating farmers -
US$9.0 million. After restructuring, total Project cost was reduced to US$182.6 million,
and the Bank loan was shared between Kaduna State - US$58.3 million and Katsina State
- US$63.7 million while local contributions were shared between the FGN - US$24.0
million; Kaduna State - US$18.8 million and Katsina State - US$17.8 million. In 1993 it
was agreed to cancel US$7.5 million and with the closing of the Kaduna component on
December 31, 1993. At loan closing US$47.3 million had been disbursed to Kaduna and
US$66.6 million to Katsina and a balance of US$0.6 million was canceled.
Project Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Factors Affecting Implementation.  Key factors which affected implementation
were: (i) delays of more than a year in meeting loan and disbursement effectiveness
conditions; (ii) frequent changes in senior management weakening the effectiveness of the
Project Management Unit; (iii) delays and shortages in local funding; (iv) attempts at
interference in procurement procedures by State government officials; and (v) weaknesses
in contract management.
7.    Bank Performance. Overall, Bank performance from identification to completion
was fairly satisfactory. Bank was generally responsive to concerns of the implementing
agencies and acted promptly in trying to improve and maintain good implementation
momentum.
8.    Borrower Performance. While the initial problems with senior staffing caused by
the Kaduna State Government (KDSG) seriously affected early progress, implementation
performance on the whole was fair. The performance of the Federal Government of
Nigeria (FGN) in project preparation and implementation was fairly satisfactory. Its
intervention in the latter years served to enhance overall implementation performance and
complete the revised programs.
9.    Achievement of Objectives.  Farmer responses to the project initiatives were
excellent and much better than appraisal expectations. Agricultural production doubled in
the period 1985 to 1993. The changes in economic climate brought on by the 1986
Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), the strong domestic food and industrial raw
materials market and the self reliance mode developed by farmers, constitute a good basis
for sustaining the benefits from the project.
10.   Results.    Farmers adopted new varieties readily, particularly maize, rice,
sorghum, cow peas, ground nut and soya bean. The limiting factor to their widespread



iii
use was the availability of adequate planting material. The proposals for privatizing the
veterinary service and providing communal pastures for migratory herders made no
significant progress. The animal traction program made good progress and many of the
trained artisans were able to secure commercial loans to operate animal traction services.
With the high loan recovery rate, the program appears to be in a good position to be
sustained. The program of land use and capability planning, agro-forestry and catchment
protection, was satisfactorily implemented with farmers and communities being well
served with land resources surveys and advice on sustainable management. There was a
strong demand from farmers for small-scale irrigation and as a consequence, farmers in
both KDADP and KTARDA made substantial progress in expanding this activity. _Also
farmers and village communities, recognizing the benefits in improving the storage
capacity, reducing spoilage and increasing the market values, began acquiring their own
smaller equipment and facilities for threshing, shelling, hulling, drying, milling and storage
of their crops.
11.   The performance of extension services was satisfactory with good complementary
support from adaptive research undertaken by the Project. KDADP and KTARDA are
now operating a unified state extension service and applying the Training and Visit (T&V)
system effectively. Budget constraints have led to farmer: VEA ratios a little above the
optimum of 1,000:1. Nevertheless, their achievements have been significant in terms of
farmer adoption of new technologies and increased crop production. The Women-in-
Agriculture program started after project restructuring, but has focused effectively on the
special needs of women and family concerns in farming and post-harvest operations. The
proposal to establish State Cooperative Finance Agencies (CFAs) to assist farmers to
become more self-reliant for their needs in credit, marketing of produce and purchase of
inputs was not implemented. Instead, the implementing agencies focused on organizing
farmers into user associations and training them to deal freely and effectively with private
commercial services and credit organizations. This program, limited though it was,
showed considerable promise.
12.   The feeder roads program was only moderately successful. Implementation was
slow because of inadequate force account capacity. The implementation rate did not
improve with the use of contractors as staff were unable to manage contract work
effectively. The village water supply program made good progress only after the plan to
develop surface reservoirs was modified at the restructuring in favor of mainly boreholes
and open wells. Villagers involved are gradually taking responsibility for operating and
maintaining their water systems after receiving training for it. The buildings program was
satisfactorily implemented with most of the structures being completed. The mechanical
plant and equipment did not receive the necessary care and maintenance and its
performance was thus substantially affected. This is reflected in the weak force account
capacity and the poor state of repair of the fleet of equipment.



iv
Overall Assessment of Project Outcome
13.   Overall, the outcome is satisfactory. The Economic Rate of Return at completion
is calculated at 14 percent against and estimate of 16 percent at appraisal. Farmers have
responded very well to project initiatives and their production has almost doubled during
the period. They are now more self reliant in managing their operations utilizing services
of the private sector or farmer organizations.
Project Sustainability.
14.   Farmers have become more self reliant in the areas of inputs supply and credit and
rely on Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) support mainly for
technology development, testing and transfer. They have effectively sourced services
through the private sector, farmer organizations or other competent public institutions.
Until the local government authorities have developed the capacity to maintain project
feeder roads, both KDADP and KTARDA will continue to do so, using community-based
routine maintenance procedures. Both the Federal and State Governments have indicated
their willingness to continue to support agricultural extension as a public good.
Future Operations.
15.   The Kaduna and Katsina  State Governments have provided  satisfactory
operational plans for maintaining the physical facilities and sustaining the extension and
technology development programs. The budgetary provisions are within the normal State
allocations to the MANR. In addition, small farmners will continue to benefit from the
Bank supported National Fadama Development Project (Ln 3451 -UNI) and the National
Agricultural Technology Support Project (Ln 3483-UNI).
Key Lessons Learned.
16.   The key lessons are as follows:
(a) the influence of officials in key institutions, even indirectly concerned with the
project, can be very strong and can have substantial effect on implementation. The main
cause of delays in implementation was management indecisiveness arising from
weaknesses in the State administration and frequent changes of top officials and their lack
of understanding of the project requirements;
(b) the early establishment of a strong management organization should be a
mandatory condition for loan disbursement;
(c) greater emphasis should be placed on the role of farmers and communities in
sustaining investments; they are generally very willing to take responsibility for the
investments on their holdings as well as necessary supporting services and infrastructure;



v
(d) timely local funding is critical and a system that ensures automatic transfer of
funds from Federal and State budgets should be a requirement for loan effectiveness;
(e) greater recognition should be given to the effects of macro-economic
conditions on market forces and farmer incentives.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
KADUNA/KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan No. 2436-UNI
PART I: PROJECT I1MPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1. Introduction
1.01  This Project was first appraised in 1979 on the successful completion of the
enclave Funtua Agricultural Development Project ( Ln. 1092-UNI), but was not taken to
the Board until July 17, 1984 after a second appraisal for a Bank loan of US US$122.0
million to the FGN for on-lending to Kaduna State and to be disbursed over the following
five years in implementing the Kaduna State Agricultural Development Project (KDADP).
After Kaduna State was bifurcated in September 1987, the project was restructured to
continue in the two new states of Kaduna and Katsina under separate State implementing
agencies (KDADP and KTARDA). The restructuring proposals were taken to the board
in May 1989, by which time only US$33.8 million had been disbursed. The loan closing
date was then first extended to December 31, 1991 and twice after to December 31, 1984.
2. Project Objectives
2.01  The main objectives were to increase agricultural production and productivity, and
rural incomes and foster greater self sufficiency in food through the adoption of improved
technologies by small farmers.  These objectives took into account that Nigeria's
agricultural production had stagnated at only about 1.0 percent per annum while
population was increasing at or above 3.0 percent. Consequently, rural poverty was
increasing and quality of life was deteriorating. In addition to promoting more efficient
and appropriate technologies, the project would provide essential services and rural
infrastructure to facilitate effective adoption and operations for increased production. The
achievement of these objectives depended on a competent and effective implementing
agency within the organization of the State Ministry of Agriculture which would be
strengthened to improve its services to the farming communities.
2.02  In support of the above objectives, the project has the following components:
(a) Farm and Crop Development: improved extension services, adaptive research,
input supplies including seeds, and farm access roads; dry season cropping in the
fadama lands (flood plains), through improved land preparation, and simple,
inexpensive irrigation practices; expanding the tree planting program by producing
more plants for on-farm and communal planting; and demonstrating land reclamation
and soil conservation measures in eroded areas and developing land use planning
capability;



2
(b) Civil Works: establishing feeder roads and livestock water supplies; constructing
staff houses and service buildings for workshops, stores, offices;
(c) Institutional Support: providing a management structure for the implementing
agency within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), and supporting a comprehensive
management and technical training program; and supporting the Kaduna State
Farmers' Supply Company (FASCOM); and
(d) Technical Assistance: implementing the program and training of essential staff.
2.03  Key general covenants to achieve project objectives were the signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement with the Kaduna State Government (KDSG) as the
implementing agency; the KDSG establishing, gazetting and maintaining the Project
Executive and Zonal Committees and the Management Unit (ADPMU); maintaining the
Farmers' Supply Company; appointing competent key management and technical staff,
providing required counterpart funds and maintaining state expenditures on agriculture at
an agreed level; preparing annual work plans and budgets; applying competitive
procurement practices; and maintaining records and reporting on project performance and
financial audits.
2.04  The objectives were relevant to the prevailing economic circumstances. They
conformed with government policies for greater self reliance in food and greater income
generating opportunities for communities in the rural areas. Attention would focus on
increasing as well as sustaining production on fragile soils, already low in fertility and
under high population pressure and inadequate and unreliable rainfall. An important
concern was the institutional capacity to set and implement policies for agricultural growth
and to manage the project and related operations. These concerns were directly addressed
in the project proposals.
2.05  The Bank loan of US$122.0 million represented 64 percent of the original (1983)
estimated project cost of US$194.0 million and was to be disbursed over five years. The
remainder of the costs, US$72.0 million, would be borne by the Federal Government
(US$39.0 million), the Kaduna State (US$24.0 million) and participating farmers (US$9.0
million). At the 1989 redesign the project cost was estimated at US$182.6 million. The
Bank loan would be shared between the new Kaduna State (US$58.3 million) and one
new Katsina State (US$63.7 million), while the local contribution would be provided by
the FGN (US$24.0 million), the KDSG (US$18.8 million) and the KTSG (US$17.8
million). US$7.5 million of the loan amount was canceled in 1993. At close of loan at
December 31, 1994, total disbursements were US$47.3 million to the KDADP and
US$66.6 million to the KTARDA, with an unspent balance of US$0.6 million being
canceled.



3
3. Achievement of Project Objectives
3.01  Farmers responded well to project initiatives and consequently, agriculture
production doubled between 1985 and 1993. The macro-economic reforms began in 1986
created the necessary incentive frame-work for eliciting farmer response to demand for
food and industrial raw materials. Farmers became less dependent on state services,
especially in respect of input supply and marketing. They are taking more responsibility
for maintaining public infrastructures, especially village water-supplies.
4. Major Factors Affecting Project
4.01  Overview. The Project was seriously affected by organizational and management
deficiencies and inadequate commitment from KDSG and later, KTARDA. There were
major delays in establishing the management organization and counterpart funding was
poor. External influences from public officials and local leaders led to staff indiscipline
and this weakened management performance.
4.02  Project Organization. The differences between the Bank, the Borrower and the
Implementing Agency, on implementation procedures and loan conditions, although
apparently resolved when the beneficiaries agreed to seek the Bank loan, continued to
arise during the early project years.  The delays in meeting loan effectiveness and
disbursement conditions, including satisfactory establishment of the ADPMU, seriously
retarded early progress. The situation was exacerbated by serious differences between the
State Governor, the Permanent Secretary in the MANR and the ADPMU, on the
management requirements of the Project.
4.03  Project Management Capacity. The KDSG did not support foreign professionals
for the senior management positions. Local professionals recruited either on secondment
from the MMANR or on contract from outside, even with acceptable academic
qualifications and relevant practical experience, were not always able to exercise the level
of discipline needed to implement the Project efficiently.  Official bureaucracy, and
external interference adversely affected Project Management and as a result, the quality of
management never reached the expected level of competence. KDADP had eight changes
in Program managers in ten years and KTARDA had four in six years. Other senior
management positions suffered similarly. The main effects were lack of continuity, staff
indiscipline, poor management of construction and supply contracts, and serious
implementation delays. State funds are largely derived from Federal Statutory allocations
which in turn are linked to petroleum income. The lower petroleum prices of the 80s were
an important factor in poor counterpart funds support from State governments.
4.04 Local Funding and Support. Local funding, particularly by the KDSG, was not
always provided as required by the annual budgets for approved work programs. This has
been a common problem with most Bank-assisted projects in Nigeria and has consumed
substantial attention from the Bank. Also some state officials were agnostic to projects in
which they did not have full control in the use of funds, particularly in the procurement of



4
goods and services. Nevertheless, implementation support from the KDSG and KTSG
improved after project restructuring. The FGN was generally supportive but exercised
little influence on the KDSG during the early implementation period.
4.05  Procurement Management. While there was no instance of major misprocurement
with Bank funds, the efforts made by officials, within and outside the Project, to
circumvent the agreed procurement procedures, tended to cause major delays in acquiring
required goods and services. The tendency to bypass the procedures placed increased
supervision burden on the Bank in addition to causing unnecessary implementation delays.
There was a case of use of the special account funds to pay for the overseas medical
expenses of a political official which was resolved through the account being reimbursed
by the State Government. In another case, project staff were suspected of misapplication
of project funds and the Bank conducted its own investigation parallel to that of the
Government and the findings were not conclusive.
5. Bank Performance
5.01  The Project appraisal was based on a preparation report put together by
international consultants for the FGN and also on the experiences of the three earlier
successful northern enclave ADPs. The technical considerations were generally sound and
relevant to the local situation but the specified achievement rates and targets were over-
optimistic. The Bank failed to take adequately into account the fluctuating political, social
and economic situation and institutional weaknesses in the country on the whole and the
State in particular, and the implementation difficulties they would cause. The Bank's
implementation supervision was generally adequate. The frequency of missions to the
field and attention from HQ were in line with normal requirements. The intractable
management problems of the project and periodic funding defaults might have been eased
if the Bank was firmer with the Borrower, and was prepared to suspend the loan when the
desired remedial measures were not forthcoming as required. Communication between
the Bank and the FGN, KDSG and KDADP was cumbersome and did not help in timely
solution of problems, especially those concerned with procurement procedures. The
situation, however, improved with supervision responsibility being delegated to the
Resident Mission in Lagos later in the project life. While supervision missions were
regular, the changes in mission members and, in later years, in skills mix, led to breaks in
continuity and weakened the technical support, sometimes with conflicting advice.
6. Borrower Performance
6.01  The project preparation took into account the lessons of the preceding Funtua
ADP. The technical bases assumed similar conditions, including disciplined professional
management, relative freedom from external pressures and adequate local funding. These
assumptions however, were not sustained, to the detriment of performance, leading
especially to expensive implementation delays. The KDSG maintained keen interest,
particularly in the disbursement of funds, but this was often unrelated to project best
interest and approved work programs, and sometimes its involvement was contrary to fair



5
procurement procedures. The situation was not helped by the frequent management
changes often the result of changes in State Governors or Agriculture Commissioners.
Overall, Borrower commitment was relatively better after the restructuring in 1989. The
separate ADPMUs improved their management and achieved better implementation
performance. However, senior management changes continued to be frequent. In one
case several senior staff were summnarily removed from office for alleged financial
improprieties.
7. Overall Project Implementation Performance
7.01   The performance of the main beneficiaries, the farmers, improved progressively
and was very good towards the end of the extended project period. Production of eight
food and industrial crops almost doubled from an annual average of 1.24 million tons in
the first three years (1985-87) to an average of 2.35 million tons in the last three years
(1991-93), due primarily to better varieties and farming methods.   Substantial
improvements occurred in sustaining soil fertility and improved land resources
management practices. At the institutional level, however, performance was less than
expected. Management deficiencies were the main reasons for the delays. The various
elements of the project showed different levels of performance as described below.
7.02 Farm and Crop Development. The program focused on (a) introducing improved
farming practices, including better crop varieties and soil fertility management, (b)
developing dry season farming in the fadama (flood plain) areas, (c) expanding fruit and
other tree species; and (d) promoting land reclamation, soil conservation and better land
use measures.  The frequent management changes were reflected in the staffing
organization for these activities, starting with two Agricultural Services Departments in
1985, increasing to three in 1987, then to five in 1992 and back to the original two in
1992, namely: (i) Technical Services for (a) Adaptive Research in Agronomy; (b)
Livestock Management; (c) Land Use Capability and Planning; (d) Agro-forestry and
Land Resources Management; (e) Irrigation; and (f) Agro-processing; and (ii) Field
Services for (a) Extension; (b) Women-in-agriculture; and (c) Cooperatives. The results
are summarized in the paragraphs that follow.
(a) Adaptive research in agronomy.  Initially, the packages field tested were
primarily from the National Institute for Agricultural Research. Project staff later
made major inputs in defining and designing trials and tests, based on farrning
problems and drawing from collaboration with research institutions in the country.
The results have been variable but positive findings have been included in extension
packages and their adoption by farmers contributed to the recorded production
increases. In the initial years all planned trials were successfully completed, but later
performance progressively declined, resulting in only about 60 percent achievement of
the planned programs in the last six years. The programs of introduction of improved
varieties were impressive with maize, rice, sorghum, cow-pea, ground nut and soya
bean. The main obstacle to deriving full benefit from this work was in the availability
of adequate quantities of planting material for farrners. The project failed to organize



6
satisfactory multiplication programs of recommended new varieties for commercial
distribution.
(b) Livestock management. This program was introduced in 1987 and focused on
pasture development and animal health and husbandry. It was expanded in 1990 to
include animal traction technology and in 1994 to fish culture in Katsina. The pasture
development, and animal husbandry components made little progress. The proposals
to privatize the Veterinary Service were not achieved; instead a veterinary drugs
revolving fund was established to enable farmers to bear part of the cost, but with only
40 percent of the 26,400 target farmers using it and a recovery rate of 80 percent after
two years, it may not be sustainable. The animal traction technology work started well
with the equipping of two training centers and training of 550 farmers, some of whom
already owned oxen.  The successful trainees were introduced to the Nigerian
Agricultural and Cooperative Bank (NACB) Animal Traction Loan Scheme and 120
of 155 applicants received 18 month loans totaling Naira 3.6 million for purchase of
oxen, feeds, medicines and implements. Recovery rate after two years was averaging
79 percent at end of 1994.
(c) Land use capability and planning. The Land Use Capability Survey and
production of a Land Use Plan were very well done. The technical staff of both
KADP and KTARDA continued to conduct soil and boundary surveys, prepare farm
plans and provide guidance in sustainable land use.
(d)  Agro-forestry and land resources management.  The KDADP program
achieved about 60 percent of planned seedling production and tree establishment, with
activities in this area having been down-sized after the start of the Second Forestry
Project (FY87). The KTARDA program achieved only slightly better results.
(e) Irrigation. Up to 1987 when project restructuring was initiated, only 200 ha of
the original total target of 2,000 ha had been provided with irrigation facilities, under
force account operations. At restructuring, in order to respond to the growing
demand the new KDADP target was first increased to 8,700 ha, but later reduced to
6,000 ha, and that for KTARDA set at 9,000 ha, but using mainly private contractors
for the well drilling programs. The use of private capacity contracting was, however
not seriously pursued and with their limited in-house capacity KDADP and KTARDA
were able to provide wells for only 1,000 and 2,430 ha respectively. On the other
hand the project did develop additional small-scale contracting companies by training a
limited number of local artisans to provide commercial shallow washbore drilling. The
service was well received and it is estimated that the advisors established 570
washbores in KDADP and between washbores and surface pumping, help develop
about 7,000 ha.  In KTARDA farmers independently provided irrigation to an
estimated 2,100 ha by pumping from shallow wells and from surface water. In
addition, KTARDA developed 1,950 ha of a planned 2,000 ha of gravity systems, fed
from six small reservoirs. KDADP also had a target of 2,000 ha of gravity schemes
but they did not get beyond the planning stage. Over the project period, a total of



7
about 14,680 ha of new irrigated lands were developed, involving about 20,000
farmers, which was a satisfactory achievement.
(f) Agro-processing. Initially, KDADP promoted improved agro-processing by
providing hire services of multicrop grain threshers. This effort was a financial failure
but it raised farmer awareness of the technologies and benefits of post harvest
processing. This encouraged entrepreneur farmers to own such equipment and rent to
other farmers and this is now a common practice.  The Women-in-Agriculture
program raised awareness of better agro-processing in the villages and stimulated
demand for processing equipment but availability was sometimes a problem.
KTARDA farmers purchased from the Farmers' Supply Company in a four-year
period, 18 rice hullers, 9 multicrop threshers, 98 groundnut shellers, 354 hammer mills
and 444 plate mills. KDADP appears to have had similar experiences but supporting
data were not available.
(g) Extension services.  The Extension Service of KDADP almost reached the
desired capacity. While the number of supervisory staff was adequate, the ratio of
Village Extension Agents (VEAs) to farmers ranged between 1:1,200 and 1:1,372
instead of the planned 1:1,000. Planned contacts with the 402,150 target farmers
reached only about 49 percent, mainly because of poor mobility of VEAs. All the
senior supervisory staff at the zonal level and 95 percent of the Block Extension
Supervisors (BESs) were provided with vehicles, but only about 50 percent of the
VEAs received motorcycles and bicycles, which in the latter years of the project
suffered frequent breakdowns and high repair costs, while difficulty in securing fuel for
extended periods was another problem. The training programs of KDADP were fairly
successful. The Monthly Technology Review Meetings (MTRM) started in 1986 and
were maintained at full level until 1992 and 1993 and even then only 3 of the planned
24 meetings were missed. The fortnightly training (FNT) sessions did even better with
100 percent performance. In addition staff organized regular field visits and twice
weekly radio programs for disserninating technical advice. KTARDA had a
VEA/farmer ratio of about 1:1,700 between 1988 and 1983. In 1994 the ratio was
improved substantially at 1: 1,050 when the unification of the extension service was
completed and staff were transferred from MANR and Farmers Agricultural Supply
Company of Katsina (FASCOKT). The main problem with the extension staff of
KTARDA was the general low level of academic training even though most had
substantial practical experience.  In 1993, 259 (91 percent) of the 287 VEAs
possessed only an Agricultural Institute Certificate and the remainder, the minimum
desired Ordinary National Diploma (OND) in Agriculture.  Similarly, the 70
supervisory staff included 38 (55 percent) OND holders and the remainder held the
minimum required Higher National Diploma (HND). There were no first degree
holders among the general extension staff.
(h) Women-in-agriculture (WIA). This program was started by KDADP in 1990
and was excessively staffed with 95 Block Extension Supervisors (BES) instead of the
required 60, who functioned as VEAs. They were supported by a Head and 5 Subject



8
Matter Specialists (SMSs). The number of BES was later reduced to 75 when the less
qualified were returned to other duties in the State MANR. Their main activity was
organizing women groups for training in agriculture and group activities such as credit
mobilization for their members and debt servicing. In the three year period they
organized 158 groups, of which 39 met the criteria for access to credit and were able
to borrow Naira 480,000 for use by their members. The WIA program did poorly in
establishing Small Plot Adaptation Techniques (SPATs), achieving between 4 and 12
per VEA per year instead of the desired 20 mainly because of mobility problems. In
KTARDA, the WIA program started late in 1992 with a Head, 2 SMSs and 36 of the
planned 63 Block Extension Agents (BEAs). By 1994 the BEAs had increased to 42
of which 40 had been provided with motorcycle transport. They organized 210
groups out of a planned 315 and established 479 of a planned 780 SPATs.
(i) Cooperatives (including Cooperative Finance Agencies-CFA).  KDADP
focused on organizing groups for technical messages and other farmer operations.
The proposal to establish a CFA for credit to farmers was dropped in favor of
commercial banking and other credit sources for lending on affordable terms to
deserving farmers, organized into recognized groups to provide required security and
manage the debt service effectively. Between 1985 and 1994 KDADP organized,
registered and trained 715 farmer groups of between 15 and 20 members who lodged
savings totaling Naira 1,895,815.80 in commercial banks. Short term loans totaling
Naira 6,355,476.00 were secured from three of these banks by 119 groups in the
period 1987 to 1994. Their repayment record was excellent. Only in 1991 did
repayments fall below 100 percent because of reduced yields caused by an abnormal
drought, but the outstanding debt was paid in full from the following year's harvest.
Some of these groups, particularly in fadama areas, were also able to secure input
supplies and pumps on credit from the Farmer Supply Company, with a down payment
of 50 percent and the remainder being repaid after the sale of the first crop. KTARDA
also followed a similar strategy on the advice of consultants recruited to study the
feasibility of a CFA for Katsina farmers. In the four years, they worked with 16,346
farmers in average size groups of 40, in 16 Local Government Authorities (LGAs).
About 259 of the groups were registered and they deposited savings of about Naira
1.3 million in seven commercial banks from which loans totaling Naira 25,069,000
were secured in 1992 by 6,007 individual group members, averaging Naira 4,173 per
member, and in 1993, Naira 27,528,008 by 5,746 members, averaging Naira 4,744 per
member.
7.03 Rural infrastructure. This component included: (a) feeder roads; (b) village water
supplies; (c) service buildings and residences; and (d) mechanical plant and equipment.
(a) Feeder roads. Originally, construction was by force account and the finished
roads were to be handed over to the LGAs for maintenance. Between 1986 and 1988
only 646 km of new roads (54 percent of the planned 1,196 km) and all of the planned
429 km of rehabilitation were completed. On project restructuring, implementation
policy changed to partly competitive contracting and partly force account. Between



9
1989 and 1993, KDADP completed only 182 km (43 percent of the planned 426 km)
by contract and 175 km (64 percent of the planned 274 km) by force account. The
expected transfers to the LGAs for maintenance never took place largely because of
limited resources of LGAs and partly owing to a lack of prior consultation with LGAs.
The KDADP started maintenance only in 1989 and by the end of 1993, had completed
only 213 km (39 percent of the planned 550 km). KTARDA completed by contract
191 km (96 percent of the planned 200 kin) and by force account 131 km (57 percent
of the planned 200 km) of new roads; and rehabilitated 151 km (76 percent of a
planned 200 km) by force account. Its maintenance operations covered only 76 km of
about 750 km of its existing roads, but no such work was done from 1992 to 1994.
(b) Village water supply. Only 7 of the originally planned 75 small and medium
size reservoirs were established by the end of 1988. In the same period 23 boreholes
were established against the 12 originally planned. The policy for village water supply
development shifted in 1989 from predominance of surface supply to ground water
supply. KDADP completed all of the planned 577 boreholes after 1988. Handpumps
were installed on 573, and submersible pumps were installed on the remaining four, of
which 2 were solar powered. Only one of the planned 10 surface reservoirs was
completed. The water supply facilities were all successfully transferred to the LGAs
for maintenance. The KTARDA program completed 503 boreholes against a 494
target; 226 hand dug wells against a 349 target; and 8 of the 38 planned small
reservoirs, of which only 5 were functioning. The other 3, damaged by floods soon
after completion, are yet to be repaired. All of the open wells have been handed to
user communities for maintenance. The training of users in their proper maintenance
was successful and this is reflected in the practice of high standards of sanitation and
pollution control around the wells.
(c) Service buildings and residences. KDADP completed all of the planned 133
field offices and 37 other service buildings. It started work on all of the planned 179
residences but only 122 were completed and occupied. Funding to complete the
remaining 57 is being included in the first year's budget for the operational plan.
KTARDA completed 137 of the planned 151 residences, and 12 of the planned 63
service buildings during 1989 to 1991.
(d) Mechanical plant and equipment. All of the mechanical plant was acquired
before 1987 and was divided-up after the state bifurcation. KDADP has an inventory
of (i) 69 pieces of heavy earth moving equipment (of which 9 are functional, 44
repairable, and 14 beyond repair); (ii) 130 light transport vehicles (of which 26 are
functional, 42 repairable, and 65 beyond repair); and (iii) 9 items of stationary
equipment (all of which are repairable). KTARDA has (i) 114 pieces of heavy
equipment (of which 29 are functional, 58 repairable and 17 beyond repair); (ii) 163
light transport vehicles (of which 70 are functional, 53 repairable and 39 beyond
repair); and (iii) 19 items of stationary plant (of which 13 are functional, 3 repairable
and 3 beyond repair). The ability of staff of the Engineering Department of both
ADPs to manage their vehicles and equipment was weak. Spare parts stocking and



10
management were poor and the necessary maintenance culture was lacking in both
Projects.
8. Overall Assessment of Project Outcome
8.01   On the basis of the implementation performance, achievement of physical targets,
sustainability of key components and borrowers/implementing agencies' operational plans,
the overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. Farmers are responding well to the
market forces and are now less dependent on the Government for operations. They
recognize the need to rely on their own efforts and resources to achieve greater
production and improvements in living standards and quality of life. As a matter of policy,
the KDSG and KTSG have placed responsibility for all extension services and adaptive
research in support of a vibrant farming population solely with the ADP system. Staff
salaries and operational costs are now fully entrenched in the States recurrent budget
provisions. The Economic Rate of Return of the project has been calculated by the
Borrower as 14 percent versus the appraisal estimate of 16 percent. This is consistent
with OED findings for similar projects in Nigeria.
9. Project Sustainability.
9.01  The main benefits of the project, the development of farmer capacity to increase
production and productivity and to conserve the natural resources on which they are
based, appear well placed to sustain themselves. Delivery of essential public services in
support of production has been restricted to extension and adaptive research through the
ADP system, within the MANR of both KDSG and KTSG and with the necessary budget.
The policy on feeder roads is to transfer maintenance to Local Government Authorities,
but because of present weak capacity, it will be a gradual process, as capacities are
strengthened. In the interim, provision is made in the recurrent budgets for the KDADP
and KTARDA to undertake this function in collaboration with the communities served.
Farmers, operating in groups, have accepted responsibility for and are receiving training in
operation and maintenance of their irrigation facilities. Similarly, the village water supplies
are being transferred to the user communities who are also being trained in the technical
and organizational aspects of operation and maintenance.
10. Future Operations.
10.1  The operational plans provided by the KDSG and KTSG for sustaining the Project
focus on two aspects: (a) the physical facilities and (b) the operational activities in support
of farmer services. The plans place priority on recruitment and retention of high caliber
management and technical staff, particularly for the PMUs. They propose to make
economies in staff costs by trimming the surplus staff and having leaner establishments,
without sacrificing on quality and quantity of its key farmer support efforts. Operations
and services which are more effectively provided by other departments or the private
sector will be transferred out. The farming communities will be assisted to mobilize into
user associations for maintenance of infrastructure such as access roads and tracks, shared



11
irrigation systems and post harvest handling and storage facilities. Both KDSG and KTSG
will continue to make annual allocations from the States' budgets for the core recurrent
costs and essential capital needs of both ADPs.
11. Key Lessons Learned.
11.01 The following are the main lessons:
(a) the influence of officials in key institutions, even indirectly concerned with the
project, can be very strong and can have substantial effect on implementation. The
main cause of delays in implementation was management indecisiveness arising from
weaknesses in the State administration and frequent changes of top officials and their
lack of understanding of the project requirements;
(b) the early establishment of a strong management organization should be an
inflexible condition for loan disbursement;
(c) greater emphasis should be placed on the role of farmers and communities in
sustaining investments; they are generally very willing to take responsibility for the
investments on their holdings as well as the necessary supporting services and
infrastructure;
(d) timely local funding is critical and a system that ensures automatic transfer of
funds from Federal and State budgets should be a requirement for loan effectiveness;
(e) greater recognition should be given to the effects of macro-economic
conditions on market forces and farmer incentives.



12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial   Partial    Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                 0          0            0                0
Sector Policies               0           0            0                0
Financial Objectives           0          0            0                0
Institutional Development      0          0            0                0
Physical Objectives            El         0            0                0
Poverty Reduction              a          0            o3               0
Gender Issues                  0          0            03               0
Other Social Objectives        0          0            0                0
Environmental Objectives       0          0            0                0
Public Sector Management       0          0            0                0
Other (specify)                0          0            0                0
B. Project Sustainability         Likely            Unlikely                Uncertain
0                  00



13
C. Bank Performance               Highly
Satisfactory            Satisfactory     Deficient
(V)                      (/)            (/)
Identification                        a                        0               a
Preparation Assistance                0                        El              O
Appraisal                             O                        0               0 
Supervision                           0                        El              0
D. Borrower Performance           Highly
Satisfactory            Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                           0                        El             0
Implementation                        0                        0              el
Covenant Compliance                   0                        0              0
Operation (if applicable)             0                        0              0
E. Assessment of Outcome     Highly                                          Highly
Satifisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
0            El              0                0



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose             Approval   Status
Preceeding Operations
1.    1092-UNI          Funtua ADP Integrated Rural Dev.    1975    Completed
2.    1099-UNI           Gusau ADP                         1975     Completed
3.    1164-UNI           Gombe ADP    "                    1975     Completed
4.    1454-UNI           Lafia ADP                         1977     Completed
5.    1455-UNI           Ayangba ADP   "                   1977     Completed
6.    1667-UNI           Bida ADP                          1977     Completed
7.    1668-UNI           Ilorin ADP                        1977     Completed
8.    1719-UNI           ARMTI       Agriculture/Mgt       1979     Completed
Training
9.    1838-UNI           Oyo North  Integrated Rural       1980     Completed
ADP         Development
10.   1854-UNI          Ekiti/Akoko                        1980     Completed
ADP
11.   1981-UNI          Bauchi ADP                          1981    Completed
12.   1982-UNI          Kano ADP                            1981    Completed
13.   2029-UNI          ATAP                                1981    Completed
14.   2185-UNI          Sokoto ADP  Integrated Technical    1981    Completed
Assistance
15.   2345-UNI          Fertilizer    Fertilizer Input Supply  1982    Completed
16.   2741-UNI          South Borno Agricultural Dev.       1986    Completed
17.   2733-UNI          MSADP 1                             1986    Ongoing
Following Operations
1.    2988-UNI          MSADP II  Agricultural Dev.         1989    Ongoing
2.    2035-UNI           MSADP III                          1989    Ongoing
3.    3183-UNI           Nat'l Seed   Improved Seed Supply   1990    Ongoing
Plant Quarantine
4.    2261-UNI           Agric. Res.  Improved Basic Resrch. 1991    Ongoing
5.    3451-UNI           Fadama      Small Scale Irrigation    1992    Ongoing
6.    3483-UNI           NATSP       Extension/Adaptive     1992    Ongoing
Research



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date Planned                 Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                             1977
Preparation                                               1977                         1979
Appraisal                                              June 1979                    June 1979
Negotiations                                         July 21, 1983                July 21, 1983
Board Presentation                                   Oct. 17, 1983                June 7, 1984
Signing                                                Dec. 1983                  Dec. 7, 1984
Effectiveness                                          Sept. 1984                August 7, 1985
Restructuring                                          June 1988                  May 31, 1989
Project Completion                                   June 30, 1989                June 30, 1994
Loan Closing                                         Dec. 31, 1989                Dec. 12, 1994
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY86 FY87  FY88  FY89*  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Appraisal Estimate   75.2  93.2  110.2  31.2   68.1   99.3  122.0  122.0  122.0  122.0
Actual                1.8  20.7   30.1  34.0   52.1   66.9   77.0   90.1  103.7  113.8
Actual as % Estimnate  2    52     27  108       76     67     63    73    85       93
Date of Final Disbursement: May 5, 1995
*Project was restructured in 1989



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(Data in parenthesis indicates revised indicators after project restructuring)
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR                                        Estimated                         Actual
and/or President's Report
1. Adaptive Research (Nos.):
-  on-farm  trials ................................                              634                            635
-  on-station trials ................................                            533                            347
-  other adaptive research trials .........................                      369                            421
2. Seed Multiplication:
-  improved crop seed (ton) ..............................                     6,982                           2,131
-  pasture seed (ton) ................................                            17                            14.7
- pasture hay (bales) ..................             ..............           35,000                          13,557
3. Extension Service (Nos):
- project farm  families ................................             1,014,300(800,000)                     737,000
- project cultivated area (ha, million) ...............                         3.78                            2.14
-  village extension agents ................................                     950                            804
-  block extension agents ................................                       123                             116
- women block extension agents ......................                            123                             116
- visits to farmers ................................                         672,630                         472,292
-  contact farmers ................................                          440,000                         421,482
-  women contact farmers ................................                      9,430                           7,638
-  SPATs ................................                                     169,141                         86,450
- MTR  meetings ................................                                 161                             154
- FNT  meetings ................................                                 706                            677
-  radio programs (plus repeats) ........................                      1,304                           1,290
- farmers training on animal traction ................                         1,820                            980
- cooperative societies ................................                        760                             982
4. Land Use Planning and Development:
- tree seedlings (Nos.,million) ..........................                      5.03                            3.00
-  diversion channels (m) ................................                    26,600                          27,556
-  construction of terraces (m) ..........................                    46,600                          55,508
- windbreak/boundary planting (m) ..................                         375,650                         280,264
-  farm  boundary survey (ha) ............................                    46,600                          52,174
-  soil survey (ha) ................................                          33,000                          34,080
- farm  plans (ha) ................................                            1,380                          19,716
- fodder lot establishment (Nos.) .....................                          111                             20
-  seedlings nurseries rehabilitated (Nos.) ..........                            17                             22
5. Water Supply (Nos.):
- boreholes ............                ....................               1,014 (864)                         1,085
-  open wells ................................                              699 (499)                           298
6. Irrigation:
- washbores and tubewells (ha) .......................                         14,700                         16,836
- earth dams (Nos.) ................................                          78 (66)                            11



17
7. Road (km):
- new construction       .        .......................  1,100 (1,511)        1,355
- maintenance          .......................            600                    562
- rehabilitation       .......................            700                    298
8. Buildings (Nos.):
- staff residential quarters .    ...............................  263           263
- project headoffice .................................1                           1
- stores          ............................             6                      6
9. Project Staff Training (Nos.):
- long-term degree/certificate training.
* OND/HND/Degree .            ...............................  885            778
* Other          ..........................            344                    457
- short-term overseas training    .       ..........      206                    135
- short-term local training .      .............................  12,690       10,866
10. Planning Monitoring & Evaluation (Nos):
- miscellaneous studies .................................  70                    41
- institutional review .................................   2                      2
- quarterly reports       ....................            60                     60
- annual reports        ........................           15                     15
11. Distribution/Sales (ton!:
- assorted fertilizers    ......................       1,000,000              477,541
- agricultural chemicals (lit)                                                 65,735
- other agro-chemicals (kg)                                                    26,186
- ox-drawn ridgets (Nos)                                                       12,040
- other agricultural implements (Nos)                                          23,323
- improved crop seeds (ton) ..................10,673
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No indicators were developed for project operation.



18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study            Purpose as defined at                Status                 Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
1.                         Farm Management Studies    Completed                   Unknown
including labor utilization,
local participation, role of
women and community level
reaction.
2.                         Acceptance of technical    Completed                   Feedback for extension-
packages.                                             research follow-up
3.                         Study on nutrition and water  Completed                Greater conununity
supply in the rural                                   participation in water
communities.                                          facilities maintenance.
4.                         Marketing Studies to assist    Completed               Marketing information,
farmers to market their                               disseminated to farmeis.
produce profitably.
5.                         Study of cooperative       Completed                   Helped develop strategy for
movement in Kaduna and                                farmer organizations.
Katsina states.
6.                         Consultancy on management  Completed                   Better project management
information system.                                   systems
7.                         Diagnostic surveys of the  Completed                   Feedback for extension
problems of farming in the                            activities.
two states.
8.                         Feasibility study on the   Completed                   Farmers benefited from
establishment of Cooperative                          institutional credit and
Financing Agencies (CFA)                              cooperative marketing of
farm produce.
9.                         Studies on storage,        Completed                   Improved planning of
cooperatives, aquaculture,                            activities.
rehabilitation of roads, works
equipment and farm
mechanization.
10.                        Corporate plan for farmers    Completed for Kaduna State.  No impact as Governrment
supply companies in Kaduna                            did not allow FASCOM to be
and Katsina (FASCOM).                                 autonomous.



19
Study              Purpose as defined at                     Status                    Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
11.                           Economic viability of force    Not completed
account on road works.
12.                           Institutional Review of the    Completed                      Acceptance of the Unified
Ministries of Agriculture in                                  Agricultural Extension
the two states for operational                                System.
efficiency.
13.                           Study on soil profile and      Completed for Kaduna State.  Improved land use
fertility for farm planning                                  techniques.
and land use.
14.                           Shallow acquifier studies for   Completed                     The two states have qualified
fadama irrigation.,                                          to participate in the National
Fadarna Project.
15.                           Studies on hydrology of the    Not completed                  Study now to be done
tvo states for efficient water                               nationwide under the
use monitoring.                                              National Fadama Project
(Loan 3451).
16.                           Manpower and Training Plan   Completed                        Training linked to project
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  n e e d s.



20
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)         Actual/Latest
Estimate(US$M)
Item              Local   Foreign     Total  Local    Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs              Cost3     Costs
1. Tech. & Agric. Services     7.0       4.8       11.8   0.7        8.9        9.6
2. Rural Infrastructure       13.1       42.3       55.6   8.8      27.9       36.7
3. Commercial Services         4.4       18.7      23.1   5.4        17.6      23.0
4. Project Management          3.3        4.4       7.7    1.9       11.9      13.8
5. State MANR                  0.1        0.7       0.8    0.3        0.3       0.6
6. Contingencies               5.2       10.0       15.2    -         -
7. Original Project (up tol988)   37.2   31.2      68.4   37.2      31.2       68.4
8. Frontend Fee                -          0.3       0.3    0.0       0.3        0.3
TOTALPROJECTCOST    60.6               122.0    182.6   54.3      98.1      152.4
NB: Items 1 to 6 refer only to post-project restructuring data.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)           Actual/Latest
______________________________________________Estimate(US$M)
Local    Foreign       Total   Local      Foreign   Total
Source          Costs      Costs                Costs       Costs
IBRD                        -        122.0       122.0   7.5         106.4    113.9
Federal Government         24.0        -          24.0  34.2           -        24.2
State Government          36.6        -           36.6   15.2          -        15.2
TOTAL             60.6       122.0       182.6  54.3          98.1    160.7
NB: $7.5 million was cancelled from the IBRD loan as of March 31, 1994 reducing the
loan amount available for disbursement to $114.5 million.



21
Table 9: Economic Rate of Return
Particulars                              ERR (%)
1. Agricultural Component                                 17.7
2. Small Scale Irrigation                                 11.8
3 Rural Roads                                              9.8
4. Rural Water Supply
(a) Excluding indirect benefits                         1.6
(b) Including indirect benefits                        10.7
5. Overall Project
(a) Excluding indirect benefits                        14.5
of Rural Water Supply
(b) Including indirect benefits                        15.2
of Rural Water Supply



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
C   Complied; CD = Complied with delay; CP = Partially Complied;
NC = Not Complied; NYD = Not Yet Due
Agreement  Section       Covenant  Present    Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Type       Status     Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Ln No.2436    3.01(a)        3          CP      09/07/84                 Without any limitation or        Complied
restriction upon any of its other  partially
obligations under the Loan
Agreement, the Borrower shall
within the limits of its
constitutional powers cause Kaduna
State to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of
Kaduna State therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of
funds facilities, services and other
resources necessary or appropriate
to enable Kaduna State to perform
such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
3.01(b)       3          C       09/07/84                 Borrower shall out of the proceeds   Fulfilled
of the loan relend to (i) Kaduna
State the amounts allocated to
Kaduna State in Schedule I to the
Agreement under a revised
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower
and Kaduna State on terms and
conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank; and (ii)
Katsina State the amounts allocated
to Katsina State in Schedule I to
the Agreement under a revised
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower
and Katsina State on terns and
conditions approved by the Bank.
The said terms and conditions shall
include provisions requiring
repayment of principal in 17 years
(including a grace period of four
years) and annual interest at the
variable rate provided for in
Section 2.07 of the Loan
Agreement.



23
Agreement  Section        Covenant  Present    Original        Revised      Description of Covenant           Comments
Type        Status     Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date         Date
3.01(c)        2          C       09/07/84      09/30/89     The Borrower shall exercise its   Fulfilled.
rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or
wave the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Ln 2436         3.02          4          CP       09/07/84     09/30/89     Without any limitation or any     Partially
restriction upon the Borrower's  fulfilled
obligations under Section 3.01(a) of
the Loan Agreement, the borrower
shall (i ) provide in its annual
budget amounts sufficient to cover
the Borrower's counterpart
contributions to the costs of the
Project; and (ii) thereafter pay each
quarter into the Kaduna State
Project Account and the Katsina
State Project Account the quarterly
contributions of the Borrower to be
made to each of the project States
in respect of project costs. The
Borrower and the Bank presently
estimate the said counterpart
contributions (exclusive of any
subsidies on farm inputs) to amount
in 1989 prices to USS24,000,000
equivalent over the project period.
3.03         2           CP      09/07/84     09/30/89      The Borrower, Staff, annually    Partially
review with the Bank, Kaduna and   fulfilled
Katsina States, FASCOM and
FASCOKT the cost recovery
policies and practices of FASCOM
and FASCOKT and shall cause
such changes to be made in the said
policies and practices as shall
enable FASCOM to recover the full
costs of any inputs (except
fertilizer) or services at any time
supplied by it under the Project.
2.01(a)        5           C       12/07/84     09/30/89     Kaduna and Katsina States shall   Partially
carry out the Project described in    fulfilled
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
with due diligence and efficiency
with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and
agricultural practices.



24
Agreement  Section        Covenant  Present    Original    Revised         Description of Covenant           Comments
Type       Status      Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date         Date
201(b)        5           C       12/07/84     09/30/89     Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
establish and maintain KDAEC and
KTDEC in a form and with
membership, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank and the Borrower.
.Ln. 2436     2.01(c)         5          CP      12/07/84     09/30/89     Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
establish and thereafter maintain
KDADPMNU and KTADPMU in a
form andiwith membership,
functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower.
2.01(d)        5          C       12/07/84     09/30/89     Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
cause to be established for each
zone a zonal Development
Committee (ZDCs) in a form and
wxith membership, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the
bank and the Borrower.
2.01(e)        5          C       12/07/84     09/30/89     Kaduna and Katsina States shall   Fulfilled
publish in their official gazettes
notification of the establishment of
KDADPEC and KDADPNIU which
staff set out their membership
functions and responsibilities
2.02(a)        5         CP.      12/07/84     09/30/89     Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Partially
maintain Farmer's Supply         fulfilled.
Company Limited (FASCOMs)
wAith mnembershiip, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank and the Borrower.
2.02(b)        3          C       12/07/85     09/30/89     Kaduna and Katsina States shall   Fulfilled
make arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank for the transfer to
FASCOM of the proceeds of the
loan to be utilized by FASCOM
under the Project.
2.03(a)        1          C       06/07/85     09/30/89     Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
open, and thereafter maintain a
Project Account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank
and the BorrowAer.
2.03(b)        1          C       06/01/85     09/30/89     Each of the Project undertakes that  Fulfilled
deposits into and payments out of
the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with Schedule
4 to the Loan Agreement.



25
Agreement  Section       Covenant  Present    Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Type       Status      Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
2.03(c)       4          CP      06/01/85     09/30/89    Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Partially
make adequate budgetary         fulfilled
provisions for and pay into the
project account at least by March
31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31 in each year, states'
quarterly contributions to the
Project for the calendar quarter
starting the day following each such
date based on KDAPMU's and
KTADPMU's approved annual
budgets, the said contributions
being estimated by the Project
States and the Bank to amount in
the aggregate in current prices
exclusive of farm inputs to: (i)
US$18,800,000 equivalent for
Kaduna State; and (ii) US$17,
800,000 equivalent for Katsina
State.
Ln 2436       2.03(d)        2          CP                               Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Partially
continue to maintain in addition to  fulfilled.
the above-mentioned financial
contributions referred to above,
their current levels of expenditure
in the states of Naira 6.7 million
annually per state in July 1983
constant terms, that is, Naira
45,300,00 in current prices over the
five year Project period.
2.03(e)       9          CD                               Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Compliance
cause KDADPMU to furnish to     usually
MANR and the Bank, the annual    delayed.
work plan and Budget estimates not
later than four months immediately
before the commencement of the
fiscal year to which it relates, and
shall inform the Bank of its
approval before the commencement
of the fiscal year.
2.03(f)      11          CD      06/06/85     09/30/89    Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fully
take all actions necessary to have    complied
the staff, building and equipment    with just
pertaining to the States' Integrated   before loan
Rural Development Project       closing.
assigned for purposes of the
execution of the project and shall
pay in timely manner the recurrent
costs associated with the
employment of the said staff
2.04(a)       5          C       06/01/85     09/30/89    In order to assist Kaduna and    Fulfilled
I _   _                I           I             Katsina States to execute the



26
Agreement  Section       Covenant  Present    Original    Revised          Description of Covenant           Comments
Type       Status      Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
project, Kaduna and Katsina States
shall employ consultants, experts
and specialists (including: (A) for
KDAPMU and KTAPMU, a
Project Manager, Financial
Controller, Chief Engineer and four
Zonal Managers and (B) for
FASCOM and FASCOKT a
Managing Director and a Financial
Controller) whose qualifications,
experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower, such consultants, experts
and specialists to be selected in
accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the guidelines for
the use of consultants by World
Bank Borrowers published by the
Bank in August 1981.
Ln. 2436      2.04(b)         5          C       06/01/85     09/30/89     Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
cause KDAPMU and KATADPMU
to prepare and send to the Bank
and the Borrower the detailed TOR
of the Consultants, experts and
specialists to be employed, under
paragraph 2(a) hereof
2.04(c)        I         CD       06/01/85     09/30/89     Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
enter into agreements with FACU
to assist in (i) improving the
accounting and intemal control
system and procedures for
monitoring expenditures and (ii)
bringing the account of
KDADPMU, KTADPMU,
FASCOM and FASCOKT up to
date.
2.05         3           C                                 Except as the Bank shall otherwise   Fulfilled
agree, procurement of goods and
civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the loan shall be
governed by the provisions of
.___________  schedule I to this agreement.
2.06         2          CP                                 Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
annually review with the Bank, the   partially
Borrower, FASCOM and
FASCOKT the cost recovery
policies and practices of FASCOM
and FASCOKT and shall cause
such changes to be made in the said
policies and practices as shall



27
Agreement  Section        Covenant  Present    Original        Revised      Description of Covenant           Comments
Type        Status      Fulfillment  Fulfillment
__________ Date          Date
enable FASCOM and FASCOKT
to recover the full costs of any
inputs (except fertilizer) or services
at any time supplied by it under the
Project.
Ln. 2436       2.07(a)        5           C                                 Kaduna and Katsina States         Fulfilled
undertake to insure or make
adequate provisions for the
insurance of all goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the
loan relent to them by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use
or installation and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable
by Kaduna State to replace or
repair such goods.
2.07(b)        5          CP                                 Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Some
cause all goods and services     project
financed out of the proceeds of the   vehicles
loan relent to them by the Borrower  were
to be used exclusively for the   diverted to
purposes of the project.         State use.
2.08(a)        9           C                                 Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
cause KDADPMU and KTADPMU
to furnish to the Bank promptly
upon their preparation the plans,
specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the
project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such details as the Bank
and the Borrower shall reasonably
request.
2.08(b)        9           C                                 Kaduna and Katsina States shall (i)  Fulfilled
cause KDADPMU and FASCOM
to maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the project (including
its cost and benefits), to identify
the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the loan, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
enable the bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction
sites and (iii) cause KDAPMU and
FASCOM to fulmiish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where



28
Agreement  Section       Covenant  Present    Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Type       Status      Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
2.08(d)       9           C                               Promptly after completing a      Fulfilled
project, but in any event not later
than six months after the closing
date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between
Kaduna state, Katsina state and the
Bank, the State shall prepare and
funish to the Bank and the
Borrower a report of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request on the execution
and initial operation of the project
its costs and benefits derived and
to be derived from it, and the
performance of all parties.
2.08(e)       9          C                                Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations,
sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of KDAPMU and
FASCOM and any relevant records
and documents.
2.09         10         C                                Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
duly perform all their obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Kaduna state
shall not take concur in any action
which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and any provisions
thereof.
2.10(a)       9          C                                Kaduna and Katsina States shall, at  Fulfilled
the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to
the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations
under the Project Agreement and
SLA and other matters relating to
the purposes of the loan.
2.10(b)       5                                           Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with the
progress of the project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of



29
Agreement  Section      Covenant  Present    Original    Revised       Description of Covenant         Comments
Type       Status     Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
the Loan, or the performances by
Kaduna state of its obligations
under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Loan 2436      2.11         4         CD                               Kaduna and Katsina States agree    Fulfilled
(i) that the Borrower shall deduct   towards the
from the amount standing to the  end of the
Credit of Kaduna State in the  loan.
Federation Account, Kaduna state's
quarterly contributions to
KDADPMU (in the amounts
provided for in KDAPMUs
approved annual budget and to the
extent such amounts are due and
outstanding) in the event that
Kaduna state fails to provide such
contributions in full and within the
quarter, and (ii) that the Borrower
shall pay any such deductions
directly into the Project Account.
For the purposes of this section, the
term "Federation Account" means
the account maintained by the
Federation into which revenues are
paid and from which amounts
standing to the credit of the account
are distributed among the Federal
and State Governments and the
Local Government Councils of the
States.
2.12        10          C                               Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
take or cause to be taken all such
actions as shall be necessary to
acquire as and when needed all
such land and fights as shall be
required for the carrying out of the
Project, and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights
in respect of Land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
2.13(a)      10                 06/01/87                 Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled -
furnish the Bank and the Borrower  operational
for their review details of proposals  plan already
prepared by KDADPMU for the    prepared.
continuation and organization of
the project after its completion.
Ln. 2436      2.13(b)       10        NC       12/31/S6                Kaduna and Katsina States shall:-   Proposal
(i) cause the roads to be      contained in
constructed under the project to be  the
adequately maintained, and all  Opertional



30
Agreement  Section       Covenant  Present    Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Type       Status     Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
necessary repairs thereof to be  Plan.
made; and
(ii) shall no later than December
31, 1986, furnish the Bank with
detailed proposals for the long term
maintenance of the said roads.
2.14(1)       10         CD      01/01/90                 Each of the Project States shall  Fulfilled
2.14(2)       10         C       06/30/90                 carry out the actions described in
2.14(3)       10         C       08/31/90                 Schedule 3 to the Amendment of
2.14(4)       5          C       06/30/90                 Loan and Project Agreements dated
May 31, 1989.
3.01(a)                  C                                Kaduna and Katsina States shall
cause KDAPMU and FASCOM to
maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, their
operations and financial conditions
including without limitations to the
foregoing separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan account on
the basis of Statements of
Expenditure.
3.01(b)       10        NYD      12/31/96                 Kaduna and Katsina States shall
retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts, and
other documents evidencing the
expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the
Loan account on the basis of
statements of expenditures, and
shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such
records.
3.02(a)       I          CD                               Kaduna and Katsina States shall
cause KDADPMU and FASCOM
to have their accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Ln. 2436      3.02(b)        I         CD                                Kaduna and Katsina States shall
cause KDAPMU and FASCOM to
furnish to the Bank and the
Borrower as soon as available but



31
Agreement  Section       Covenant  Present    Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Type       Status      Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
m any case not later than six
months after the end of each such
year:
(i) certified copies of their financial
statements for such year and as
audited;
(ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested, including,
without limitations to the
foregoing, separate opinions by said
auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred
to in Section 3.01(b) of the Project
Agreement as to whether the
proceeds of the Loan made
available to KDADPMU and
FASCOM and withdrawn from the
Loan account on the basis of the
statements of expenditures have
been used for the purpose of which
they were provided.
3.02(c)       9          C                                Kaduna and Katsina States shall    Fulfilled
cause KDADPMUs and FASCOMs
to furnish to the Bank and the
Borrower such other information
concerning said accounts, financial
statements, records and
expenditures, as well as audits
thereof, as the Bank and Borrower
shall from time to time reasonably
__ _ _ _ _ _ _  _     _  _  _    _  _  _     _ _  _  _  _ __ _  _   request.                          _  _  _ _
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No cases of non-compliance with Bank Operational Manual Statements were observed.



32
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff InDuts
Stage of Project    Planned              Revised               Actual
Cycle          Weeks      US$M          Weeks   US$(M)  Weeks        US$(M)
Preparation to appraisal    2                    2                     2
Appraisal                  36                    36                   36
Re-appraisal                10                   10                    10
Negotiations through        4                    4                     4
Board approval
Supervisions               30                    30                   40
Completion                 38                    38                   38
Total             120                   120                  130



33
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
PerfoC  ace Radnl
Number               Spedased    Implementa-   Develop-              Types of Probem
Stage of          Month/         of      Days in   Staff Sli      tlion Sttus   mIent
Project Cycle        Year        Persona    Field    Represented                   Objectives
Through Appraisal         06/79         12        21         ab,c,d           _
Appraisal through         06/79         5         --         ab,c,                                    State Government not vwiIiing
Board Approval            06/84                                                                       to agree with tun. of lending
Board Approval            06/84         2         __          a.b             _             _         Bureaucatic delays in
through Effectiveness     08/25                                                                       document approval by Govt
Supervision 1             02/84         1          1           c              2             -         lAte recruitment of key staff
Supervision 2           09/10/84        1          4           c              2                       l_ aerecruibtnt of key taff
Supervision 3            07 and         2         12          b,c             2              2        Procurement of vehicles and
09/85                                                                       senior staff recruitment
Supervision 4             04/86         1          2           b              2              2        Ladc of undernding of Banic
_       _                                     _            __                                   prmatprctd
Supervision 5             05/86         1          2           b              2              2        Slow procurement
Supervision 6             06/86         1          4           a              2              2
Supervision 7             08/86         2          1          ab              2              2
Supervision S             10/86         4          4         ab,c.d           3              3        Extemal interference
Supervision 9             10/86         1          3           a              3              3
Supervision 10            02/87         1          5           a              3              3        Exernal iterference
Supervision 11            02/88         3         10         a,c,d            2              2        Projed redesign nd projed
bifiurcaion
Supervision 12            07/88         2          4          b,f             2              2        Proect redesign
Supervision 13            08/88         1          4           f              3              3        Retesign
Supervision 14            10/88         2          2          ad
Supervision 15            12/88         1          2           d
Supervision 16            03/90         2          2          c,c             2              2        Change of manage    t xtaff in
Kaduna ADP
Supervision 17            03/91         2          8          c,e             3              3        Counterpart funding
Supervision 18            11/91         2          2          ae              2              2        Counterat funding
Supervision 19            07/92         3          5         a,b,e            3              3        Misue of project finds by
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   state    officia s
Supervision 20            09/92         5          5          b,e             2              2        _          _          _
Supervision 21            10/93         3          5e                         2              2
Completion                03/95         3         10          d,e             2         Satisfactory
Key:
a = Agriculturist
b = Financial Analyst
c = Agricultural Economist
d = Engineer
e = Operations Officer
f= Economist






APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 11
NIGERIA
KADUNA/KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(KDADP/KTARDA) - (Ln. # 2436-UNI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FINAL MISSION. MARCH 8 to 29, 1995.
AIDE - MEMOIRE
The mission 'members, at a briefing meeting at FACU, Abuja, on 03/10/95, on the
terms of reference and procedural matters, agreed on its program and logistics for visits to
and discussions with management and technical staff of the ADPs and the State Ministries
of Agriculture and Natural Resources (NANR) in preparation of the ICR. Attention was
also drawn to the need for early submission of the Borrower's independent Completion
Report which was under preparation by APMEU on behalf of the FGN. A wrap-up
meeting was held in Abuja, on March 27 with the Director and staff of FDA and with
representatives of the Kaduna and Katsina ADPs and MANRs. The following summarizes
the main issues which will be reflected in the ICR.
PROJECT SUMMARY.
This statewide Project was originally appraised in 1979, following the successful Funtua
enclave ADP, but was not taken to the Board because of differences between the Bank
and the Borrower on implementation issues. After three years of no progress, the
Borrower resumed discussions with the Bank. The result was a reappraised Project,
negotiated and agreed with the Federal and State Governments, to be implemented over
five years at an estimated total cost of US$ 194.0 million. The Project was approved by
the Board on June 7, 1984 for a loan of US$ 122.0 million from the Bank. The balance
of the costs was to be met by the FGN - $39.0 million, the Kaduna State Government -
$29.0 million and beneficiary farners - $4.0 million. The Loan and Project Agreements
were signed on Dec. 7, 1984, conditions for effectiveness met on July 17, 1985 and the
closing date was determined as Dec. 31, 1989. When the Kaduna State was bifurcated in
September 1987 the Project had drawn down only $ 25.7 million - 20% instead of the
expected 70% of the loan. During the division of assets between the two new States, it
became necessary to redesign the Project and reallocate $96.3 million balance of the loan
and extend the closing date by two years to Dec. 31, 1991. In the reallocation, $44.9
'Mission members include Messrs. Lewis Campbell (Mission Leader), Dele Ilebani and Joseph Yayock of
thc World Bank; E. J. Oklobia and N. C. Okaro of APMEU; Bola Ajala, M. A. Bhatti, R. Okoro, E.
Okoro, 1. Adamu, A. A. Adesiyun and D. E Ugbabe of FACU.



2                            APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 11
million went to Kaduna and $51.4 million to Katsina, and the sharing of the total effective
loan at $ 58.3 million to Kaduna and $63.7 million to Katsina.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES.
The main objectives of the Project were to increase agricultural production,
productivity, rural incomes and resources conservation through improved technologies by
farmers. The project would provide essential services and rural infrastructure to facilitate
effective adoption and support the increased production operations.
ACHIEVEMENTS.
The Project experienced substantial management difficulties, and this adversely
affected its achievements, with widely varying results. Farmer related activities were very
good. Production of the eight food and industrial crops almost doubled from an annual
average of 1.24 million tonnes for the first three years (1985-87) to an average of 2.35
million tonnes in the last three years (1991-93). Average production increases in the last
three years relative to the first three years ranged from 47.7% for sorghum to 1,193.8%
for soya bean. While achievements with some farmer services and infrastructure fell below
expectations, overall achievements were generally satisfactory.
IPLEMENTATION RECORD and MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IT.
Proiect Manazement.
The implementation performance was seriously affected by lack of stable
management. KDADP changed Program Managers eight times in its ten years of
operation while KTARDA changed four times in its six years. Other senior positions
experienced similar changes in KDADP. In Katsina the Program Manager, the Financial
Controller, the Chief Water Engineer and the Chief Engineer were all dismissed in 1991.
Farm and Crop Development.
The original program focused on: (a) the introduction of improved farning
practices; (b) the development of dry season farming in the Fadama areas; (c) the
operation of tree nurseries for the expansion of fruit and forest species; and (d) the
promotion of land reclamation and soil conservation measures. The level of activity on
these programs were affected by organizational instability mentioned above. The result of
these developments are summarized as follows.
Technical Services. (a) Adaptive Research. This component liaised with the
national agricultural research system for relevant technological packages for adoption by
farmers. The Project staff also made some inputs into defining and designing trials and
tests, based on farming problems and the experiences of the research institutes. The results
have been variable as follows:



3                            APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 11
(i) All of the 237 trials planned by KDADP for 1985 to 1987 were successfully
conducted but from 1988 to 1993 performance declined, with annual achievements on
planned programs between 40% and 90% and averaged about 60 %. The KTARDA
achievements were only marginally better.
(ii) Improved variety introductions by KDADP were fairly successful with maize,
rice, sorghum, cow pea, groundnut and soya bean. However, multiplication for
distribution was not sustained, ranging from 66% (183.6t) to as low as 17% (63.7t) of
target. The KTARDA performance in variety introductions and seed multiplication
followed the same pattern as KDADP.
(b) Livestock Development. The KDADP program consisted initially of pasture
development, animal health and husbandry and later, animal traction and fish culture. At
the redesign, provision was made for continuing the same program by KTARDA.
(i) Two animal traction training centers were established and they trained 550 of
800 identified oxen owners, of which 120 (77% of 155 applicants) received 18 month
loans from the NACB Animal Traction Loan Scheme totaling Naira 3.6 million for
purchase of oxen, feed, medicines and implements. First year recovery rate was 79%.
The KTARDA started well with rehabilitating the training centers and trained in the first
year all of the planned 240 oxen owners of which 100 benefited from NACB loans of
Naira 25,000 - 30,000 each. The training declined to 100 and 40 respectively in the next
two years because of failure of many trainees to receive loans. Purchases from FASCOKT
shows farrner purchases of 3,398 ploughs, 348 shares and 68 ox carts between 1988 and
1993.
(ii) The redesign proposals for privatization of the Veterinary Services were not
achieved by neither KDADP nor KTARDA. L-.stead, the Kaduna MANR provided in
Nov. 1993, Naira 434,960.00 for a veterinary drug revolving fund to which about 40% of
the 26,400 livestock farmers had access, and with an 80% repayment rate.
(iii) The expected programs for pasture development, and livestock husbandry by
KDADP and KTARDA made no progress at the close of the loan.
(iv) The fish program of KTARDA was not originally included in the project, but
in the three years, it had a good record in its extension and demonstration activities.
(c) Land Use Capability and Planning. The Land Capability and Use Survey was
well done and a good Land Use Capability Plan was produced. The KDADP and
KTARDA conducted soil and farm boundary surveys, produced several farm plans and
provided guidance in good land use.
(d! Agro-forestry and Land Resources Management. The KDADP program
achieved about 65% of tree production and establishment targets, and was extended to
soil and water conservation activities. The KTARDA program did slightly better.
(e) Irrigation. Only 10% of the 2,000 ha target was achieved by the time of the
redesign when it was agreed to shift from all force account to some contracting to
improve the development rate. The redesign target of 8,700 ha was revised to 6,000 ha
but only about 1,000 ha was achieved by force account only. The proposal to use



4                              APPENDIX A
Page 4 of 11
contractors was not pursued aggressively and only in one zone was there any assistance to
small contractors and six of them have established about 570 washbores, dealing directly
with farrners. Some farmers independently developed their own operations from both
surface and ground water. It is estimated that about 7,000 ha were done in this manner
with pumps acquired from the FASCOM and other sources. The supply of water pumps
limited expansion of irrigation. The proposal, at the redesign, to establish 2,000 ha of
gravity fed irrigation from three existing reservoirs did not get beyond a feasibility study.
The KTARDA achieved only 27% of its 9,000 ha. using force account.
Some private contractors were also trained in washboring techniques and they are now
providing this service in the State. The procurement of pumps suffered from long delays
only 658 were finally for distrnbution to farmers at full cost.
The provision to develop 2,000 ha of gravity fed irrigation from existing reservoirs
reached only the design stage on six schemes for a total of 1,950 ha.
The demonstrative effect of the project led farmers to independently invest in
about 2,100 additional ha of irrigation from wells and surface water, leading to an overall
4,500 ha in the period 1990 to 1994.
(f) Agro-processing. The 14 multicrop threshers acquired by KDADP for rent to
farmers was a financial failure. It however raised farmer awareness of the technology,
and when the service was stopped, farmers acquired their own mechanical threshers, and
about 27 of these are now providing the service commercially to farmers. Agro-
processing received impetus from the Women-in-Agriculture and raised sharply the
demand for such labor saving devices such as shellers, mills, chums and drying platforms,
but local supply was inadequate and stifled their wider use. Katsina farmers also
purchased from FASCOKT 18 rice hullers, 9 multicrop threshers, 98 groundnut shellers,
354 hammer mills and 444 plate mills.
Field Services. (a) Extension Services. The extension service of KDADP never reached
the expected capacity to discharge its functions effectively. While the number of
supervisory staff was adequate, the number of village extension agents (VEAs) never
reached its targets. The ratio of VEAs to farmers never reached the target of 1 :1000,
ranging at different times between 1:1200 and 1: 1372 when VEA numbers ranged
between 328 and 450. The number of contact farners during the project period reached
only 197,400 or 49% of 402,150 target. About 92% of SPATs were achieved and
extension is now fully unified under the KDADP.
The training program was fairly successful. The MTRMs started in 1986 and were
maintained at full level until 1992 and 1993 when 3 out of the 24 meetings were missed.
The fortnightly training (FNT) sessions.did better, maintaining a 100% performance. In
addition, they organized regular twice weekly radio programs and regular field days. The
operation of the mobile training unit was terminated in 1988 after only three years of
lirnited activity.
Mobility of extension staff never reached a satisfactory level. While senior
supervisory staff at the zones were all provided with vehicles, 95% of the BESs and only
50 % of the VEAs received their motorcycles and bicycles, but between 1990 and 1993
they were mostly unserviceable due to frequent breakdowns and high cost of repairs and



5                           APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 11
difficulties in securing petrol. This situation plus lack of or delays in staff promotions
contributed low morale and commitment to the service.
The extension service of KTARDA in the period 1988 - 94 reached the redesign
target of VEA/Farmer ratio of 1:1050 only in 1994 when it received additional staff from
FASCOKT and the State MANR. Until then the ratio remained at about 1:1700. The
majority of the staff lack minimum qualifications. As at 1993, 259 (91%) of the 287
VEAs possessed only the Agricultural Institute Certificate, and the remaining 28 (9%) the
minimum required OND. The 70 supervisory staff included 38 (55%) OND holders and
32 (45%) HND holders. None were at the desired first degree level training.
Achievements claimed on farmer contacts and other indices, in some instances, bear no
relation to the staff capacity and indicate the need for training and supervision in proper
record keeping and data analysis.
The Women-in-Agriculture (WIA) activities by KDADP started in 1990 with an
establishment of 95 and later reduced to 75 adequately qualified BES, instead of the
required 60. They functioned as VEAs and were supported by a Head and 5 SMSs.
They were generally effective and organized 158 women groups. They also assisted 39
members to secure loans totaling about Naira 0.48 million for farming enterprises.
The number of SPATs per VEA was low, ranging between 4 and 12 compared to
the expected 20. The lack of mobility was suggested as the main reason for this low
achievement.
The KTARDA program for WIA began in 1992 with a Head/WIA, one SMS and
36 out of a target of 63 BEAs. By 1994 the BEAs had increased to 42, and 40 of them
had been provided with motorcycles. They worked with a total of2lO groups, out of a
planned 315 and established a total of 479 of a planned 780 SPATs.
(c) Cooperatives (including CFAs). KDADP focused on working with groups to
extend messages. While the extent of this approach was not easily determined because of
data constraints, one clear area of apparent success in developing credit-worthiness of
small farmers. The proposals of the Project redesign for the establishing a Cooperative
Finance Agency (CFA) for meeting the credit needs of small farmers were not
implemented. Instead, the KADP concentrated on organizing farmers in groups and
training them to mobilize and manage savings and generate confidence with their banks to
secure operating capital. Between 1985 and 1994 they organized 713 groups of between
15 and 20 members with total savings of Naira 1,895,815.80. Short term loans totaling
Naira 6,355,476.00 were secured by 119 of these registered groups in the period 1987 to
1994 from three commercial banks. The repayment record was excellent. Only in one
year, 1991, did collection drop below 100%, because of reduced yields due to drought,
but repayment of the outstanding debt was paid in full the following year. Farmer groups
organized by KADP were also able to benefit from crop input supplies, including water
pumps, from FASCOMv with 50% of the value of the goods paid in advance and the
remainder recovered after marketing the crop.
The Danish consultants appointed by KTARDA in1994 to examine its feasibility,
recommended against establishing a CFA in Katsina at this time. Instead, they suggested
that priority be placed on developing the potential of farmers to work in groups to secure
r---, It" v,1 5 :.-:.,  r   rg 0,--TA I    DC`A-fTg on or rganizinz farmer groups



6                            APPENDIX A
Page 6 of 11
and preparing them to gain access to commercial credit sources. Its Cooperative Unit
began by selecting from cooperatives previously organized by the MANR and assisting
them meet conditions for credit-worthiness. They have worked in 26 LGAs with 385
groups with a total of 16,346 members. Some 259 have registered as cooperatives. They
all maintain commnercial bank accounts valued at Naira 1.3 million in 1983, against which
they secure credit for their members. In 1992 seven commercial banks lent Naira 25.069
million to 6,007 group members, averaging Naira 4,173 per member. In 1993 they lent
Naira 27.258 million to 5,746 members, averaging Naira 4,744 per member.
Rural Infrastructure.
This component provided for (a) feeder roads, (b) village water supplies, (c)
service buildings and residences, and (d) mechanical plant and equipment.
(a) Feeder Roads. The policy at the beginning was for force account
implementation and transfer of the completed roads to the local Government Authorities
for routine maintenance. Before the bifurcation a total of 646 km (54% of the planned
1,196 km) of new feeder roads were implemented. The results with the rehabilitation
program in the same period were much better with 100% of the planned 429 km.
However, there was no expenditure on maintenance. At the redesign, it was agreed that
the policy on implementation would provide for 50% by competitive contracting.
Between 1989 to 1993, a total of 182 km (43% of the planned 426 km) were constructed
by contract and 175 km (64% of the planned 274 km) by force account. In the same
period 213 km (39% of the planned 550 km) of maintenance were achieved. Transfer of
maintenance to the LGAs was not successful because the LGAs lacked the necessary
resources. There was also inadequate prior consultation with LGAs on setting priorities
on implementing the road programs and maintenance requirements.
The KTARDA performance on feeder roads was good. It established by contract
191 km (96% of a planned 200 km) of new roads, and by force account 131 km (57% of a
planned 200 km). It rehabilitated 151 km (76% of a planned 200 km) by force account,
but performed poorly on road maintenance, with a total of only 74 km from 1989 to 1991
and nothing from 1992 to 1994.
(b) Village Water Supply. The village water program for completed only 7
planned surface reservoirs between 1984 and 1988. The policy after the redesign shifted
from surface to ground water and all of the planned 577 boreholes were successfully
completed. Handpumps were installed on 573 and 2 submersible and 2 solar powered
pumps were installed on the remainder. Only 1 of the 10 surface reservoirs planned after
the redesign were completed. The village water supplies were all handed over to the
LGAs for routine maintenance.
The KTARDA rural water program achieved 503 boreholes against a target of
494; 226 hand dug open wells, against a target of 349 but only 8 of the 38 planned small
reservoirs. Five of the reservoirs are functioning while the three which were damaged by
recent floods are yet to be repaired. User training in operating the open wells have been
well received, resulting in good sanitation and pollution control.   All of the 226 open
wells have been handed over to the user communities for maintenance.



7                           APPENDIX A
Page 7 of 11
(c) Service Buildings and Residencies. All of the 170 service buildings planned by
KDADP were completed. These included 133 field offices and 37 assorted structures for
workshops, stores, fuel depots, canteens, farm service centers, plant nurseries, meeting
rooms, training centers, and process buildings. All of the planned 179 staff residences
were started but only 122 were completed. Funds are being provide to complete the
remaining 57 during the operational phase. The total expenditure on all buildings was
US$8.57 million.
The KTARDA buildings program was not as successful, completing 137 of the
planned 151 staff residences, but only 12 of the planned 63 service buildings from 1989 to
1991 when local funds ran out. There are still 44 unfinished buildings in various locations
in the State. The cost of all buildings total $7.30 million.
(d) Mechanical Plant and Equipment. Most of the mechanical plant and
equipment were acquired by KDADP and some of them were transferred to KTARDA
after bifurcation of Kaduna State in 1987. KDADP now has on inventory (a) 69 pieces of
heavy earth moving equipment (of which 9 are in working condition, 44 in disrepair but
repairable, and 14 beyond repair); (b) 130 light transport vehicles (of which 26 are in
working condition, 42 in disrepair but repairable and 65 beyond repair); and 9 items of
stationary plant (none of which are in working condition but are repairable). At the close
of the loan, there were Naira 7.0 million (US$ 87,500.00) worth of spare parts in stock,
most of which are low turnover parts and rarely needed.
The ability of the KDADP to manage its fleet of vehicles and equipment was below
standard. The staffing of the Engineering Department appeared never to have reached a
satisfactory level of competence and there was absence of maintenance culture.
The KTARDA inventory of equipment includes (a) 114 pieces of heavy equipment
(of which 29 are in working condition, 58 in disrepair but repairable and 17 beyond
repair); (b) 162 light vehicles (of which 70 are in working condition, 53 in disrepair but
repairable and 39 beyond repair); and (c) 19 fixed plant (of which 13 are in working
condition, 3 in disrepair but repairable and 3 beyond repair). KTARDA also has in stock
Naira 10.27 million (US$ 128,375.00) worth of spare parts most of which are low
tumover parts.
The maintenance of the KTARDA fleet of equipment was not adequate. As with
KDADP, there is a marked absence of a maintenance culture.
PROJECT COSTS and FUNDING.
As at March 1995 the implementation cost of the Project stood at $140.27. The
final cost is expected to be slightly higher when all disbursement claims are processed by
the April 31, 1995 deadline. As a result of the devaluation of the local currency as well as
inadequate counterpart funding, a total of $7.5 million was canceled from the original loan
amount, resulting in a net loan amount of $114.5 million. With an unspent balance of $1.1
million and outstanding claims totalling $0.9 million as at March 22, 1995, the undisbursed
amount at loan closing is estimated at $0.2 million (a 94% disbursement).



8                               APPENDIX A
Page 8 of 11
PROCUREMENT.
Apart from a case of contract variation without reference to the Bank by KDADP,
and the persistent delays in receiving counterpart funds to meet full cost of contracts by
the two Project components, the procurement procedures were generally in accordance
with Bank guidelines. However, the process was often delayed in attempts to circumvent
its competitive basis.
The consultancy contract on the Institutional Review of the Kaduna State MANR
was not funded from the Loan because of variations in the contract without consultation
with the Bank, and the lateness in execution, even after the infringement issue was
satisfactorily resolved.
In Kaduna State, some civil works contracts were not completed, and about Naira
4.2 million worth of goods paid from the loan have been delayed for almost 2 years in the
Lagos Port because of failure of KDADP to secure from the Customs Department, the
eligible exemptions from import duties and taxes or to find the funds to pay for them.
KTARDA was also unable to complete some civil works because of inadequate
counterpart funding.
PROJECT PLANNING, MONITORING and EVALUATION.
Both KDADP and KTARDA established a Monitoring and Evaluation units
(M&E) in accordance with the provisions of the Loan and the Project Agreements. At
the redesign a Planning component was added to the units. Apart from the early years, the
PME unit of KDADP was reasonably well staffed, headed by a Technical Services
Contract Officer for 5 years. KTARDA started with a locally recruited Head of unit but
did not appoint the required principal staff. Local staff received required training and
operating facilities and equipment were adequately provided and maintained.
Much of the PME program targets were met but submission of results to
management was often delayed. KDADP produced 9 annual reports, and 32 quarterly
reports. From 1991 to 94 it produced 4 annual work plans. Earlier efforts at preparing
annual work plans were inadequate. Core evaluation surveys were conducted, the results
of which were given in 12 reports, and 16 out of a planned 36 miscellaneous studies,
including 8 recommended at appraisal, were conducted on issues related to
implementation and project impact. Similarly KTARDA produced & annual and 18
quarterly reports and 6 annual work plans. In addition, core evaluations surveys were
completed, generating 20 reports and 7 miscellaneous studies, including 3 recommended
at appraisal.
Despite resources available to the unit and the output from their efforts, the use of
the generated information by project management does not appear to have been
significant, and results on the ground have not benefited to any extent from the lessons of
experience.



APPENDIX A
Page 9 of 11
The work plans generally bore no relation to the funding. The annual budgets were
often at variance with the plans which appeared to have been prepared only to meet the
loan conditions and not as a management tool. Annual feeder roads planning was
conducted only once in the 10 year period of the Project. Traffic counts and popuIation
and farm surveys along the road corridors were carried by the PME unit while Consultants
carried out the economic analyses for justifying the road works and ranking them for
priority.
ASSISTANCE to STATE MANRs.
The provision at the redesign for strengthening the MANRs in Sector Policy and
Strategic Planning was not used. The Chief Planning Officer or Adviser (CPO/A)
provided under the Project was not recruited by the MANRs.
No Sector Policy and Strategic Planning took place, and neither was the proposed
strengthening of the capacity of the Planning, Research and Statistics Department (PRSD)
of 'he MANRs. KDADP acquired 8 vehicles in support of the work of the PRSD, none of
wvhich were handed to the Department, but instead, went to various other agencies in the
State.
KDADP made a late attempt to conduct the Institutional Review. In October
1993 a consultancy was awarded to the value of Naira 4.47 million but the work was not
started until November, one month before closing of the Project. A draft reported was
delivered in April 1994 to the Project but nothing more has happened since, including
payments due to the Consultants. The Department Directors of the State MANR,
inctiding PRSD, were not aware of these provisions, or indeed any of the other
provis.ns, in the Project. The Director of the PRSD and his staff claimed that they had
never seen the Project Document. Ironically, this Officer was an al-mrnate signatory to the
KDADP accounts. KTARDA finalized the institutional review but without full
consultation of the MANR. The implementation of the review recommendations has not
yet been addressed.
ORGANIZATION. STAFFING and STAFF DEVELOPMIENT.
At appraisal the Project was designed to be administered under 4 zones. This
organizational structure was retained at the redesign with 2 zones each for the new States.
KDADP later reverted to the 4 zone structure and Katsina opted for 3 zones. This put
added strain on the available senior staff which numbers were already inadequate; but at
the lower level, the numbers were in excess of the needs, particularly among semi- and
unskilled workers. In addition, the changes in the PNMUJ members, especially the Program
Managers were too frequent. Programs of staff training were adequate and well received
by staff.
PROTECT SUSTAINABTLITY



10                            APPENDIX A
Page 10 of 11
An Operatial Plan for sustaining the Project is at Annex 1. It directs attention at
two main aspects of the Project: (a) the existing physical achievements and (b) the
operational activities in support of farmer services.
Both the Kaduna and Katsina State Governments, in recognition of the role and
expected impact of the Project have, as a matter of policy, decided to maintain the ADP as
the implementing agency for key farmer support services, particularly the integrated
extension service and associated adaptive research for appropriate technology testing and
transfer. In Kaduna, the plan is placing high priority on the recruitment and retention of
an affordable high caliber management and technical staff, particularly the PMU. Both the
KDADP and the KTARDA propose to effect economies in staff costs with a leaner
establishment but without sacrificing on quality and quantity of its support efforts. The
two States will continue allocations from their annual budgets for the essential capital and
recurrent expenditures for the key services in which the ADP system has comparative
advantages. Other operations which they cannot provide effectively will be undertaken
through other avenues, including the private sector particularly the users / beneficiaries.
The rural comrnunities will be assisted to mobilize themselves into User Associations for
the maintenance of the Project roads, village water supplies and shared irrigation schemes.
The funding plans for KDADP include annual contributions (Naira 60.0 million in
1996 with upward adjustment in subsequent years) from the State Budget, to serve as the
core of the ADP resources. The Katsina State Government proposes to provide a total of
Naira 79 million (including Naira 12 million to complete some unfinished civil works) in
1996 and a minimum of Naira 70 million in subsequent years. This will be supplemented
by income generation from some of the services and ongoing program type loans from
local and international funding agencies, for activities such as farmer owned and operated
small scale irrigation, animal traction equipment, post harvest handling, storage and
processing of products, as well as extension and adaptive research work.
Bank Performance. Some of the assumptions and targets at appraisal were over
optimistic and enough attention was not given to the complexity of the design.
Frequency of implementation missions was generally adequate. Initially, the skills
composition of supervision teams were not well balanced, and while this improved in
subsequent years, frequent changes in supervision staff led to lack of continuity and
sometimes resulted in conflicting advice in resolving operational problems. Inadequate
measures were applied to the problems of frequent management changes and defaults in
counterpart funding. Communication between the Bank and the Implementing Agency,
particularly in procurement matters, was cumbersome and, often caused serious delays.
Borrower Performance. The project design was too complex, with too many
components adding to implementation difficulties. The conditions for Loan and Project
effectiveness were slow in materializing. Frequent senior management changes and
counterpart funding led to serious delays. Attempts to bye-pass agreed procurement
guidelines also delayed implementation.
Assessment of Outcome. Overall, the response by farmers to the benefits were initially
slow but during the second half of implementation period, the growth in production was
very good. Some of the planned services were adequately developed while others feli



APPENDIX A
Page 11 of 11
short of expectations. The institutional organization did not reach the expected strength,
mainly because of frequent changes in senior staff positions.



KADUNA STATE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
(LOAN 2436-UNI)
OPERATIONAL PLAN (1995 - 1997)
SUMMARY OF SOURCES OF FUNDING
SN       SOURCE            1995   1995   1n96   1996   1997   1997. REMARKS
USS _ N(m)  USS   N m)USS    N (m)
1.     WORLD BANK
a. NFF                      0.31   24.88   0.730  24.00
b. NATSP                    0.20  16.00   0.13  10.00         1
2.         FGN
a. Support to on-going ADP          8.00          8.00          12.00 Regular FGN grant
aclivilies including NFF &                                        to ADPs
INATSP                                I_ _                           _ _ _ _ _ _
3.    KADUNA STATE
a. Support for on-going           22.00          22.00          30.00 Counterpart funding
ADP activilies
b. Staff costs (salaries and      25.00          30.00          35.00 Non-Incremental
others)                                                           funding
c. Capital cost                    12.00                              For uncompleled
buildings
outstanding repairs
of earlh dams.
d. Revolving fund for inputs        2.00           2.00          2.00
(seeds and chemicals)
e. Farmers contribution            5.00           5.00           5.00
(fadama)
f. Others (revenue sources)        2.00                              Auctioning of
_ _ _   _ _ _   ____  _ _ _    ~~~vehicles.
,TOTAL                   0.51  116.88   0.43  101.0C   0.00  84.00
lt
ox



KATSINA STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROiECT (KTARDA) _b_                                          _____
OPERATIONAL PLAN (1995-1997)
__   _ _   _..           =    _- _-__=__________ ______
SUMMARY OF SOURCEs OF FUNDING
SN          SOURCE               1995             1996             1997
U$(M)  N(M)   U$(M)  N (M)   U$ (M)  N (M)              REMARKS
1 WORLD BANK
a NFF                  0.311   24.88    0.16    24.88   0.00    0.00
b NATSP                0.20    16.00    0;13    10.00   0.00    0.00     _          _
2 FGN                                                                     regular FGN grant to
Support to ongoing ADP                                                  the AbPs
activities including                                                                __________
-NFDP and NATSP.      0.00    8.00     0.00     8.00    0.00   12.00
3 KATSINA
b Support for ongoing ADP .
activities           0.00   22.00    0                   00   30.00     counterpart fundng
Staff cost( salaries and
others)              0 00   45.00     0 00    50 00    0600  55.00      Non incremental funding
c Capital cost         0.00   12.00                        _             For uncompleted
.          - - -~          buildings.
d Revolving funds for              .
inputs(seeds & chemi-
cals.                0.00    2.00     0.00     2.00    0.00    2.00
e Farnerscontribution
under_fadama         0.00    5.00     0.00     5.00    0.00    5.00
.Oher revenue sources  0.00    6.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     aauctioning of unservice
able project vehicles.
TOTAL         0.51   147.88   0.28   109.50    0.00 104.00
OQ e
fD m
O X4
ox



APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 10
KADUNA/KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALOJLATICNS FCR PARITY PRICES (2000 PROJECTED AT 1994 CONSTANT PRICE)
PARTIaLARS                   NITROGEN PHOWHATE POTASH MAIZE   GRCJLIT    OTTON
1. UCLD PRICE -CIF/FCB         197.11   187.26  118.27  131.41  624.19 1921.84
(U.S.S/TCN)
2. FREIGHT.INSJRANCE            65.00   65.00   65.00   62.00   68.00   70.00
(U.S.S/TCN)
3. CIF LAGS (SfTCN)            262.11   252.26  183.27  193.41  692.19 1991.84
4. CIF LAGOS (NAIRA/TON)      5897.52 5675.77 4123.51  4351.68 15574.23 44816.44
5. PCRT TO SCUCE             KADNA  KDDNA  KADUNA  KAON   KADUJ   KADLINA
6. TRANSPCRTATICN COST         765.00  765.00  765.00  765.00  765.00  765.00
(120O4 AT 0.75 NAIRA
PER tM)
7. INTRASTATE TRANSPRT           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
8. FARMGATE PRICE EXCLIDING   6662.52 6440.77 4888.51  5116.68 16339.23 45581.44
TRANSPCRT AND STCRAGE
LOSSES (NAIRA/TCN)
9. FARMGATE PRICE INCLLDING   6529.27 6311.95 4790.74 5014.35 16012.45 44669.82
TRANSPCRT AND STCUGE
LOSSES (NAIRA/TCN)
AT 2X
10. FARMGATE PRICE IN NAIRA/KG   6.53    6.31    4.79    5.01   16.01   44.67
11. CONERSION RATIO               100     100      100     100      68    31.5
12. FARMATE PRICE IN NAIRA/KG    6.53    6.31    4.79    5.01    10.89   14.07
SCRCE: CW4;ITY PRICE FCRECASTS ANM CUARTERLY REVIEW
OF 03CDITY MARKETS.
BASIS: NITROGEN: UREA (ANY CRIGIN),BAGGED,fob N.W.ELRCPE.
PHaPHATE: TSP (TRIPLE SUPERPHOSPHATE),9JLK, fob US GULF.
POTASH: POTASSILI CHLCRIDE,BULK,fIb VANOCJVER.
MAIZE: U.S., ND.2, YELLCU, FCO GULF PCRTS.
GRCUDT: IN OIL CIF ROTTEROAM.
CfTCN0: CIF EURXE, L"G STAPLE.
NMTE:  A CONVERSICN FACTCR OF 0.85 IS USED FOR OJESTIC HANDLING
AND TRANSPCRT ANM TRANSPCRT TO THE FARM GATE.
THE OFFICIAL EXCHANGE RATE IS 1 U.S. S = NAIRA 22.50.



APPENDIX B
Page 4 of 10
KADUNA/KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALCLATICNS FCR PARITY PRICES (1994 AVERAGE)
PARTIOULARS                   NITROGN PtCSPHATE POTASH MAIZE   G      RJtM1 WYTON
1. ECOLD PRICE -CIF/FC8         115.15   119.45   106.10   111.45  875.45  1915.00
(U.S.S/TON)
2. FREIGHT+INSUAUCE              65.00   65.00   65.00   62.00   68.00   70.00
(U.S.S/TCN)
3. CIF LAGOS (S/TON)            180.15   184.45   171.10   173.45  943.45  19M.00
4. CIF LAOS (NAIRA/TCN)        4053.38 4150.13 3849.75 3902.63 21227.63 4462.50
5. PCRT TO SR'CE              KADUNA  KADLIA  KADUtA  KADWLA  KACUA   K00.A
6. TRANSXRTATION OST            765.00  765.00  765.00  765.00  765.00  765.00
(1200  AT 0.75 NAIRA
PER KM)
7. INTERSTATE TRANSPCRT          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
8. FARMGATE PRICE EXCLLDING    4818.38 4915.13 4614.75 4667.62 21972.63 45427.50
TRANSPORT AND STCRAGE
LOSSES (NAIRA/TON)
9. FARAi.ATE PRICE INCLLDING   4722.01  4816.82 452.45  4574.27 21552.77 44518.95
TRANSPCRT AND STCRA&E
LOSSES (NAIRA/TCN)
AT 2%
10. FARMGATE PRICE IN NAIRA/K=   4.72    4.82    4.52    4.57   21.55   44.52
11. CCNVERSICN RATIO              100      100     100      100      68    31.5
12. FARMGATE PRICE IN NAIRA/KG   4.72    4.82    4.52    4.57   14.66   14.02
S0RCE: O0't0OITY PRICE FCRECASTS AND OWARTERLY REVIEW
OF C0f0i41TY MARETS.
BASIS: NITROGEN: UREA (ANY CRIGIN),6AGGED,ftb N.W.EURCPE.
PHOSPHATE: TSP (TRIPLE SSPERPHOSPNATE),BULK,fcb US GaLF.
POTASH: POTASSIUM CHLCRIDE,SULK,fcb VANWAR.
MAIZE: U.S., NO.2, YELLOW, FCO CLtLF PORTS.
GROUNUT: IN OIL CIF ROTTERDAM.
COTTCN: CIF EUROPE, LOGO STAPLE.
NOTE: A OCNVERSICN FACTCR OF 0.85 IS USED FCR DCMESTIC HAM)LING
AND TRANSPORT AND TRANSPCRT TO THE FARM GATE.
THE OFFICIAL EXCHANCE RATE IS 1 U.S. S =NAIRA 22.50.



APPENDIX B
Page 5 of 10
KADUNA/KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT,
KAC)A AGRIC. - ECCDCMIC COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS (IN NAIRA MILLICN) AT 1994 PRICES
NO.     YEAR  FINANCIAL REAL      ECO4IC REAL       BENEFITS BENEFIT-REAL
OOST     FINANCIAL OosT    ECCMOIIC          ECOOMIC WcST
COST              COST
1  1985      9.4    186.8       8.0    158.8   0.000 -158.777
2  1986      12.9    163.3    11.0    138.8   0.OOO -138.788
3  1987      15.8     84.6    13.4      71.9   0.000  -71.936
4   19N8      8.6     32.6      7.3     27.7   0.592  -27.130
5  1989      13.4     42.8    11.4      36.4   2.876  -33.513
6  1990      21.4     57.4    18.2      48.8   8.021  -40.761
7  1991      19.9     45.9    16.9      39.0  17.312  -21.683
8  1992      20.4     41.3    17.3      35.1  32.897  -2.228
9   1993     19.7     39.1    16.7      33.2  58.877  25.674
10  1994      9.9       9.8      8.4      8.4  96.245   87.873
11  1995      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  146.650  138.278
12  1996      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  202.670  194.298
13  1997      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  254.660 246.288
14  1998      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  297.000 288.628
15  1959      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4 330.780 322.408
16  2000      9.9       9.9     8.4       8.4  352.100 343.728
17  2001      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  364.120 355.748
18  2002      9.9       9.9     8.4       8.4  370.230 361.858
19  2003      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  370.230 361.858
20  2004      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  370.230 361.858
21  2005      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  370.230 361.858
22  2006      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  370.230 361.858
23  2007      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  370.230 361.858
24  2008      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  370.230 361.858
25  2009      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  370.230 361.858
26  2010      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4 370.230 361.858
27  2011      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  370.230 361.858
28  2012      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  370.230 361.858
29  2013      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  370.230 361.858
30  2014      9.9       9.9      8.4      8.4  370.230 361.858
ERR (%)            17.44
NOTE: 1. THE OJSTS INCLLDE C4DUNA CNLY.
2. REAL OOSTS IERE CALCULATED LISING WPI.
3. FINANCIAL COSTS WERE CONVERTED TO ECONIIC COSTS USING
A CCNVERSICN FACTCR OF 0.85.
4. THE COST FRCK 1994 CARDS IS 50%/ OF THE LAST YEARIS COST.



APPENDIX B
Page 6 of 10
KADUNA/XXTSbNIA. AGRICULTURA~L D3Y3SHE1M  flOJECtT94 rie
Economic Cost and Bengfits Streams (in iARA Million) at 1994 Prices
. ... ... ...... ...... ...... ........ .. .... ... . .... .. . ... . . .. . . . .. . .. .
No.     YEAR  FINANCIAL REAL      ECOCIC REAL       BENEFITS BENEFIT-REAL
COST     FINANCIAL COST    EWO4IC            EOMIC OST
C06T              OOST
,----1  1        --6 0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    0....... 0.0..........--------..--..---..-..----
1  1986      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0   0.000   0.000
2  1987      O.O       O.O     O.O       O.O   O.0CO    0.000
3   1988      4.2     22.5      3.6     19.1   0.Q00  -19.122
4   1989      4.3     16.3      3.7     13.9   0.000  -13.861
5  1993      12.0     38.3    10.2      32.6   0.000  -32.588
6   1$91      6.6     17.7      5.6     15.0   0.297  -14.748
7  1992      12.8     29.5    10.9      25.1   0.515  -24.567
8   1993     28.8     58.3    24.5      49.6   0.767  -48.822
9  1994      68.5     68.5    58.2      58.2   1.621  -56.604
10  1995      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6   4.987  -9.569
11  1996      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6  10.678  -3.878
12  1997      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6  20.674   6.118
13  1998     17.1      17.1    14.6      14.6  33.120   18.564
14  1999      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6  51.450  36.894
15  2000      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6  78.220  63.664
16  2001     17.1      17.1    14.6      14.6  108.120  93.564
17  2002      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6  137.550  122.994
18  2003     17.1      17.1    14.6      14.6  164.150  149.594
19  2004     17.1      17.1    14.6      14.6  184.680  170.124
20  2005      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6  198.440  183.884
21  2006      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6 208.320  193.764
22  2007      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6 214.690  200.134
23  2008      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6 214.690 200.134
24  2009      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6 214.690  200.134
25  2010      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6 214.690 200.134
26  2011      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6 214.690 200.134
27  2012      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6 214.690 200.134
28  2013      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6 214.690  200.134
29  2014      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6 214,690 200.134
30  2015      17.1     17.1    14.6      14.6 214.690 200.134
ERR (%)           18.65
NOTE: 1. THE OCSTS INCLLDE KATSINA CNLY.
2. REAL COSTS IERE CALOCLATED USING WI.
3. FINANCIAL COSTS IERE CCrERTED TO EOONIC COSTS USING
A NVCERSICN FACTOR OF 0.85.
4. THE COST FRCM4 1996 C.RDS IS 25X OF THE LAST YEAR'S COST.



APPENDIX B
Page 7 of 10
KADUNA/KATqT.NA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Cast and saeafts Stie   (in Vaflt) at 1994 Prices
NO.     YEAR  (BENEFIT  - MST STREAM)
KAaLNA     KATSINA          TOTAL
1 .-S            -158.8      0.0             -15 .8.------------..------..-.
1  1986   -158.8       0.0             -158.8
2   1987   -138.8       0.0            - 138.8
3   1988    -71.9    -19.1              -91.1
4   1989    -27.1    -13.9              -41.0
5   1990    -33.5    -32.6              -66.1
6   1991    -40.8    -14.7              -55.5
7  1992    -21.7    -24.6               -46.2
8   1993     -2.2    -48.8              -51.1
9   1994     25.7    -56.6              -30.9
10  1995      87.9     -9.6               78.3
11  1996    138.3      -3.9              134.1.
12  1997    194.3       6.1              200.4
13  1998    246.3       18.6             264.9
14  199      288.6     36.9              325.5
15  2000    322.4      63.7              386.1
16  2001    313.7      93.6              437.3
17  2002    355.7    123.0               478.7
18  2003    361.9    149.6               511.5
19  2004    361.9    170.1               532.0
20  2005    361.9    183.9               545.7
21  2006    361.9    193.8               555.6
22  2007    361.9    200.1               562.0
23  2008    361.9    200.1               562.0
24  2009    361.9    200.1               562.0
25  2010    361.9    200.1               562.0
26  2011    361.9    200.1               562.0
27  2012    361.9    200.1               562.0
28  2013    361.9    200.1               562.0
29  2014    361.9    200.1               562.0
30  2015    361.9    200.1               562.0
ERR (%)            17.67
. ......... ...........- ---.-. -. -. -..-.. ----.- - -....- ----.-.......---- ---- 



APPENDIX B
Page 8 of 10
KADUNA/KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overall Economic Rate of Return
NO.     YEAR NET EENEFITS-REAL ECONOMIC CosT IN 1994 NAIRA
AGRIC. fADAMA RLRAL RLRAL WATER SL)PPLY       OMERALL PROJECT ERR
RAD S  INCLLOING    EXCLLODING    I NCLLO I NG    EXCLLDING
INOIRECT     INOIRECT    INDIRECT      INODRECT
BENEFITS     BENEFITS     BENEFITS     BENEFITS
OF RLRAL WATER SUPPLY
1 1985 -158.8 -11.82  -28.7  -8.4         -8.5       -207.8        -207.8
2 1986 -138.8 -15.06  -33.4  -7.5         -7.6        -194.7       -194.9
3  1987  -91.1 -14.11  -20.5  -5.3        -5.7        -131.0       -131.4
4 1988  -41.0  -8.06  -27.1 -15.2        -16.5         -91.4        -92.6
5  1989  -66.1  -6.38  -29.2  -7327      -16.8        -115.9       -119.1
6  1990  -55.5 -18.74  -76.7  -32.7      -38.4        -183.6       -189.3
7 1991  -46.2  -2.79  -57.5  -14.6       -23.4       -121.1        -129.9
8 1992  -51.1 -1.26  -28.3  -6.3         -19.2         -86.9        -99.8
9  1993  -30.9 -47.62  -47.8  -19.4      -36.2        -145.8       -162.6
10  1994  78.3  -9.36  -18.8  -88.0        -105        -37.9         -54.7
11 1995  13_-.4  19.39  71.9  48.3         31.5        274.0        257.2
12  1996 200.' 23.80   &4.5  48.3          31.5        357.1        340.3
13  1997 264.9 26.55   92.0  48.3          31.5        431.7        414.9
14 1998 325.5  30.3-.  96.6  48.3          31.5        500.8        484.0
15  1979  386.1  35.52   96.6  48.3        31.5        566.5        549.7
16 2000 437.3  35.52   96.6  48.3          31.5        617.7        600.9
17 2001  478.7  35.52   96.6  48.3         31.5        659.2        642.3
18 2002 511.5  35.52  96.6  48.3           31.5        691.9        675.1
19 2003 532.0  35.52   96.6  48.3          31.5        712.4        695.6
20 2004 545.7 35.52   96.6  48.3           31.5        726.2         709.3
21 2005 555.6  35.52    0.0   0.0           0.0        591.1        591.1
22 2006 562.0  35.52   0.0   0.0            0.0        597.5        597.5
23 2007 562.0  35.52    0.0   0.0i          0.0        597.5         597.5
24 2008 562.0  35.52    0.0   0.0           0.0        597.5        597.5
25 2009 562.0  32.87    0.0   0.0           0.0        594.9        594.9
26 2010 562.0  32.87   0.0   0.0            0.0        594.9        594.9
27 2011, 562.0  32.87   0.0   0.0           0.0        594.9        594.9
28 2012 562.0  13.79   0.0   0.0            0.0        575.8        575.8
29 2013 562.0  13.79   0.0   0.0            0.0        575.8        575.8
30 2014 562.0  13.79    0.0   0.0           0.0        575.8        575.8
ERR (%)
WITH INOIRECT BENEFITS      15.28
OF WATER SUPPLY
ERR (%)
WITHOJT INDIRECT BENEFITS    14.51
OF WATER SUPPLY
NOTE: AGRICJLTURE AND FADA4A HAVE A LIFE-SPAN OF 30 YEARS AND APPRCPRIATE
REPLACEMENT C35TS HAVE BEEN ADOED. RLRAL RCADS AND WATER SJPPLY HAVE
A LIFE-SPAN CD 20 YEARS.



APPENDIX B
Page 9 of 10
KADUNA/KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALaJLATICNS FCR PARITY PRICES (2Y PROECTED AT 1994 CONSTANT PRICE)
PARTICLLARS                    NITROGEN PHOSPHATE POTASH  MAIZE    GRCLNDNu MTTCN
.. . . ... . . .    -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -
1. WRLD PRICE -CIF/FCG           197.11   187.26  118.27   131.41   624.19  1921.84
(U.S.S/TCN)
2. FREIGHTrINSURANCE              65.00   65.G0    65.00   62.G0    68.G0    70.00
(U.S.S/TCO)
3. CIF LAGOS (S/TON)             262.11   252.26   183.27   193.41   692.19  1991.84
4. CIF LAGOS (NAIRA/TON)        5897.52  5675.77 4123.51  4351.68 15574.23 44816.44
5. PORT TO SClRCE              KADLNA   KADNA   KADUNA   KAD)JNA   KAW    KADUNA
6. TRANSPORTATICN OosT           765.00  765.00  765100  765.0o  765.G0   765.00
(1200t4 AT 0.75 NAIRA
PER I(M)
7. INTRASTATE TRANSPCRT          160.00  160.00   160.00  -160.0)0  -160.00  -160.00
8. FARMGATE PRICE EXCLLDING     6822.52 6600.77 5048.51  4956.68 16179.23 45421.44
TRANSPCRT AND STWRAGE
LOSSES (NAIRA/TON)
9. FARMOATE PRICE INCLLDING     6686.07 6468.75 4947.54 4857.55 15855.65 44513.02
TRANSPORT AND STCRAGE
LOSSES (NAIRA/TCN)
AT 2'!
10. FARMCATE PRICE IN NAIRA/KG    6.69    6.47    4.95       4.86   15.86   44.51
11. CON4ERSICN RATIO                11)     100      100      100       68    31.5
12. FARMCATE PRICE IN RAIRA/KG    6.69    6.47    4.95       4.86   10.78   14.02
.. . ...................... ... .... .... .. ... - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
SOURCE: COMODITY PRICE FCRECASTS ANO QUARTERLY REVIEW
OF 07+10DITY MARKETS.
BASIS: NITROGEN: LREA (ANY CRIGIN),BAGGED,f0b N-W.EUROPE.
PHOSPHATE: TSP (TRIPLE S&PERPH1SPHATE),BuLK,fob US GULF.
POTASH: POTASSILM  CHLORI0E,3ULK,ftb VANCO.ER.
MAIZE: U.S., NO.2, YELLOW, FC6 GULF PRTS.
GRcuNrT: IN OIL CUF ROTTEROAM.
COTTON: CIF ELRCPE, LCNG STAPLE.
NOTE:  A OCNVERSION FACTrR OF 0.85 IS LSED FCR OCMESTIC HANDLING
AND TRANSPCRT AND TRANSPOT TO THE FARM GATE.
THE OFFICIAL EXCHANGE RATE IS 1 U.S. $ = NAIRA 22.50.



APPENDIX B
Page 10 of 10
KADUNA/KATSINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CALCLLATICNS FCR PARITY PRICES (1994 AVERAGE)
PARTICJLARS                    NITRCGEN PHOSPHATE POTASH  MAIZE    GRC.CMWT COTTON
1. LORLD PRICE -CIF/FOEB         115.15   119.45   106.10   111.45   875.45  1915.00
(U.S.$/TON)
2. FREIGHT-INSURANCE              65.00    65.00    65.00    62.00    68.D0    70.00
(U.S.$/TON)
3. CIF LAGOS (S/TCN)              180.15   184.45   171.10   173.45   943.45  1985.00
4. CUF I'AGOS (NAIRA/TCN)       4053.38  4150.12  3FS49.75  3902.63 21227.63 44662.50
5. PORT TO SOURCE              KADUNA  KA0UNA   KADJNA   KAXIK  KAOLN   KADL*
6. TRANSPORTATICN MST            765.00   765.00   765.00   765.00   765.00   765.00
(12OCKM AT 0.75 NAIRA
PER KM)
7. INTERSTATE TRANSPORT          160.00   160.00   160.00  -160.00  -160.00  -160.00
8. FARMGATE PRICE EXCLUDING     4978.37  5075.12  4774.75  4507.62 21832.63 45267.50
TRANSPCRT AND STCRAGE
LOSSES (NAIRA/TON)
9. FARIGATE PRICE INCLLDING     4878.81  4973.62  4679.25  4417.47 21395.97 44362.15
TRANSPORT AND STORAGE
LCSSES (NA[RA/TON)
AT 2/%
10. FARt00ATE PRICE IN NAIRA/KG    4.88     4.97    4.60      4.42    21.40    44.36
11. CONVERSICN RATCO                100      100      100      100       68    31.5
12. FARMCATE PRICE IN NAIRA/KG     4.88     4.97     4.65     4.42    14.55    13.97
SCURCE: CW4CDITY PRICE FCRECASTS AND CJARTERLY REVIEW
OF COtItITY MARKETS.
BASIS: NITROGEN: UREA (ANY ORIGIN),BAGGED,fob N.W.EUROPE.
PHCSPHATE: TSP (TRIPLE SUPERPHCSPHATE),BULK,fcb US GaLF.
POTASH: POTASSILM CHLORI0E,SULY,fcb VANCOW`ER.
MAIZE: U.S., NO.2, YELLOW, FOB GJLF PORTS.
GRCONDM4JT: IN OIL CIF ROTTERDAM.
COTTON: CIF EUROPE, LONG STAPLE.
NOTE:  A CONVERSION cACTOR OF 0.85 IS USED FOR DOMESTIC HANDLING
AND TRANSPORT AND TRANSPORT TO THE FARM GATE.
THE OFFICIAL EXCHANGE RATE IS 1 U.S. S z NAIRA 22.50.









- i
ri -1
IJ .; 
-
I -1~~~~~~
: q                 1
I  .               . !~~~' I ..  ..



