Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              Z 1*'p' 
Report No. 4512-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 20, 1983
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Naira (N)
US$1                -     Naira 0.70
Ni                        US'$1.43
WEIGHTS AND MEASUJRES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
1 metric ton        =     0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)      =     2.47 acre
1 kilometer (km)   =      0.62 mile
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP           Agricultural Development Project
APMEPU        Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation & Planning Unit
ASP           Advanced Service Package
ATAP          Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
AZAP          Arid Zone Afforestation Program
BSP           Basic Service Package
FADP          Funtua Agricultural Development Project
FARA          Federal Agricultural Recruitment Agency
FASCOM        Kaduna State Farmers' Supply Company
FDF           Federal Department of Forestry
FGN           Federal Government of Nigeria
FMA           Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FSC           Farm Service Center
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IRDP          Kaduna State Integrated Rural Development Project
KDADP         Kaduna Agricultural Development Project
KDSG          Kaduna State Government
KDAPMU        Kaduna Agricultural Project Management Unit
KDADEC        Kaduna Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
LG            Local Government
LGC           Local Government Council
MAFR          Kaduna State Ministry of Animal & Forestry Resources
MOA           Kaduna State Ministry of Agriculture
MOW           Kaduna State Ministry of Works
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
T&V           Training and Visit Extension System
ZDC           Zonal Development Committee
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE
KADUNA STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     BACKGROUND ............................*  ...................     1
II.    AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .......   ........................... . .....  2
III.   THE PROJECT AREA .    .    ...........................e.......    4
A. Physical Features    4 . . ...................               4
B.  Infrastructure    .     ................. ........... .     5
C.  Socio-economic Features      .. .                           6
D.  Land Use, Farm Structure & Farm Enterprise.       .         6
E.  State Agricultural Institutions..                           9
fV.    THE PROJECT      ...10
TV.    TH  POET................................................         1
A.  Summary Description ......   ......................        10
B.  Detailed Features ......     ..............................    11
C.    Cost  Estimates   .......................................  19
D.  Proposed Financing ......     .............................    22
E.  Procurement       ..........................................    24
F. Disbursements         ........................................    25
G. Accounts, Audit & Reporting Requirements .............    26
V.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION .......................................    27
A.  Project Coordination & Management .. ..................    27
B.  Input Distribution ......     .............................    28
C. Post-Project Development .....     ........................    29
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING & PRICES    ...                             30
A. Production and Demand      .      .....    .    .30
B. Marketing               ...31
C. Prices                    ... 31
VII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .........................................    32
A. Financial Implications to Farmers .32
B.  Financial Implications to Government .35
C. Cost Recovery .35
This report is based on the findings of two World Bank missions - the
appraisal in May to June, 1979 and a post-appraisal in February, 1982. The
missions included Messrs. Wilson, Simsolo, Kalkat, Cadario, des Bouvrie,
Miller, Denness, Ranganathan, Sodhi (Bank), Calkin, Kessler and Read
(consultants). In addition, Messrs Burke, Hansen and Raine contributed to the
report at Headquarters.



- ii -
VIII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS . . . . . . ... . ... *...... .. *.  ...               36
A.  Project Benefits ........................,,.. , ,, . .. 36
B.  Economic Rate of Return l .......      * ...* .* .. *.......      37
C.  Sensitivity & Risk Analysis ......          ....................  37
IX.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED WITH BORROWER .....................            39
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 1      Project Cost Summary ......................               ..      20
Table 2      Detailed Cost Estimates by Nature and
Purpose of Expenditure ..... ........................           21
Table 3      Summary Financing Plan ............................... ,o         22
Table 4      Program Cost Financing Summary ....................               23
Table 5      Summary of Farm Budgets 33.........  ........... ..... ..         33
ANNEX 1
Table la    Inputs & Yields Per Hectare-Rainfed Crops--Zone I ....             42
Table lb    Inputs & Yields Per Hectare-Rainfed Crops--Zones II &
III   .. . .  0. . .O ./..0. .. . .'O. . . .          .   0 0   43
Table lc    Inputs & Yields Per Hectare-Rainfed Crops--Zone IV ....            44
Table ld    Advanced Fadama Cultivation o-o................. ......            45
Table 2a    Physical Parameters of' Rainfed Farm Models--Zone I                46
Table 2b    Physical Parameters of Rainfed Farm
Models--Zone II and III  ........  ,         o......... oo     47
Table 2c    Physical Parameters of Rainfed Farm Models--Zone IV                48
Table 3a    Rainfed Crop Development Projections   .          ...........      49
Table 3b    Fadama Crop Development Projections                                50
Table 4      Incremental Crop Production Projections  .o ..............o       51
Table 5      Farm Input Requirements (Rainfed & Fadama) ... ......o            52
ANNEX 2
Table 1      Summary of Project Costs...             .      ..                 53
Table 2      Project Costs by Financing Category           ..*...  ,    54
Table 3a  Detailed Financing Plan    .                      .55
Table 3b    Program Cost Financing Plan ramC ostFi. nan  cin                   56
Table 3c  Fertilizer Cost Financing                   ..                       57
Table 4      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan                  58
ANNEX 3
Table la    Farm Income From Rainfed Farm Systems--Zone I   ...... o           59
Table lb    Farm Income From Rainfed Farm Systems--Zones II and
III.                                                            60
Table Ic    Farm Income From Rainfed Farm Systems--Zone IV .....               61



iii-
ANNEX 4
Table 1      Financial & Economic Farmgate Prices for
Commodities .......       ..................................  62
Table 2      Economic Rate of Return           ...............................  63
ANNEX 5
Data & Related Documents in Project File                           .....      64
CHARTS
KDADP - Project Implementation Schedule                                       65
KDADP - Organization of Kaduna State Agricultural Development Project   66
MAPS
IBRD 14482-5 - Four Project Zones
IBRD 15065R3 - IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects






NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. Background
1.01     The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has requested World Bank
assistance for a statewide agricultural development project in Kaduna State.
The project would be implemented over five years, and is estimated to cost
US$229.6 million. At full development, the project is aimed to increase the
productivity, incomes and standard of living of about 430,000 rural families
in the State by providing a range of farm support services in association with
infrastructural improvements and institutional modifications.
1.02     The proposed project originated as a follow-up to the Bank assisted
Funtua Agricultural Development Project (FADP - Loan 1092-UNI) which completed
its five year development phase in 1979 with 98% of the loan disbursed. A
report on FADP is contained in Chapter II. A statewide project investment
proposal was prepared by FADP staff in conjunction with the Kaduna State
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The project was first
appraised by the Bank in April 1979. A draft appraisal report was prepared,
but no loan was made, because following a change in Government, the Bank and
the State were unable to agree on three crucial project issues; (1) the need
for internationally recruited staff for project management; (2) the role of
Local Government Councils; and (3) the Kaduna State Government (KDSG) appoint-
ment of Zonal Chairmen with executive authority.
1.03     Following the breakdown in loan processing, the State decided to go
ahead with the project using KDSG funding alone. KDSG redesignated the
project the Kaduna State Integrated Rural Development Project (IRDP). Pre-
sently, an IRDP project headquarters office exists and some project works have
been completed (see Project File).
1.04     While some progress has been achieved, the momentum created under the
Funtua project has progressively declined because of funding constraints,
gradual exodus of internationally recruited staff after completion of Funtua
ADP, and the unsuccessful attempts to create an integrated rural development
authority for IRDP. To recapture project momentum and to obtain additional
allocations from FGN, the State Government revised its earlier stand on the
three project issues mentioned in para 1.02, and requested the Bank to recon-
sider assistance for a State ADP. Consequently, a Bank post-appraisal mission
visited the State in March 1982, but processing of the loan was held up be-
cause of KDSG's financial situation which could not have afforded the cost of
a statewide project. Since then a new financing sharing arrangement has been
agreed to between FGN and the Bank which, it is believed, will make it pos-
sible for the State to contribute its share of project costs.



- 2: -
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2.01     Nigeria.  Economic trends and policy developments are discussed in
the latest economic report on Nigeria - "Macro-Economic Policiee for Struc-
tural Change" (Rleport No. 4506-UNI), dated Augusut 15, 1983.
2.02     Agricultural Sector. 1/  A,griculture is the leading non-oil sector in
Nigeria, supporting 61% of the population directly, and providing 23% of GDP,
5% of total exports and 62% of non-oil exports. Production is overwhelmingly
by smallholders, using traditional, manual technology. In the north, cattle
and annual crops predominate (grains, cotton and groundnuts), while in the
south, cash income is largely from tree crops (cocoa, oil palm and rubber)
with support from root crops and grains. Since 1970, agricultural production
has stagnated, with annual growth rates (below 1%) less than half of popula-
tion growth.  Domestic food prices have risen, agricultural exports have de-
clined, and imports of food rose more than tenfold between 1973 and 1981 from
US$174 mn (N115 mn) to US$1,872 mn  N1,236 mn).  The sector has faced
intensive competition for labor and skills from other, more booming parts of
the economy, and many young people hlave left agriculture for the towns. In-
flation has raised production costs (especially hired labor) but oil revenues
and restrictions on capital movements and trade have maintained a high parity
for the naira, so that competition in world markets and with imports at home
has become increasingly difficult. For some products, pricing policies of
official marketing boards have further depressed new plantings, harvesting and
exports.
2.03     Development Strategy and Constraints.  Successive Governments have
emphasized the importance of improving agricultural performance through
various national programs.  Generally, the results have been disappointing and
annual growth rates in production have remained 'Low, mainly because of in-
appropriate planning and allocation of financial and manpower resources.
Additionally, agricultural research has not been very effective, and links
between research and the extension services have been weak. Extension ser-
vices, in turn (divided between States and Local Government Councils) have
been short of trained manpower and often lack direction and coordination. The
government subsidies on farm inputs, especially fertilizer, have largely pre-
cluded commercial involvement by the private sec-tor in distributing such
inputs, while the public sector has lacked both the physical infrastructure
and the effectively managed institutions required to accomplish this task.  At
the same time, the limited budgetary resources available for subsidies have
imposed artificial ceilings on total input availability.
1/   A full description and policy analysis is given in Report 2181-UNI
(1979) "Nigeria: Agricultural Sector Review" (a new agricultural sector
memorandum is expected September 1983) and in "The Green Revolution: A
Food Production Plan for Nigeria," Federal Ministry of Agriculture
(1980). The report mentioned in para 2.01 also covers the agricultural
sector.



3-
2.04     The Government's main short-term objective is to ensure domestic food
supplies, and in the longer term to create a prosperous and efficient agricul-
tural industry that could reduce population drift to urban centers, and revive
the role of Nigeria as an agricultural exporter. In 1980 the Bank assisted
FGN to prepare the outline of a National Agriculture and Food Production Plan,
which provides a basis for agricultural development during the Fourth Plan
period, 1981-1985.
2.05     Bank Role, Key Sector Issues and Future Strategy.  Between 1971 and
1982 the Bank committed US$911.5 million in loans for 23 1/ projects in
Nigeria's agricultural sector. The projects are listed in the Project File,
and shown in Map IBRD 15065R3. They include a livestock project and a number
of area-specific Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs), mostly in the north
and "middle belt." Within the ADP project areas, semi-autonomous project
management units have provided strong direction to strengthen and expand
extension services, undertake local, adaptive field trials, establish input
distribution through Farm Service Centers (FSC's), and construct and upgrade
rural feeder roads on force account. Where funding has been adequate, these
ADPs have generally achieved their objectives, and an annual production growth
of 5% has been achieved. Government now plans to expand the areas served by
the ADPs.
2.06     To initiate and support policy decisions in the agricultural sector,
the Bank's strategy has been to provide FGN with supportive mechanisms through
sector and subsector work and technical assistance. The Bank and FGN have
undertaken studies and reviews covering food production, livestock, forestry,
oil palm, agricultural marketing and prices, credit, manpower development and
training and fisheries. The findings of some of these studies are being
linked to future specific institutional actions through the Agricultural
Technical Assistance Project (ATAP). ATAP also provides an important tool to
the Federal Ministry of Agriculture (FMA) which can now identify, prepare,
implement and monitor the technical, organizational, and financial needs of
the ADP programs. Three institutions have been set up to implement this: the
Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation & Planning Unit (APMEPU), the
Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) and four regional Federal Agri-
cultural Support Units (FASU). ATAP now provides an opportunity, on the basis
of evaluated results, to develop appropriate policies and incentives that will
support agricultural growth on a planned basis. In addition, ATAP funds have
been used to set up the Federal Agricultural Recruitment Agency (FARA) to
assist in the international recruitment of staff and consultants for the
ADP's.
2.07     Funtua ADP Objectives and Experiences to Date.  FADP was one of the
first three Bank assisted agricultural development projects in Nigeria. The
project covered about 10% of Kaduna State, became effective in January 1976,
and completed its five year development phase in 1980 with 98% of the US$29
million loan disbursed. The FADP project completion report (PCR) and audit
report (No. ~975) were issued in 1981 and 1982 respectively. These reports
1/   Excluding the US$250.0 mn Fertilizer Loan, recently approved by the
Board.



4 -
concluded that FADP had demonstrated the appropriateness of the integrated
rural development model in helping the majority of small farmers iLn a repre-
sentative area of northern Nigeria, to increiase crop production and family
incomes. Research results have shown about 84% of project area farmers
adapted at least some of the improved crop production packages offered, total
crop production increased by about 36% and household real incomes by some 40%.
2.08     The main project elements which brought about improved production
were increased farmer access to crop production inputs, especially fertilizer
and seeds, made possible by the construction of feeder roads and ea network
of farm service centers and the successful introduction of maize into the area
as a major grain crop. The project construc-ted 521 km of feeder roads, and
77 FSCs. Fertilizer sales increased from about 1,500 t in 1975 to 23,500 t
(117% of SAR targets) in 1979. Since 1979, sales have continued to acce-
lerate, reaching about 113,000 t in 1981.
2.09     Despite the project's success the PCR did identify two weaknesses.
Extension, on research advice, promoted the use of crop production packages on
a sole crop basis. Farmers' resistance to this radical change to the tradi-
tional farming system was later confirmed by research to have been justified.
Its adoption would have increased risks and peak (scarce) labor problems and
would have reduced production per unit area. The second identifie!d weakness
was the lack of management-oriented monitoring and evaluation services. The
later statewide projects in Bauchi, Kano, Sokoto and the proposed KDADP have
been designed to correct these weaknesses by the improvement of adaptive
reseach, retraining of extension staff to take account of the dominant mixed
cropping practice and the provision of a monitoring and evaluation capability
in service of management.
III.  THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
3.01     General.  The project area (see Map IBRD No. 15065R3) covers some
68,000 km2 or 7% of Nigeria and includes all rural areas of Kaduna State.
For project implementation, the area is broken down into four zones corres-
ponding to differing topographical, cLimatic and ecological conditions (Maps
IBRD 14482-5).
3.02     Topography and Soils.  The topography of the state is dominated by a
gently rolling land which rises from an elevation of about 430 meters in the
north to an average of 859 meters in the southeast. The state forms the
watershed for the Sokoto and Kaduna river basins. With the exception of small
areas of the north and southeast, most. of the state is underlain by crystal-
line rocks of the basement complex covered by- a thin, discontinuous layer of
weathered granite ranging in depth from 15 to 50 meters. In the north, exten-
sive areas are covered by dune sands. Soils are generally light in texture
with a medium to low pH, and have lim:ited reserves of plant nutrients, par-
ticularly nitrogen and phosphorus. Organic carbon levels are low and defi-
ciencies in micronutrients, particularly boron, are common.



- 5 -
3.03     Climate.  Mean annual rainfall shows a marked decrease from south to
north (1,524 mm to 635 mm). The rainy season commences during April in the
south, or as late as June in the north. Rainfall is primarily governed by the
movement of the Intertropical Convergence Zone; consequently, there are some-
times two minor rainfall peaks, the first occurring in July and the second in
August. In years when the period of lesser rainfall between the peaks is pro-
nounced, this can have an adverse effect on crops. The length of the rainy
season varies from 90 days in the north to a maximum of 200 days in the south.
The dry season extends from October to March and is marked by the hot dry
north easterly Harmattan winds. Data for mean daily radiation, mean daily
sunshine, evapotranspiration, rainfall probability and dates of commencement
of the rainy season are given in the Project File.
3.04     Vegetation.  Natural vegetation is mainly of the savannah type and
may be subdivided on the basis of the two main ecological zones: in the
northerly drier areas, the Sudan Savannah Zone, and in the more southerly and
wetter areas, the northern and southern Guinea Zones. Little of the original
vegetation cover of shrubs, trees and grass remains in the Sudan Savannah Zone
since some 40-60% is cultivated while the remainder has been cut over for
firewood and is badly overgrazed. In the Guinea Zone there is less population
pressure and only 30% is cultivated. This is due in large measure to the
relative inaccessibility of the area and greater difficulty in farming the
land due to the hilly nature of the terrain.
B. Infrastructure
3.05     Roads and Communications.  The State trunk road system is well devel-
oped: 1,850 km paved federal roads; 680 km paved state roads, and 1,200 km
graveled state roads. Several federal and state roads have been reconstructed
recently or are under construction, while most others are in good condition.
There are about 800 km of good condition, all-weather feeder roads (including
those built under FADP), and another 1,200 km in poor condition. The project
would build an additional 1,400 km of roadwork to provide a minimum network in
each zone (para. 4.17). Feeder road maintenance is the responsibility of the
Local Governments, who presently have limited capacity to perform that
function and receive little assistance from the State Governments. Mainte-
nance responsibility of the roads built by the project would be transfered to
to the State due to the LG's limited capacity. The railways from Lagos and
Port Harcourt join at Kaduna and extend to Zaria, from which one line branches
to Kano, while another branches to Kaura Namoda by way of Funtua. Good air
strips are located at Zaria, Funtua, and Katsina with a well developed airport
at Kaduna.
3.06     Power and Water Supplies.  Electricity is presently supplied by the
National Electric Power Authority to Kaduna, Zaria, Funtua, Katsina, Malumfashi,
and Kafanchan. It is expected to be enlarged under the Third National Devel-
opment Plan to other parts of the state. Towns and major villages have piped
water supplies, constructed and operated by the Kaduna State Water Board.
Water supplies in most rural areas consist of unreliable supplies from ponds



-6-
and unimproved wells. Rural supplies are very inadequate and often contami-
nated. LGs now have responsibility for well construction and maintenance.
Few wells are properly lined and siting is often inappropriate. FADP has
constructed over 30 dams, storing water for human and livestock consumption.
The State and other bodies have constructed additional dams. While a water
component was included in the original appraisal inl 1979, it has since been
eliminated as the State has signed contracts for the construction of 1,500
drinking water boreholes at a total ccost of about N 50 mn (US$80 mn).
Construction is expected to be completed by 1984. It was considered this
would provide adequate water availability and it was not necessary to commit
additional project funds to this compc,nent.
C. Socio-Economic Features
3.09     Demography.  Accurate population statistics are not available.  The
1973 census was officially abandoned by FGN, and the most recent published
estimates are derived from the 1963 census. On the basis of a 7% per annum
growth rate for Kaduna Capital Territory, and 2.5% per annum for the remainder
of the state, the state population is estimated at about 6.8 million in 1982,
of which about 440,000 (7%) reside in Kaduna. By 1985 the state population is
estimated at 7.5 million with Kaduna accounting for 9% of the total.
3.10     Nearly half the state population lives in settlements of less than
1,500 people, while 15-20% live in urban areas of 20,000 people or more. On
the basis of FADP surveys and the 1963 census, the number of farm families is
estimated at 615,000.
3.11     Land Tenure.  Land was previously vested in the traditional leaders,
but is now owned by Kaduna State. Usufructuary rights are held by individuals
and may be transferred to family members. In practice, land is sold or rented
to outsiders. Sale and rental values are usually below market values, how-
ever, due to patronage and non-monetary considerations. The Land Tenure
Decree of 1978 makes provision for Local Governments to issue Cert:Lficates of
Occupancy to farmers, thereby enabling farmers to obtain official credit.
This is a time-consuming and costly process, however, as it requires a costly
survey of the land involved. Few farmers have actually applied for occupancy
certificates.
D. Land Use, Farm Structure and Farm Enterprise
3.12     Land Use.  Of the total area of 6.8 mn ha in Kaduna State some 2.8 mn
ha (or 42%) are cultivated.  Of this, 2.6 mn ha is upland land and used for
rainfed crops while 0.2 mn ha is river valley or bottom wetland, generally
referred to as "fadama", which is often irrigated. The northern zones
(I and II) are more heavily cultivated (40 to 60%) than the southern zones
(III and IV), estimated at 30%. It is estimated that 1.7 mn ha of potential
arable land (or 25% of the total area of the State) remains to be opened up to



- 7 '-
cultivation, mainly in the southern zones. Some 30% of the fadama lands are
cultivated.
3.13     Farm Structures.  Manual cultivators representing 97% of the farming
community farm 92% of the area under cultivation. Work-oxen owners dominate
the remaining 3%. Tractor owners constitute a fraction of a percent of far-
mers and cultivate less than 1% of the land. Average holding size for these
three types of farms are 4.4, 12.0 and 60.0 ha respectively, but the average
size of a manually cultivated holding in the two northern zones is much
smaller at 3 ha than in the south where they average 7 ha, reflecting a much
greater proportion of fallow. Farms are generally fragmented and field sizes
vary significantly.
3.14     Farm Labor.  The average farm family consists of 5.3 persons.  In the
predominantly Moslem northern areas, women do not engage in field labor and
the labor force is confined to the adult males with children assisting with
lighter work. The family is the major source of farm labor and theoretically
could carry out all work on a 3 ha farm. However, due to other activities in
which family labor is engaged, transient labor is hired by some farms at peak
periods. FADP surveys show that 87% of labor is supplied by the family with
the remaining 13% being hired.
3.15     Farm Incomes.  Studies on rural income distribution in northern
Nigeria 1/ indicate a high degree of income equality, with ratios of mean per
capita income between the poorest and the richest groups of only 1:5. Dualism
has hardly emerged in northern Nigeria rural areas since, under current land
distribution farming techniques, the area's farming systems are not suffi-
ciently profitable, capital-intensive or technically complex to allow wide
income disparities. Yet, with increasing access to education, budding
urbanism (including modern sector employment opportunities), and the spread of
more profitable agricultural technologies, such patterns are more discernible.
Agricultural packages should, therefore, aim not only at making farming more
profitable, but also at encouraging the widest possible participation of low-
income households. The proposed project, emphasizing broad coverage of the
farm population and concentrating on low-cost improvements to existing tech-
niques, is in the longer run consistent with maintaining the existing high
degree of income equality, although in the initial stages, the more progres-
sive farmers who adopt the packages earlier will enjoy greater income gains
than their neighbors. The financial impact of adopting the different packages
is covered in para. 7.04.
3.16     Crop Production.  The bulk of agricultural production comes from
manually cultivated rainfed crops and crops grown on residual moisture, al-
though irrigated fadama crops provide an important source of food and cash
income during the dry season. Climatic differences, in particular the short
duration and low level of rainfall in the north, affect the cropping patterns.
In the north, the range of crop is limited to millet, sorghum, groundnuts,
1/   Peter G. Matton, "Income distribution among farmers in northern
Nigeria: empirical results and policy implications." Michigan State
University. East Lansing, Michigan, 1979.



- 8 -
cowpeas and some cotton, with small-scale irrigation of vegetables as an
important adjunct. In the south, th:ae range of rainfed crops is more varied
with a greater potential for maize and rootcrops for the rainfed. crops, rice
and sugarcane for the fadama areas. There appears to be little consistency in
crop rotations and the acreages of crops planted appear to be mainly a func-
tion of seasonal opportunity, labor availability, and prices. T'he efficiency
of crop marketing (para. 3.20) is often reflected in the farmer's cropping
patterns. Throughout the state, intercropping is prevalent. Sorghum, the
most common crop, accounts for approximately 32% of the cropped area with
sorghum/cowpeas, sorghum/groundnuts, and sorghum/millet accounting for a
further 15%. Maize accounts for about 12% (often sole-cropped) and cotton on
some 5% of the cropped area. Various sole and combination crops make up the
balance. Yield increases for all these crops would be expected in the basic
and advanced crop packages (para. 4.06 and 4.07) proposed under the project.
3.17     Of the 200,000 ha of fadama, about half is cropped.  The use of resi-
dual moisture dominates fadama agriculture--major food crops, such as sorghum,
maize, cocoyam and cassava, are grown in the higher non-flooding fadama areas
where they benefit from the high water table and relatively high soil fer-
tility. In wetter areas, there is some attempt at water control, and sugar-
cane and dryland rice are planted with paddy rice in inundated areas.  Vege-
tables, mainly tomatoes and peppers, are grown under shadoof irrigation
(tapping the aquifer of dry rivers and streams).  Production from irrigation
schemes, mainly tomatoes and wheat, has been disappointing due to poor manage-
ment and agronomic practices.  Through the improved water management
techniques and cultivation package proposed under the project, substantial
yield increases are expected (para. 4.08).
3.18     Cereals provide the bulk of calorific intake in Kaduna State, the
major foods being millet, the first harvested crop, and sorghum.  With sub-
stantially increased production of maize (at broadly similar prices) under
FADP, there has been a marked rise in consumption, mainly at the expense of
sorghum. Production of rootcrops is limited. Groundnuts and cowpeas are the
main source of vegetable protein, the latter, along with onions, tomatoes, and
peppers, being in considerable demand with traders from the south.  Most crops
destined for human use are processed using simple methods at or near the point
of consumption.
3.19     Forestry.  The majority of forest reserves in the north of the state
(Zones I and II) are located in areas that are unsuitable for farming and
therefore also not very suitable for plantation development. The serious
shortage of fuel wood, particularly in the north of the state, is leading to
quick depletion of wood capital and rising firewood prices. To counteract
firewood shortages and erosion damage caused by the depletion of vegetative
cover, the Federal Department of Forestry (FDF) launched the Arid Zone Affore-
station Program (AZAP) in 1980. AZA'P covers areas north of the 12th latitude
in five northern states, and is implemented through the forestry departments
of the individual states. The program has established nurseries and provides
seedlings of forest and fruit trees, and fencing materials, free of charge to
farmers and local communities. AZAP's 1981 budget totalled N 2.0 million.
The project would increase the numbe:r' of nurseries, improve nursery management



and the intensity of extension to increase the areas planted throughout the
State (para. 4.15).
3.20     Marketing.  In 1977, FGN created seven commodity-specific marketing
boards (cocoa, cotton, groundnut, grains, palm produce, rubber, tubers and
rootcrops), charged with guaranteeing the purchase of satisfactory produce at
a set price, exporting purchases surplus to domestic needs, and the general
development and rehabilitation of producing areas, including ensuring an ade-
quate supply of fertilizers and necessary inputs. The boards, as presently
set up and managed, are ineffective, due in large measure to the lack of
adequate financial resources and poor market intelligence. Government
involvement in food crop marketing takes place mainly through the Nigerian
Grains Board and the National Grains Production Company Limited, whose impact
on the ADPs has been limited. Imports of grains have recently been banned and
it is expected this will help to further stimulate the internal private mar-
keting channels which generally have dealt with ADP-generated surpluses (para,
6.03). As a general rule, traders, who dominate the marketing system particu-
larly for grains, groundnuts of rootcrops, dispose of crops reasonably effi-
ciently and trading margins appear not to be excessive. Although traders seem
relatively well informed by their own methods over limited areas and crop
ranges, there is no official intelligence system. Of the crops grown in the
Kaduna, only cotton will be marketed exclusively through the Government's
National Cotton Board, which through Licensed Buying Agents, acts as a
monopsony purchaser of cotton. Due to the low support price, farmers have
drastically decreased their crop area until recently when prices were
raised. Nonetheless, production is still at a relatively low level.
E. State Agricultural Institutions
3.21     Government.  The State Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has responsi-
bility for agriculture, irrigation, mechanization, planning, and more re-
cently, as a result of transfer from other ministries, cooperatives and com-
munity development. It also controlled the overall activities of FADP, and
presently IRDP. Functional responsibility is carried out through sections
within divisions. The Agriculture Division has sections dealing with general
extension, seed farms, conservation, fisheries, apiculture, home economics,
and training. MOA's sister Ministry, Animal and Forest Resources, has three
functional divisions dealing with Animal Husbandry, Veterinary Services, and
Forestry. For the implementation of KDADP, the Agriculture Division would be
incorporated by the project, with the exception of certain sections which are
not relevant as fisheries, apiculture and others.
3.22     Credit.  Production and marketing loans are made by the Kaduna State
Cooperative Bank against a KDSG guarantee. Production loans are given in cash
at the beginning of the season and are used for any farming inputs, including
hiring labor. Marketing loans in the form of buying advances include loans to
cooperative societies (with Licensed Buying Agent status) to buy cotton and
grains. At present, credit is not seen as a constraint to the adoption of the
technology proposed in this project therefore no credit component has been
included. Were it necessary for certain farmers to obtain credit, they could



- 10 -
utilize the existing channels through local cooperatives. Recently there has
been renewed interest by FGN in a national credil; program and ATAP funds are
available to conduct an initiating study.
3.23     Cooperatives.  Eight hundred cooperative societies are registered in
Kaduna State. Five hundred and fifty-two are agriculturally oriented and have
approximately 20,000 members. Detailed records of repayments are not avail-
able, but performance is not good with recovery rates reported around 60%.
There is a cooperative union in each LG and the 14 unions are affiliated to
the Kaduna State Cooperative Federation Ltd., headquartered in Kaduna. While
the role the cooperatives have to play in credit and marketing is quite
important, given their difficult financial and managerial problems, the State
was not anxious to involve them at this stage, and their role was not con-
sidered essential by the Bank. However, for possible future funding, re-
sources have been made available to conduct a study of their operations and
recommend improvements (para. 4.28).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
4.01     The project, the principal aim of which is to increase food produc-
tion and farm incomes and improve the effectiveness of the Ministry of Agri-
culture (MOA), would be implemented over five years, from 1984 through 1988,
throughout the State of Kaduna, which has been divided into four zones (IBRD
Maps 14482-5). Production of the major rainfed and fadama crops would be
increased and would benefit some 430,000 farm families (about 70% of the
state's farmers). The production models for the different ecological zones
have been tested in the Funtua ADP and other ADPs in neighboring States of
similar ecological conditions. The project would finance the incremental cost
of the proposed agricultural development including input distribution,
research, seed multiplication, forestry and extension; feeder roads, dams and
civil works; and the management and technical assistance necessary to
implement the project.
(a)  Farm and Crop Development
-    increase rainfed crop production on some 620,000 ha through the
introduction of improved farming practices, with a parallel
improvement in extension work, adaptive research, farm input
supply, seed multiplication and farm access roads;
-    develop dry season crop production on over 34,000 ha of 'fadama'
land through the introduction of improved land preparation,
water lifting devices, and water control measures;
-    expand the ongoing tree planting program by establishing
additional forest nurseries for on-farm and communal planting
programs; and



- 1I' -
demonstrate land reclamation and soil conservation measures in
eroded areas and assist with land use planning capability;
(b) Civil Works
-    construct about 1,400 km of feeder roads and 75 medium and small
dams principally for stock watering; and
-    construct project offices, workshops, stores, staff houses, and
Farm Service Centers (FSCs);
(c) Institutional Support
-    provide for a management structure (described in Chapter V)
within MOA supported by adequate technical and administrative
staff, logistical support and funds, to implement the project,
evaluate project progress, and provide guidelines for further
development;
-    provide a comprehensive in-service technical and management
training program for all levels of project staff and develop a
longer term staff development program; and
-    support operations of the Kaduna State Farmers' Supply Company
(FASCOM), a wholesale agency operating on commercial lines,
responsible for input procurement and distribution through the
FSCs; and
(d) Technical Assistance
-    provide technical assistance for MOA, FASCOM, and the
Cooperative Federation of Kaduna, to assist in program execution
and training of managerial and technical staff.
4.02     Annual Work Plans.  The detailed content of the program would be
determined each year in an annual work plan prepared by Kaduna Agricultural
Project Management Unit (KDAPMU) and approved by the Kaduna Agricultural
Development Project Executive Committee (KDADEC) (para 5.01), and would be
submitted to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture for approval four months
prior to the year concerned and a copy would be sent to the Bank. The work
plan would comprise KDADP's fiscal (calendar) year work program and budget
estimates (para 4.40). An agreement to this effect was obtained at negotia-
tions.
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Development
4.03     Farm and Crop Development.  The cultivation practices of some 430,000
smallholders on a total of some 654,000 ha would be improved. Rainfed culti-
vation would account for some 620,000 ha (490,000 basic and 130,000 advanced)



- 12 -
and irrigation would account for some 34,000 ha (27,000 basic, 5,000 flood and
2,000 pump irrigation). The contributions of improved crops, generally grown
in mixtures, would be about: maize 160,000 ha, sorghum 280,000 ha, millet
13,000 ha, cowpea 5,000 ha, groundnut 110,000 ha, cotton 20,000 ha and rice
32,000 ha (Annex 1, Table 3a).
4.04     The most significant inputs would be fertilizer, improved crop varie-
ties and seed dressing, all already established in Zone II under FADP. For
the other zones, production models have been developed in ADP's in neighboring
states of similar ecological conditions to the three other KDADP zones.
Fertilizer would be further promoted by the progressive use of more
concentrated forms, improvement in -timely distribution, and instruction in
characteristics and application teclniques suited to traditional farming
systems. The use of improved maize, sorghum, groundnut and cotton varieties
would be promoted by seed multiplication, demonstration, and better avail-
ability through service centers. Project promoted seed would be treated with
protective dressing and farmers would be taught how to protect their own seed.
4.05     As a result of federal pol:icy to reduce the fertilizer subsidy under
the Fertilizer Loan (see below), the farmers' fertilizer cost is expected to
double (N90/t) in PY1 and reach N180/t (in 1983 prices) in PY4 and 5,
representing a 25% subsidy (see para. 4.33 for expected current prices). For
farm budget purposes, two cases have been taken: an average of N130/t over
the project period (50% subsidy) and N 180/t (highest expected price). As the
cost of fertilizer rises, it is expected that farmers will give increasing
priority to fertilizer on the more responsive crops.  At present price levels
this would probably result in greater fertilizer use on rice, maize, ground-
nuts and sorghum and less on cotton,, cowpea and millet. However, the effect
of this shift in emphasis will be reduced by the dominant mixed cropping
practice which will tend to equate fertilizer application over all crops.
Timely and adequate fertilizer supp:lies have been a constraint to the imple-
mentation of the ADP's in the past. The Fertilizer Loan would provide
financing for fertilizer importation and it would strengthen the ability of
the Federal Ministry of Agriculture's fertilizer unit to procure and dis-
tribute fertilizer in a more cost-effective and timely manner.
4.06     Basic Service Package.  This simple production package, applicable to
traditional farming systems, is intended for wide coverage.  Based on experi-
ence in FADP, which is expected to become part of the project area, some 70%
of project farmers (about 435,000) - are expected to adopt the recommended
crop production packages, at least in part, on about 490,000 ha. The main im-
mediate benefits would result from the use of fertilizers, insecticides, and
improved seeds, which together have produced appreciable yield responses from
maize, sorghum, millet, cowpea, groundnut, rice and cotton, the principal
crops in the area. Details of inputs and estimated yields under rainfed areas
are in Annex I, Tables la - lc, and 2a - 2c. The basic service package would
form the major extension thrust as t;raditional farmers will continue to be the
main contributors to incremental production.
4.07     Advanced Service Package.  This package, including mechanization, ox-
drawn equipment, the more intensive use of ferti;.izer, insecticides and pos-
sibly herbicides, would be offered to the limited but increasing numbers of



- 13 -
farmers interested in maximizing sole crop yields of sorghum, maize, cotton
and cowpea and would be practiced on approximately 130,000 ha. These gene-
rally larger scale farmers would also be offered soil conservation, land use
planning and management advice. Details of the model are in Annex 1, Tables
la - lc and 2a - 2c.
4.08     Fadama Crop Package.  Although rainfed farming accounts for the bulk
of the state's cultivable area, the fadamas offer better prospects of raising
yields in the long term. The fadama package would consist of improved cul-
tivation practices and water management techniques, including the introduction
of diesel and handpumps, improved plot layout and land levelling. Since these
techniques and practices are new to farmers, the project would concentrate
during the first year on demonstrations on farmers' fields. Fadama cultiva-
tion would be intensified by irrigated crop production packages to improve
yields and by more efficient water use through bunding and ridging. In addi-
tion, residual moisture would permit dry season crop production after the
rains. Irrigation by 2 or 3 inch pumps would be promoted by the improved
availability of pump sets, spares and fuel through service centers and by
advice on operation and maintenance. Each pump would replace several tradi-
tional "shadoofs" 1/ enabling farmers to more than double their area of cul-
tivation. Excess water in other projects is often sold to adjacent farmers
and the same is expected to happen in Kaduna. The layout of shadoof gardens
would be modified on advice from project staff to accommodate the new rate of
water supply. Small diameter tube wells would improve water supplies from the
sand rivers in the northern zone. Swamp rice, sorghum, millet and maize
cultivation in the southern zones, which are frequently damaged by flooding,
would be made more secure by project technical support and the use of equip-
ment for simple, inexpensive water control structures. Successful pilot
irrigation work in, for example, Bida ADP, would be used as a model to develop
an annual, two-crop system based on swamp rice followed by dry season maize,
sorghum and cowpeas. Details of the model are in Annex 1, Table Id.
4.09     The project would conduct land and water use surveys and on-farm
research to test the suitability of proposed irrigation technology and
practices.
4.10     The cost of bunding, ditching and levelling would be about N100/ha
for pumped irrigation and N150/ha for improved flood irrigation. If develop-
ment loans for such works and for irrigation pumps and engines were necessary,
they would be available through the Kaduna State Cooperative Bank and the
cooperative system. While the cooperative Bank requires strengthening, it is
felt they can adequately serve the needs of this project. Consultancy to the
cooperative movement including the Bank has been provided to recommend how its
credit, input supply and marketing can be improved and/or expanded (para.
4.28).
4.11     The applied research program, based on multidisciplinary diagnostic
studies of traditional farming systems, would test new varieties, implements
1/   A counterbalanced sweep widely used in Northern Nigeria for raising
water for irrigation.



- 14* -
and agronomic practices on four research sub-stations and test promising
innovations through an on-farm research program. Farmers' judgement would be
incorporated into the evaluation of results. Subject matter specialists would
provide the link with extension staff. A central agronomy section would coor-
dinate the applied research program, disseminate results to the zones and
liaise with Institute for Agricultural Research, Samaru (IAR), International
Institute for Tropical Agriculture, Ibadan (TITA), International Crop Research
Institute for the Semi Arid Tropics, India (ICRISAT) and other relevant
research institutes. Funds for consiultancy are provided to:
(i)  study traditional farming systems in order to focus research and
extension more precisely orL production constraints;
(ii) devise an improved on-farm research methodology and review and revise
it annually; and
(iii)  make recommendations for lines of research to improve both farming
systems and production techniques.
Where feasible, these consultancies would be drawn from national and inter-
national agricultural research institutes in Nigeria (para. 4.28).
4.12     Seeds and Planting Material.  The four project seed farms, with
expanding outgrower assistance, would multiply improved seed.  The seed pro-
duction plan would enable farmers to replace 25% of their requirements with
new seeds each year. KDADP would assist in importing disease-fr(ee stocks of
potatoes for further multiplication. The projeci; would upgrade existing
buildings and provide additional vehicles, cultivation equipment and staff.
4.13     Extension.  The state agricultural extension services of some 800
workers would be brought under project control. Resources have been provided
for less than 100 additional staff who would be recruited (para. 4.23).
Technical and management training would improve the performance and organiza-
tion of existing staff, who would operate under the training and visit (T&V)
system.
4.14     Farmer training would be carried out through group meetings using
audio-visual aids. Practical on-farm demonstrations would play an important
role in farmer training. The training section would prepare teaching
materials including a reference manual and technical files to demonstrate
cropping techniques for use by extension staff. FADP experience clearly
indicates that the most cost-effective method of conveying a message to the
farming community is through the use of the radic, and farming broadcast
programs would be intensified.
4.15     Forestry Development.  The Kaduna State Forestry Department would be
strengthened and nursery production would be increased by a combination of
upgrading existing nurseries and establishing new irrigated nurseries. Ten of
the latter are provided for during the first three project years.  Nursery
production would be increased by 350,00 seedlings in PY1; 1.4 million in PY2;
2.8 million in PY3; and 3.5 million annually thereafter. The majority of the
plants would be Eucalyptus spp., Acacia spp., mango and other fruit trees.



- 15 -
The plants would be supplied free to the farmers provided they meet the cost
for digging pits, mixing insecticides (for termite control) and fertilizers,
and protecting the trees from animals. Special tree planting periods, lasting
about 14 days at a time, would involve entire extension staffs, village com-
munities and LGCs to create awareness of the importance of planting and pro-
tecting trees. Nursery plants would be used as farm trees (mainly boundary
trees) and for the establishment of woodlots and orchards. The nursery
program would mainly expand production of seedlings in Zones I and II which
are priority areas under the AZAP program. The nursery program would be
executed by the forestry staff of MOA. To cater for the increased program,
some supplementary staff, however, have been included in the project's cost
estimates. Forestry monitoring and extension would be executed by the
project, integrated with the agriculture extension services. Extension advice
would focus on seedling planting and maintenance to ensure increased survival
and growth, which would be carefully monitored. MOA would second a number of
forestry staff to work jointly with the project's agricultural extension
staff.
4.16     Soil Conservation and Land Use Planning.  Soil erosion, rarely a
problem in small, manually cultivated fields, is mainly the result of uncon-
trolled run-off from roads and larger scale mechanical clearing and cultiva-
tion. Conservation measures, using civil works plant where necessary, would
be concentrated on spot repairs and on the planned layout of mechanically
cultivated areas.
Civil Works
4.17     Roads.  The project would construct 1,400 km of feeder roads to
provide a minimum road network in each zone (IBRD 14482-5). The tentative
work program is shown below, and in Chart No. 25360.
Zone          PY1        PY2        PY3       PY4        PY5       Total
Zone I         25         80         80        80         30          295
Zone II        75        110        110        -          -           295
Zone III       28         86         86        86         74          360
Zone IV        50        100        100       100        100          450
178       376        376       266        204        1,400
Units using motor scrapers would operate in Zones II, III and IV, where
laterite haulage distances are short.  In Zone I, because suitable gravel
deposits are widely spread, hired dump trucks would supply selected fill to
the construction unit. The annual feeder road development program would form
part of the annual action plan to be agreed with the Bank before each calendar
year (para 4.02). Headed by a civil engineer experienced in the administra-
tion and management of feeder road construction and maintenance, the team
would include a road and mechanical engineer in each zone.
4.18     On the basis of lessons learned in FADP, feeder roads would be built
to withstand minimum axle loads of 10 tons and a traffic density of 100



- 16 -
vehicles per day. In most areas, the road section would incorporate a 7.3 m
carriageway with 3% falls to 'v'-shaped side drains; however, in Zones III
and IV, where population density and cultivation intensity are :Lower, one-lane
roads would be built where traffic projections are low. The rulning course
would be surfaced to a compacted depth of 15 cm.  Culverts would be either
prefabricated metal or concrete and would be sited to provide proper drainage
for the road and adjacent fields.
4.19     MOW staff would be trained in normal routine road maintenance
(patching, ditch-clearing) which would be done by the project urLtil the end of
the project period. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that KDSG would
submit plans to the Bank by the end of the fourth project year for post-
project organization and finance (para. 5.11), including the maintenance of
roads and dams.
4.20     Some275 dams would be buil-t under the dam construction program, on
small (2-4 km ) catchments to minim:Lze sBillway erosion.  Of the 75 dams,
about 25 would be medium size (100,000 m  capacity) and about 50 small (50,000
m  capacity).  Full details of the -1echnical coefficients are given in the
Project File. The majority of these dams would be constructed in Zones III
and IV to support the expected movement of cattle to these areas; addi-
tionally, some dams would be located on the cattle routes leading south from
Zone I. Emphasis would be placed on obtaining a good depth of water to allow
for use at the end of the dry season. The proposed construction timetable is
7 in PY1, 16 in PY2, 20 in PY3, 17 .n PY4, and 15 in PY5.  Contractors and
project staff would assist MOW by training staff in the maintenance of all
watering points and supervising maintenance in the first two years after
construction, after which MOW would be responsib:Le for maintenance.
4.21     Buildings.  Simple designs for most project buildings are available
from FADP and would be modified where necessary by KDAPMU engineers or archi-
tects. Site and service work would be carried oult by project plant, or for
more complicated tasks, by contractors. Construction would be undertaken by
local contractors and supervised by the Chief Civil Engineer and his staff.
The buildings would comprise:  additions to existing offices both at head-
quarters and in the Zones, 178 senior and intermediate staff houses, eight
stores each with a 2,500-ton capacity and eight FSCs.  The estimated cost is
N21.6 mn.
Institutional Support
4.22     Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would establish, on the basis
of FADP and APME:PU experience, a state monitoring and evaluation unit. The
initial task of the unit would be to collect baseline data on population, farm
size cropping patterns, acreage, yields, home cornsumption, and farm income.
Thereafter, it would, on a continuing basis, retrieve data to analyze changes
due to project intervention and other exogenous factors. Built :into the
project for all operating divisions would be an improved cost accounting and
data collection system. For subsequent analysis and as an aid to management,
the unit would conduct specialized technical studies to assess the impact of
advanced farming methods established under the project and would work closely
with FASCOM on the marketing studies (paras 4.28 and 5.05) to ensure a



- 17 -
consistent and rational approach. Under the ATAP loan, provision has been
made for APMEPU to participate in project evaluation, and the Federal
Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) and Federal Agricultural Support Unit
(FASU) would assist with management information and monitoring systems (para.
2.06). In addition, consultancy studies have been provided for special
studies and programming the computer for the monitoring and evaluation of the
project (para 4.28).
4.23     Staffing, Staff Development and Training.  There is considerable
difficulty in recruiting trained and experienced Nigerian staff for projects,
due in large measure to the disparity between salary levels in the public and
private sectors, and by some state governments' reluctance to employ Nigerian
personnel non-indigenous to the State. However, compared to some other states
where Bank projects are under implementation, Kaduna State is relatively well
staffed. The state now has about 800 agricultural staff in the field: 21
agricultural officers, 46 agricultural superintendents, 286 agricultural
assistants and 447 agricultural instructors. Project staff requirements are
detailed in project cost tables in the Project File.
4.24     With the exception of the FADP area, the effectiveness of present
staff deployment is limited by poor roads, lack of transport and the absence
of adequately trained staff and a defined work program. Because of the large
number of extension staff already employed and their relatively poor perform-
ance, the project would emphasize the redeployment and training of existing
staff rather than the employment of additional extension staff, which would
amount to under 100 during the project period. A number of experienced
technical and managerial staff would be recruited internationally by FARA
(para 2.06) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The project
would provide funds (on average US$77,000 per man-year) 1/ for 36 staff (total
157 staff years) to be recruited internationally and administered through the
Federal Agricultural Recruiting Agency established by FGN with funds from the
ATAP loan. The appointment of a program manager, financial controller,
program chief engineer, four zonal managers, the FASCOM managing director and
financial controller satisfactory to FGN and the Bank would be a condition of
loan effectiveness.
4.25     The project would provide on-the-job training but this would be sup-
plemented with individual staff development programs for staff in key posi-
tions and for groups of staff at medium and lower levels. Consultants would
assist in the preparation and execution of practical management training
programs and would review annual progress. Project staff would be enrolled in
courses at the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute (assisted
by the Bank) at Ilorin. Overseas courses in management fields, as in tech-
nical subjects, would be provided where no comparable Nigerian course existed,
but would be generally limited to relatively short courses with immediate
practical relevance to the staff member's responsibilities. Technical
training at ground root levels for Agricultural Instructors later to be
1/   Includes salary, allowances, gratuity, medical, education, inter-
national travel and settlement costs based on current technical service
contracts.



- 18'-
considered for formal training and induction as Agricultural Assistants would
receive special emphasis. The project would also develop training courses for
farm management advisory staff, essential for the more advanced farming
systems introduced under the project. Short courses would be developed for
agricultural staff, mechanics, bookkeepers, storemen, and salesmen.
4.26     Training Administration.  APMEPU's senior training officer would work
in close collaboration with the program management in developing and monitor-
ing new training techniques. The Staff Development Officer would, apart from
project training, also be responsible for working with FASCOM in developing
adequate training programs in subjects related to project activities.  The
project would utilize existing facilities at FADP as well as providing basic
training infrastructure.
4.27     Kaduna State Farmers' Supply Company (FASCOM) and Input Supplies.
The project would maintain FASCOM, a state-owned input supply company built on
FADP's Commercial Unit (para. 5.06). New office and storage facilities would
be built, and vehicles and equipment would be purchased for its operations.
It would be responsible for supplying a range of farm inputs which in project
year 5 would reach about 200,000 tons of fertilizer, plant protection
chemicals, and 8,500 tons of various crop seeds (Annex I, Table 5). Inputs
would be sold for cash, and distributed through the FSCs.
4.28     Technical Assistance.  In addition to the international recruitment
of key project management staff (para. 4.24), the project would provide KDSG
with 125 man-mon-ths of consultant services to assist MOA and KDAPMU in spe-
cific areas when local skills are not available, or when short-term supple-
mentation is required. Specifically, the consultants, at an estimated cost of
US$13,500 1/ per man-month, would provide:
(a)  Staff Development and Management Training.  Eight man-months to
assist KDADP to establish the program and review it annually
(para. 4.25).
(b) Project Accounting System. Twelve man-months would be provided to
assist management to establish the project accounting system and to
review it periodically (para. 4.39).
(c)  Marketing Study.  Eighteen man-months to review the marketing
procedures within the state, the need for adopting more appropriate
procedures, and an assessment of the amount of produce being marketed
in and outside the State (paras. 4.22 & 6.03).
(d) Six man--months to study the existing cooperative movement within the
state and recommend how its credit, input supply, and marketing roles
could be improved and/or expanded (para. 5.05)
(e)  Five man-months of consultancy to program the management information
service into the project micro-computer (para. 4.22).
1/   Includes fees, international travel, hotel charges, local travel and
subsistence.



- 19 -
(f)  Six man-months of consultancy to help in drawing up post project
development plans including arrangements for maintenance of feeder
roads and dams (para. 5.11).
(g)  Thirty man-months of consultancy services to assist in the field of
agricultural research (para. 4.11).
(h) Twenty man-months of consultant services to carry out socioeconomic
studies to give management early information on the effectiveness of
project activities on production and farm income as a basis for
revisions to project tactics (para. 4.22).
(i)  Twenty man-months of consultant services as a reserve for studies in
any project-related field on an opportune basis as the project
unfolds.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that KDAPMU would be responsible
for preparing detailed terms of reference for review by the Bank prior to the
engagement of any consultant, and that the latter would be properly qualified
and experienced, and would be employed on conditions and terms satisfactory to
the Bank.
C. Cost Estimates
4.29     Project costs during the five-year development period are estimated
at US$193.7 mn (N127.8 mn), of which foreign exchange costs would account for
US$81.0 mn (N53.5 mn) or 42% of the total.  If taxes and duties are excluded,
total costs would be US$183.8 mn (N121.3 mn). Detailed project costs
presented in Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2, and in the Project File, are summarized
in Text Tables 1 and 2.
4.30     Project base costs are calculated using prices obtained during post
appraisal in March 1982 and updated to levels expected to prevail in July
1983. Costs include physical contingencies equal to 5% of base costs except
on civil works which have 10% based on experience on similar projects in
Nigeria. Price contingencies are calculated on base costs plus physical con-
tingencies and are compounded annually using the following annual rates: on
local salaries and allowances 10%, on all other local costs--1983 - 15%; 1984
- 13%; 1985 - 12%; 1986-88 - 10%; and on foreign costs--1983 - 8%; 1984 - 7-
1/2%; 1985 - 7%; and 1986-88 - 6%. Total contingencies are equivalent to
24.5% of total costs or 32.5% of base costs.
4.31     The costs summarized in Table 1 are incremental, covering those
investment and operational costs over and above present expenditures by MOA in
respect of the area covered by IRDP estimated at N6.7 mn a year in base price
terms and N45.3 mn over the five-year project period in current prices.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that KDSG would maintain that
real level of expenditure throughout the project period in addition to its
contribution to incremental costs.



Table 1: Project Cost Summary
-Naira Million    -               ------US$ Million -------             % of          % of
Foreign         Base
Local    Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign    Total          Exchange        Costs
IManagement Services                6.0        3.9        9.9           9.1        5.9       15.0           39.6           10.3
Chemicals/Implements                1.2        3.5        4.7           1.7        5.2        7.0           75.0            4.8
Fadama Irrigation                  2.5         1.5        4.0           3.8        2.2        6.0           36.7            4.1
Applied Research                    2.9        1.5        4.4           4.5        2.2        6.7           33.1            4.6
Seed Mulitplication                2.8         1.0        3.8          4.2         1.5        5.7           26.4            3.9
Extension Services                17.8         3.1       20.9         27.0         4.7       31.7           14.9           21.7
Forestry                           2.5         1.2        3.7          3.8         1.9        5.6           32.9            3.8
Land Use Planning                  0.7         0.5        1.2           1.1        0.7        1.8           40.6            1.2
Engineering Services              31.6        17.2       48.8         47.9        26.0       73.9           35.2           50.6
Monitoring and Evaluation           3.6        0.9        4.5           5.5        1.4        6.9           20.5            4.7
Staff Development/Training         3.4         2.8        6.2          5.1         4.2        9.3           45.3            6.4
Farmers' Supply Company            11..9       5.1       17.0          18.1        7.8       25.9           30.1           17.7
Consultant Services                0.3         0.8        1.1           0.5        1.2        1.7           70.0            1.1
Pre-Project Level Expenditure (33.7)            -       (33.7)        (51.0)        -       (51.0)            -           (34.9)
TOTAL BASE LINE COSTS                53.5        43.0       96.5          81.3       64.9      146.2           44.4          100.0
Physical Contingencies              3.2        2.6        5.8           4.8        3.9        8.7           44.8            5.9
Price Contingencies               17.9         7.6       25.5         27.2        11.6       38.8           29.9           26.5
TOTAIL PROJECT COSTS                  74.6       53.2      127.8         113.3       80.4      193.7           41.5          132.4
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan           -        0.2         0.2            -         0.3        0.3          100.0
TOTAI, FINANCING REQUIRED             74.6       53.4      128.0         113.3       80.7      194.0           41.6



Table 2: Detailed Cost Estimates by Nature & Purpose of Expenditure
(N millidn)
Civil   Vehicles   Equip-   Internt'l         Local        Vehicles/    Operating   Chemicals/   Total   Physical    Price:             Total        US$
Works   & Plant       ment    Staff/Con-    Staff         Plant Oper-   Expenses         Agric.                Contin-       Contin-             Equivalent
sultants    Salaries   ation Cost                     Implem'ts                encies        encies               (million)
Management Services                   1.6        1.0       0.3           1.9         2.9           0.9           1.2           -             9.9      0.6           2.8       13.3       20.2
Chemical/Agricultural Implements   -              -          -           -            -             -             -            4.7           4. 7     0.2           1.5        6.4        9.7
Fadama Irrigation                    0.8         0.7        0.1         0.2          1.5           0.6          0.1             -            4.0      0.2           1.1        5.3        8.0
Applied Research                      1.1        0.5         -          0.5          1.8           0.2           0.2            -            4.4      0.3           1.2        5.9        8.9
Seed Multiplication                  0.2         0.7         -           -           2.1           0.4          0.4             -            3.8      0.2           1.1        5.1        7.7
Extension Services                   0.7         2.1        0.3          -          15.5           1.7           0.6            -           20.9      1.1           7.0       29.0       44.0
Forestry                              0.3        0.4        0.5         0.1          1.6           0.4          0.5             -            3.7      0.2           1.3        5.2        7.9
Land Use Planning                     0.5        0.1        0.1         0.2          0.3            -            0.1             -           1.2      0.1           0.3        1.6        2.4
Engineering Services                  5.7        9.4        0.4         1.8         19.7          10.1           1.7            -           48.8      2.7          13.3       64.8       98.2
Monitoring and Evaluation             0.9        0.3        0.1           0.1        2.7           0.3           0.2             -           4.5      0.3           1,         6.2        9.4
Staff Development/Training            1.1        0.4        0.1         1.7          1.4           0.3           1.0            -            6.2      0.4           1.7        8.3       12.6
Farmers' Supply Company               4.8        2.0        0.2         0.5          7.0           1.6           1.0            -           17.0      1.1           4.8       22.9       34.7
Consultant Services                               -          -           1.1          -             -             -              -           1.1      0.1           0.3        1.5        2.3
Pre-project Level Expenditures         -          -          -            -        [33-7]            -            -              -         [33.71   11.71         [12.3]     [47.7]    [72.3]
Base Cost                   17.7       17.6        2.1         8.1         22.8          16.5           7.0           4.7          96.5      5.8          25.5      127.8      193.7
Physical Contingencies                1.8        0.9        0.1         0.4          1.2           0.8           0.4           0.2           5.8
Price Contingencies                   2.1        2.9        0.3          2.0         8.3           5.6           2.8            1.5         25.5
Total Project Cost          21.6       21.4        2.5         10.5        32.3           22.9         10.2          _6.4         127.8
US$ million Equivalent              32.7        32.4        3.8        15.9        49.0           34.7          15.5            9.7        193.7



- 22 -
D. Proposed Financing
4.32     Of the total project cost of US$193.7 mnn (N127.8 mn) the Bank would
finance US$122.0 mn (N80.3 mn), inclusive of the front-end fee cf US$0.3 mn
(NO.2 mn), at the lending rate of interest at the time of loan approval and
for a period of 17 years including a four-year grace period. The Bank loan
representing 63% of project costs or 66% of costs net of taxes, would cover
100% of foreign exchange cost and 36% of local costs. FGN's contribution
would consist of 20% of project costs amounting to US$39.0 mn (N25.6 mn).  The
remaining 17% of the project costs US$33.0 mn (N22.1 mn) would be financed by
KDSG - 12% (US$24.0 mn/N15.7 mn) and farmers - 5% (US$9.0 mn/N6.4 mn).
Table 3 - Summary Financing Plan
(N million)
Total     IBRD       FGN        KDSG      Farmer
Civil Works                    21.6      19.5       2.1          -           -
Plant, Vehicles, Equipment
and Spare Parts              34.1      29.0       5.1          -           -
International Staff,
Consultants, & Training    10.5        10.5        -           -           -
Incremental Staff Salaries &
Wages, Operating and
General Services Costs       55.2      15.6      17.5        22.1          -
Chemicals & Implements          6.4       5.5       0.9        (6.4) a/    6.4
Front End Fee                   0.2       0.2        -           -           -
Project Cost excluding
Fertilizer                  128.0      80.3      25.6        15.7         6.4
%                             100        63        20          12           5
US$ Million                   194.0     122.0      39.0        24.0         9.0
a/ Chemicals and agricultural implements, originally procured with funds
provided by the Bank and FGN are subsequently sold to the farmers.
Therefore KDSG has a reduction of N6.4 mn in its net contribution.
4.33     Under the project, annual consumption of fertilizer is expected to
rise from 130,000 tons in pre-project year to over 200,000 tons in year 5;
total consumption throughout the five-year project period would be 876,000
tons. Under the subsidy policy (para. 4.05) to be introduced in the



- 23 -
Fertilizer Loan, the cost of the fertilizer subsidy after charging the farmer
at the assumed rates in current terms of N100 per ton in 1984, N130 in 1985
(50% subsidy), N184 in 1986, N232 in 1987, and N268 in 1988 (25% subsidy)
would be borne by FGN and KDSG in the ratio of 7:3. On this basis the cost of
fertilizer subsidies to FGN and KDSG, over the project period would be 171.2mn
and N30.6mn respectively (Annex 2, Table 3c). The above mentioned subsidy
reductions are a condition of the Fertilizer Loan disbursement. A comprehen-
sive program financing plan covering the fertilizer costs, plus the amounts
required to finance the current level of expenditure referred to in paragraph
4.32 is given in Annex 2, Table 3(b) and summarized below:
Table 4: Program Cost Financing Summary
(N Million
Total      IBRD       FGN       KDSG       Farmer
Project Cost per
Table 3                    128.0       80.3      25.6       15.7         6.4
Non-incremental
Staff Cost                  45.3         -         -        45.3
Fertilizer Cost
Cost to Kaduna             242.0
Distribution margin         26.7 a/
268.7        -       71.2       30.6       166.9
(6-3)a/                        (6-3)
435.7      80.3      96.8       85.3       173.3
%                            100.0       19.0      22.0       20.0        39.0
In US$                       660.0      122.0    147.0       129.0       262.0
a/  Covers intra-state transport and handling costs estimated at N20.4 million
and the balance N6.3mn will help FASCOM meet part of its overhead costs.
This in turn will reduce KDSG's total contribution to the program cost.
4.34     The Bank loan of US$122.0 mn would be made to the Federal Government
which would on-lend on substantially the same terms and conditions to KDSG
under a subsidiary loan agreement drawn up between FGN and KDSG. Ongoing
projects are suffering from inadequate inflows of Naira funds from Government
sources. Naira funds are required mainly to finance operating/recurrent costs
of plant, vehicles and equipment and local personnel. Delayed and inadequate
Government funding results not only in delayed project implementation and
underutilization of Bank-financed equipment and manpower, but also in delayed
Bank reimbursement of eligible local expenditures which require Government



- 24 -
pre-financing. Given the financial constraints currently facing the Govern-
ment of Nigeria, project implementation would be significantly iLmproved if
funds are provided from the Bank Loan to finance part of the local cost
component of feeder roads and dams which are to be constructed on force
account utilizing Bank-financed plant, equipment and vehicles. Accordingly an
amount of US$22.3 million has been allocated to a separate category to be
disbursed piecemeal against completed feeder roads and dams certified by an
independent consultant engineer acceptable to the Bank. An advance not
exceeding US$500,000 would be deposited in an escrow account with a commercial
bank in London to enable FARA to make payment of salaries to internationally
recruited staff and of allowances to trainees. Replenishment tc, this account
would be made against disbursement applications supported by (a) statement of
account certified by FARA; (b) reconciliation of withdrawals with statements
of salaries and allowances certified by FARA, Program Manager and Financial
Controller; and (c) a reconciliation of deposits with Bank disbursements. In
order to ensure adequate and timely counterpart funding, it was agreed during
negotiations that: (a) KDSG would provide for the staff cost at current level
in the recurrent budget of MOA and pay the existing staff directly from MOA;
(b) KDSG and FGN would jointly make an initial deposit of N4.7 mn (seven
months' average counterpart funding requirement over the project period) into
a separate project bank account and, thereafter, pay their share of project
costs quarterly and in advance in accordance with the approved annual budget;
(c) if KDSG were delinquent in paying its share of costs, FGN would pay KDSG's
share directly from KDSG's share of statutory allocation; and (d) Bank
reimbursements would be made directly to KDADP's bank account. A conditon of
effectiveness would require KDSG to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that the initial N4.7 mn had been deposited into the project bank account and
the N3.0 mn FASCOM equity contribution had been deposited into FASCOMI's bank
account.
E. Procurement
4.35     Goods.  Contracts valued at $300,000 or more for plant, vehicles and
equipment US$61.4 mn/N40.5 mn), would be procured through interrLational com-
petitive bidding (ICB). Purchases would be grouped into packages of at least
$300,000 whenever possible; contracts valued at less than $300,000, but more
than $60,000 would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) or
limited international tendering (LIT) under procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Contracts of less than $60,000 would be procured through direct compe-
titive shopping based on at least three quotations.  Items for procuremnt
would be bulked to permit optimum usie of competitive bidding.
4.36     Works.  Contracts for buildings comprising offices, houses, fer-
tilizer stores and farm service centers totalling $32.7 mn (N21.6 mn) most of
which will be built throughout the s-tate would be procured by LCB due to the
scattered nature of the works, utilizing procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(in which foreign bidders in joint venture with local firms would have the
opportunity to participate). Roads and dams would be constructed on force
account, but the heavy equipment required for this work would be procured by
ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 25 -
4.37     Contract Review.  ICB packages for heavy plant, vehicles and equip-
ment estimated to cost $42.3 mn (N27.9 mn), contracts for international staff
and consultants estimated to about US$14.4 mn (N9.4 mn) and LCB bidding
packages for building construction at program headquarters and zonal head-
quarters estimated to cost US$24.5 mn (N16.2 mn) would be subject to the
Bank's prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of
about 75% of the total estimated value of all contracts.
F. Disbursements
4.38     The proceeds of the Bank Loan of US$122.0 million would be disbursed
over a six year period from 1984 to 1989.  A disbursement schedule based on a
five year implementation period utilizing financing designed to accelerate
Bank disbursement (and reduce the KDSG financial burden) in the early project
years is presented in Annex 2, Table 4. The disbursement profile for the area
development sub-sector in Western Africa is seven years with about 93% being
disbursed over the first six years. The accelerated disbursement over a
shorter six year period is justified by the new mechanism introduced to
accelerate project implementation and disbursement, and the preparatory
procurement and project start-up work to be done soon after loan negotiations
by a core team for which retroactive financing is provided. The proposed
allocation of loan proceeds and the disbursement percentages are given below.
Amunt of the Loan    % of Expenditure
Category                        Allocated (US$)     to be Financed
1. Bildings and houses             26,5C0,000      90
2. Vehicles, tractors, road-making    39,6C0,C00   10CC of foreign expenditures
equipment, office equipment and                if imported or 9Q% if procured
spare parts                                    locally
3. Internationally recruited staff,   12,300,C000  1C%
consulting servies and tramining
4. Chemicais and agracultuaal       8,300,0C0      10(X of foreigi expenditures
implements                                     if imported or 90% if procured
locally
5. Engleering Services-Local       22,30,(0X)      1(0% of local costs but not
Costs pertaining to construction               exceeding US$15,500 equivalent
of feeder roads and dams                       per kilometer of road constructed;
and US$35,000 equivalent per dam
built.
6. Initial Withdrawal for "escrow     500,0OO
account" with FARA
7. Frot-end fee                       304,239      100%
8. Unallocated                     12,195,761
TOTAL                          1 22,000,000



- 26 -
All expenditures would be fully documented. Disbursements against local costs
under Category 5 would be against certified Statement of Expenditures (SOEs),
which would be checked during the course of the Supervision Missions. The
project's auditors would check the reliability of SOEs and would include a
statement to this effect in the annual audit report.  Disbursements into the
FARA's Escrow Account would be made according to the procedures discussed in
para 4.34. Assurances were be obtained from Government at negotiations that
all supporting documents for SOEs and withdrawals from the Escrow Account
would be maintained in readily available form and made available upon request
for inspection by the Bank. Provision has been made for up to US$0.5 mn of
retroactive financing for key internationally recruited staff and/or con-
sultants (equivalent to about 37 staff months) to begin work after negotiat-
ions to assist in project start-up activities.
G. Acounts, Audit, and Reporting Requirements
4.39     KDAPMU and FASCOM would keep financial records in accordance with
sound accounting practices to reflect their operations and financial posi-
tions, and would have these audited annually by independent auditors.
Accounts pertaining to commercial operations of IRDP which took over the
commercial unit of FADP (para. 5.06), are not currently being kept in a
satisfactory form and those for FY 1980, 1981 and 1982 have not been audited.
It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that satisfactory arrangements
have been made with the Federal Agricultural Co-ordinating Unit (para 2.06)
acceptable to the Bank to assist in (i) bringing the commercial operations
accounts up to date, and (ii) improving the accounting and internal control
system and procedures for monitoring expenditures under the project. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that (a) KDAPMU and
FASCOM's accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (b) the audited accounts and auditors' report would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year, and (c) the
report of the auditor should be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
may reasonably request, including a statement as to whether or not Bank funds
had been used for their intended purpose.
4.40     Annual budgets would be prepared by KDADP management as part of the
annual work plan based on appraisal estimates but amended where necessary to
reflect changes in costs and project development policies (para 4.02). These
budgets would be approved by KDADEC. KDAPMU would prepare quarterly cash-flow
statements based on the approved budget and would form the operational basis
of project activities. KDSG would use the approved KDADP annual budget as a
basis for making budgetary allocations to the project. All necessary funds
for KDADP would be paid quarterly and in advance into the commercial bank
accounts of KDAPMU and FASCOM.
4.41     Both KDAPMU and FASCOM would submit quarterly progress reports to
Government and to the Bank showing actual and budgeted expenditures statements
of progress achieved and objectives for the forthcoming quarter by each
project component. The quarterly reports would contain summary iexpenditures
and use of funds. After completion of disbursement, KDAPMU would prepare a



- 27 -
Project Completion Report, analyzing the implementation of the Project and its
impact in relation to its objectives. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that KDAPMU would prepare such a report in consultation with the Bank
and would submit it to the Bank within six months of the closing date.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
A.  Project Coordination and Management
5.01     Project Coordination.  Most of the present Agriculture Division of
MOA will form the basis of project staff (para. 3.21). However, the project
embraces a wide range of activities which are at present the responsibilities
of different ministries and agencies. Therefore, successful project imple-
mentation would require close liaison with these instituticns. In the project
organization, this coordination would be provided for by the creation of four
bodies similar to those which operate successfully in other statewide ADP's:
1) Kaduna Agricultural Development Project Managment Unit (KDAPMU)--the
management unit which would be given a large degree of autonomy and which
would operate under the general policy guidance of 2) the Kaduna Agricultural
Development Project Executive Committee (KDADEC)--the state level coordinating
and policy-making body which would also review project implementation and
agree to KDADP's annual work program and budget. In addition it would coordi-
nate the operational aspects of the project, and relevant activities between
Ministries, both State and Federal, and would also approve project training
policies and overseas training, approve contracts over N60,000, 1/ and
appoint senior project staff. Membership would be Deputy Governor (Chairman),
Commissioners of Economic Development, Agriculture, Animal and Livestock
Services, Local Government, Finance, Works, Town and Country Planning,
Director of Budget, Secretary to the State Government, Director Federal
Department of Rural Development and two other FGN representatives. The pro-
gram manager KDAPMU and the managing director of FASCOM would be non-voting
members. KDARDEC would have a 3) technical sub-committee--the Rural Infra-
structure and Agricultural Development Committee. It would monitor and coor-
dinate the project infrastructure activities, and project-wide agricultural
matters like applied research, seed multiplication and extension training.
4) Coordination at the zonal level would be achieved through the Zonal Devel-
opment Committee (ZDC). It would advise on the annual zonal program and its
budget, and ensure coordination with LGC officials. It would provide tech-
nical coordination and advise project management on the siting of roads, FSCs,
and other civil works and review project related disputes. The establishment
of KDADEC and KDAPMU would be conditions of loan effectiveness.
5.02     Project Management.  The project would be managed on a four zone
basis with the KDAPMU as the apex organization (IBRD Maps 14482-5).  The
proposed organization of KDAPMU is shown in World Bank Chart No. 24850. The
apex of operational management would be the Program Manager's Office which
1/   Approval of contracts valued less than N60,000 would be the respon-
sibility of KDAPMU.



- 28 -
would include *the key financial and administrative divisions. This office
would take over the responsibilities of the present Agricultural Division of
MOA with the exception of certain non-relevant sections (para. 3.21). Local
and internationally recruited staff is discussed in para. 4.240.
5-03     Four zonal project managers would be responsible to the program
manager for 'the full implementation of the program within their respective
zones. In particular, they would be responsible for the zonal extension
effort, training and infrastructure development. In consultation with LGC
they would draw up the annual zonal work program and budget which, once they
are approved by KDAPMU, would be implemented with a large degree of autonomy.
B. Input Distribution
5.04     Kaduna State Farmers Supp:Ly Company Limited (FASCOM).  To ensure
satisfactory procurement and distribution of inputs, a state-owned input
supply company, FASCOM, already established, would be strengthened. Similar
input supply companies have been set up successfully in other state-wide ADP's
with a view to their eventually becoming independent and proceeding on commer-
cial lines. FASCOM would distribute inputs through FSCs and cooperatives.
The longer term objective would be for FASCOM to become farmer-owned. This
could be achieved either by merging with the Kaduna State Cooperative
Federation Limited, or by the progressive sale of shares to farmers after
making FASCOM a public limited company.
5.05     To promote these objectives, the project would provide for studies of
the cooperative movement, to recommend how its credit, input supply and mar-
keting roles could be expanded (para 4.28). Where suitable cooperatives
exist, the FSCs would be taken over by societies to provide inputs and ser-
vices to all farmers, whether members or not. In the event that any coopera-
tively managed FSC should not perform satisfactorily, the entire operation of
that FSC would revert to FASCOM.
5.06     FASCOM was established in Kaduna under the 1968 Companies Decree, and
it was agreed at negotiations that KDSG would subscribe an authorized share
capital of N5.0 million. Under FADP, input distribution was handled by the
commercial unit of that project. It continued to operate after project
completion under IRDP, and considering the appropriate structure & staffing of
this unit, it now forms the nucleus of the new company. The stores, FSCs, and
capital assets connected with both the state input distribution system and
FADP Commercial Unit have been transferred to FASCOM. It was agreed during
negotiations that KDSG would maintain FASCOM with membership, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. FASCOM's Board of Directors would
consist of Commissioner of Agriculture as Chairman, Permanent Secretary MOA, a
representative from the State Ministry of Finance, and a farmer representative
from each zone, the Program Manager of KDADP and the Managing Director.
5.07     Field operations would be managed on zonal and area basis and be
conducted through FSCs. All FSCs would be staffed by FASCOM personnel, Com-
mercial Assistants, but where an FSC is the responsibility of a cooperative



- 29 -
(para. 5.04), the Commercial Assistant would be seconded by FASCOM to that
cooperative for the purposes of running the FSC only. In such cases, respon-
sibility for the audit of the society's affairs would remain with the Chief
Registrar of Cooperatives, FASCOM being responsible only for supervision in
regard to physical inputs.
5.08     Equity and Assets.  Of the authorized capital of N5.0, N3.0 would be
subscribed for in cash. 1/  In addition to this cash equity, FASCOM would take
over the usable assets of the Commercial Services of FADP at a valuation
determined by an inventory in exchange for shares. The FSCs and fertilizer
storage buildings would be leased out to FASCOM by KDSG. KDSG would continue
to fully meet the staff salaries, overheads, and other costs of operations
like fertilizer handling, transport, storage, and distribution as well as
reasonable transit and storage losses until the same are allowed to be handled
on a commercial basis. Part of these costs would be covered under the cost-
sharing arrangements in the Fertilizer Loan (see Table 4).
5.09     Staffing.  FASCOM would have to operate a large and efficient organi-
zation. It has, however, taken over a strong nucleus of experienced staff
from the FADP Commercial Unit, and there are sufficient staff to operate
existing FSCs. The Managing Director, Financial Controller, and Commercial
Manager would be recruited internationally (para. 4.24), but all other posts
would be locally filled either by secondment from KDSG or by direct employ-
ment.
5.10     Farm Service Centers (FSC).  At January 1983 there were almost 200
FSCs throughout the state from which farm inputs could be sold. These, toge-
ther with the eight additional FSCs to be provided under the project (para.
4.21) would be sufficient to ensure adequate access to a point of sale for the
majority of farmers. However, additional storage capacity, equivalent to
20,000 tons would be constructed at strategic locations throughout the
zones. All inputs distributed by FASCOM or the FSCs will be sold for cash
payments. Cooperative members needing credit to enable them to purchase
inputs have access to loans from the Kaduna State Cooperative Bank Limited
which operates under MOA supervision (para. 3.22 and 3.23).
C. Post-Project Development
5.11     During the project, KDSG staff would be slightly increased and
trained to deliver a wide range of agricultural services and support to the
rural population, all under the coordination of KDAPMU. At the end of the
project, KDAPMU's operating divisions would reabsorbed into MOA. KDAP's
junior agricultural staff would possibly revert to LGs, leaving a smaller
group of higher level professional staff in MOA. This staff, including the
Program Manager and his evaluation staff, would continue as a co-ordinating
office to be responsible to the Commissioner of MOA. It would plan and
1/   This would be provided out of the Bank balances held by the FADP
Commercial Operations Unit, the precursor of FASCOM.



- 30 -
monitor the State Government's rural development activities assigned to the
executing ministries. KDSG would take over the responsibility for rural
infrastructure including the maintenance of feeder roads and dams. At the end
of the third year of project implementation, the Bank and KDSG would discuss
training and any reorganization or management changes needed to reintegrate
the project activities into the ministries at the end of the project period.
At the end of the fourth year of implementation, KDSG should submit to the
Bank and FGN detailed proposals for post-project organization and finance.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. The project provides
consultancy funds to assist KDSG and KDAPMU in formulating such proposals
(para. 4.28).
VI. PRODUCTIONV, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production and Demand
6.01      Nigeria is a net importer of food (para. 2.02) and the 1978 Nigeria
Agricultural Sector Review (Report 2181-UNI) projects that by 1990 this de-
ficit will widen to about 11 million tons of cereal equivalent unless drastic
remedial action is taken. This would represent an annual import bill of NI.3
billion at 1978 prices.  No reliable data is available concerning the quanti-
ties of food crop produced or sold within the project area. Reports suggest a
substantial flow of food to the urban centers both within the State and out-
side it.  This impression is highlighted by the hypothetical food balance
sheet for the project area, using mission-estimated data.  Estimation of the
State's food balance position is dependent entirely on unreliable population
data; if official estimates are accepted, then the State is in balance as
regards food. At full development from 1989 onwards, total net food produc-
tion in the project area (from both project and non-project farms) is
projected to reach about 1.5 million tons grain equivalent.  Consumption,
including urban areas, is estimated to reach about 1.1 million tons, assuming
an average consumption of 170 kg of grain equivalent per year and a 1980
population of 6.1 million. This assumes an annual population increase of 2.5%
per year in the rural areas and 5% in towns.  There appears, therefore, to be
a substantial potential to market production from the project area to other
parts of Nigeria.
6.02      Fertilizer is the most significant contributor to incremental crop
production. Its timely availability would be improved by the Fertilizer Loan
(para. 4.33). It would be better di-stributed and more effectively utilized as
a result of KDADP. APMEPU data on FADP show the crop priorities accorded by
farmers for fertilizer use and incre)mental production realized. This data,
with due account taken for differences in ecology and cropping pattern, is
used for the zonal production projections. In addition, an increase in the
area of maize cultivated has been projected in accordance with the FADP
pattern. No difference between the present and without situation is assumed,
which conforms to the national agricultural production growth rate which is
almost stagnant (less than 1% annual increase--para. 2.02) and which has been
found to apply regionally to non-ADP areas in the northern states. In the
with-project situation, production is projected to rise in line with improved



- 31
fertilizer availability, its more efficient use, and a modest increase in the
area cultivated to maize. Over the project period, the ratio of incremental
grain equivalent production to incremental project inputs "mainly fertilizer)
would be about 7:1, a modest improvement on the 6:1 ratio achieved in FADP
(para. 7.01) The annual incremental crop production in project year five from
both BSP and ASP programs, after deductions of seed and storage losses, is
expected to reach about 164,000 tons of maize, 83,000 tons of sorghum, 2,000
tons of millet, 2,000 tons of cowpeas, 31,000 tons of rice, 27,000 tons of
groundnut, 10,000 tons of cotton, and 71,000 tons of vegetables, including
potato, pepper, onion, and tomato. Crop development projections are in the
Annex 1, Tables 3a and 3b. Production projections are in Annex 1, Table 4.
Given the present and projected food balance in Nigeria (para. 2.02), there
should not be a serious problem in disposing of any surplus.
B. Marketing
6.03     The general marketing system for food grains and vegetables is based
on the village market and appears to work efficiently with dealers' markups at
a reasonable 10 to 20%. Cotton marketing is unsatisfactory but adequate for
project needs. Producer prices have recently been increased, but are still
too low, and buying is inefficient and poorly organized. The specific prob-
lems of the grains and cotton marketing boards are not amenable to immediate
solution. Ongoing sector work will review the operations of the boards and
identify possibilities for Bank intervention in future projects, either to
strengthen the boards and/or to involve the private sector more in storage and
credit for buying. Consultancy services have been provided in the project to
review marketing procedures within the State, the need for adopting more
appropriate procedures if necessary, and an assessement of the amount of
produce being marketed in and outside the State (para. 4.28). As in other
ADPs (para. 3.20), most surpluses will be marketed through the private sector
and it is expected government marketing boards will only play a significant
role with cotton for which it is the sole authorized buyer.
C. Prices
6.04     In 1973, Nigerian cereal price levels corresponded closely to those
ruling on world markets. Since that time the ratio has progressively widened,
so that while world prices have eased, Nigerian prices have continued to
inflate to the point where the local prices of all traded cereal grains
(maize, sorghum, and rice) are well above the respective world price levels.
This has been caused by a combination of overvalued exchange rates, rapidly
rising wage rates and high domestic inflation. Cotton and groundnut prices
have only recently been increased, but these are relatively labor-intensive
crops and profit margins have declined in real terms, making them less attrac-
tive economically than food crops. In addition, Government policy has tended
to stimulate food crops over others (para. 2.04). Import parity prices based
on IBRD forecasts for world prices were used for calculating border prices for
maize, sorghum, rice, groundnuts and cotton. For the remaining non-traded



- 32 -
output, the domestic retail prices 1/ are multiplied by the consumption
conversion factor (para 8.05). Financial prices (for farm budgets) reflect
local market conditions as do prices for non-traded crops (cowpeas, millet and
vegetables). Estimates for both financial and border prices for crops in 1983
constant terms are given in Annex IV, Table 1. Based on these prices the
financial and economic value of annual incremental project output at full
development (year 5) would be about N187.0 mn and N86.0 mn, respectively.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Financial Implications for Farmers
7.01     Three models for rainfed cultivation have been constructed to repre-
sent the cropping patterns and farm sizes in Zone I, Zones II & III together
and Zone IV. The farm models represent a wide range of mixtures found in
practice.  Production estimates are extrapolated from APMEPU survey data
covering FADP over a seven year period showing average incremental response to
fertilizer and average increased yields without fertilizer over the period.
The average with-fertilizer yields include many farmers who applied inputs
well below recommended levels (e.g., very low fertilizer rates with no other
recommended inputs) and are consequently below yields achievable by farmers
following project recommendations. The yields used in the calculation of
income for improved and advanced farms have been set ten percent above the
average with-fertilizer yields recorded in APMEPU survey data. Input quanti-
ties have been kept low to conform with improved farmer practices and show
production projections resulting from nutrient input to incremental production
ratios ranging from 1:10 for maize and 1:2 for cowpea. The nutrient input to
incremental production ratios vary from zone to zone and are shcown in the
Project File.  Farm prices are based on 1983 prices.  Farm budgets were cal-
culated using both subsidized and unsubsidized prices to show the effect on
farm income of a likely removal of the current subsidies.  Farm budgets, both
with and without subsidies, are presented in Annex III, Tables la-ic, and a
summary is presented in Table 5. Details of these appear in the Project
File. The traditional farm models represent the present or pre-project
typical household cultivation areas and cropping patterns in the four zones.
The without project situation is represented by the same traditional models
which are not expected to change without the type of inputs such as the
project offers. This conforms to national agricultural production growth rate
which shows no significant increase (para. 6.02). The with project models
(improved and advanced) show what can be achieved by farmers fully partici-
pating at the modest input levels prescribed as evidenced in FADP. While
financial response to fertilizer, the most significant input, is a factor
which affects the crop priority accorded by farmers for fertilizer use, their
judgement also takes into account other factors: the cost of other inputs,
the effects on the overall household labor availability, and the role the crop
plays in risk aversion in an area particularly sensitive to droughts. The
projected changes in production and cropping pattern are therefore based on
1/   Based on available information for Kaduna and other states.



- 33 -
FADP experience which has shown that farmers will not respond exclusively to
financial considerations (para. 2.09).
Table 5: Summary of Farm Budgets
Fertilizer Costs With Subsidy and Without Subsidy Compared
(N)
Without project        With project at full development
Traditional          Improved           Advanced
Without fertilizer     Sbsid at           Subsidy at
50%    25        50        25
Zone I: 2.75 ha farm
Net farm family income          -       542          726    703       1202      1177
Return per m day                          2.69         3-.C    2.98      4.7      4.6
Encome per capita               -       102          137    133        227      222
Zones II & III: 4.4 ha farm    with fertilizer
ubivat
5tXE       25%
Net farm family income         935      931         1406    1370      1729     1663
Retun per manday               3.06       3.04         3.68    3.59     4.06      3.91
Income per capita              176      175          265    258        326      314
Zone IV: 4.4 ha farm
Net farm family income          -       806         1228    1193      1384     1333
Retum per manday               -          2.63         3.22    3.14     3.26      3.14
Income per capita              -        152          232    226        261       252
7.02     Over 90% of project area farms are represented by these manually
cultivated rainfed models growing sorghum, maize, groundnuts, millet, rice,
cowpea and cotton. Federal policy progressively to reduce fertilizer subsidy
would increase the cost to the farmer from N90/t (75% subsidy) in PFY to N180
in current 1984 prices (25% subsidy) in PY4 and 5. The models shown in Table
V compare the effect on farm income of fertilizer at N130/t (average over the
project period of 50% subsidy) with N180/t (the highest expected price). As
the fertilizer cost rises farmers will probably give increasing priority to
fertilizer on the more responsive crops. At present price levels this would
probably result in greater fertilizer use on rice, maize, groundnuts and
sorghum and less on cotton, cowpea and millet. The effect of this shift of
emphasis will be reduced by the dominant mixed cropping practice but is still
expected to improve returns above those reflected in the farm models. The
models show that returns per man-day remain positive in all zones with 25%
fertilizer subsidy. By adopting improved practices, the farm families would



- 34.-
be able to employ family labor more productively. In Zone I, the 'with
project' peak labor requirements for both improved and advanced farmers
(38 and 41 mandays/month, respectively) are within or close to the estimated
family labor availability of 40 1/ mandays per month. In Zones II, III and
IV, the farm model requires 60 mandays of additional labor for the improved
and 76 mandays for the advanced farmers. Migratory labor at approximately
N3.50 per day would help meet this requirement, 10 and 26 mandays per year,
respectively, above the peak monthLy labor availability of 50 mandays.
7-03     Provided participating farmers receive a timely supply of inputs,
especially fertilizers, the increase in estimated annual net farm income
should be adequate to encourage a fairly high take-up of improved and advanced
practices in Zones II, III and IV. Farm incomes, and the potential for
increasing them, are limited in Zone I by the smaller holding sizes and lower
yields as a result of lower rainfall.
7.04     Comparisons of per capita incomes based on farm budgets with income
data based on national accounts aggregates must be interpreted with caution
under most circumstances. The unavailability of recent nationa:L accounts and
the often conflicting GDP deflators make this particularly true for Nigeria.
A rough comparison, however, gives some indication of the relati've economic
position of project beneficiaries. Recent Bank estimates place Nigeria's per
capita income at N570 or US$863 in 1982. The income of project farmers is now
between N102 and N176 per capita, one-third of the national average income,
placing them close to the relative poverty group level of N137 and below the
absolute poverty level of N225. Improved farmers, using subsidized fertilizer
would improve their per capita income by one-third in Zone I, by- a half in
Zones II & III and IV. Advanced farmers would more than double their per
capita incomes in Zone I; almost double in Zones II & III and improve by
three-quarters in Zone IV. The project would thus increase farmers' incomes
in all zones, but improved farmers would still remain below the relative
poverty level in Zone I and all farmers below the absolute poverty level in
all Zones.
7.05     Due to the difficulty in arriving at a model and the fact that the
fadama lands are in most cases part of a unit containing rainfed uplands, no
farm budget has been prepared for the fadama component. However, with the
high prices ruling for vegetables and other irrigated crops and the reduction
in risk due to the use of irrigation, this component should be viable even
allowing for the cost of land levelling and equipment.
1/   The difference in labor availability per month (40 mandays in Zone I
as against 50 mandays per month in Zones II, III and IV) is due to the
fact that Zone I is primarily Moslem and the women do not assist with
fieldwork.



- 35 -
B. Financial Implications to Government
7.06     The project will generate little direct government revenue, as
farmers' output is not taxed, and cotton, groundnut and grains marketing
boards are not revenue producers for FGN at present price levels. There will,
however, be some spin-off of incremental farm income in expanded non-
agricultural activities and increased spending by project beneficiaries on
consumer goods and imports subject to tax. A precise quantification of such
increased tax revenue is not possible. Small amounts of additional revenue
might be generated at the state or local government level through increased
payments of market-related fees.
7.07     Financial costs to the State Government during the project period may
be divided into three categories: (a) the state's share of the project costs
which in current price terms would be about N15.7 mn over the five-year period
plus N3.0 mn equity contribution to FASCOM; (b) the state's responsibility to
maintain existing non-incremental staff cost estimated at N6.7 mn per annum in
constant base terms or N45.3 mn in current terms over the five-year period;
c) KDSG fertilizer net subsidy estimated at N24.3 mn over the five year
period. Total state expenditure in current price terms would come to about
N88.3 mn (US$133.8 mn), an average of 117.7 mn per annum.  There are reasons
to believe that given the State's commitment to IRDP, and no other problems
arise, the financial requirements appear to be within the capabilities of the
State.  The equity contribution of N3.0 mn is not expected to present a burden
on State finances since it can be made available from the cash resources of
FASCOM's precursor--the commercial unit of FADP. The front loaded disburse-
ment schedule of the Bank loan was designed to maintain KDSG's contribution to
project cost at a lower level during the first years (N1.1 mn in PYl) and
increase gradually over the project period (N5.1 mn in PY5). The post-project
incremental expenditure is estimated at 12.0 mn per annum (including roads,
dams and building maintenance, staff salaries, and spare parts) which is
considerably less than KDSG's project-period expenditure and thus will not
impose any undue burden on State finances.
7.08       For the total program, direct FGN input would amount to N96.8 mn or
an average of 119.4 mn annually, including the fertilizer subsidy.  In com-
puting the fertilizer subsidy, it is assumed that (a) 70% of the net cost of
the fertilizer subsidy would be borne by FGN, and (b) the price of fertilizer
to the farmer would be increased over the project period from the current rate
of N42 per ton to N268 per ton.  Of the total FGN cost of 196.8 mn, 171.2
(74%) is attributable to the fertilizer subsidy. Under the Fertilizer Loan,
60% of the foreign exchange costs for two years would be covered, thus sub-
stantially decreasing FGN's immediate financial obligations.
C. Cost Recovery
7.09     FASCOM would recover all costs for procurement and distribution of
seeds, chemicals, sprayers, and agricultural implements through adequate
markups. FASCOM's cost recovery practices would be reviewed annually by KDSG,



- 36 -
FGN, and the Bank in the light of FASCOM's annual report, audited accounts,
and operations program to ensure that costs are recovered.
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Project Benefits
8.01     The project's two main benefits are closely related.  Improving the
effectiveness and efficiency of MOA and the strengthening of their management
and staff will increase the productivity, and thus improve the well-being of
many of Kaduna State's 615,000 farm families. This improved institutional
support would enable them to increase their incomes and, in addition, the
increased surpluses from the State will help meet Nigeria's projected food
deficit.
8.02     As one of the proposed series of Bank-assisted statewide agricultural
development projects, the project would introduce on a larger scale, many of
the successful management and organizational techniques adopted in the ADPs
already completed or in progress. This strategy has been adopted by the
Government in its efforts to meet Nigeria's projected food deficit and channel
more resouces, more efficiently, to the rural sector. The project cannot be
regarded as experimental--its agronomic features are tried, the four zonal
units are each not much larger thar. the completed ADPs, and the project orga-
nization integrates and strengthens the existing institutions. The project
cost is believed to be within the capabilities of the State given their ongo-
ing commitment to IRDP (para 7.07). Staff development and training figure
prominently in project design, not only for agricultural staff, but also for
other staff as well as farmers.
8.03     There are an estimated 615,000 farm families in the project area, and
assuming (by experience from existing ADPs) that 60 to 70% of farmers adopt
some of the project recommendations, then some 430,000 families will benefit
directly from the project's agricultural components. Many others will benefit
from infrastructure components. The project is not designed primarily to
increase the number of persons employed in agriculture, but to increase
existing labor's poductivity. The technological packages should be able to be
introduced within the present labor supply. The economic analysis assumes an
increased hired labor input of some 12 million labor days per annum at full
development. In view of the presen-t highly uneven seasonal pattern of labor
utilization, emphasis will be placed on eliminating bottlenecks by improved
field practices, such as timely weeding and better tools, and raising the
productivity of off-season family labor. The adaptive research program,
introduction of simple improved imp:Lements, and fadama upgrading, are all
among project components which would help realize this aim.
8.04     Benefits from the road subcomponent are only partially quantifi-
able. In some cases, poor communications may otherwise impede participation
in the project altogether; on the other hand, no specific benefits are imputed
to reduced transport costs and ensuing improvements in farmers' terms of



- 37 -
trade. In addition, no benefits were imputed from the increased production
expected from new areas opened for cultivation by the feeder roads program.
B. Economic Rate of Return
8.05      The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is about 16% (Annex 4,
Table 2), and its net present value (NPV), discounted at 10%, as a proxy for
the opportunity cost of capital in Nigeria, is about N54 million. The ERR was
calculated on the basis of incremental costs and output, and it was assumed
that production trends would remain constant without the project (para 6.02).
Project life was assumed to be 25 years, including a five-year investment
period during which statewide development activities would be substantially
completed. For the calculation of project costs, farm inputs including
fertilizer, were costed at full, unsubsidized economic cost. On-farm labor was
costed at N2.90 per day, representing the average daily productivity in
unimproved agriculture when all outputs are valued in economic (border naira)
terms. Conversion factors were applied to capital equipment (0.82), construc-
tion (0.78), transportation (0.73); to all other costs, the standard conver-
sion factor (SCF) was applied (0.71). This adjustment allows for distortions
to local costs resulting from import duties, quotas, and similar factors, and
translates domestic prices into border prices. Project benefits comprise the
value of incremental crop production, priced at border farmgate prices derived
from import parity for internationally traded goods or their immediate substi-
tutes; and from domestic prices of non-traded outputs, multiplied by the
consumption conversion factor (0.62). Import parity prices were based on IBRD
forecasts for 1982-1990 in constant 1983 dollars. Because of the inherent
time lags between inputs and outputs in agriculture, half the benefits arising
from production in any given year are assumed to accrue in the following
year. Benefits of the forestry component were not included since they are not
easily quantifiable: their main benefit would be as a windbreak to crops,
although in time they could also be used as firewood. See the Project File
for detailed assumptions behind the economic analysis.
C. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
8.06      The sensitivity of the ERR and NPV to changes in cost or benefit
streams was tested and switching values calculated (the percentage change in a
stream or streams, other factors constant, that would reduce the ERR to its
minimum acceptable value of 10%, or equivalently reduce the NPV at 10% to
zero). Total project benefits would have to drop by 10% or total project
costs increase by 10% to bring the ERR to the minimum acceptable 10%. Prices
of grain crops (about 60% of benefits at project completion) would have to
drop by 17% to yield a 10% ERR. International Fertilizer prices could
increase 42%, and the ERR would still remain at an acceptable level. The
daily shadow wage rate would have to rise over 20% from N2.90 to N3.55 before
the ERR fell to 10%.



- 38 -
8.07     Total production is sensi-tive to the ready availability of fer-
tilizer, both in the agronomic sense and in influencing the ultimate take-up
rate and the period in which this is achieved. If disruptions in input supply
delay adoption of new practices, and reduce the number of participating
farmers, the ERR and NPV would drop. Many assumptions are possible. If, for
example, the same take-up rate is achieved, but later than anticipated due to
delays in procuring the same quantities of fertilizers and chemicals, the ERR
is still an acceptable 10% with a one-year delay. If adoption rates dropped
by 30% due to the increased cost of fertilizer as the subsidy is decreased, or
due to other factors, this would still yield an acceptable 10% ERR. If post-
project benefits dropped 12% (due to say, less effective management) this
would still yield an acceptable 10% ERR. The sensitivity of the project to
changes in costs or benefits is due) in large measures to the high on-farm
recurrent cost of hired labor. Since appraisal, government petroleum
revenues, which had fueled inflaticon and substantial increases in wages, have
decreased considerably. On-farm hired labor costs have recently been reported
to have decreased in parts of the project area. If this trends persists, as
it may at least for the short term, and labor costs decrease say, 10%, the ERR
would increase *to 19%; if it dropped 20%, a 22% ERR would result. Zone I,
being the area of least precipitation, appeared to have the lowest production
potential. A separate rate of return calculation was carried ou1t for this
Zone to determine the viability of including the area in the project if the
benefits did not outweigh costs. This exercise yielded an acceptable 18% rate
of return, due in large measure to the greater value of crops produced-fadama
vegetables and cotton.
8.08     The sensitivity analysis indicates that while the project can
tolerate a certain amount of latitude in actual values from those projected,
it is important that major divergencies in costs, yields or timing be avoided
(divergencies in economic prices are regarded as outside project; control).
Crucial to success will be (a) sound initial management, (b) regular and
timely financing, and (c) efficient and dependable procurement and distribu-
tion of farm inputs: failure in any of these areas could have serious impli-
cations, and safeguards to be sought in each area are listed in Chapter IX.
Additionally, the possible risk of untimely or inadequate fertilizer deli-
veries is expected to be addressed by the Fertilizer Loan, which, it is
planned, would regularize expected delivery both time- and quantity-wise. The
project's basic technical packages are fairly simple and well tested both at
research station and farm level, and in light of the experience under FADP, a
delay and such a low take-up rate are considered unlikely. In addition,
refinements to improve the mixed cropping recommendations should result from
the project's research component. The higher prices farmers will be paying
for fertilizer is not expected to decrease demand substantially as many are
already paying black market prices higher than the proposed increases.
Research results confirm this 1/ and the viability of the farm model is
maintained at the higher input costs.
1/   Balcet, J.C. and Candler, W. Farm Technology Adoption in Northern
Nigeria, RP0671-88, 1981.



- 39 -
8.09     The financial viability of various crop enterprises would be influ-
enced by Government policies affecting producer prices (international trade
policy towards farm produce, activities of marketing boards) - the example of
cotton and groundnuts (para 6.04) indicates possible risks here, and the Bank
will need to maintain a continuing dialogue with FGN over sllch national policy
issues. Local funding has been the major constraint for ongoing projects due
to the drop in oil revenues, and the project's viability has been seriously
put at risk. Recent financing arrangements made with FGN where the Bank will
now finance part of local costs, has reduced the risk by decreasing the finan-
cial burden of the States and FGN. Additionally, while State finances are in
a state of flux, given their ongoing expenditures to rural developmnent, and no
other problems arise, the financial requirements are considered within the
State's capabilities. The Fertilizer Loan would also decrease the direct FGN
contribution for at least two years.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01     During negotiations for the proposed loan, the following principal
issues were discussed and agreements were reached with FGN and KDSG, and
specified as conditions in the Loan and Project Agreements.
Financial Conditions:
(a) KDSG would maintain the real level of expenditure throughout the
project in addition to its contribution to incremental costs
(paras. 4.31, 4.34);
(b) the management of KDADP would submit at least four months prior to
each fiscal year the project's proposed annual budget, as approved by
the KDADEC to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and the Bank
(para. 4.34);
(c) Bank reimbursement would be made directly to KDADP's bank accounts
(para 4.34);
(d) KDSG and FGN would make an initial deposit of N4.7 mn into KDADP's
bank account, and KDSG, a further initial deposit of N3.0 as cash
equity into FASCOM's bank account (para. 4.34);
(e)  KDSG would provide for the staff costs at current level in the
recurrent budget of MOA and pay the existing staff directly from MOA
(para 4.34);
(f) KDSG and FGN would pay their share of project costs quarterly and in
advance into the project's bank account, in accordance with the
approved annual budget (para. 4.34);
(g) if KDSG were delinquent in paying its share of costs, FGN would pay
KDSG's share directly from KDSG's statuary allocation (para. 4.34);



- 40 -
(h)  KDAPMU and FASCOM's accounts would be annually audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.39);
(i)  the audited accounts and Auditors' Report would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.39);
(j)  the Auditor's Report should be of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank may reasonably request, including a statement as to whether
or not Bank funds have been used for their intended purpose
(para. 4.39);
Project Administration Conditions
(k)  the annual work plan including budget estimates, proposed by KDAPMU,
approved by KDADEC, would be submnitted to FMA for approval four
months prior to the year concerned and a copy would be sent to the
Bank (para. 4.02);
(1)  KDAPMU would be responsible for preparing detailed terms of reference
for review by the Bank prior to the engagement of any staff or con-
sultant and would be employed on conditions and terms satisfactory to
the Bank (paras. 4.24, 4.28);
(m)  after completion of disbursement, KDAPMU would prepare a Project
Completion Report in consultation with the Bank and would submit it
to the Bank within six months of the closing date (para 4.41);
(n)  KDSG would maintain FASCOM with membership, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.06);
(o)  at the end of the fourth year of implementation, KDSG should submit
to the Bank and FGN, detailed proposals for post-project organization
and finance (para. 5.11);
9.02     Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(p)  appointment of project manager, financial controller, chief engineer,
four zonal rmanagers, FASCOM's managing director and financial
controller (para. 4.24);
(q)  KDSG would be required to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that the initial N4.7 mn had been deposited in KDAPMU's bank account,
and that FASCOM's N3.0 mn equity had been deposited in its bank
account (para. 4.34);
(r)  satisfactory arrangements acceptable to the Bank have been made with
the Federal Agricultural Co-ordinating Unit to assist in bringing the
accounts pertaining to commercial operations up to date and improving
the accounting and interval control system and procedures for
monitoring expenditures under the project (para 4.39) and
(s)  establishment of KDAPMU and KDADEC (para. 5.01).



- 41 -
9.03     On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$122.0 million (including front end fee) to the
Federal Republic of Nigeria.



- 42 -
ANNEX I
NIGERIA                                                   Table la
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATEI) AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Inputs & Yields Per Hectare-Fainfed Crops
Zone 1
1/
Crop              Product       Variety      Yield -       Seed       Fertilizer Nutrient              Insecticides
kg/ha       kg/ha            kg/ha                Seed      Field       Store
N        P        K        kg       kg/l        kg
Sorghum
Unimproved    Grain           Local           430          12        -        -        -
Improved           "          Local           600          12       17       17       17         -
Advanced I        "      H.P.3,H.P.8          900          12       46       27       27        0.04       -           _
Advanced II        '          B.E.5         1,200          12       82       34       34        0.04        -         0.14
Millet
Unimproved         "          Local           345           8        -        -        -         _
Improved           "          Nigerian-
composite,
Ex Borno       500            8       17       17       17        0.03
Cowpea
Unimproved                    Local           100          20        -        -        -
Improved          "           Ife Brown      160           20        -       20        -        0.06      7.5 2/    0.14
Groundnut
Unimproved       (in shell)  Local            290          45        -        -
Improved             "        F452-4         600           45        -       50        -        0.13      2.5 -/
Cotton
Unimproved   Seed Cotton   Local              220          5         -        -
Improved             "        S-71           650           50.5/    -        80        -
Advanced             "        S-71            800          50j-    60        60                           7.5
I/ Average yields of sole and mixed cropping at varying densities.
2/ Three sprays with prethroids @ 2.5 1/ha.
3/  Research results may indicate need for k in sore areas.
4/ During aphis attacks only; perhaps twice in five years.
5/ High seed rate due to current use of fuzzy seed. Delinted seed (if necessary encapsulated with boron)
would have the seed requirement.
Notes:   1.  All crops including most of the sorghum would continue to be grown in mixtures and at varying
densities. Cowpeas, groundnuts and cotton would benefit from fertilizer residues from earlier
planted crops.
2. The yields of all farmers will increase progressively at varying rates for different crops. For
ease of calculation average yields over the five year project period are used.
3. Zonal boundaries match those of LGAs. Consequently allowance will have to be made for some non-
conformity of zonal and ecological areas.



- 43 -
NIGERIA                                              ANNEX 1
Table lb
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Innuts & Yields Per Hectare-Rainfed Crops
Zone II & III
Zone II & III
Crop              Product      Variety      Yield -       Seed     Fertilizer Nutrient             Insecticides
kg/ha      kg/ha            kg/ha              Seed       Field      Store
N       P        K      kg        kg/l        kg
Maize
Unimproved      Grain         Local         265          25       -        -       -        -          -        _
Improved          "       TZB,S123       1,250          25       48       26      26       0.07        -        -
Advanced I                  if"   "      1,700          25       86       32      32       0.07        -       0.14
Sorghum
Unimproved                    Local         610          12       -        -       -        -          -        -
Improved          "                        850          12       16       16      16       0.04        -        -
Advanced I        "          YG,Short   1,100           12       46       27      27       0.04        -        -
Advanced II       "        Kaura, 1487 1,500             12     100       40      40       0.04        -       0.14
Millet
Unimproved        "           Local         345          8        -        -       -        -          -        -
Improved          "        Ex-Borno,
Nig. Comp.      500           8      17       17       17      0.03        -        -
Cowpea
Unimproved                    Local          85         20        -        -       -        -          -        -
Improved                   Ife Brown       135          20        -       20       -       0.06       7.5 -    0.14
Groundnut
Unimproved    In shell        Local         320         45        -        -       _        _          _
Improved                  S-61,M25-68      670          45        -       50-3/    -       0.13      2.5-
Cotton
Unimproved   Seed Cotton    Local           240          50)               -       -             -          -
Improved        "            s 71          550          50) -    -       60        -        -        5.0
Advanced              "       S-71          95u          50)     70       70      .-        -         7.5
Rice
Unimproved       Paddy       Local       1,200          45                 -       -             -         -
Improved           "         OS6         2,000          45       80      30       30       0.13
1/  Average yields of sole and mixed cropping at varying densities.
2/  Three sprays of pyrethroids @   2.5 1/ha
3/  Future research results may indicate need for K in some areas.
4/  During aphis attacks only; perhaps twice in five years.
5/  High seed rate due to current use of fuzzy seed. Delinted seed (if necessary encapsulated with boron)
would halve the seed requirement.
Notes:   1.  All crops including most of the sorghum would continue to be grown in mixtures and at varying
densities. Cowpeas, groundnuts and cotton would benefit from fertilizer residues from earlier
planted crops.
2.  The yields of all farmers will increase progressively at varying rates for different crops.  For
ease of calculation,average yields over the five year project period are used.
3.  Zonal boundaries match those of LGAs.  Consequently,allowance will have to be made for some non-
conformity of zonal and ecological areas.



- 44 -
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                       ANNEX 1
Table Ic
Inputs & Yields Per Hectare-Rainfed Crops
Zone IV
Crop               Product      Variety      Yield       Seed        Fertilizer Nutrient             Insecticides
kg/ha       kg/ha              kg/ha             Seed       Field      Store
N        P        K                 kg/         kg
Maize
Unimproved        Grain        Local         240        25         -         -        -        -
Improved            "          T28         1,125        25        44        23       23      0.07       -           -
Advanced                                   1,500        25        70        25       25      0.07       -          0.14
Sorghum
Unimproved          "          Local         525        12         -         -        -       -         -           -
Improved            "            "           730        12        13        13       13      0.04       -           -
Advanced I                   Short Kaura  1,000         12        46        27       27      0.04       -           -
Advanced II                  L187,C742    1,300         12        66        27       27      0.04       -          0.14
Millet
Unimproved          "          Local -/      310         8         -         -        -                             -
Improved            "         Ex-Borno
Nig. Comp.    450          8        13        13      13       0.03       -           -
Cowpea
Unimproved          "          Local          75        20         -         -        -        --                   -
Improved (Solo)    "          Ife Brown      120        20         _        20       -       0.06      7.5 2/       0.14
Groundnut
Unimpri.oved      in shell    Local          310        45         -         -        -       --        -
Improved          "           M25-68 -
M69-101        650        45         -       50  0/ .013                 2.5 4/
Cotton
Unimproved    Seed Cotton    Local           200        50)        -         -        -       --        -
Improved        "      "       S-71          450        50) 5/   26         24       -        --       5.0
Advanced               "        "            870        50)        -         -       -        --       7.5 
Rice
Unimproved        Paddy        Local       1,200        45         -         -        -       -
ImDroved            "          OS6         2,000        45        23        23      23       0.13
1/  Axeiage yields of sole and mixed cropping at varying densities.
2/ ThrEe sprays with prethroids @ 2.5 1/ha.
3/  RE sF arch results may indicate need for k in some areas.
4/ Dcr:ng aphis attacks only; perhaps twice in five years.
5/  HI >l seed rate due to current use of fuzzy seed. Delinted seed (if necessary encapsulated with boron)
w( N: I have the seed requirement.
Notes    . All crops including most of the sorghum would continue to be grown in mixtures and at varying
densities. Cowpeas, groundnuts and cotton would benefit from fertilizer residues from earlier
planted crops.
The yields of all farmers will increase progressively at varying rates for different crops.  For
ease of calculation, average yields over the five year project period are used.
Zonal boundaries match those of LGAs.  Consequently,allowance will have to be made for some non-
conformity of zonal and ecological areas.



KAMMNA STATE IMIIGUATD AMlUUL D              FWOVN   PROJECT                           AMI  1
Advanced Fedama Cultivation                                             Tarleid
Crop                 Product                            VarietyV       Yield        Sed             Fertilinars                      Inscticides
kg7ha                          (kg/ha                  Seed      Fild       Store
* !~~~~~~~~ P  X                                                          s             47~
Sorghum
Unimproved         Grain                                                900           12      15       15       15            -          -          -
Advanced                                                             1.800            12      75       39       38           0.04        -          0.14
Maize
Unimproved           "                                               1,000            25      19       19       19                 -                -
Advanced             "                                               2.400            25     103       38       38           0.07        -          0.14
Rice
Unimproved         Paddy                                             1,200           45       41       15       15                 -                -
Advanced                                                             2,600           45       71       45       45           0.13
Cowpeas
Unimproved                                                               75           20      -        -        -             -          -         -
Advanced                                                               800            20      -        36       -            0.06       7.5         0.14
Vegetables
Unimproved         Fresh                                            12,000           -        52       19       19            -          -          -
Advanced                                                            25,000           -       103       38       38            -         5.0
Potatoes
Unimproved         Fresh                                             7,000        1,500       52       19       19            -          -         -
Advanced                                                            15,000        2.000       95       30       30            -         2.5
Onions
Unimproved                                                          12,000             5      52       19       19            -          -
Advanced                                                            25,000             5     103       38       38            -
Tomatoes
Unimproved                                                          15,000             5      52       19       19            -  (+5.0 Nematicides
Advanced                                                            30,000             5     125       60       60            -  (7.5/L
Pepper               Green pepper/Dry chillies
Unimproved                                                           5.000/500         2      52       19       19            -         -          -
Advanced                                                            10,000/800         2     112       60      60             -        5.0
1/ Same varieties as recommended for different zones under rainfed crop development.
2/ 75% chillies and 25% peppers.
June 1, 1982



- 46-                        ANNEX I
Table 2a
NIGERIA
KA)UNA STATE
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pysical Parameters of Rainfed Farm Models -- Zone I
Crop                       Area (ha)      Yield (kg)      Man-days
Traditional
Sorghum                    0.67            288             41
Sorghum/millet             0.12           52/41             9
Sorghum/cowpea             0.62          266/62            48
Sorghujm/groundnut         0.27          116/78            23
Millet/cowpea              0.80          276/80             59
Millet/groundnut           0.10           34/29             8
Millet/cotton              0.17           59/37            13
2.75                           201
Improved
Sorghum                    0.70            420             51
Sorghum/cowpea             0.60           360/96           53
Sorghum/groundnut         '0.25           150/150          27
Millet                     0.10             50               7
Millet/cowpea              0.75           375/120          63
Millet/groundnut           0.10            50/60           10
Cotton                     0.10             50             10
Cowpea                     0.15             24             15
A2 75                          2 6
Advanced I
Sorghum                    0).70           630             59
Sorghum/cowpea             0.60          540/96            60
Sorghum/groundnut          0.25          225/150           30
Millet                     0.10             50              7
Millet/cowpea              0.75          375/120           64
Millet/groundnut           0.10           50/60            10
Cotton                     0.10             90             12
Cowpea                     0.15             24             14
2.75                           256
Advanced _I
Sorghum                     0.70            840             70
Sorghum/cowpea              0.60          720/96            70
Sorghum/groundnut           0.25          300/150           36
Millet                      0.10             50               7
Millet/cowpea               0.75          375/120           64
Millet/groundnut            0.10           50/60             10
Cotton                      0.10             90             12
Cowpea                      0.15             24             14
2.75                           283



Annex 3
47 -                       Table 2b
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Physical Parameters of Rainfed Farm Models -- Zones II & III
Crop                      Area (ha)      Yield (kg)        Man-days
Traditional
Sorghum                   2.30            1403            140
Sorghum/cowpea            0.25           150/20            19
Sorghum/millet            0.35          210/120            27
Sorghum/groundnut         0.30           180/100           25
Maize                      0.05             12              4
Maize/cowpea              0.20            50/20            19
Millet/cotton             0.35           120/80            28
Cotton                    0.40             100             26
Rice                      0.10             120             10
Groundnut                 0.10              32              8
4.40                           306
Improved
Sorghum                   2.30            1955            168
Sorghym/cowpea            0.20          170/27             18
Sorghum/groundnut         0.30          255/200            32
Maize                     0.15             190             15
Maize/cowpea              0.20          250/27            '23
Millet                    0.15              75             10
Millet/cotton             0.25           125/140           29
Cotton                    0.50            275              50
Cowpea                    0.15              20             14
Rice                      0.10             200             13
Groundnut                 0.10              70             10
4.40                           382
Advanced I
Sorghum                   2.30           2530             193
Sorghum/cowpea            0.20          220/27             20
Sorghum/groundnut         0.30          330/200            36
Maize                     0.15             255             16
Maize/cowpea              0.20           340/27            25
Millet                    0.15              75             10
Millet/cotton             0.25           125/240           28
Cotton                    0.50            475             60
Cowpea                    0.15              20             14
Rice                      0.10            200              13
Groundnut                 0.10              70             10
4.40                           425
Advanced II
Sorghum                   2.30           3450             230
Sorghum/cowpea            0.20          300/27            24
Sorghum/groundnut         0.30          450/200           40
Maize                     0.15             255             16
Maize/cowpea              0.20          340/27             25
Millet                    0.15              75             10
Millet/cotton             0.25           125/240           28
Cotton                    0.50            475             60
Cowpea                    0.15              20             14
Rice                      0.10             200             13
Groundnut                 0.10              70            10
4.40                           470



-48 -                          Annex 3
Table 2c
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Physical Parameters for Rainfed Farm Models -- Zone IV
Crop                       Area (ha)      Yield (kg)       Man-days
Traditional
Sorghum                    2.30            460             140
Sorghum/cowpea             0.25           50/20             19
Sorghum/millet             0.35          70/110             27
Sorghum/groundnut          0.30          60/160             25
Maize                      0.05              12              4
Maize/cowpea               0.20           50/15             19
Maize/cotton               0.35           85/70             28
Cotton                     0.40             80              26
Rice                       0.10            120              10
Groundnut                  0.10             30               8
4.40                           306
Improved
Sorghum                    2.30           1680             168
Sorghum/cowpea             0.20          150/25             18
Sorghum/groundnut          0.30          220/200            32
Maize                      0.15             170             15
Maize/cowpea               0.20          225/25             23
Millet                     0.15             70              10
Millet/cotton              0.25          110/110            29
Cotton                     0.50            225              50
Cowpea                     0.15             18              14
Rice                       0.10            200              13
Groundnut                  0.10             65              10
4.40                           382
Advanced I
Sorghum                    2.30           2300             193
Sorghum/cowpea             0.20          200/24             20
Sorghum/groundnut          0.30          300/200            36
Maize                      0.15            225              16
Maize/cowpea               0.20          300/24             25
Millet                     0.15             70              10
Millet/cotton              0.25          110/220            28
Cotton                     0.50            435              60
Cowpea                     0.15             22              14
Rice                       0.10            200              13
Groundnut                  0.10             65              10
4.40                           425
Advanced II
Sorghum                    2.30           3000             230
Sorghum/cowpea             0.20          260/24             24
Sorghum/groundnut          0.30          390/200            40
Maize                      0.15            225              16
Maize/cowpea               0.20          300/24             25
Millet                     0.15             70              10
Millet/cotton              0.25          110/220            28
Cotton                     0.50            435              60
Cowpea                     0.15             22              14
Rice                       0.10            200              13
Groundnut                  0.10             65              10
4.40                           470



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3a
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rainfed Crop Development Projections
('000 ha)
CROP              Year 0    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
SORGHUM
Local
improved      195.3      222.6      275.0     316.5      365.4      392.7
Advanced I        61.5      70.0       86.5       99.2     113.9      123.6
Advanced II       20.0      22.4       27.6       31.8      36.7       39.6
MILLET
Improved         48.7       49.0       60.5       59.6      57.4       61.8
COWPEA
Improved          45.0      49.0       51.9       49.6      45.8       49.4
GROUNDNUT
Improved          85.8     105.0      129.8      148.8     183.8      197.5
COTTON
Improved          45.4      44.8       48.4       53.6      50.6       54.4
Advanced           9.9      11.2       13.8       15.2      18.4       19.9
MAIZE
Improved          61.7      77.0      103.8      128.9     172.3      185.2
Advanced          23.3      28.0       43.2       49.7      57.4       61.8
RICE
Improved          17.4      21.0       26.0      39.7       45.9       49.4
MRaine:mk



ANNE 1
- 50 -                           Table 3b
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Padama Crop Development Projections (ha)
Year 0     Yezr 1      Year 2    Year 3      Year 4    Year 5
Sorghum
Unimproved             4,175       4,003      3,816      2,854       1,637       -
Improved                 -           1.72       359      1,321       22538     4,175
Total              4,175      4,175       4,175      4,175       4,175     4,175
Maize
Unimproved             2,300       2,183      2,050      1,651       1,041       -
Improved                 -           117        250        649       1,259     2,300
Total              2,300      2;300       2,300      2,300      2,300      2,300
Rice
Unimproved             7,565       7,252      6,913      5,678       3,642       -
Improved                 -           313        652      1,887       3,923     7,565
Total              7,565      7,565       7,565      7,965      7,565      7,565
Cowpea
Unimproved             3,600       3,380      3,130      2,550       1,540       -
Improved                 -           340        710      1,610      2,940      4,800
Total              3,600      3,720       3,840      4,160      4,480      4,800
Vegetables
Unimproved             2,538       2,322      2,090      1,546         913       -
Improved                   3         220        460      1,108       1,837     2,706
Total              2,541      2,542       2,550      2,654      2,750      2,706
Potatoes
Unimproved               589         519        434        319         :170      -
Improved                 -70                    155        270         430       613
Total                589        589         589        589        600        613
Onions
Unimproved             1,371       1,168        958        688         :344      -
Improved                 -           203        413        683       1,043     1,407
Total              1,371       1,311      1,371      1,371      1,:387
Tomatoes
Unimproved             1,971       1,759      1,535      1,162         599       -
Improved                 -           21.2       436        809      1,416      2,067
Total              1,971      1,9;'1      1,971      1L971      2,(15      2,067
PepDers
Unimproved               881         780        669        498         260       -
Improved                 -           101        212        383        637        917
Total                881        881         881        881        897        917
July 9, 1979



AM= l
51                               Ta 4
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production Projections
Base
Year
Pro4uc-
tion 1/         Incremental Production Over Base Year
Year 0     Year 1       Year 2     Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
Maize
Gross Incremental Production:
Rainfed                            88.0        23.3        73.9       110.2       167.1       187.0
Fadama                              2.3         0.2.        0.4         0.9         1.8         3.2
Total                                 90.3        23.5        74.3      111.1       168.9       190.2
Storage loss - 102                     9.0         2.4         7.4       11.1        16.9        19.0
Seed Retention - 4%                    3.6         0.9         2.9         4.4         6.7         7.6
Net (Incremental) 2/Production        77.7        20.2        64.0        95.6      145.3       163.6
Sorghum
Gross Incremental Production:
Rainfed                           220.2        12.0        36.0        54.9        77.5        90.4
Fadama                              3.8         0.1         0.3         1.1         2.2         3.7
Total                               224.0        12.1        36.3        56.0        79.7        94.1
Storage loss - 102                    22.4         1.2         3.6         5.6         7.9        9.4
Seed Retention - 2X                    4.5        0.2         0.7         1.1         1.6         1.9
Net (Incremental) 2/ Production   197.1           10.7       32.0        49.3         70.2       82.8
Groundnuts
Gross Incremental Production:        43.9          6.7       15.2        21.7        33.7        38.4
Storage loss - 10%                    4.4         0.7         1.5         2.2         3.4         3.8
'Seed Retention - 20%                  8.8         1.4         3.0         4.4         6.8         7.6
Net (Incremental) 2/ Production    30.7            4.6       10.7        15.1        23.5        27.0
Rice
Gross Incremental Production:
Rainfed                            35.0         2.8         6.8        17.8        22.8        25.5
Fadama                              9.1         0.4         0.9         1.6         5.5        10.6
Total                                44.1         3.2          7.7       19.4        28.3        36.1
Storage loss - 10%                    4.4         0.3         0.8         1.9         2.8         3.6
Seed Retention - 4%                    1.8        0.1         0.3         0.7         1.1         1.4
Net (Incremental) 2/ Production    37.9           2.8         6.6        16.8        24.4        31.1
Cotton
Gross Incremental Production:        25.0         0.9         3.3         6.2         7.5         9.8
Storage loss                          -           -           -           -           -           -
Seed Retention                        -           -           -           -           -           -
Net (Incremental) 2/ Production    25.0            0.9         3.3         6.2         7.5        9.8
Millet
Gross Incremental Production:        18.9         0.1         1.9         1.7         1.5         2.1
Storage loss - 10%                     1.9        -           0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2
Seed Retention - 3%                    0.6        -           0.1         0.1         -           0.1
Net  (Incremental) 2/ Production   16.4            0.1         1.6         1.4         1.3        1.8
Cowpeas
Gross Incremental Production:
Rainfed                             4.7         0.4         0.6         0.3         0.1         0.2
Fadama                              0.3         0.2         0.5         1.2         2.2         3.0
Total                                  5.0        0.6         1.1         1.5         2.3         3.2
Storage loss - 10%                    0.5         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3
Seed Retention - 28%                  1.4         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.6         0.9
Net  (Incremental) 2/ Production    3.1            0.3        0.7         0.9         1.5         2.0
Vegetables
Gross Incremental Production:        82.0          9.5       19.5        36.8        66.5        94.8
Storage loss - 25%                   20.5          2.4        4.9         9.2        16.6        23.7
Net (Incremental) 2/ Production    61.5            7.1       14.6        27.6        49.9        71.1
1/ This corresponds only to production on improved (fertilized) farms.
2/ Incremental applies to years 1-5.
June 7, 1983



ANN-EX 
Table 5
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Input Requirements (Rainfed and Fadana Crops)
Unit        Year 0.      Year 1       Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5
Fertilizers (product-wise)
CAN                          '000 tons   23.4          25.0        25.0         25.0         25.0         25.0
UREA                           r U        18.2         11.0        28.0         34.0         41.0         45.0
SSPi "   "                                41.6         40.0        40.0         40.0         40.0         40.0
DAP                            it  "      -           -            20.0         30.0         39.0         44.0
1;YK 15:15:15                     i       46.8         46.8        40.0         40.0         40.0         40.0
NP 20:20:0                     ;"  "      -            24.0        -            -            -            -
MOP                            to"  It                             4L            6.0          9.0         10.o
Total                                    130.0        146.0       .157.0       175.0        194.0        204.0
Incremental over base year                             16.0        27.0         45.0         64.0         74.0
Fertilizer (nutrient-wise)
1N                                        21.47.-      23.2        28.9         32.8         38.5         41.1
P                                         14.51        18.9        23.2         27.0         31.0         33.4
K                                          7.02         6.9         8.5          9.7         11.0         12.0
Total                                     43.00        49.0        60.6         69.5         80.5         86.5
Incremental over base year                              6.0        17.6         26.5         37.5         43.5
Seeds
Sorghum                      tons                    333          415          475          556          596
Maize                         "                       208         252          286          333          356
Millet                        "                        54          68           79           93           99
Cowpea                        "                      113          141          161          188          202
Groundnut                                            524          646          737          859          920
'CotLon                                            3,586        4,386        4,978        5,795        6,207
Rice                          "                       79           97          112          131          140
June /, 1982
AJSSodhi:jb



NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(NATRA '000)
Base Costs                                Total
1         2          3          4          5         NAIRA    (USS '000)
MANAGEMENT SERVICES                                       3,969.7   1,488.1   1,488.1   1P873.8  1i069,7          9Y889.4    14P983.9
CHEMICALS AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS                       460.0      690.0      920.0   1,150.0   1,380.0       4,600#0      6,969.7
FADAMA IRRIGATION                                        1842.9       494,2      494.2      657.6      494.2      3,983.3      6s035.2
APPLIED RESEARCH                                          1,949,6      563.8      563.8     828.8      485,0      4,391.0      6,653.0
SEED MULTIPLICATION                                       1.322.4      670.8      551.8      656.1     551.8      3,752.8      5,686.1
EXTENSION SERVICES                                        5,600.5   3,728,9   3,664.9   4,359.5   3,589.5    20w943.1    31,732.0
FORESIRY                                                    818.7      689.4      790.7      762.9     617.3      3,70Y.1       5,619,8
LAND USE PLANNING                                           698.1      117,9      117.9      147.6       87.9     1,169.4      1,771.8
ENGINEERING SERVICES                                     21.268.0   7,1055   7,105.5   7,278.4   6,O12.3    48,769.5    73,893,2
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                 1,726,3      685.2      685.2     812.6      663.2      49572.5       6y928,0
STAFF DEVELOPMENT / TRAINING                              2,307.7      908.5      908.5   1Y110.2      908.5      6.143.4      9,308.2
FARMERS SUPPLY COMPANY                                    7.883,9   2,066.4   2Y054,9   3,050.7   2,032.7    17,088.6    25,891.8
CONSULTANT SERVICES                                         387.0      261.0      162.0      171.0      14410      1,125.0      1,701.5
PRE-PROJECT LEVEL EXPENDITURE                            -6,733.9  -6,733,9  -6,733.9  -6,733.9  -60733.9   -33,669.6   -51Y014.6
lotal BASELINE COSTS                                         43,500.9  120735.7  120773.5  16,125,2  11,332,1    96,467,4   146,162.7
Phvsical Contingencies                                     3,057.7      636.8      638.7      806.3      566.6     5,706.0       8,645.5
Price Contingencies                                        4,746.9   2,804.7   4,295.8   6,959.6   6,728.3    25,535.3    38,689.8
_________ --------- --------- --------- --------- ----------- -----------             F 3          -
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          51,305.4  16,177.2  17,708.0  23,891.1  18,627.0   127,708.7   193t498.0
Taxes                                                      4,067.2      422.4      443.6   1,053.9       479,0     6WI466.       9,797*2                  - ,o
Foreign Exchange                                          26,469.1   5,436.3   5,639.4  10,173.2   5,350.3    53,069.3    80406.6



NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs by Financing Category
(Naira '000)
i            2             3             4             5            Total
Civil Works                           21,591.9                -                    -             -          21,591.9
Vehicles, Plant and Equipment         16,227.0         745.3         424.7       6,297.9          66.0      23,760.9
International Staff/Consultancy        2,246,7       2,266.9       2,298.9       2,309.7       1,392.8      10,515.0
Local Staff Salaries                   5,359.9       6.060.3       6,836.5       6,622.2       7,520.0      32,398.9
Vehicles/Plant Operation and
Maintenance                          3,977.0       4,374.8       4,791.0       4,735.3       5,050.0      22,928.1
General Expenses                       1,375.1       1,871.5       2,126.7       2,281.5       2,487.2      10,142.0
Chemicals and Agricultural
Implements                             527 8         858.3       1,230.2       1,644.6       2,111.0       6,371.9
51,305.4      16,177.2      17,708.0     23,891.1       18,627.0    127,708.7
Fertilizer                            34,470.4      40,658.4      52,767.7      63,097.2      71,369.5    262,363.2
X Iz
(D X
9111 



- 55 -.
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                   ANNEX 2
Table 3(a)
Detailed Financing Plan
(in Million Naira)
Bank Loan
PY1      PY2       PY3       PY4      PY5       Total       US$ Mn.   Per Disbursement
Schedule
Civil Works
IBRD                    19.5        -         -        _         _        19.5         29.5           26.5
FGN                      2.1        -         -        -         -         2.1
21.6                                             21.6
Vehicles, Plant, Equip-
ment and Spare Parts
IBRD                     15.3       2.4       2.2      7.1       2.0      29.0         44.0           39.6
FGN                       2.7       0.4       0.4       1.3      0.3       5.1
18.0      2.8       2.6      8.4       2.3      34.1
Internationally Recruited
Staff Salaries/Consult-
ancy and Training
IBRD                      2.2       2.3       2.3      2.3       1.4      10.5         15.9           12.3
Chemicals and Other
Farm Inputs
IBRD                      0.5       0.8       1.0      1.4       1.8       5.5          8.3            8.3
FGN                       0.1       0.1       0.2      0.2       0.3       0.9
0.6*     0.9       1.2       1.6      2.1       6.4*
Incremental Staff Salaries
and Operating Costs
(Excluding Spare Parts)
KDSG                       1.7      3.6       4.4      5.2       7.2      22.1
FGN                       5.4       2.8       2.9      3.3       3.1      17.5
IBRD                      1.9       4.0       4.2      3.0       2.5      15.6         24.0 Front-end22.8
9.0     10.4      11.5      11.5     12.8      55.2        121.7    fee    0.3
Incremental Project Costs-/  51.4       16.4      17.6      23.8     18.6    127.8            Unallocated 12.2
1/                                                                        122.0
Project Cost Financing Summary-
IBRD     63%             39.4       9.5       9.7     13.8       7.7      80t1
FGN      20%             10.3       3.3       3.5      4.8       3.7      25.6
KDSG     12% 2             1.1      2.7       3.2      3.6       5.1      15.7
Farmer    5% -            0.6*      0.9       1.2      1.6       2.1       6.4*
51.4     16.4      17.6      23.8     18.6    127.8
1/  Excluding front-end fee (NO.2 mn/US$0.3 mn).           2/ Ref:  Footnote to Text, Table 3.



NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                     ANNEX 2
Table 3(b)
Program Cost Financing Plan
(in Naira Million)
PYI           PY2            PY3           PY4            PY5            Total
Fertilizer Cost-/
Farmer                       14.6*         20.4           32.2          45.0           54.7            166.9*
KDSG                          4.4           5.7            5.6           4.6            4.0             24.3
FGN                          15.5          14.6           15.0          13.5           12.6             71.2
Total                        34.5          40.7           52.8          63.1           71.3            262.4
Ongoing Staff Cost
KDSG                          7.4           8.1            9.0           9.9           10.9             45.3
Program Cost Financing
Summary
Farmer         2/
Project Cost-              0.6            0.9            1.2           1.6            2.1             6.4
Fertilizer Cost           14.6*          20.4          32.2           45.0           54.7            166.9*         1
KDSG           21            15.2          21.3           33.4          46.6           56.8            173.3          o
Project Cost-               1.1           2.7            3.2           3.6            5.1             15.7
Fertilizer Cost            4.4            5.7            5.6           4.6            4.0             24.3
Ongoing Staff Cost          7.4           8.1            9.0           9.9           10.9             45.3
FASCOM Equity              3.0             -              -             -              -               3.0
FGN            2/            15.9          16.5           17.8          18.1           20.0             88.3
Project Cost -             10.3           3.3            3.5           4.8            3.7             25.6
Fertilizer Cost           15.5           14.6           15.0          13.5           12.6             71.2
25.8          17.9           18.5          18.3           16.3             96.8
IBRD
Project Cost2/            39.4            9.5            9.7          13.8            7.7             80.1
Front-End Fee              0.2             -              -             -              -               0.2
39.6           9.5            9.7          13.8            7.7
Total Program Cost
(Excluding FASCOM
Equity)                   93.5           65.2          79.4           96.8          100.8            435.7
(Including FASCOM                                                                                         -
Equity)                   96.5           65.2          79.4           96.8          100.8            438.7
1/  Ref:  Annex 2, Table 3(c).
2/  Ref:  Annex 2, Table 3(a).



ANNEX 2
. 57 -                             Table 3(c)
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer Cost Financing
(in Naira Million)
1984       1985        1986        1987        1988
Basic Data
Total Fertilizer ('000 tons)        146        157         175         195         204
Cost per Ton C&F (Kaduna)   a/   217           238         279         301         323
Distribution Margin (N/ton) b/    35            25          28          31          34
Price to Farmer (N/ton)       c/   100         130         184         232         268
Subsidy %                     d/    60          50          40          30          25
PYl         PY2         PY3         PY4         PY5        Total
Costse/
Fertilizer C&F Kaduna                31.7       37.4        48.8        58.3        65.8       242.0
Fixed Distribution Margin             5.0        3.9         4.9         6.0         6.9        26.7
Less Sales-e/                          36.7       41.3        53.7        64.3        72.7       268.7
Fertilizer Sales Proceeds            14.6*      20.4        32.2        45.0        54.7       166.9*
Costs Unrecouped                       22.1       20.9        21.5        19.3        18.0       101.8
Subsidy;2!
FGN's Share (70%)                    15.5       14.6        15.0        13.5        12.6        71.2
KDSG's Share (30%)                    6.6        6.3         6.5         5.8         5.4        30.6
22.1      20.9        21.5         19.3        18.0       101.8
Distribution Margin!e
Fixed Distribution Margin
Allowed                              5.0        3.9         4.9         6.0         6.9        26.7
Intra-State Transport and
Handling Costs-f.                    2.8        3.3         4.0         4.8         5.5        20.4
Balance                      (2.2)**   (0.6)        (0-9)       (1.2)       (1.4)      -63)**
Financing Summary
Farmer                                 14.6*      20.4        32.2        45.0        54.7       166.9*
KDSG
Subsidy                               6.6        6.3         6.5         5.8         5.4        30.6
Distribution Margin Balance          (2.2)**   (0.6)        (0.9)       (1.2)       (1.4)       (6.3)*s
4.4        5.7         5.6         4.6         4.0        24.3
FGN - Subsidy                          15.5       14.6        15.0        13.5        12.6        71.2
Total                                  34.5       40.7        52.8        63.1        71.3       262.4
a/  Includes in 1983 prices - C&F  {Lagos) N116, Port charges N13, and transport to
Kaduna N60.
b/  Uniform countrywide margin allowed by FGN to cover intra-state distribution costs
under the proposed Fertilizer Loan.
c/  Uniform countrywide retail selling price fixed by FGN under the proposed Fertilizer Loan.
d/  Subsidy = (a + b) - c
e/  In current terms.
f/  Intra-state transDort and handling costs estimated at N16/ton in 1983 prices.



- 58
ANNEX 2
Table 4
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT P'ROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
(US$ million)
IBRD             Current
Fiscal Year          Semester                 Cumulative
1984             Firstl/    -                     -
Second 2/,  2.3                  2.3
1985             First    25.1                  27.4
Second    20.3                  47.7
:L986            First    20.3                  68.0
Second      7.2                 75.2
1987             First      7.2                 82.4
Second    10.8                  93.2
1988             First    10.8                 104.0
Second      6.2                110.2
1989             Firslt'    6.3                116.5
Second      2.7                119.2
1990             First-/   2.8                 122.0
1/ Loan signing--Nov/Dec 1983.
2/ Loan effectiveness--March/April 1984.
3/ Project completion--December 1988.
4/ Loan closing--December 1989.



- 59 -                       ANNEX 3
Table la
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Income from Rainfed Farm Systems--Zone I
(All Figures in Naira)
Without project        With project at full development
Traditional         Improved farms        Advanced farms
farms              Subsidy at 3/         Subsidy at 3/
50%      25%          50%       25%
Gross Return 1/                 579              853       853        1,443    1,443
Inputs 2/
Seed                           12               17        17          17        17
Fertilizer 3/                                   60       83          160       185
Insecticide                                     20        20          21        21
Hired labour 4/                                  -         -           3         3
Tools                          25               30        30          40        40
Total inputs                 37              127       150         241       266
Net Income
Total                         542              726       703       1,202    1,177
Incremental                     -              184       161         660       635
Mandays required              201              236       236         256       256
Income per manday               2.69             3.08      2.98        4.7       4.6
Income per capita 5/          102              137      133          227       222
1/  Gross return based on cropping patterns shown in project file.  Typical farm
size 2.75 ha.
2/ See project file.
3/ Federal policy progressively to reduce fertilizer subsidy will increase the
price to the farmer over the project period from N90/ton (75% subsidy) in
PY1-1984, to N180/ton in 1984 current prices (25% subsidy) by PY4-1987 on.
Farm income projections are based on an average subsidized price of N130/ton
(approximately 50% subsidy) and N180/ton (25% subsidy). Ratio of nutrient to
fertilizer is taken as 1:3.
4/ One manday for advanced farmer at N3.50/manday.
5/ Family size taken at 5.3.
May 1983



- 60 -                       ANNEX 3
Table lb
NIGERIA
KADINA STATE
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Income from Rainfed Farm Systems--Zones II and III
(All Figures in Naira)
Without projeCt         With project at full development
Traditional farms    Improved farms           Advanced farms
Subsidy at 3/         Subsidy at 3/          Subsidy at  3/
50%         25%       50%       25%          50%       25%
Gross Return 1/           1,007        1,007    1,622    1,622          2,090    2,090
Inputs 2/
Seed                       37          37        37        37            37        37
Fertilizer 3/              10           14        95       131          172       238
Insecticide                 -            -        19        19           21        21
Hired labour 4/             -            -        35        35           91        91
Tools                      25          25         30        30           40        40
Total inputs             72          76       216       252           361       427
Net Income
Total                     935         931    1,406    1,370           1,729    1,663
Incremental                 -            -      471       435           794       728
Mandays required          306         306       382        382          425       425
Income per manday           3.06        3.04      3.68      3.59          4.06      3.91
Income per capita 5/    176           175       265       258           326       314
1/  Gross return based on cropping patterns shown in project file.  Typical farm
size 2.75 ha.
2/  See project file.
3/  Federal policy progressively to reduce fertilizer subsidy will increase the
price to the farmer over the project period from N90/ton (75% subsidy) in
PY1-1984, to N180/ton in 1984 curresnt prices (25% subsidy) by PY4-1987 on.
Farm income projections are based on an average subsidized price of N130/ton
(approximately 50% subsidy) and N180/ton (25% subsidy). Ratio of nutrient to
fertilizer is taken as 1:3.
4/  Ten mandays for improved farmer, 26 mandays for advanced farmer, at N3.5/manday.
5/  Family size taken at 5.3.
May 1983



- 61 -                          ANNEX 3
Table Ic
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Income from Rainfed Farm Systems--Zone IV
(All Figures in Naira)
Without project        With project at full development
Traditional         Improved farms         Advanced farms
farms              Subsidy at 3/          Subsidy at 3/
50%      25%          50%       25%
Gross Return 1/                 868            1,427    1,427         1,710    1,710
Inputs 2/
Seed                           37               37        37          37        37
Fertilizer 3/                   -               78       108          137      188
Insecticide                     -               19        19           21       21
Hired labour 4/                 -               35        35           91       91
Tools                          25               30        30           40       40
Total inputs                 62              199      229          326       377
Net Income
Total                         806            1,228    1,198        1,384    1,333
Incremental                     -              422       392         578       527
Mandays required              306              382       283         425       425
Income per manday               2.63             3.22      3.14         3.26     3.14
Income per capita 5/          152              232      226          261       252
1/  Gross return based on cropping patterns shown in project file.  Typical farm
size 2.75 ha.
2/  See project file.
3/  Federal policy progressively to reduce fertilizer subsidy will increase the
price to the farmer over the project period from N90/ton (75% subsidy) in
PY1-1984, to N180/ton in 1984 current prices (25% subsidy) by PY4-1987 on.
Farm income projections are based on an average subsidized price of N130/ton
(approximately 50% subsidy) and N180/ton (25% subsidy). Ratio of nutrient to
fertilizer is taken as 1:3.
4/ Ten mandays for improved farmer, 26 mandays for advanced farmer, at N3.5/manday.
5/ Family size taken at 5.3.
May 1983



ANNEX 4
- 62 -
Table 1
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices for Commodities
(Constant 1983 N/ton)
Financial                 Econom:ic -
1983           1983        1985        1990
Sorghum                         346             175        178         191
Millet                          400             175         178         191
Cowpea                          740            390         390         390
Groundnut                       304            217         303         316
Cotton                          450            492         580         641
Maize                           326             170         172        184
Rice                            550             165        168         206
Tomatoes                        280             122         122        122
Peppers                         800            347         347         347
Root Crops                      360             156        156         156
Onions                          280             122        122         122
Vegetables                      374             151        151         151
Sugarcane                       120             67          67          67
Potatoes                        135              75         75          75
-/  Details of calculations are in Project File.



NIGERIA                                                        ANNEX  4
Table 2
KADUNA STATE
STATEWIDE AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(NAIRA THOUSAND)
1       2       3       4        5       6       7        8      9-11     12    13-15      16    17-19      20    21-23      24      25
ECONOMIC COSTS
PROJECT CAPITAL COSTS       40387     638     330    4673       47       -       -    5052        -    5052        -    5052        -    5052        -    5052        -
PROJECT OPERATING COSTS    13942   14138   14195   13319   12645    9649    7642    5634    4430    4430    4430    4430    4430    4430    4430    4430    4i30
FERTILIZER                   3253    5511    9946   14037   16220   16220   16220   18232   18232   18232   18232   18232   18232   18232   18232   18232   18232
OTHER FARM INPUT COSTS        153     229     306      382     459     i59      459     459     459      159     459      459     459     459      459     459      459    o
FARM EOUIPMENT  COSTS         316     474     632     790      948     759     759      759     759     759      759     759      759     759      759     759      759    '
INC. HIRED FARM LABOR       4686   13787   18630   29536   34707   34707   34707   34707   34707   34707   34707   34707   34707   34707   34707   34707   34707
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS       62736   34777   44039   62738   65027   61794   59787   64843   58586   63638   58586   63638   58586   63638   58586   63638   58586
ECONOMIC BENEFITS
SORGHUM                       936    3736    7236   10636   13617   14738   14738   15815   15815   15815   15815   15815   15815   15815   15815   15815   15815
MILLET                          9     149     267     240      276     320     320      344     344      344     344      344     344     344      344     344      344
MAIZE                        1717    7157   13726   20717   26565   28139   28139   30102   30102   30102   30102   30102   30102   30102   30102   30102   30102
RICE                         231      776    1966    3461    4662    5225    5225    6407    6407    6407    6407    6407    6407    6407    6407    6407    6407
COWPEAS                        58     195     312      468     683     780      780     780     780      780     780      780     780     780      780     780      780
GROUNDNUTS                    499    1660    3909    5848    7651    8181    8181    8532    8532    8532    8532    8532    8532    8532    8532    8532    8532
ROOTCROPS                      55     172     382      718    1131    1357    1357    1357    1357    1357    1357    1357    1357    1357    1357    1357    1357
COTTON                       221    1033    2755    3973    5017    5684    5684    6282    6282    6282.   6282    6282    6282    6282    6282    6282    6282
VEGETABLES                    851    2606    5106    9283   14291   16716   16716   16716   16716   16716   16716   16716   16716   16716   16716   16716  1716
 -                                       _-_-_--_-----_                 _  ___  ___  ____  __  _  ___  _   _  _____  ______  _  _____   -------
TOTAL ECN. BENEFITS          4578   17483   35657   55344   73892   81141   81141   86334   86334   86334   86334   86334   86334   86334   86334   86334   86334
------                                                            _ -------   _  ___  __  ___ -------   __  ___  __  __   ______   _____   -------   -------
NET BENEFITSiCOSTS)        -58158  -17294   -8382   -7394    8865   19347   21354   21492   27748   22696   27748   22696   27748   22696   27748   22696   27748
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN: 16 PERCENT
- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - -- -- -- -



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Data and Related Documents Available in the Project File
A.  Kaduna State Agricultural Development Project Preparation Report,
April 1979.
B. Kaduna State Agricultural Development Project, First Staff Appraisal
Report and Project File, January 1980, Report No. 2718-1UNI.
C. Working Papers
1. Agr:icultural Background and Potential
2. Fadama Crop and Small Scale Irrigation Development
3. Civil Works
4. Monitoring and Evaluation
5. Cost Tables
6.  Economic Analysis



- 65 -
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Pre-Project   FyI          PY2        PY3         PY4          Pf5         Pf6
Project Year                  .     FY84        FY85        FY86        FY87        FY88        FY89
Fiscal Year (IBRD)                 1984/85     1985/86     1986/87     1987/88     1988/89     1989/90
Quarter (Project)                i2  31 4 1 1 2  3 4   | 2 3 | 4   12 3 14  1 12  314   1 2  3 14
IBRD'84     FY85        FY86         FY87        FY'88       FY'89       Fy790
1. WORLD BANK
1.1 Negotiation                      S
1.2 Board Presentation
1.3 Effectiveness Date
April, 1984
1.4 Completion Date
December 31,1988
1.5 Closing Date
December 31, 1989
2. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.1 Staff Appointments
- Program Manager                      S
-4 Project Managers                    0
- Rnancial Controller                  e
- Chief Engineer                       S
- FASCOM's Managing Director           0
- FASCOM's Rnancial Controller         0
2.2 Work Programs & Budgets
-Submltted to Bank                             *           *           *
2.3 Reports
-Quartery                                      0   0          *  *     0  4      *   *  *      * *  a I
- Audited Accounts                                            *           *           *           *
- Post Project Development Plans                                              0
June 1,1987
- Completion
2.4 Procurement
- Vehicles, Equipment & Materials
2.5 Buildings
2.6 Roads                                             178         376         376        266         204
2.7 Dams                                                     1 7                                 15



- 66 -
NIGERIA
ORGANIZATION OF KADUNA STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POLICY/EXECUTIVE                                        |      KDAIWP ExecutKoe Committee
POLCYXU   Chairman- Deputy Governor
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
r       'Program
Management
L_     nUnit
Administration                          Finance                               Land Use                          Management &
Planning                            Evalucation
Agricultural                                    ~~~~~~~~Engineering             Man Power
|  Servics                                               |     Services                      Development
Reeach  Mnagement    MlilctoMechanica                                               Cil
ZONAL IMPLEMENTATION
Zonal
Management Unit
(Zonal Manager)
Administration                                                             Aunts& 
Training                           Agricultural                          Engineering                            Evaluation
Servioes                              Services
-Extension                           - Extension                          -Civil Works                          -Baseline Survey
-Farmers                             - Farm Management                    - Mechanical Workshop                 - Agronomic Survey
-Commercial                          - Applied Research                   - Feeder Roads/Dams                   - rice Data
-Evaluation                                                                                                     - Ad Hoc Surveys
Worid Bank-24850



7~~~~~00  P30                                                        5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0O                                                  0~~~~~~~~~ 30                                                    --    IERD 14482~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BD148
7I 7O'                                                                7'130'                                                                8-0                                                                   Q0At)UST K9
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE AGRICULTURAL
y/~v                       jQ/EowDqC'kLC,,P9C   1T  NDEVELOPMENT PROJECT, ZONE 1
N  I G   E R                          ,L.OIvrn.    -    gbvv
"   ovvvvJ                 / I      ;''       \0 v iLv \
7, K-J-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Db~o                                                                         A-
31)0~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       )y B7                  D  t,A,                           ,5v*~
ZoKm^se                            ,<               ; f<o;               0            ,  \ fDundel \--                       '        <                               N    I G  E Rj
bd.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3d
D.                                             - G0 15
MILE5S*                        0           1                 iogm|        oZ                  1    /I Pyo   rr                                                   PROPOSED-                                                            dmu                 .       ,
5\  i   \/lchersnch   l  > 12                                    - - - -  ~~~~~~~All-wieather Grovel Roads
wa4 19 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural Service Centers                                                                                                                    A oAJ
AI  I                               K.~~~~~~~~~~~~~XSTIG
C0>f-  1/ Bcush ^~~~~~~~~~~____   All-weather Poved Roads                                                                        _                               -NL<ESS           5(I-ICAD
ToDs n Mo   2 snk         ~      ~       mvvo r                                           ___    All-weather Grovel/Earth Roads                                                        1  Tf    - __   '>t
''  -A.1SIL                                              -----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  ~ Dry-weather Gravel/Forth Roads  .,iS   )  sAfr. TA
123Sj                                                                                                                                                                           Forest Reserves                                    12"*30'-3NNS,Z'AE/
~~~C <\>                                                      *~~~~~~~~~  Local Goveraweet Area Heodquorters                            Z1   1                              
-    -    Local Governweat Area Rovodcaries                               Z       ~       ~      S        v    
-    -    Store Rbundaries                                                             NI~tG E R IAN       ,     1
-    -    Isternotionrol Boundories                                        <    ,          /            - - K-|
T~~~~~~~~
MILESvrvv  rrwrvrvr5vvIvAvaTA,Yrv-v-vv~
bo mdmmes shown on Shs map do not smplb on the pae of the Wor/d Bank and utsAgi                                                                                                                    t7r olSe,eice  inters    r
asb/{ntAs ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~A~-ate Pav/ded R..&psauoanem/ornmm                                                                                         _NlER, rHA
ArcEvv0rEmvvr,dlcotch-pvvmerv~v                                    7-,vvvrrvrrd Tvvdrrvvv,vrrr.vvvvvrrdvvdrvv                             8o                                                                                                        i 00        ( 30            CAM F 'AN
Evvvdwvr rvvr,v vo yr 'roy By ovi 'v'y5. vv Err vov vi rvv WvAA0oyDvy vydh'EvG-4 1E-thSRand
vriAoov vvE,~~~rAv~vvvE vv vv/rrvvf nor yr w~~~~ voyrviA vyv'yrrvvvyivynd,Strea
B0svvoyyvvrirvvA,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~An0vv  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SO          too                                                                   MOO~~~~~~~~~~~1"3'






7N'1Y'                                                     7' SC                                                      a oo
NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, ZONE 2
(N>-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
2- 3 0                                                                                                                                                                                 13   30
j,,>~~~~ tAt<>P p'v- >>\X>1,
-. Zone Bne~odqrer
Al -ter Grv-  Re.us
\       J ; /  / Srters      Zf    Agricultural Service Ceyters        12 000-
Xs  X   1   g  <: -         eS o~~~~~~~~~~~ \ ~EXISTING:
___ _   ;All-weather Paved Roads
All-meother Gravel/Forth Roads
Dry-weather Gravel/Earth Roeds
o Gusou   C nmg  BusiW         >      /  Zf</hPa      t             Massyru=E| ~~~~~~~~~~          R,vers - d St,ea-m
*     Lvca Govervvent Area Headquarters
v -.l G-verrevt Area Ruederies
t r   < ,   / /S     G         U       9      9 '        t        X        b      \l           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -stcwe B-dcries
eye -   -,v, ->    v'4                                                              Yvv        Rvrr -t        .-No  .
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ib
*1~ 1< IW                                                                                     4 f's
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ __, NYssCTEPS                                                                      -            _30
7hl, nap h^ b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eec rdb h 
b- ~ ~      ~        ~       ~       ~       N-
wae yavvv,v, ev hhrev. avrh (y                                                                                                                         N I 'r  l       StA
en ryan iv 0 cc ye evovava ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~510152  2  3                                                                         1,3 
vaau,eava dnm aci ns ard md-
Vralvar dr vrvv',5arhl  ars                                                                                                                Acn
mV  bgenay   r   mv eI dorse  lime                                                                   GV    Db O   _                C~~~~~~~~~~~~ I      E     AM f E    C HAD C r,
vr.rvena aicvevrarameofschbud 30  _ _1






7- 9u 7^00                                     7' B' IOO'                                                                                               AUGUST1 -1
NIGERIA
PROPOSED:                                                                              KADUNA STATE AGRICULTURAL
Co             Tonal Boundary                                                                       DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, ZONE 3
All-weather Grovel Roads
Ag-rc,lrural Service Centers
ELXISTING
All-weather Paved Roads
All-weather Gravel/Earth Roads
Dry-weather Gravel/Earth Roads                                         Aybanlv                             Qvrvv n                              K-,m"0   vg
Foret Rosete.,-                                                                                    T              m              -             cvvn
L-ova Governent Area Headquarters(- vA                                                                           Cmd\-Kvvl
onca Gver-ment Area Boundoes- - -                                                                                                                          SnIv ,nt-
St.t. Bo-c--                                                                                                                                                         R,f. I                              - I d'                - (n7/  4
\  KoF  ./J                     MlLE '             10    15      20    25     l~~~~~~ramCnru  Pt  Unu           /.                                                                                  1 i  
<'07 ~~~                           ~lL-ETR                                                                                                                                                      DuWi 203   0      oI %_ -rn  5            /lU
vet~~~~~                                              ~ ~ ~                                me Oovmec nfjesaeso        1       
crvr7v;jr ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1 Zrvv  4'ymteIfnfr                               LLyo                             MRO
P.Ch.-
6uruvorn  30                                      7 - UO                                            f                                         o, -ccepace of such bonnd
'tram  >kOnvrvri   -  S. ~~~~~~~~~~~--.6)~D
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                                                                                       b.                             tAOT --   rnA
'b ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ >                      '
011W  -  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~       i~~~~~~~~rcIf      U~~~~~~~~~D-Kd
IAILDMETtIS  r~~~~~~~ -                           j                                                                             RSNIN F           rs'$~~~P.I
7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                I        0        yb4                                                                                                                    
z,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oruou mnnmirr                                                                                                       IEI     
/,,d-, M.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rAore uornrurO
ID 'W                                                                 r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ra,vn,rudromr                              -             
1>70           ~'v0                                                                                                               nruvoyo,rilvunn 20  n0v40






IBRD 14485
AUGUST 1979
7'00'                                         7-30)                                          9-09                                           89309                 NIGERIA
KADUNA STATE AGRICULTURAL
9,       T-d.n _   aTk   o, Kdo-                                                                                                                                   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, ZONE 4
Mloa >1i   '   A'go       01       ,Ch                                                                                                  To4niik
-10-30                                                                                                                                                                                     Al h.,a o_ ,   kh ul,\    d A7
>                               ?-   S                                  ; 0) - ThKodv
y   K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
1~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kt  i91'4      e , 039  Cl-e hr rl3/OST Rr
>17~    ~                                          0 /                                                         Jnooi    Ahu1ien;etAesBtndre
1   l   /  6  T - r \0 X rS //    /    /6                                                                                                  OTto                                 OAioo  vJ
Soup  -                                                                                                             Meliegodo~tk- 
z    31   I~~~~~~~~~~~~5M~~                              G                          el                               Rok                                      /0                -      Tonal B oundary 0** 0/     
PDAl-waterPaedRod
> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~~P we-> 2:                                                                                 Dr-ete GrovMr    gN/a9eSl/Earth Roondstmt
,                    .                            7 0                                           h' 00                                           8' 30 oU scseretncP of sch boulides.
) Ik,~~~~~ -                             oSate Boundarie
K . . ....~~~~~~~~~~~~iio
roy ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~M-.ZnlHaqat,
/0  \~~~~~~~~~~N   y  0    r\ ~ ~~~~~    b~                                          ,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~~~qAl-ete                                                                                                                                                                      r -    od
NJ  /  7                                                                                      Kogoinloor     Con  S/Coo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g,clurlSpvceCntr
                                                                      to-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EITN
N ICE  RIA  /               KILCMrnER9     ~~~~~~~~~~~  gu     39      49       59~~~~                                                                              Foes  Rreserveso
0  Local Gove-no,0Areo  Headquartersbe
joo oveornmen oA ea Bouetd01,eso
h v,~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oevioneoe0nno
0  10  20  30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 09000oootuocae
MILE                                             909(7                                          uso1 11






i?~~~~~                      PP~IB  Di15365R3
05000                                                                                                                  C~~~               ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H A D  NIGERIA
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects
Lcd  '~~~~              Completed  and  Appraised
N  /                                                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural Development Pro ects.
OK/C)  3/A/f                                                                                                             -       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gou-boL.ntoonhti  UNI)
A                                                                                                                                                                                         Ovo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     STNorheoGlT--i
NV  K                                                           ,,v       TvnaO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    Sokoto Stote [van 2~~~~~~~~~~~~A..b.L 1455-UNI)
K i T 0        I         KAN           AA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8ARH                                                                                              APAIE
-  A                                  TvvtI~~~~~~~~~,ari Bvrn66- N I
Ofi JNDEI PREPARATIONI
AnrB-1o State L       98- 
no.t State    L.  15UI
~~~~~Oul                                              K-,Stt~~~~~~~~~~ere   North 2UNI
River  Stor
B  u   c    H   ~        ~       Nr,,                  '                                                Lgs..h Star
V /  2                                                                                   M-bill.~~~~~~
N                                                                                                                                         I.. s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aaetent. Tane   ettt
P   L  A   T  E  4, IJ                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tree Cro Projects
Cgov Ito   I Loo  R64-UII n
C-ovoa    t Lo15T--9 I
IDE 'Al                                                                                                           (L.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rvr 1t7t CUI oo(or 55UI
CvvIuV  OdA0r                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T  N5.  vSNNr.vNN.    rrigation  Project-
c                                                                  / wv-,                       (Loan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  191-UL.n  14  -UI
~~~4.  .- -so  vSvr                                                .R,,s.v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bde  d .I   L.   18-UI
<5-' 1p   ~ijz-R.~-</V                 A u       /NSISov                                                               ,N/   1//N   i                                          RarivoLSt.tvvktndcuior.. C525 tUh(s
SS'~~~~~~Nh  rtuvc  ST   N'.e                                               -  S--n-( t,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F wy(L..169   UI
~~  ft               --- ,r.rtvv,vvovasvr,rn                 (NaNTT' LII         ,~~~~~~ )riNooiaAPPivvE
,,1, N                                             A       E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~________________                                                      5      u '                             A        A   a   asue[va,5ro  etr
ANyI   n  Siny,                                           vo or sv    N    o                    PIov.  'vo         r~t        uv           [77]        ITrr v Rseres- Plo  Gruptarho
.d.g,i                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C-   R-r SI.f. E~~~t.,. (0,1 P.. ,,,a
0  S                                                                                                                                                                                         Irr,got,on  Project~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-NNT 



