LOAN NUMBER 2436 UNI
OFFICIAL
O1CU MENTS
Project Agreement
(Kaduna State Integrated Agricultural
Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPHENT
and
KADUNA STATE OF NIGERIA
Dated                              , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2436 UNI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       4-A --6e              , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and KADUNA STATE OF NIGERIA (hereinafter
called Kaduna State).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred twenty-two million dollars ($122,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that Kaduna State agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Kaduna State, the proceeds of the loan
Drovided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
Kaduna State on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Kaduna State, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "ZDC"
means the Zonal Development Committee referred to in Section
2.01(e) of this agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Kaduna State shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices.


﻿- 2 -
(b) Kaduna State shall establish and thereafter maintain a
Kaduna  Agricultural   Development  Project  Executive  Committee
(KDADEC) in a form and with membership, functions and respon-
sibilities satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower. Further
provisions relating to KDARDEC are set out in Part A of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
(c)  Kaduna State shall establish and thereafter maintain a
Kaduna Agricultural Development Project Management Unit (KDAPMU)
in a form and with membership, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower. Further provisions
relating to KDAPMU are set out in Part B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(d)   Kaduna State shall cause to be established for each
zone a Zonal Development Committee (ZDC) in a form and with
membership, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank and the Borrower. Further provisions relating to ZDC are set
out in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(e)   Kaduna State shall publish in its official gazette a
notification of the establishment of KDARDEC and KDAPMU which
shall set out their membership, functions and responsibilities.
Section 2.02. Kaduna State shall: (a) maintain a Kaduna
State Farmers Supply Company Limited (FASCOM) with membership,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower. Further provisions relating to FASCOM are set out in
Part D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(b)   make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the
transfer to FASCOM of the proceeds of the Loan to be utilized by
FASCOM under the Project.
Section 2.03. (a): (i) Uaduna State shall open, and there-
after maintain, a Project Account on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank and the Borrower. Payments out of this
account shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonable cost of
expenditures incurred in Naira for goods and services required
for the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) for purposes of
establishing the Project Account, Kaduna State shall open an
account in Naira and shall deposit into such account: (A) the
proceeds of the Loan made available to Kaduna State to meet
expenditures under the Project payable in Naira, pursuant to the
provisions of the Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan


﻿-3-
Agreement; and (B) the budgetary contribution to be made by the
Borrower and Kaduna State pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.02 of the Loan Agreement and paragraph (c) of this Section,
respectively.
(b) Kaduna State shall, open, and thereafter maintain, a
Special Account in dollars in a commercial bank in London,
England, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower. Payments out of this Account shall be made exclusively
for expenditures in currencies other than Naira incurred under
Category (3) of paragraph 1 in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
Deposits into the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c) Kaduna State shall make adequate budgetary provisions
for, and pay into, the Project Account at least by March 31,
June 30, September 30 and December 31 in each year, Kaduna
State's quarterly contributions to the Project for the calendar
quarter starting on the day following each such date based on
KDAPMU's approved annual budget, the said contributions being
estimated by Kaduna State and the Bank to amount in the aggregate
to fifteen million seven hundred thousand Naira (N 15,700,000) in
current prices exclusive of subsidies on farm inputs.
(d) Kaduna State shall continue to maintain, in addition to
the financial contributions referred to above, its current level
of expenditure in the State which Kaduna State and the Bank
estimate to be about six million seven hundred thousand Naira
(N 6,700,000) annually in July 1983 constant terms, that is,
forty-five million three hundred thousand Naira (N 45,300,000) in
current prices over the five year Project period.
(e) Kaduna State shall cause KDAPMU to furnish to the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and to the Bank the annual work
plan including budget estimates proposed by KDAPMU for the Proj-
ect, as approved by KDARDEC, not later than four months imme-
diately before the commencement of the fiscal year to which it
relates, and shall inform the Bank of its approval before the
commencement of the fiscal year.
(f) Kaduna State shall take all actions necessary to have
the staff, buildings and equipment pertaining to the State's
Integrated Rural Development Project assigned for purposes of the
execution of the Project and shall pay in a timely manner the
recurrent costs associated with the employment of the said staff.


﻿Section 2.04. (a) In order to assist Kaduna State in
carrying out the Project, Kaduna State shall employ consultants,
experts and specialists (including: (A) for KDAPMU a Project
Manager, Financial Controller, Chief Engineer and four Zonal
Managers; and (B) for FASCOM a Managing Director id a Financial
Controller) whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and to
the Borrower, such consultants, experts and specialists to be
selected   in   accordance    with   principles   and   procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) Kaduna State shall cause KDAPMU to prepare, and send to
the Bank and the Borrower for their review, the detailed terms of
reference of the consultants, experts and specialists to be
employed under paragraph (a) hereof.
(c)   Kaduna State shall enter into arrangements with the
Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit acceptable to the Bank to
assist in: (i) improving the accounting and internal control
system and procedures for monitoring expenditures under the
Project; and (ii) bringing the accounts pertaining to the
commercial operations of KDAPMU and FASCOM up to date.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Kaduna State shall annually review with the
Bank, the Borrower and FASCOM the cost recovery policies and
practices of FASCOM and shall cause such changes to be made in
the said policies and practices as shall enable FASCOM to recover
the full costs of any inputs (except fertilizer) or services at
any time supplied by it under the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) Kaduna State undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, all goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by Kaduna State to replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 5 -
(b)    Kaduna State shall cause all goods and        services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) Kaduna State shall cause KDAPMU to furnish
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
and the Borrower shall reasonably request.
(b)   Kaduna State shall: (i) cause KDAPMU and FASCOM to
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) cause
KDAPMU and FASCOM to furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by Kaduna State or FASCOM of any
contract for goods, works or services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Kaduna State
and the Bank, Kaduna State shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
and the Borrower a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by Kaduna State and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) Kaduna State shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-


﻿- 6 -
perty and equipment of KDAPMU and FASCOM and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.09. Kaduna State shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.    Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, Kaduna State shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.10. (a) Kaduna State shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of      its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   Kaduna State shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by Kaduna State of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.11. Kaduna State agrees: (i) that the Borrower
shall deduct from the amount standing to the credit of Kaduna
State in the Federation Account, Kaduna State's quarterly
contributions to KDAPMU (in the amounts provided for in KDAPMU's
approved annual budget and to the extent such amounts are due and
outstanding) in the event that Kaduna State fails to provide such
contributions in full and within the quarter; and (ii) that the
Borrower shall pay any such deductions directly into the Project
Account. For the purposes of this Section, the term "Federation
Account" means the account maintained by the Federation into
which revenues are paid and from which amounts standing to the
credit of the account are distributed among the Federal and State
Governments and the local government councils of the States.
Section 2.12. Kaduna State shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the carrying out of the Project and shall furnish to
the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿- 7 -
Section 2.13. (a) Kaduna State shall, no later than June 1,
1987, furnish to the Bank and the Borrower for their rf;view
details of proposals prepared by KDAPMU for the continuation and
organization of the Project after its completion.
(b)   Kaduna State shall: (i) cause the roads to be con-
structed under the Project to be adequately maintained, and all
necessary repairs thereof to be made; and (ii) shall not later
than December 31, 1986 furnish the Bank with detailed proposals
for the long term maintenance of the said roads.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Kaduna State shall cause KDAPMU and FASCOM
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their
operations and financial conditions including, without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b)   Kaduna State shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. Kaduna State shall cause KDAPMU and FASCOM to:
(a)  have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b)   furnish to the Bank and to the Borrower as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year:   (i) certified copies of their financial
statements for such year as so audited; and (ii) the report of
such audit by said auditorsof such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section


﻿-8-
3.01(b) of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Loan
made available to KDAPMU and FASCOM and withdrawn from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(c)   furnish to the Bank and to the Borrower such other
information  concerning   said  accounts,  financial  statements,
records and expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the
Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Kaduna State thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Kaduna State thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue   in   full  force   and   effect   notwithstanding  any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-9-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Kaduna State:
The Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources
Department of Agriculture
P.M.B. 2103>Kaduna
Kaduna State
Nigeria
Cable Address:                     Telex:
RESOURCES KADUNA                  NG 71135
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Kaduna State may be taken or executed by
the Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources or such
other person or persons as the said Commissioner shall designate
in  writing, and     Kaduna  State  shall  furnish  to   the  Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 10 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
KADUNA STATE OF NIGERIA
BYAuthoriz                     R     et
Authorized Repre entiv


-   1 1   - 
S C H E D U I E   1 
P r o c u r e m e n t 
A .       I n t e r n a t i o n a l   C o m p e t i t i v e   B i d d i n g 
1 .         E x c e p t   a s   p r o v i d e d   i n   P a r t   C   a n d   E   h e r e o f   ,   g o o d s   a n d   c i v i l 
w o r k s   s h a l l   b e   p r o c u r e d   u n d e r   c o n t r a c t s   a w a r d e d   i n   a c c o r d a n c e 
w i t h   p r o c e d u r e s   c o n s i s t e n t   w i t h   t h o s e   s e t   f o r t h   i n   t h e   c u r r e n t 
e d i t i o n   o f   t h e   " G u i d e l i n e s   f o r   P r o c u r e m e n t   u n d e r   W o r l d   B a n k   L o a n s 
a n d   I D A   C r e d i t s "   p u b l i s h e d   b y   t h e   B a n k   i n   M a r c h   1 9 7 7   ( h e r e i n a f t e r 
c a l l e d   t h e   G u i d e l i n e s ) ,   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   i n t e r n a t i o n a l   c o m p e t i t i v e 
b i d d i n g   a s   d e s c r i b e d   i n   P a r t   A   o f   t h e   G u i d e l i n e s . 
2 .         F o r   g o o d s   a n d   w o r k s   t o   b e   p r o c u r e d   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   i n t e r - 
n a t i o n a l   c o m p e t i t i v e   b i d d i n g ,   i n   a d d i t i o n   t o   t h e   r e q u i r e m e n t s   o f 
p a r a g r a p h   1 . 2   o f   t h e   G u i d e l i n e s ,   K a d u n a   S t a t e   s h a l l   p r e p a r e   a n d 
f   o r w a r d   t o   t h e   B a n k   a s   s o o n   a s   p o s s i b l e ,   a n d   i n   a n y   e v e n t   n o t 
l a t e r   t h a n   6 0   d a y s   p r i o r   t o   t h e   d a t e   o f   a v a i l a b i l i t y   t o   t h e 
p u b l i c   o f   t h e   f i r s t   t e n d e r   o r   p r e q u a l i f i c a t i o n   d o c u m e n t s   r e l a t i n g 
t h e r e t o ,   a s   t h e   c a s e   m a y   b e ,   a   g e n e r a l   p r o c u r e m e n t   n o t i c e ,   i n 
s u c h   f o r m   a n d   d e t a i l   a n d   c o n t a i n i n g   s u c h   i n f o r m a t i o n   a s   t h e   B a n k 
s h a l l   r e a s o n a b l y   r e q u e s t .   T h e   B a n k   w i l l   t h e r e a f t e r   a r r a n g e   f o r 
t h e   p u b l i c a t i o n   o f   s u c h   n o t i c e   i n   o r d e r   t o   p r o v i d e   t i m e l y   n o t i - 
f i c a t i o n   t o   p r o s p e c t i v e   b i d d e r s   o f   t h e   o p p o r t u n i t y   t o   b i d   f o r 
t h e   g o o d s   a n d   w o r k s   i n   q u e s t i o n .   K a d u n a   S t a t e   w i l l   p r o v i d e   t h e 
n e c e s s a r y   i n f o r m a t i o n   t o   u p d a t e   s u c h   n o t i c e   a n n u a l l y   s o   l o n g   a s 
a n y   g o o d s   o r   w o r k s   r e m a i n   t o   b e   p r o c u r e d   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f 
i n t e r n a t i o n a l   c o m p e t i t i v e   b i d d i n g . 
3 .       B i d d e r s   f o r   t h e   w o r k s   i n c l u d e d   i n   P a r t   B ( 3 )   o f   t h e   P r o j e c t 
s h a l l   b e   p r e q u a l i f i e d   a s   d e s c r i b e d   i n   p a r a g r a p h   1 . 3   o f   P a r t   A   o f 
t h e   G u i d e l i n e s ; 
4 .       F o r   t h e   p u r p o s e   o f   e v a l u a t i o n   a n d   c o m p a r i s o n   o f   b i d s   f o r   t h e 
s u p p l y   o f   g o o d s   t o   b e   p r o c u r e d   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   i n t e r n a t i o n a l 
c o m p e t i t i v e   b i d d i n g :   ( i )   b i d d e r s   s h a l l   b e   r e q u i r e d   t o   s t a t e   i n 
t h e i r   b i d   t h e   c . i . f .   ( p o r t - o f - e n t r y )   p r i c e   f o r   t h e   i m p o r t e d 
g o o d s ,   o r   t h e   e x - f a c t o r y   p r i c e   o r   o f f - t h e - s h e l f   p r i c e   o f   o t h e r 
g o o d s ,   o f f e r e d   i n   s u c h   b i d ;   ( i i )   c u s t o m s   d u t i e s   a n d   o t h e r   i m p o r t 
t a x e s   l e v i e d   i n   c o n n e c t i o n   w i t h   t h e   i m p o r t a t i o n ,   o r   t h e   s a l e s   a n d 
s i m i l a r   t a x e s   l e v i e d   i n   c o n n e c t i o n   w i t h   t h e   s a l e   o r   d e l i v e r y , 
p u r s u a n t   t o   t h e   b i d ,   o f   t h e   g o o d s   s h a l l   n o t   b e   t a k e n   i n t o   a c c o u n t 
i n   t h e   e v a l u a t i o n   o f   t h e   b i d s ;   a n d   ( i i i )   t h e   c o s t   o f   i n l a n d 
f r e i g h t   a n d   o t h e r   e x p e n d i t u r e s   i n c i d e n t a l   t o   t h e   d e l i v e r y   o f 
g o o d s   t o   t h e   p l a c e   o f   t h e i r   u s e   o r   i n s t a l l a t i o n   s h a l l   b e 
i n c l u d e d . 


﻿- 12 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Nigeria may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Nigeria if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in Nigeria
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.     In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or


﻿- 13 -
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
$3,000,000 equivalent shall be let after competitive bidding
based on local advertising in accordance with local procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Goods estimated to cost $60,000 or more equivalent but less
than $300,000 equivalent shall be procured under contracts
awarded after competitive bidding based on local advertising in
accordance with local procurement procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
3.    Goods estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent shall
be purchased through direct competitive shopping.
4.    Items to be procured shall be bulked, where possible, to
permit the optimum use of competitive bidding.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review  of prequalification. Kaduna State shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the .exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by Kaduna State
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified
of Kaduna State's decision, and Kaduna State shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and all contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more:


﻿- 14 -
(a) Before bids are invited, Kaduna State shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, Kaduna
State shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Kaduna State and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), Kaduna State shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Kaduna State and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension


﻿- 15 -
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, Kaduna State shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform Kaduna State and state the
reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Construction of roads and dams under Part B of the Project
shall be carried out by the work force of Kaduna State.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Project Organization
Part A:   Kaduna  Agricultural   Development  Project  Executive
Committee (KDADEC)
(1) KDADEC shall be responsible for the policy making, coordina-
tion and operational aspects of the Project including:
(a) review of Project evaluation;
(b) budgetary and financial control of the Project includ-
ing review and approval of the annual work program and
budget of KDAPMU and presentation of such budget for
approval by Kaduna State;
(c) coordination of both State and Federal ministries'
project-related activities;
(d) approval of project training policies and overseas
training;
(e) approval of contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of N 60,000 or more; and
(f) appointment of senior project staff.
(2) KDADEC shall have the following membership:
(a) Governor as Chairman;
(b) Commissioners of: (i) Finance and Economic Development;
(ii) Agriculture and Natural Resources; (iii) Local
Government and Community Development; and (iv) Works
and transport;
(c) Secretary to the State Government and Head of Service;
(d) Permanent Secretary of Lands and Survey Department of
the Governor's office;
(e) Director of Federal Department of Rural Development;
(f) two other representatives of the Federal Government;


﻿- 17 -
(g) Programma Manager as Secretary (non-voting member); and
(h) Managing Director of FASCOM (non-voting member).
(3)   KDADEC shall establish as a technical sub-committee the
Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Development Committee. The
sub-committee shall be concerned with the coordination of the
project infrastructure activities and with applied research, seed
multiplication and extension and training and other project-wide
agricultural matters. KDADEC shall also establish other sub-
committees as necessary.
Part B:   Kaduna Agricultural Project Management Unit (KDAPMU)
(1)   KDAPMU shall form the apex of operational management and
shall consist of the Program Manager's Office including key
financial and administrative divisions.
(2)  The Program Manager's Office shall assume the responsibili-
ties of the agricultural services division of the Ministry of
Agriculture and shall be assigned all existing staff and estab-
lishment posts of the said division.
(3) The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources shall have
ministerial responsibility for KDAPMU.
(4)  KDAPMU's operations shall be organized into four zones each
of which shall be headed by a Zonal Project Manager. The   Zonal
Project Manager shall be responsible to the Program Manager for
the execution of the approved work program for the zone under his
charge and for the provision of extension services, training and
infrastructure development in such zone. The Zonal Project
Manager shall in consultation with the ZDC of his zone draw up
for his zone the annual zonal work program and budget. After
approval by KDAPMU, the Zonal Project Manager shall be respon-
sible for implementing the zonal work program.
Part C:   Zonal Development Committee (ZDC)
A ZDC shall advise on the annual zonal work program and its
budget and shall be responsible for ensuring coordination of
zonal program activities with local government council officials
of the zone. A ZDC's functions shall also include technical
coordination of functions such as siting of feeder roads, farm
service centers and other civil works, establishment of guide-
lines for land allocation and review of project-related disputes.


﻿-18 -
Part D:   Kaduna State Farmers Supply Company Limited (FASCOM)
(1) FASCOM shall be responsible for the satisfactory procurement
and distribution of farm inputs for the Project.
(2)   FASCOM shall distribute inputs through the Farm Service
Centers. The commercial unit of the State's Integrated Rural
Development Project shall form the nucleus of FASCOM. The stores,
Farm Service Centers and capital assets belonging to the farm
inputs distribution system operated by Kaduna State and the said
commercial unit shall be transferred to FASCOM.
(3) FASCOM's Board of Directors shall consist of:
(a) an agriculturalist with proven administrative expe-
rience (Chairman);
(b) the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources;
(c) a representative of the Ministry of Finance and Eco-
nomic Development;
(d) two farmers from each of the four zones;
(e) the Program Manager, KDAPMU; and
(f) the Managing Director, FASCOM.
The Chairman FASCOM and the two farmers from each of the
four zones will be appointed by the Governor.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
7 hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         _day of0aTA6)K98
FOR SECRETARY


