/   V'       :Ifco2  --7   d'
Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12765-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT:
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTHEASTERN ANATOLIA
AUGUST 25, 1994
MICR(OGRAPHICS
Report No:        12765 TU
Type: SAP
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Turkish Lira per USS)
Currency Unit     CY1989    CY1990    CY1991    CY19"    CY1993    CY1994
August
US$1.00 = TL        2,122     2,629      5,200     8,000    13,000    31,180
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CY    -     Calendar Year
DC    -     Direct Contracting
Fp    -     Family Planning
FY    -     Fiscal Year
Fyp   -     Five-Year-Plan
GD    -     General Directorate
GDP   -     Gross Domestic Product
GNP   -     Gross National Product
HDI   -     Human Development Index
ICB   -     International Competitive Bidding
IHCR  -     Integrated Health Care Reform
ILO   -     International Labor Organization
IS    -     International Shopping
LCB   -     Local Competitive Bidding
MCH   -     Maternal and Child Health
MIS   -     Management Information System
KOH   -     Ministry of Health
NHS   -     National Health Service
OECD  -     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OP    -     Operational Policies
PCC   -     Project Coordination Committee
PCU   -     Project Coordination Unit
PEC   -     Primary Health Care
PIP   -     Project Implementation Plan
POX   -     Project Operations Manual
PP    -     Priority Provinces
PPP   -     Purchase Power Parity
RPCC  -     Research, Planning and Coordination Council
SPO   -     State Planning Organization
SSX   -     Social Security Institution
TA    -     Technical Assistance
TL    -     Turkish Lira
TOR   -     Terms of Reference
UNDP  -     United Nations Development Programme
UNHCR -     United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF      United Nations Children Fund
WHO   -     World Health Organization
YOK   -     Higher Education Council



REPUBLIC OF TURKER
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT:
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
iN EASTERN AND SOUTHEASTBkN ANATOLIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pace No.
Loan and Project Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 . . . . .   i
X.      THE HEALTH OF  THE TURKISH POPULATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
A.   General/Sector Background. .................. ...             . .         ..........       .   2
B.   Key  Issues   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
C.  Government Health  Sector Strategy    . . . .    . ..   . ....                              .   7
D.   Past World Bank Involvement  in the Health Sector   . . . . . . . .  8
B.   Rationale for Continued World Bank Involvement   . . . . . . . . .  9
F.   Role of  International Donor Community  .  .  .    . .    .    . . .                 . . . 10
tII     THE5 PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0. .    ............... il
A.  Project Objectives  .......... .......... .   . .4.11
B. Project Description. ..4                        ..........4. . 11
C.  Environm3ntal Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
III.   PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AN   IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . 15
A.   Introduction  . . .                   .     . . . .  . .                           . . . . .15
B.  Project Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .   . . . . .15
C.   Project Financing. . .                         . .                 . * 4 4 *  *  . . . . . . . . .15
D.   Project Management and Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
S.   Project Procurement Arrangements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
F.   Disbursements.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .   .17
a.   Project Audit Reporting and Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
H.   Status of Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
IV.    BENEFITS AND RISKS   . . . . . .                    . . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . 19
V.   AGR1M5 ENTREACHEDANDRECOMMNDA                         TI ON ............. ... 20
This report fs based on the findngs of an aWraisal mission Which visited Turkey in Janumry 1994. The
appraistl mission comprised Alexander S. Preker (Mission Leader, Senior Health Economist, ECI HR), Wm.
Bradford Herbert (Senior Operations Officer, EC1/21R)4 Carlos Ferreira (Chief, Information Technology,
EMTDR), CraiS R. Neal (Policy Officer, COPPE), Virginia H. Jackson (Operations Officer, EC1/2NR), Efd K. Dib
U -plementatien Specialist, SA2PH), JulSan Lob-Levyt (Public Health Specialist. Consultant), Carol Collado
(Clinical Training Specialist, Consultant), PhiLip Berman (Health Services Manageent Training Specialist,
Consultant) and Nathias Kalina (Acute Care Specialist, Consultant). Dale Hill (Senior Economist, RMTur)
Joined the mission for some of its meetings. Ross Pavis, Sabrina Huffman and Toni Koleva (EC1/2HR) provided
assistance with text processing and copy editing. Task Nanaaer: Alexander S. Preker (ECI/2HR); fl.vlial
Ch.S:  Ralph W. Harbison (EC1I2R); Director: Michael Wiehen CECIOR); Poor RevSewers: Guy Ellena (MN1PH);
Monica Fong (MN2AG); and Jose-Luis Bobadilla. Mary E-Ning Young (PHU).



REPUBLIC OF TURREY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT:
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES ANp MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTHEASTERN ANATOLIA
STAP? APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE Or CONTENTS (continued)
Pace No.
ANNE^E
Annex 1: Project Implementation P&an ....                ............... 21
Annex 2: Detailed Cost Estimates ....... .................. ..     . .. 63
Annex 3: Detailed Implementation Schedule .............. . -......... 481
Annex 4: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators ......................... 93
Annex 5s  Status Report of First Health Project ..........             121
statistical Tables and Figures.. ... .* * *. * * *  * *... * * * *.. ....... ..... .. .129
Glossary of Terms .............. * *............ .............    .# .... 149
Bibliography of Materials in the Project Files ....................... 153
Map ls Demographic Regions- IBRD 25580
Map 2: Socioeconomic Regions- IBRD 25581
Map 3: 23 Project Provinces- IBRD 25582
Map 4s Turkey- IBRD 24903-R



REPUBLIC OF TURXEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECTs
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTHEASTERN ANATOEIA
L.oun and Project 8ummary
BORROWERs         Republic of Turkey
BENEFrCrARIESa   Min$stry of Health (MOH) departments, provincial health
directorates, health care units in the project provinces,
pilot hospitals and selected universities.
LOAN AMOUNTs      US$150.0 million equivalent.
TERWSt            Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period, at the
IBRD standard variable interest rate.
PROJECT
OBJkCTIVEs        The primary goal of the Second Health Project is to red4ce
the burden of disease due to avoidable illness and
disability in Turkey.  To achieve this goal, the specific
objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve equity of
access tq essential health services in 23 eastern, low-
income, priority provinces; and (b) improve the quality of
health care management in selected institutions.
PRQ=
DESCRIPTION:      The proposed Prcject will provide fellowships, training,
technical assistance, studies, health programs, computer
hardware and software, medical and office furniture,
equipment, vehicles, teaching materials, civil works and
non-salary incremental recurrent costs. The Project, which
covers 16 percent of Turkey's total population (11.8 million
people in 1993) and 29 percent of its surface area, will be
implemented over seven and a half years through the
following two components (US$200.0 million total cost):
The Primary Health Care Cogponent (US$155.6 million total
cost) will improve equity in access to essential health
services by: (a) upgrading the traiiing of primary health
care personnel; (b) expanding basic health care
interventions known to be cost-effective; and
(c) strengthening the network of health care facilities to
support the above activities. This component forms the
centerpiece of the Second Health Project. It sets
priorities based on the leading causes of mortality and
morbidity, and it will keep these at the forefront of
debates on reforms in the health care system.
The Health Policy and Wanaaement Component (US$44.4 million
total cost) will improve the quality of health care
management in selected institutions bys (a) upgrading the
training of staff in policymaking, planning, management,



- ii -
monitoring and evaluation; (b) decentralizing and
restructuring management responsibility in six pilot
hospitalsl (c) introducing basic management support systems
in Provincial Health Directorates and selected hospitals in
the project provinces, as well as evaluating a more
comprehensive management information system in one urban
pilot hospital in western Turkey; and (d) conlucting pre-
investment studies to support broader reforms in the health
sector. Activities supported under (b) and (c) are
explicitly designed as trial runs for future countrywide
implementation.
BENEFITS:         The Project's major benefit will be to reduce the number of
avoidable deaths and disability in the project provinces,
especially among women and childr-n. Targeted investments
in training and facilities will lead to better staffed and
equipped essential health services in these provinces. Such
interventions are well known to be cost-effective and a
precondition for improving maternal and child survival. A
second benefit of the Project will be to obtain better value
for money spent on health services. Staff in the project
provinces will be trained in health services management and
provided with management support systems. This will allow
them to improve the quality of scrvices provided and avoid
wasting scarce resources.
RI8R8S            A major risk faced by the Project is that it may become
difficult to implement and supervise activities in a number
of the project provinces which currently have accessibility
problems. Contingency plans are included to allow: (a) out-
of-province training where necessary; (b) pro-selection of
only urban facilities for new civil works to ensure t1e
possibility of an adequate supervision, staffing and supply
of equipment; (c) province-by-province costing to allow
flexibility under a phased implementation plan; and (d) use
of a professional engineering firm to oversee the
construction programs. A second risk is the limited
institutional capacity of MOH departments, especially in the
area of training. This risk will be mitigated by:
(a) appropriate deployment of staff trained through
fellowships financed under the First Health Project;
(b) technical assistance, including management contracts for
logistic support in coordinating training activities;
(c) decentralization of training efforts to provincial
teams; (d) modular distance-based education; (e) improved
coordination of the different General Directorates in an
integrated approach to training activities; and
(f) collaboration with universities as co-participants in
the implementation of training programs.



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND HEALTH PkOJEC?
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTHEASTERN ANATOLIA
Estimated costs and Financina Plan
(US$ Million)3t
…----  USS Million…
Local    Foreign    Total
1.    PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
1.1   Primary Health Care Training           5.6       4.8       10.4
1.2   Basic Health Care Interventions        1.4       0.2         1.6
1.3   Infrastructure Development            58.3      26.1       84.5
Subtotal         65.3      31.1       26.5
2.    HEALTH POLICY AND MANAGEMENT
2.1   Health Serv. Management Training       3.6       3.4        7.0
2.2  Hospital Management Restructuring       0.7       2.8        3.5
2.3   Computerized Management Support
Systems                                3.8       4.8        8.6
2.4   Pr,-investment Studies and
Project Manageient                     5.2       6.1       11.3
Subtotal         133       ILA         30.
TOTAL BASE COSTS         78.6       48.3      126.
Physical Contingencies            4.1       2.6        6.7
Price Contingencies              63.4       3.0       66.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS a/     146.1       53.9      200.0
e/ Including taxes and dutfes equivalent to USS19.7 million. Detaited nurbers my not aW to totals du to
rourding.
Financina Plans
Local     Forean   Total
------ USS Million ------
Government        50.0       0.0      50.0
IBRD             96.1       53.9     150.0
TOTAL           146.                 2



REPUBLIC OE TURKEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT:
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND  EANA              MENT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTHEASTERN ANATOLIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE HEALTH OF SHE TURKISH POPULATION
1.1. Investments in health, education and poverty alleviation in Turkey have
brought with them improvements in economic growth and human welfare.
Conversely, economic growth, manifested in a four-fold increase in GNP per
capita (US$2,130 in 1993) during the past thirty years, has contributed
significantly to improvements in the health of the population. Although
regional and urban/rural disparities still exist among the country's 59.9
million people, a better supply of food, clean water, safe sanitation, decent
housing and basic education is now available to many of those who were
previously deprived of these fundamental necessities of life. In the health
sector, the number of doctors, nurses, clinics and hospitals has increased
several fold during this time period. The impact of these factors on health
has been impressive: ave,age life expectancy at birth has increased by over 40
percent to reach 67 years in 1991; infant mortality has dropped by 72 percent
to reach 58 per thousand; and the number of deaths due to infectious diseases
has decreased significantly. As a result, global health indicators In Turkey
have Improved to a point where many are now comparable to those of other
countries with a similar per capita income.
1.2. Despite these achievements, the burden of disease in Turkey remains
high. For example, although the country ranks 69th in the world in terms of
income per capita, it ranks 91st in terms of under-five mortality rates. This
statistic reflects regional disparities in the health and status of the
country's women, in education of parents, in prevalence of maleutrition, in
availability of clean water and in the overall qual'ty of health services as
well as differences in standards of living. The number of children who die
before the age of five from preventable conditions such as improper
deliveries, poor feeding practices, uncomplicated diarrhea, pneumonia and
accidents indicates that the country has not yet maximized the potential
advantages of its economic development, nor benefitted fully from investments
made in the health sector during recent years.
1.3. Ninety percent of the critical development of human beings occurs In the
first few years of life. Each child has only one chance to capture the full
developmental benefit of the intrxate processes of that growth. Countries
that fail today to maintain the basic needs of women and children as a first
priority within their development strategies inflict irreversible damage on
their human capital of tomorrow. Improving the effectiveness, efficiency and
equity of the 4.6 percent of GNP (US$98 per capita per year) currently
consumed by the health sector in Turkey has, therefore, become a very high
priority. The Second Health Project will support the Government in achieving
this objective in the country's most deprived 23 eastern provinces where the
burden of poverty, disease and disability is the greatest.



- 2 -
A.  General/Sector Background
Recent Milestones in Improving Health
1.4. Overall health in Turkey has improved more in the past three to four
decades than it did during all the rest of the country's history. In 1960,
average life expectancy at birth was 47: in 1991 it was 67. Child mortality
rates (the number of children who die between the ages of 1 and 5) dropped
during t.he same period from 21.7 to 9.4 percent; and infant mortality rates
(the number of deaths during the first year of life) dropped from 20.8 to 5.8
percent. The number of women dying from complications related to pregnancy is
thought to have dropped to 132 per 100,000 from much higher levels. An
increase in the legal age of marriage, use of contraceptives, better education
for schoolgirls and women, changes in cultural norms and increases in life
expectancy have also contributed to a steady fall in total fertility, with the
crude birth rate dropping from 3.6 to 2.8 percent between 1970 and 1991 and
the national average total fertility rate dropping from 4.9 to 3.4 percent.
These trends more than offset the concomitant decrease in the crude death rate
from 1.2 to 0.7 percent over the same time period.L/
1.5. How and where people live and raise their children have a profound
effect on health. The marked growth and urbanization of the Turkish
population over the past two decades has had a major impact on bczh health
atatus and disease patterns throughout the country. In 1970, only 38 percent
of the population lived in urban areas. By 1991, this figure had risen to 63
percent. Enrollment in primary schools has increased from less than 70
percent of the age group in 1950 to over 100 percent currently, with female
enrollments groving most rapidly in recent years.2/ Better education,
especially for women and girls, has increased the populationws understanding
of the leading threats to good health, the ability to care for their families
and the probability that they will seek appropriate access to health services.
These combined factors have led to marked improvements in standards of living
and reduction in the morbidity and mortality from many diseases.
Foundations for a National Health Service
1.6. Although the technical solutions to most preventable hetlth conditions
have been known for many years, establishing an effective health service
depends not only on appropriat. and affordable technology, but also on a
sustained political commitment , positive change, the availability of quality
health facilities and adequate financing. There has been significant prog--ess
in providing these basic building blocks in Turkey during the past few decades.
/    These improvemnts in health in Turkey reflect similar worldwide trends during the 20th century,
such that within a decade it would be possible to control most major childhood diseases, cut
malnutrition in haltf, provide alt children with a basic education, and bring clean water, sanitary
housing and family planning to atl communities. According to UNICEF. the global cost would be only
US$25 billion a year, or half of what Europeans spend each year on cigarettes, less than what
Americans spend annually on beer.
This overstates coverage in that it includes many over-age students. It also hides the fact that a
large nrwber of children, especially girls in rural areas, stilt do not attend school.



- 3 -
1.7. Political Commitment. Since establishment of the State Planning
Organization (SPO) In 1960, six successive Five-Year Plans (FYP) have aimed to
Improve equity in access to health services for the TurLish population.]/ The
1961 Basic Health Law (Law No. 224) reorganized the health sector into a
hierarchical network of public institutions that were staffed by civil
servants along the lines of the British Natioaal Health Service (NBS). The
plan was financed through premiums paid by vorkers and subsidies from the
state budget for the inactive or poor part of the population. The right of
every citizen to live in a healthy and balanced environment was later written
into the Constitution of the Turkish Republic in 1982. The 1987 Basic Health
Law (Law No. 3359) attempted to address areas where the 1961 Law had failed to
achieve its objectives, and strengthened the Turkish National Health Service
run by the Ministry of Health (MOH). The Government's current health policy
is described in Section C, below.
1.8. Underlying Tnfrastructure. Today, the NOR is the largest provider of
health care, and practically the only provider of health promotion and disease
prevention services, essential health services for low income populations, and
highly specialized tertiary care. Of the country's 970 hospitals (2.4 beds
per thousand population), 634 are run by the MOH, 105 by the Social Security
Institution (SSK)j/ for non-public-sector wage earners, 25 by universities,
and the remaining 206 by other semi-autonomous organizations such as the
Ministry of Defense, .ather ministries, state economic enterprises,
municipalities and the private sector. At the central levAl. the MOH is
responsible for health policy and planning. At lower levels of the system,
the provincial Health Directorates, which report to the provincial Governor,
are responsible.
1.9. Guided by the objectives and action plans that were set forth by
successive FYPs, the Turkish health sector has undergone a significant
expansion of its manpower and infrastructure for essential health services
during the past 30 years.jA/ The average population per physician dropped from
1,630 in 1980 to 1,180 in 1990. Similar improvements were observed in several
other health professions, leaving the health sector in 1990 with 8.5 doctors,
6.0 nurses, 3.5 midwives, 1.6 dentists and 2.3 pharmacists per 10,000
population, which is within the low range of norms observed in other OECD
countries (7 to 35 per 10,000 population for doctors, 6 to 173 for nurses, one
to 11 for dentists and 1.4 to 11 for pharmacists). By 1991, there were 11,490
health posts for midwives serving populatious of 2,500 to 3,000 in rural
areas, compared with 2,230 In 1970. The number of health centers serving
populations of 5 to 10 thousand rose to 3,091 from 851 over the same period.
The number of out-patient consultations has increased 8.5 times since 1960,
while the use of in-patient services has increased only 3.5 times.
I/    A planned approach to developments in the health sector has prevailed since the first FYP which was
prepared in 1933, long befo-e the six most recent FYPs which were prepared after the creation of the
SPO.
V/   Sosyal Sigortalar Kurunu.
5/   See Statistical Tables and Figures following Annex S for a comparison of health care facilities in
Turkey and other OECD countries.



1.10. Finaneing. Finally, the last 30 years have also witnessed an
improvement In the financing of health services. When the Basic Health Care
Law was introduced in 1961, public provisions for protection against the
financial hardships created by illness were virtually unknown to most of the
population. Today, approximately 39 million people, or 68 percent of the
population, are eligible for benefits under one of the three major publicly
subsidized and employment-based social insurance schemes, SSK, Emekli Sandlgi
and Bag-Kur. The remaining 32 percent of the population pay for their care
out-of-pocket or, if poor, receive free care in MOH facilities.
B. KeylIssues
Continued Burden of Disease
1.11. Despite the above achievements, progress has been uneven and the
challenge of removing the remaining obstacles to good health in Turkey is
great. Skewed economic and social development has left many regions of the
country behind. This results in the unnecessary death and disability of
thousands of people, especially women and children, each year.
1.12. Skeved Socioegonpmic Development. The links between well-being and
national development are well known. Historically, development has always been
greater in the western part of the country where access to basic
infrastructure, such as roads, drinking water, sanitatioi. electricity and
telecommunications is much better than in the central and eastern provinces.
1.13. The usual breakdown of the country into five geographical regions does
not function well as a basis for classifying the provinces according to socio-
economic development (see Map 1). To over-ome this problem, the SPO has
grouped the country s provinces into the following four different regions
based on demographic, income, employment, education, morbidity and mortality
indicators (see Map 2):h/ (a) first order priority provinces (PPl) from
Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia, which constitute 11 percent of the
country's population and contribute less than three percent to GDP; (b) second
order priority provinces (PP2), from the Eastern, Central and Northern
Anatolian Region just west of the PP1 provinces, which constitute 15 percent
of the population and less than nine percent of GDP; (c) provinces with medium
levels of development; and (d) developed provinces. In the PPI provinces, 60
percent of children are cared for by women who cannot read, while the primary
school attendance rate for girls is as low as 52 percent.
1.14. Preventable Deaths. Although infant mortality and under-five child
mortality in Turkey have decreased dramatically during recent years to settle
at rates of 5.8 and 7.8 percent, respectively, in 1990, these levels are still
high by international standards and there are considerable regional
differences. The high infant mortality rates reflect higher-than-average
fertility, poor ante-natal and post-natal care, improper deliveries, poor
Wt   Many of the PPI and PP2 provinces have forbidding climate and geographic conditions. More than
sixty percent of their total area is above an altitude of 2,300 meters, reaching 5,137 meters in the
Agri Mountains.



feeding practices, low educational status and environmental factors. Vhile 47
infants per thousand die in the western part of the country before reaching
the age of one, they die at rates four times higher in some areas of the most
deprived eastern PP1 and PP2 provinces. With total Lertility rates of seven
In urban areas and 10 in rural areas, there are 1.22 million children In the
under-five age group in the PP1 provinces. The average under-five mortality
rate of 11.7 percent for this age grout will result in over 28.5 thousand of
those children dylng annually before reaching the age of five.j/ In the PP2
provinces, the under-five mortality rate of 9.2 will result in a death toll In
the under-five age group of 25 thousand per year.
1.15. Likewise, despite considerable progress ln recent years, improvements
observed in womews health and maternal mortality have not attained the
targeted levels. About half of all maternal deaths occur during delivery,
one-fourth during pregnancy ard one-fourth after pregnancy. Preventable
factors that increase the risk of maternal mortality are still prevalent,
Including: poor education, high fertility rates, poor birth spacing, early
teenage and later age pregnancies, multiple deliveries, malnutrition, and
inadequate access to appropriate health care for women (ante-natal care, safe
deliveries, close post-partum follov-up and family planning).
Xneguity in Access to Cost-Effective Services
1.16. Without access to effective and affordable health services, praiseworthy
policies intended to promote good health and fulfill constitutional rights to
health care have little meaning to the average citizen. In this respect, the
Turkish health system is still plagued by a number of very serious problems.
1.17. Distorted Prioritles in Training. In the past, the training of doctors
and other health personnel failed to provide them with the right skills or
incentives to deliver effective care in priority areas such as primary health
care in the deprived eastern provinces of the country. The curriculum of most
medical training programs remains weak in maternal and child care, although
the most cost-effective interventions to reduce the burden of disease in
Turkey rely on skilled primary health care personnel and active *,ommuity
participation. Young doctors and other health care workers find it more
prestigious and financially rewarding to train for work in hospitals and
specialized clinics than for work in the primary care setting. As a result,
the population per physician ranges from 1,939 (Elazig) to 8,650 (Van) and
population per mi.;: fe ranges from 597 (Artvin) to 8,238 (Van). The distance
that patients need to travel to the neare-t health center or hospital often
reaches twice or more the regional average (15 km for health center and 41 km
for hospituls) for the PP1 and PP2 provinces.
1.18. Poor Value for goney. Despite the existence of cost-effective and
affordable ways to prevent and treat many of the country's leading health
problems, too often such interventions are not an Integral part of essential
health services. Spending by the MOH, the principal provider of primary
v     This figure was derived by mutliplying the total number of children under-five (1.2 million) by the
death rate (11.? percent) nd averaging this over five years.



- 6 -
health care, was less than 20 percent of total health care expendLture of 20.8
trilliou. TL In 1991 (11.7 trillion for public provision and 9.1 trillion for
private provision). Less than 18 percent of total public expenditure (NOR,
88K and other inistrLes) Is spent on essential health services, and less than
four percent is spent on health promotion and disease prevention activities.
Self-help groups, EGOs and community health workers are not well integrated
into the formal network of health services. The combined effect of lack of
appropriate training, high staff turnover rates, shortages of essential
equipment, supplies and drugs and poor transportation prevents essential
health servlces in Turkey from functioning effectively in this regard. This
leads to widespread reliance on specialized and institutional care for cases
that could easily be treated by well-trained primary care or community workers
in properly equipped facilities.
1.19. Paradox of Shortafes and Underutilization. In the PP1 and PP2
provinces, there is often a lack of even the most basic health care
infr.astructure and equipment. Despite efforts to correct such inequities,
on?y 45 percent of the villages in this part of the country have health posts
for midwives and health centers.!/ More than one-third of all hospital beds
are found in three major urban centers (Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir) which
comprLse less than a quarter of the country's population. At the same time,
nearly half of all doctors (33 percent of all doctors working for the MOH),
practLce In the same three major urban centers, while only 16 percent of NOR
doctors practice in the priority provinces, which comprise 25 percent of the
population. Although unreported visits may lead to undercounting, out-patient
attendance is only two to three times a year on average (less than one for
women and children) with a range of two to 13 for OECD countries. The average
length-of-stay in Turkish hospitals is 6.9 days compared with 9.9 days for
acute care and 32.2 days for chronic care in Western Europe. Occupancy rates
are 55 percent in MOH hospitals, 72 percent for the SSK, and 37 to 75 percent
for university hospitals. This is low by European standards. Shortages in
personnel, equipment, supplies, and vehicles, as well as poor access to
appropriate health care facilities, are major contributing factors.
InefficLent Use of Scarce Resources
1.20. A lack of proper training in health policy and management, the rigid
structure of the health service, and the absence of modern management support
systems contribute significantly to the underlying structural problems in the
health sector, leading to a great waste of scarce resources.
1.21. Inanuropriate Training in Manafement. Fev managers in the health sector
have adequate training In health policy and planning, health services
management, data processing, human resources, time management, applied
epidemiology and health economics, or quality assurance. The national health
service was built and operates according to a centralized planALng model, with
many key decisions still being taken by the NOR in Ankara, despite previous
attempts by the Government to decentralize the health service. Formal lines
Av   In sawe of the provinces chosen for the Project, thfs figure is as low as 20 percent (see Chapter II
for a detailed description of the project provinces).



- 7 -
of authority at the central level are unclear and coordination between the
thirty-odd providers of health services in the public sector and the private
sector Ls poor. Even within a single subsector, vertically designed programs
for essential health services are covered by several Directorates ln the NOR.
In the prlmary care settlng, where there is often no institutional framework
to provide support, lack of management skills is a particular handlcap.
1.22. fureauciacv Vithout Management. In hospitals, day-to-day management
responsibLlities are delegated to the Chief Doctor, usually a prominent
clinician who continues to practice his specialty and who has little If any
training, skills, or inclination for management, planning and evaluation.
Likewise, the Head Nurse is required to have 10 years of service, but no
corresponding management skills or training. The administratlve
responsibilities of the Hospital Administrator and Treasurer, who work as
deputies to the Chief Doctor, are limited to running the revolving fund,
accounting office, laundry, kitchen, power supply, transportation and other
support services. Hospital administrators are trained to know the Hospital
Administration Law, but their true skills in management are limited.
1.23. Manual Record Keenin2 and Obsolete Technology. In addition to the above
shortcomings in the structure and management of the health sector, many
services are poorly run, relying largely on manual record keeping and obsolete
technology. Few hospitals or health centers have access to management-based
information systems to track health outcomes, performance and expenditure
trends, or to assist in record keeping (admission/discharge data), accounting,
personnel management, materials management, equipment management and
monitoiing of utilization patterns. This prevents hospital staff from making
informed decisions and allocating resources according to real priorities
rather than by normative standards. It also forces highly specialized
clinical workers to waste a great deal of their time performing administrative
duties rather than providing medical care.
C.  Government Health Sector Strategy
1.24. The Government of Turkey is deeply committed to improving the health of
the population and the performance of the health sector in an attempt to
secure the well-being of its population and to foster continued growth and
development of its economy. The current Sixth PYP, which began in 1990, gives
special priority to the protection and education of women and children as the
cornerstone of the socioeconomic development of Turkish society.2/ These
objectives were articulated in more concrete terms in a policy document which
was published in 1993.1Q/ The document emphasizes the need to create an
enabling environment for improving health through poverty reduction, better
education and improved nutrition. It also emphasizes the need to reduce
2/   The sixth FYP also included goals outside the formal health sector, such as inprovements in incame
distribution, reductions in unemployment and a decrease in regional development disparities, all of
ihich have a significant inpact on health.
jfl   Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Health (NOR), uPreparing for the Third Nillemium: National Health
Policy in Turkey," Ankara: NON, 1993.



regional disparities, particularly in health services, education and
agriculture, all of which are critical to improving the health status.
1.25. In the past, similar broad reforms of the health sector consistently
failed because they lacked the necessary legal framework, institutlonal
structure and financial support. Determined not to repeat this mistake, the
Government's strategy for realizing the underlying objectives of its reform
program lncludes: (a) strengthening the basic infrastructure and health care
programs available to vulnerable populations in the low-income provinces of
Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia through support from the Second Health
Project; (b) continuing feasibility studies needed to design a broader reform
of the health sector through support from both the First and Second Health
Projects; and (c) conducting a thorough review of the social insurance system
(pension and health insurance) with support from the Privatization
Implementatior. Assistance Project (3728-TU).
1.26. Once the foundation for a more systemic reform of the health sector bas
been completed, the Government intends to introduce its long-promised
Integrated Health Care Reform (IHCR) Program. This program, which ls still
being elaborated, will focus mainly on creating a general health insurance
scheme to cover the non-insured population, regionalization of health
services, decentralization of management responsibilities in hospitals, and
strengthening of the role of family medicine in providing essential health
services. However, without first introducing the needed infrastructure in
terms of primary health care training, personnel and facilities, the
introduction of further reforms in the health sector would be little more than
"paper guarantees." The proposed Second Health Project will continue the
process started under the First Health Project in providing these bullding
blocks, thereby paving the way for an eventual major structural reform in the
health sector which could also be supported by a World Bank loan.
D. Past World Bank Involvement in the Health Sector
1.27. The World Bank first became involved in supporting the Government's
heelth sector strategy during the mid-1980s. This led to the preparation of
the First Health Project (Loan 3057-TU for US$75 million) which became
effective in October 1990 (see Annex 5 for a more detailed description). 4
The objectives of the First Health Project, which is still under
implementation, were to: (a) improve health status for underprivileged
populations through better access to basic health services in eight of the
country's provinces (10 percent of the population in 1990);1Z/ (b) enhance
efficiency In service delivery and improve health care financing; and
(c) strengthen the management capacity of the MOH. The First Health Project
had a slow start-up. This was due primarily to four factors: (i) lack of
familiarity with Bank procedures; (ii) frequent changes in senior management
of the NOH; (iii) failure to define clearly the role of the Project
1y   See also, First Health Project, Staff Appraisal Report 7433TU, June 29, 1990 and Semi-Annust
Progress Reports through June 30, 1993.
j31   The eight provinces with a population of nine miltion are Ankara, Diyarbakir, tstanbul, Nardin,
Nugla, Sivas, Tokat, and Yozgat.



- 9 -
Coordination Unit (PCU); and (iv) weak institutional capacity to develop and
implement large in-service training programs. Within the past 12 months.
considerable progress has been made In addressing all of these problems. The
PCU is now fully operational and all subcomponents of the Project are being
implemented. As of July 31, 1994, about US$16.14 million of the Bank loan
(21.5 percent) has been disbursed and another US$13.3 million has been
committed.
E. Rationale for Continued World Bank Involvement
1.28. Continued World Bank involvement in the health se .tor in Turkey is
justified for several reasons. First, it is consistent with the Bank's
overall strategy for health and development which is expressed in the 1993
World Development Report (WDR), Investing in Health.  Like other World Bank
reports, the 1993 WDR highlights the important interplay between poverty
relief, basic education, economic development and health status. Consistent
wLth this strategy, the Bank has supported a number of projects in Turkey that
aim at providing clean water and an adequate supply of food, both of which are
iziispensable prerequisites for good health.13/ Several Bank supported
training and education projectslj/ increase the chance that people will lead
healthier lifestyles and know when to seek appropriate health care. Measures
to strengthen the social safety net W and the essential role women play in
developmentli/ will have an equally important impact on improvszg health.
Since poor health has a negative effect on labor productivity, contributes to
unemployment, and prevents children from attending school, breaking the
vicious cycle of poverty, illness and illiteracy constitutes an essential part
of the Bank's strategy to assist countries undergoing economic development.
The proposed project is, therefore, consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy for Turkey approved by the Executive Directors on March
11, 1993.11/
1.29. Second, despite six consecutive Five-Year Plans, Turkey still spends too
little on low-cost, but highly effective, interventions such as maternal and
child care.  The construction of unnecessary hospitals, the purchase of
/    Agricultural Extension and Research (Loan 2405-TU); Drainage and On-Farm Development Project (Loan
2663-TU); Izmir Water
JA/   industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU); Industrial Schools Project (Loan 2536-TU); Mon-Fosmt
Vocational Training Project (Loan 2776-lU); Second Industrial Training Project (Loan 2922-U);
lational Education Development Project (Loan 3192); and Employment and Training Project (Loan 10331-
TU). A Basic Education Project, currently under preparation, is expected to support access to basic
education.
JV    World Bank, Social Service Study, Draft Report, 1993; World Bank, Labor Rarkets: Issues and
Potieies, Draft Report, 1993; World Bank, The Turkish Pensions System: Issues and Recoamnendations,
Draft Report, 1993. The Privatization Implementation Assistance Project will support a review of
the social insurance system.
W/   World Bank, Turkey - Womwn in Development, Washington: World Bank, 193; and World Bank, Making
Motherhood Safe, prepared by Anne Tinker and Marjorie A. Koblinsky, WorLd Bank Discssion Papers eo.
202, Uashington: World Bank, 1993.
jZ/ The next Country Assistance Strategy Paper is scheduled for Board presentation in January 1995.



- 10 -
inappropriate tochnology, and poorly trained health care persomnel are
expensive and wasteful of public resources. The importance of approprlate
public policies to obtain better value for money spent on health care,
therefore, cannot be overstated, especially when the public budget Ls under
severe pressure. The lessons learned from implementation of the Flrst Eealth
Project, and experience gained elsewhere in the world, give the Bank a good
vantage point from which to support the NOR in making more appropriate
resource allocation choices.
1.30. Finally, many of the current deficiencies in the health sector must be
confronted at a very difficult time. The recent large fiscal deficits in
Turkey precipitated a severe financial crisis in 1993/94. This led the
Government to initiate a program of stabilization and reform measures in April
1994. The centerpiece of the program is fiscal adjustment, requiring a
substantial contraction in public spending. Assistance from the international
financial community has been sought through: (a) an IMF Standby Arrangement
approved in July 1994 to support the stabilization measures; and (b)
discussions with the Bank on a proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan whlch
would cover the main structural elements contributing to the fiscal deficit.
Within the context of this fiscal crisis, the Government l ts continued to
attach a high priority to numan capital development. Witn funds not otherwLse
available, the Second Health Project will provide the financial resources for
critically needed investments in the health sector and help redirect health
expenditure towards more cost-effective areas of intervention.
F. Role of International Donor Communitv
1.31. The three UN agencies, WHO, UFICEF and the World Bank, have all
contributed significantly to the formulation of health policy in Turkey
through the publication of several strategic policy documentsll/ and the
development of several important action and investment programs. 2/
J3   WHO, Nealth For All by the ver 2000: Turkish National Health Policy. Copenhagen: WHO European
Regional Office WH, 1989; Wortd 8ank, Turke: Health Sector Revfea, Report TU-608° prepared by
Louis C. Vassiliou Uashington: Wortd Bank, 1989; World Bank, Turkey: Issums and Options in Health
Care Financins, Report TU-8042 prepared by Louis 0. Vassiliou, Udshington: World Bank, 1990; UNICEF,
The Situation Analysis of Nothers and Children in Turkey: Country Program&e 1°91-°5- Series 2,
Ankara: UNICEF Turkey Office, 191.
j2/ These include kHO0s "Health Status Targets", UNICEF's joint "Progra_ of Cooperation with the
Govermnent of Turkey for 1991-95f" and the world Bank's "First Health Sector Project".



- 11 -
II. TMB PROJECT
2.1. A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was prepared during appraisal and
agreed with the NOR in accordance with procedures set out in the OP/BP/GB
10.00. 3W  Tha PIP appears as Annex 1 to this appraisal report.  The PIP is
based on findings of the appraisal mission and the Project Operational Manual
(PON) which was prepared by the PCU and NOR in accordance with terms-of-
reference provided by the Bank. The PON provides the detailed description of
how the Project will be implemented. A copy of the POM is available in the
project files. This chapter, therefore, provides only a summary description
of the project objectives and project activities. A detailed description for
each of these elements, therefore, normally presented in Chapter 2 of the
Staff Appraisal Report, can now be found in the recommended format for the PIP
presented in Annex 1.
A. Proiect Obiectives
2.2. Recognizing that widespread systemic reform in the health sector is a
long-term process, the Government and the World Bank have agreed that the
Second Health Project will continue to build upon the work and the lessons
learned during the First Health Project. The primary goal of the Second
Health Project is to reduce the burden of disease due to avoidable illness and
disability in Turkey. To achieve this goal, the specific objectives of the
Project are to: (a) improve equity of access to essential health services in
23 eastern, low-income, priority provinces (Map 3); and (b) improve the
quality of health care management in selected institutions.
B. Proiect Description
2.3. The proposed Project will provide fellowships, training, technical
assistance, studies, health programs, computer hardware and software, medical
and office furniture, equipment, vehicles, teaching materials, civil works and
Incremental recurrent costs (US$200.0 million equivalent total cost). It will
be implemented over a period of seven and a half years by NOH departments in
collaboration with provincial health directorates, health care units in the
project provinces, pilot hospitals and selected universities. The Project,
which covers 16 percent of Turkey's total population (11.8 million people in
1993) and 29 percent of its surface area in the 23 project provinces, consists
of the following two components:
3V   CPR fssued new procedures an Septedrer 17, 1993 requfrfng that an Implemmntation Plan be prepareJ
and included in the Staff Appraisal Report. These procedures mill be incorporated and issued in the
OP/BP/GB 10.00, Investment lending: Identification to Board Approval.



- 12 -
a. The Primary Health Care Component (US$155.6 million total cost) will
comprise the following three subcomponents:
i.   Primary Health Care Training (USM  16.2 million)
ii. Basic Health Care Interventions (US$ 2.9 million)
iii. Infrastructure Development (US$ 136.5 million)LZ)
b. The Health Policy and Nanagemnt Component (US$44.4 million total
cost) will comprise the following four subcomponents:
i.   Health Services Management Training (US$10.7 million)
ii. Hospital Management Restructuring (US$4.5 million)
iII. Computerized Management Support Systems (US$12.4 million)
iv. Pre-investment Studies & Project Management (US$16.8 million)
Pr,imary- Health Care Component (USS155.6 million total cost)
2.4. The Primary Health Care component of the Project will improve equity In
access to essential health services by: (a) upgrading the training of primary
health care personnel; (b) expanding basic health care Interventions known to
be cost-effective; and (c) strengthening the network of health care facilities
to support the above activities. This component forms the centerpiece of the
Second Health Project. It sets priorities based on the leading causes of
mortality and morbidity, and it will keep these at the forefront of debates on
reforms in the health care system. The Primary Health Care Component consists
of the following three subcomponents: Primary Health Care Training, Basic
Health Care Interventions, and Infrastructure Development.
2.5. Primary Health Care Training (US$16.2 total cost). This subcomponent of
the Primary Health Care component will improve the quality of essential health
services by upgrading the training of primary health care personnel in the 23
project provinces. The Project will support: (a) curriculum dtvelopment,
practice-related learning materials and assistance in revising program
evaluation criteria; (b) training of trainers; (c) strengthening of in-service
training programs; (d) support In developing follow-up and supervision
mechanisms; and (e) opportunities for further training in primary health care
related areas.
2.6. Basic Health Care Interventions (USS2.9 million total cost). This
subcomponent of the Primary Health Care component will improve the
effectiveness of essential health services through: (a) extension of
successful interventions to the 23 project provinces (UNICEF-inspired Safe
Motherhood and Midwife Training Program, the Acute Respiratory Infectlon
Program, and Child Nutrition and Growth Monitoring Programs); (b) support for
public education campaigns (TV and advertising campaigns); (c) development and
implementation of a referral system; (d) support for community participation
LI/   Alt civil works, medical equipment and vehicles needed for other project subcomponents have been
costed under the Infrastructure Development subcomponent with the exception of the computer hardware
and software for the management support systems subcomponent.



- 13 -
and involvament by NGOs in the health sector; and (e) evaluation of cost-
effective interventions through operational research.
2.7.  Infrastructure DIevelopment (USS136.5 million total cost).22/  This
subcomponent of the Primary Health Care component will improve access to
essential health services in the 23 project provinces through: (a) the
refurbishment and upgrading of existing facilities; (b) the construction of a
limited number of new facilities (49); and (c) the procurement of basic
diagnostic equipment, furniture and vehicles. The civil works will focus
primarily on the construction, furnishing and equipping of urban in-service
clinical training centers (29), urban health centers (14), public health
laboratories (3) and cold storages for vaccines (3). The Project will also
include the renovation, furnishing and equipping of four mid-sized hospitals
with a 200-300 bed capacity, urban health centers (lle), rural health centers
(115) and public health laboratories (4).
Health Policy and Management Component tUSS44.4 million total cost)
2.8. The Health Policy and Management component of the Project will improve
the quality of health care management in selected institutions by:
(a) upgrading the training of staff in policymaking, planning, management,
monitoring and evaluation; (b) decentralizing and restructuring management
responsibility in six pilot hospitals;2V/ (c) introducing basic management
support systems in Provincial Health Directorates and selected hospitals in
the project provinces as well as evaluating a more comprehensive management
information system in one urban pilot hospitl.l in western Turkey; and
(d) conducting pre-investment studies to support a broader reform of the
health sector. The Health Policy and Management component will consist of the
following four subcomponents: Health Services Management Training, Hospital
Management Restructuring, Computerized Management Support Systems, and Pre-
investment Studies and Project Management.
2.9.  Health Services Management Trainin  (US$10.7 million total cost).  This
subcomponent will strengthen the management capabilities of the health care
system by: (a) training a critical mass of Turkish trainers in the conce.pts
and methodology of modern health services management; (b) developing a
continuing education program to upgrade the managerial skills of hospital
managers, staff in health centers, and provincial Health Directors in the
project provinces, as well as selected NOR staff in Ankara; (c) providing a
rapid management development program tailored to the specific needs of the
pilot hospital managers; and (d) developing a strategy for extending this to
other parts of the country at a later point in time.
a/   All construction, equipment, furniture and vehicles needed under the other suxbcqaonents of the
project have been costed under this subcomponent with the exception of the computer hardware and
software for the management support systems subcomponent.
3S/   Two of the six pilot hospitals for the Hospital Management Restructuring subcomponent, which were
started under the First Health Project (Bilecik and Eskisehir), are outside the 23 project
provinces. The other four pilot hospitals under this subcmpoMnent are the same as the four
hospitals that will be renovated under the Infrastructure development subcomponent.



- 14 -
2.10. HolDital Nanagement Restructuring (US84.5 million total cost). This
subcomponent of the Health Policy and Management component will improve
performance of hospital services (cost-effectiveness, efficiency and quality)
by: (a) introducing a new organizational structure in six pilot hospitals;
(b) redefining the functions of senior managers in the pilot hospitals; and
(c) Increasing the responsibility, accountability and autonomy (including
financial) of managers in the pilot hospitals.
2.11. Comnute;ized Management SupDort Systems (USS12.4 million total cost).
This subcomponent of the Health Policy and Management component will provide
policymakers, managers, and health care providers with computerized management
support systems to improve the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of their
services. Thirty-four hospitals in the project provinces will receive small
network-based management support systems to perform basic hospital management
functions, such as personnel, payroll, accounting, general ledger, billing,
pharmacy, critical materials management, and admissions, discharge and
transfer functions. One urban hospital in Western Turkey will receive a
comprehensive network-based management support system.
2.12. Pre-investment Studies and Proiect Manaeement (USS16.8 million total
cost). This subcomponent of the Health Policy and Management component will
ensure that future reforms in the health sector focus adequately on reducing
the burden of illness due to preventable and treatable diseases or disability
in Turkey. A National Burden of Disease (NBD) study will be conducted,
applying the methodology developed for the 1993 World Development Report
(World Bank 1993). When combined with in-country cost-utility studies, it
will be possible to determine affordable cost-effective packages of health
interventions that will address a significant proportion of preventable and
treatable disease throughout the country (see Annex 4 for details).
2.13. This subcomponent of the Project will also conduct a limited number of
pilot studies to develop the Government's IHCR Program which could be
supported by a Third Health Project. It will continue providing technical
assistance and limited equipment to maintain an operational PCU in the MOg.
C. Environmental Impact
2.14. The Project has been classified as C: "No appreciable environmental
impact." Special attention will be given to appropriate disposal of sanitary,
medical and laboratory wastes. The Project is expected to have a beneficial
environmental impact through improved sanitation facilities for the disposal
of infectious wastes and other solid wastes in the rehabilitated health
centers and hospitals. Environmental considerations, especially concerning
the materials available locally for health center and hospital construction
and maintenance, will be factored into building quality standards and
procurement of building materials.



- 15 -
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT AND IHPLEMENTATION
A. Introduction
3.1.  This chapter provides only a_ summarv of project costs, financing,
management and implementation arrangements, procurement, disbursements, audit
reporting, and status of preparation. A detailed description for each of
these elements, normally presented in Chapter 3 of the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), can now be found in the recommended format for the PIP presented in
Annex 1.
B. Proiect Cost
3.2.    The total cost of the Second Health Project is estimated at about
TL9.8 trillion equivalent, including contingencies, taxes and duties. The
total base cost is estimated at US$126.9 million. Physical contingencies are
estimated at US$6.7 million. Price contingencies between negotiations
(August 1994) and the end of the seven and a half year project implementation
period will amount to about US$66.4 million or 33 percent of total cost. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$53.9 million including
contingencies, or about 27 percen: of total project cost. Taxes and duties
are estimated at US$19.7 million equivalent.
3.3. The total project cost includes fellowships, training, technical
assistance, studies, community health programs, computer hardware and
software, medical and office furniture, equipment, vehicles, teaching and
public education materials, new construction, refurbishment of facilities and
Incremental recurrent costs incurred during project implementation. The
estimated cost distributed among project components is shown in Table 1 of
Annex 1. Project costs are summarized by expenditure category in Table 2 of
Annex 1. A breakdown of costs by component and expenditure category is found
in Table 3 of Annex 1. The project costs include about TL1.4 trillion or
uS$23.0 million to cover incremental operating costs directly attributable to
the Project during the seven and a half year implementation period.
C. Project Financing
3.4. The proposed Bank loan of US$150.0 million will finance 75 percent of
total project costs, comprising 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost
(US$53.9 million) of the Project and 76 percent of the local cost, excluding
taxes (US$96.1 million). The Government will finance the balance of project
costs (US$50.0 million) or about 24 percent of local costs (US$30.3 million),
excluding duties and taxes, which are estimated at US$19.7 million equivalent.
Incremental operating costs comprising building and equipment maintenance
services, annual maintenance costs of computers and software, and staff
salaries (US$23.0 million equivalent) will be financed entirely by the
Government. Averaged over the life of the Project, this represents three
percent of the projected 1995 budget allocation for the MOH of TL54.7
trillion.



- 16 -
3.5. To assist the NOR in recruiting specialized consultants and conducting
the surveys required for project preparation, a Project Preparation Pacillty
of US$1.5 million was made available by the Bank in April 1993. Repayment of
the Project Preparation Advance is included ln the project costs. In
addition, a grant of Yen122.3 million (about US$1.0 million) was awarded by
the Government of Japan to finance studies related to the design and
implementation of MOE's reform program which will pave the way for a Third
Health Project, focussiug on health care financing reforms.
3.6. The MOH han also requested retroactive financing of up to US$10 million
to cover expenditures incurred 12 months prior to project effectiveness to
support the following activities: (a) technical assistance to support
coordination of the primary health care training programs and coordination of
programs such as the Safe Motherhood and Midwifery Training Program;
(b) technical assistance from Turkish institution(s) to support implementation
of the health services management training program; (c) technical assistance
to support implementation of the management support systems subcomponent;
(d) technical assistance from Turkish institutions to support implementation
of a National Burden of Illness assessment and cost-utility studies in Turkey;
and (e) equipment for selected health posts for midwives, health centers, and
maternal and child centers (see Annex 1 for details on procurement
arrangements).
D. Project NanaRement and Imulementation
3.7.    The Project will be implemented by MOR departments, provincial health
directorates, health care units in the project provinces, pilot hospitals and
selected universities over a seven and a half-year implementation period.
3.8. A Project Coordination Committee (PCC), established and functioning well
under the First Health Project, will assume a broad oversight responsibility
for the Second Project. The Committee will provide guidance and advice on
project implementation and ensure that Project objectives remain consistent
with national health policy throughout the life of the Project. The PCC will
be chaired by the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Health and include the
department heads of the MOH General Directorates, the head of the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), and representatives from the State Planning
Organization, and Treasury. Day-to-day coordination, management and
monitoring of all project-related activlties will be the responsibility of the
PCU.
3.9. The Project will require, on average, about 25 staff-weeks of Bank
supervision per year during the first two years of implementation to
successfully launch several critical project related activities (training
programs) and decrease to about 15 staff-weeks in the later years of
Implementation. Wherever passible, Bank staff will supervise the First and
Second Health Projects during the same mission, as well as initiating
preparation of the planned Third Health Project, thereby ensuring some economy
of effort in utilizing Bank staff resources.



- 17 -
R. Protect Procurement Arranuements
3.10. Items to be procured will be grouped into major packages to encourage
competitive bidding and permit bulk procurement. The standard procurement
table is provided in Annex 1, Table 7. Procurement will be carried out in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines. Major procurement categories include:
about US$92.5 million to be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICJ) procedures; about US$6.6 milllon through local competitive bidding
(LCB); US$1.7 million through international shopping; and US$2.8 million
through local shopping (LS).  Local procurement will be in acco: ance with
agreements reached between the Bank and the Turkish Government during the 1994
Country Procurement Assessment Review. It is expected that US$6.2 million
will be procured either directly from UNICEF or through IC3. It is also
expected that US$1.8 million will be procured through direct contracting
(books and intellectual property). Procurement packages, including estimated
cost and time of completion, are presented in the PIP (Annex 1).
3.11. Bank standard bidding documents for goods and works will be used for the
project. The PIP (Annex 1) contains a detailed list of equipment packages to
be procured under the Project. A description of the capacity of the
implementing agencies to carry out procurement procedures, as well as the
procurement monitoring process by the Borrower, is found in Annex 1.
P. Disbursements
3.12. The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of about
seven and a half years in accordance with the relevant profile for the Region,
based on the experLence of the Fir-t Health Project and recent improvements in
project implementation under coordination of the PCU. The closing date will
be December 31, 2001. A detailed disbursement plan is provided in the PIP,
Annex 1.
3.13.  To facilitate timely project implementatlon, the Government will
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, a Special Account denominated in a freely convertible currency. The
authorized allocation will be US$6.0 million. lowever, during the first year
of the Project, an initial amount limited to US$2.0 million will be deposlted.
When the aggregate amount of disbursement reaches US$25.0 million, the amount
deposited in the Special Account will be increased to the full authorized
allocation of US$6.0 million.
G.  Project Audit  Rorting and  luation
3.14. Project Accounts and the Special Account will be audited In accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank" (March 1982). Annex 1 shows the detailed plan for
Project Auditing.
3.15. The PCU will prepare semi-annual descriptive and financial reports on
each project component, objective an, actlvity (beginning from the date of
Loan Effectiveness). Annex 1 shows the detailed plan for Project reportitg
and annual reviews.



- 18 -
H. Status of PreDaration
3.16. The preparatory work and experlence gained by MOB and PCU staff under
the First Health Project have greatly facilitated preparation of the Second
Health Project. The scope of work required to prepare the Second Project
called for a clear distinction of responsibilities between the two operations.
New project preparation working subgroups were established from within the
existing PCU and NOR departments of the KOH. A detailed description of the
PCU and its organizational chart are included in Annex 1. A PON, which was
prepared as part of Project preparation, is included in the project files.
3.17. Desisnation of Prolect Coordination and Implementation Resoonsibilities.
Implementation and coordination responsibilities of the MOH implementation
units and the PCU have been defined. The principal staff of the PCU are in
place asd are supported by technical assistance through a Management Services
Agreement with the United Nations Development Program's Office of Project
Services (UNDP/OPS). Annex 1 Includes a detailed description bf the project
coordination and implementation responsibilities.



- 19 -
IV. BENEFITS AID RXSKS
A. Benefits
4.1 The Project's major benefit will be to reduce the number of avoidable
deaths and disability In the project provinces, especially among women and
children. Targeted investments in training and facilities will lead to better
staffed and equipped essential health services in these provinces. Such
interventions are well known to be cost-effective and a precondition for
improving maternal and child survival. A second benefit of the Project will
be to obtain better value for money spent on health services. Staff in the
project provinces will be trained in health services management and provided
with management support systems, alloving them to improve the quality of
services provided and avoid wasting scarce resources.
B. Risks
4.2 A major risk faced by the Project is that it may become difficult to
implement and supervise activities in a number of the project provinces which
currently have accessibility problems. Contingency plans are included to
allow: (a) out-of-province training where necessary; (b) pre-selection of only
urban facilities for civil works to ensure the possibility of an adequate
supervision, staffing and supply of equipment; (c) province-by-province
costing to allow flexibility under a phased implementation plan; and (d) use
of a professional engineering firm to oversee the construction programs. A
second risk is the limited institutional capacity of MOR departments,
especially in the area of training. This risk will be mitigated by:
(a) appropriate deployment of staff trained through fellowships financed under
the First Health Project; (b) technical assistance, including management
contracts for logistic support in coordinating training activities;
(c) decentralization of training efforts to provincial teams; (d) modular
distance-based education; (e) improved coordination of the different General
Directorates in an integrated approach to training activities; and
(f) collaboration with universities as co-participants in the implementation
of training progrums.



- 20 -
V. AGREEMESNT RACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1. The following actions are required to assure successful implementation
of the Project and attainment of the broader project objectives.
5.2. During negotiations, assurances were provided that:
a. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1998: (1) develop and initiate the
implementation of programs similar to the programs referred to under
Part A(2)(a) of the Project [Basic Health Care Interventions], to
improve the quality and effectiveness of, and access to, primary
health care in the Borrower's provinces other than the project
provinces; and (ii) ensure that disposal of medical materials and
waste and protection of X-ray facilities and staff are undertaken at
all times in conformity with the Borrower's applicable regulations
and in accordance with safety, health and environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02 (a) and (b)).
b. For the purpose of facilitating the efficient carrying out by MNO of
its activities under the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, with
membership, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, the units, teams and committees referred to in the Annex to
Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5(2)).
c. The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the Project shall be carried out
in accordance with the requirements, and other details set forth in
an operations manual (the Project Operations Manual) agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank, as the same may be amonded wlth
the agreement of the Bank; (ii) employ consultants, with
qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, in
order to assist in the carrying out of the Project, including in the
management of the implementation thereof, the design and constructlon
supervision of the works thereunder and the procurement of goods,
works and services therefor; (iii) ensure (a) the adequate deployment
and continuity of primary health care personnel in the Project
Provinces and (b) the adequate equipping and supplying with drugs and
other consumables of the primary health care facilities located in
the said provinces, all in accordance with the requirements set forth
in the Project Operations Manual; and (iv) ensure that the training
activities under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with
programs, including time-schedules for the implementation thereof and
criteria for the selection of candidates thereunder, satisfactory to
the Bank. (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5(3)).
Recommedation
5.3. Subject to the above, the proposed operation provides a suitable basis
for a loan of US$150.0 million to the Government of Turkey.



-21-                                 Annexs
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECTs
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTHEASTERN ANATOLIA
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
TABLE or CONT7NTS
PacLeNo
I.    ZU0TEQXT
A.  Project Scope and Objectives      ... ......... ........... 23
B.  Project Description .        ...........................  23
C.  Project Coss....os.............ts.*  ... 32
Base Costs ...................--@----.... * ---..........-*  34
Contingency Allowances.,.o w ac ..................... .oo... 35
Foreign Exchange Component......... .................  35
Customs, Duties and Taxes a. ...s. .. ..  ......... .....  .. . 36
Incremental Recurrent Co                s      ts.................. .. .. 36
D.  Detailed Financing Planlan.      . ....  ....... . - ..... 0. 36
:I * IMPLEM3NTATION AMRANGEMENTS
A.  Organizations Responsible for the Project.........oj    .ect. 37
B.  Agreements between Borrower and Implementing Agencies...... 38
C.  Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies        .      .....  38
Component 1: Primary Health Care.........a                   41
Component 2: Health Policy and Management............... 42
D.  Interagency Coordination ...  o....          ........           44
B.  Role of the World Bank during Supervision o.....*.....          45
F.  Administrative Arrangements   ....... ...........46
III.  DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A.  Time-Bound Schedulec...d                      ul.  . . .o ............ 46
B.  Procurement Arrangements and Schedule .....oo .. .             48
C.  Disbursement and Financing Schedules................            54
D.  Financial and Economic Analysis .......................... 56
So Audit Timtbi          m e....t           ab..l..e.......o...o.  57
F.  Main Project Risks........ ..o.... o.o.....o ........... o.. 58
0.  Other Factors Affecting Project's Successo ................  58
H.  Loan Covenants for Implementationl.....a 5............. 58



- 22 -                              Agneg I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIqN PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Cont'd)
IV. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A.  Actions to Monitor Development Objectives. ..............., 59
B.  Development Indicators. .. ..               t o r ....         59
C.  Project Indicators. ...... ...... .... .0 ................    60
D.  Financial Indicatord............. **.*........d.    61
CHARTS
Chart I  : Summary of Project Goals, Objectives and Activities...... 24
Chart II : Organization of MOH and PCU       ..........     ........... 37
Chart III:  Project Implementation Responsibilities............. 41
Chart IV : Supervision Plann..... .....*.........#***#........ 45
TABLES
Table 1:  Project Cost Summary by Project Component..ponen...t  32
Table 2:  Project Cost Summary by Category of Expendituren....           33
Table 3:  Expenditure Accounts by Components.................            34
Table 4:  Financing Plan by Yearear ..       . ....     ........         36
Table 5:  Disbursements by Year*. . ... ....              ......        37
Table 6:  Milestones in Project Implementationl....                      47
Table 7:  Procurement Arrangementsr.a......e...... O...                  48
Table 8:  Summary of Procurement Packages for Works, Vehicles
Equipment and Furniture......                                49
Table 9:  Summary of the Procurement Packages for Technical
Assistance .......504 ......                            ..s
Table 10s Retroactive Contracting Summ arr 5.4.......        ........   54
Table 11: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category........tego.y...       55
Table 12: Forecasts of Expenditures and Disbursements ............... 56



- 23 -                            Annex 1
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTHEASTERN ANATOLIA
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Introduction
1.   The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was prep-red during appraisal and
agreed with the Ministry of Health (MOH), in accordance with procedures set
out in the OP/BP/GB 10.00.1/ The PIP is based on findings of the appraisal
mission and the Project Operational Manual (POX) which was prepared by the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and MOH in accordance with terms-of-reference
provided by the Bank. The PON provides details on how the Project will be
implemented. A copy of the POX is available in the project files.
I. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Scope and Obiectives
2.    The primary goal of the Second Health Project is to reduce the burden of
disease due to avoidable illness and disability in Turkey. To achieve this
goal, the specific objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve equity of
access to essential health services in 23 eastern, low-income, priority
provinces (see Map 3); and (b) improve the quality of health care management
in selected institutions.
B. Proiect DescriDtion
3.   The proposed Project will provide fellowships, training, technical
assistance, studies, health programs, computer hardware and software, medical
and office furniture, equipment, vehicles, teaching materials, civil works and
incremental recurrent costs (US$200.0 million equivalent total cost). It will
be implemented over a period of seven and a half years by MOH departments in
collaboration with provincial health directorates, health care units in the
project provinces, pilot hospitals and through selected universities. The
Project, which covers 16 percent of Turkey's total population (nine million
people in 1990) and 29 percent of its surface area, consists of the following
two components:
CPR issued neo procedures on September 17, 1993 requiring that an Implementation Plan be prepared
and included in the Staff Appraisal Report. These procedures will be incorporated and issued in the
OP/BP/GB 10.00, Investment lending: Identification to Board Approval.



-  24  -                                               Anhfx  1
Chart 1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT GOALS, OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES
GOALS AND OBJECIVES                                      ACT1rII1ES
I. PRIMARY HEALTH CARE. Irove EuiV of Acces to Essential Heath Services in 23  stern Lo-Icome Prioritvc
A. Prirmary Health Care Trainina.      1. Curridculum development. preparation of learning mateials, revision of p F0gamevaluato n1ea
Upgrade training of primuay heath      taining of trainers; strengthening of in-service training programs; and development of follow-up and
care personnel in 23 project provinces.  supervision mechanims.
B. Basic Health Care Interventions.    1. Extension of successfl intventions to 23 projet prvinces.
Improve effectiveness of eental     2. Support for publc eduation campaigns.
health ser   throgh public          3. Developtnentr mplentionof referad system.
information campaign and community    4. Comnmunity participation and involvemet of NGOs in hlh sector.
participation.                      5. Evaluation of cost-effeive interventions through operational reseach.
C. Infrastructute Develooment          1. Constuction, furnishing and equipping of urban in-service training centers (29); utban hath
Povide the necessay physcal            centers (14); public hallth labotatories (3); and cold  orages for vaccincs (3).
infrstucue and clinical facilities to  2. Renovation, furshig and equping of midaize hospals (4); uban health centers (110); rur health
promote the primary health camt       centers (ll 5,; and public health laboratories (4).
strategy development under Ptoject.  3. Equiping of health posts with aidwife kits and refils.
4. Equipping of the larest state hospitals in each provice, 4 obaetics hosphils and 7 dtr lrge non-stem
hositals in papct area with basic diagnostic, act car and obstetic equipment.
5. Provision of 244 4-wheel drve vehicles.
H. HEALTH POLICY AND MANAGEMENT. Imrtove the Oualitv of Health Care Management in Slectd    utIo.
A. Health Services Mana                1. Training of core of Tubish tains in conceptstltdoloof modern hah care manageme
Trsining. Stgten n manaeme          2. Development of continug education prgm  to upgtade mn       ills of hopil mne, healt
capabilities in health care system.    center staff, health dretors in project proviaces, Ankaa MOH staf.
3. Rapid management developAent progrm for pilot hospital managers.
4. Development of strtegy to extend this training to entire country.
B. Hospital Manaeement Restructudqg.   1. Introduction of new otganiatonal stru     in six pilot hospitals.
improve costeffctiveness, efficiency    2. Redefinition of senior magement fnctions in pilt hospitals.
and quality of hospitala through    3. Development/introductionof hopital policiespcdur_s for iwead hospital autonomy.
manqenaestructug.                   4. Development of account ystems and pdcing mechanisms to improve efficicy of  ource us.
5. Developmnt of quaity standards for improvement of patient care and the eavironmen
C. Commutrized Mon. & SUDD Svs?tm      1. ntroducto of network-based manwgee support syems formam          perso l, payrot.
Inprove cost-ew*venss aNd             a     t, biling, gea  ledgr, pharmacy, admi        dischar  and tanfr fwun .
efficency of health see tro        2. Setting up of copnreensve  twork-based m_s upport sya to iat ful i
compurized management infrmation      administrative manage   and clinl functions.
system                             3. Extension of the baso health information sym (IS) developed for MOH and ptvnincial Healfh
Ditortes under the Fst he    Project to the Pwovincial Directorates of th 23 prject provinmes.
4. Hospital manager and saff training to support development and implementation of applatioa softwr.
D. Peinvestment Studies and Proie       1. Proviion of staff taining, m eials and equipment to PCU to support project admnsaon and
Strengthen PCU            procurement.
mangemet capability to cxpedite     2. Canying out of p ve t dies, including the Ntional Burden of Disa  Study.
proect implementation, and conduct
pro-investmet stdies to ensure ht
furue reforms in heath sector focu on
wcing burdn of da  in Turkey.



-25 -                               Annex I
Primary Health Care Comoonent (USS1S5.6 millioo total cost}
4.    The Primary Health Care component of the Project will improve equity of
access to essential health services bys (a) upgrading the training of primary
health care personnel; (b) expanding basic health care interventions known to
be cost-effective; and (c) strengthening the network of health care facilities
to support the above activities. This component forms the centerpiece of the
Second Health Project. It sets priorities based on the leading causes of
mortality and morbidity, and it will keep these at the forefront of debates on
reforms in the health care system.
5.    The Primary Health Care Component consists of the following three
subcomponents: (a) Primary Health Care Training; (b) Basic Health Care
Interventions; and (c) Infrastructure Development. All construction,
equipment, furniture and vehicles needed under the other subcomponents of the
project have been costed under this subcomponent with the exception of the
computer hardware and software for the management support systems
subcomponent.
6.    Primary Realth Care Trainina (USS16.2 total cost).  This subcomponent of
the Primary Health Care component will improve the quality of essential health
services by upgrading the training of primary health care personnel in the 23
project provinces. It will strengthen short-term continuing education
programs at the provincial level, emphasizing cost-effective interventions,
practical skills in health promotion and disease prevention, health education,
priority health programs, quality assurance in primary health care and
teamwork approaches. The Project will provide for: (a) curriculum
development, practice-related learning materials and assistance in revising
program evaluation criteria; (b) training of trainers; (c) strengthening of
in-service training programs; (d) support in developing follow-up and
supervision mechanisms; and (e) opportunities for further training in primary
health care related areas. Community participation in health matters will be
stimulated through the training of community health volunteers and community
health councils. Primary and secondary school teachers will be trained in
health promotion.
7.    The training programs will be organized by the General Directorates of
MOH under the coordination and management of the PCU, in close collaboration
with Turkish universities, medical schools and secondary level vocational
schools of nursing and midwifery. A Primary Health Care Technical Committee,
with representation from line departments of the MON, has already been
established and will be responsible for overall development of the programs
(general strategies, curriculum development, supervision and evaluation).
Twenty-seven multi-professional Provincial Training Teams with seven members
each (four of the 23 project provin.ces will have two training teams), with
support from three Regional Training Teams to facilitate coordination among
the various training activities, will form the nucleus for most training
activities. A phased approach will be used to disseminate information about
health programs from the central level through provincial teams to the
population. The Central Training Committee will work closely with the
Regional Training Teams in giving support to the Provincial Training Team



- 26 -                              Ann= I
during the initial induction phase. Trained clinical staff in the health
centers (doctors, nurses and midwives) will assist in the subsequent training
of community councils and community health volunteers within their catchment
areas and villages. These community resources will then participate in health
education of the local population. Each of the three Regional and 27
Provincial Training Teams will be responsible for training approximately 70
doctors, 60 nurses, 90 midwives, six technicians and eight other primary
health care workers annually. Each province will also train two six-member
community health council groups and 350 community volunteers during the
project lifetime.
8.    The Project will support a modular approach to training which will focus
on the main health problems facing the population in the project provinces.
Modules will be produced by the various Training Teams for the following
programs: (a) family health, including maternal and child health, nutrition,
and family planning; (b) environmental health, including water, waste,
personal, animal, air and food hygiene, and potential for tropical and water
borne diseases; and (c) common health problems such as tuberculosis, other
respiratory and infectious diseases, and accidents. The modules will be
developed with different options for depth of content according to the needs
of the target group of health personnel (doctors, nurses, midwives,
technicians and others) and local needs of the population. Training programs
for the community councils and community volunteers will also follow a modular
plan. Targeted health professionals will receive additional job- or function-
specific training through the training program. Distance-based educational
programs will be prepared to reach out to personnel in remote regions. These
will be followed up by on-site discussions and practice with provincial
training teams. hanagement training for the personnel staffing essential
health services will be provided through the Health Services Management
Training subcomponent of the Project. Given the large number of short-term
courses, an external firm will be hired to assist in coordinating the
administrative aspects of the programs. The same firm will provide management
support in coordinating activities under the Basic Health Care Interventions
subcomponent.
9.    The Project will provide technical assistance (60 staff-months for
policy development, 362 staff-months for management support and 16 staff-
months for institutional capacity building), fellowships (30 staff-years),
local and international study tours, training, teaching materials, audio-
visual equipment, hardware, software, library resources, and training for
primary health care workers to deal effectively with the key threats to good
health in the project provinces. The civil works, medical equipment and
vehicles required for the new training programs have been costed under the
Infrastructure Development subcomponent.
10.   Basic Health Care Interventions (USS2.9 million total cost).  This
subcomponent of the Primary Health Care component will improve the
effectiveness of essential health services through: (a) extension of
successful interventions to the 23 project provinces; (b) support for public
education campaigns; (c) development and implementation of a referral system;
(d) support for community participation and involvement by NGOs in the health



- 27 -                             Annex 1
sector; and (e) evaluation of cost-effective interventions through operational
research. The Provincial Health Directorates and health care units will
expand known programs with demonstrated success in other parts of the world
such as the UNICEF-MOH Safe Motherhood and Midwife Training Program, the Acute
Respiratory Infection (ARI) Program, and Child Nutrition and Growth Monitoring
Programs. They will increase existing public education programs through mass
media (TV and advertising campaigns) to focus on maternal and child health,
positive actions which can be taken to reduce avoidable mortality and
morbidity, and the appropriate use of health services. The Project will also
improve communication and information flows through the different levels of
the health care system by developing and analyzing a referral system under
controlled conditions. Successful experiences will be extended to other parts
of the country. The participation of NGOs will be encouraged through grants
to support new initiatives in community participation in the health sector.
Finally, in close coordination with the National Burden of Disease Assessment
(see description under Pre-investment Studies and Annex 4), the Project will
assess the cost-effectiveness of different types of basic health care
interventions through operational research in the project provinces.
11.   The Project will provide technical assistance (34 staff-months of policy
development and 153 staff-months for institutional capacity building),
training, and studies to develop and implement the basic health care
intervention programs. The civil works, medical equipment and vehicles
required for the basic health services interventions have been costed under
the Infrastructure Development subcomponent.
12.   Infrastructure Develounent (USS136.5 million total costl.3] This
subcomponent of the Primary Health Care component will improve access to
essential health services in the 23 project provinces through: (a) the
refurbishment and upgrading of existing facilities, and the construction of a
limited number of new facilities (49); and (b) procurement of: (i) equipment;
(Li) furniture; and (iii) vehicles. The civil works will focus primarily on
the construction, furnishing and equipping of urban in-service clinical
training centers (29), urbam health centers (14), public health laboratories
(3) and cold storages for vaccines (3). The Project will also include the
renovation, furnishing and equipping of four mid-sized hospitals with a 200-
300 bed capacity, urban health centers (110), rural health centers (115) and
public health laboratories (4). This subcomponent will provide the necessary
physical infrastructure and clinical facilities to promote, in a balanced
manner in designated areas, the primary health care strategy developed under
the Project.
13.   To improve the quality of ante- and post-natal care, the Project will
provide health posts for midwives with weighing scales (baby and adult), small
refrigerators and an examining table. Midwives in the primary care setting
(health posts for midwives, health centers and maternal and child centers)
All comtruction, equipmet, furniture and vehicLes needed uider the other suboaponts of the
project have been costed uwder this subcomponent with the exception of the compater hardwre and
software for the management support systems subcomponent.



- 28 -                            Annex I
will be provided with "midwife kits" and disposable refills to rGplenish these
as needed on a regular basis to improve the quality of assisted births. To
broaden the scope and cost-effectiveness of essential health services, each
health center and maternal and child center will receive a set of basic
diagnostic equipment, including a centrifuge to prepare urinalysis specimens,
two hemoglobin meters, two glucometers, weighing scales (baby and adult) and a
refrigerator to store vaccines. The 27 urban in-service clinical training
centers will also be equipped with basic ambulatory diagnostic equipment,
including a basic fixed X-Ray machine, blood cell counter, bacteriology
equipment and autoclave. To strengthen the basic health care referral network
in each of the project provinces, each state hospital, four obstetrics
hospitals and seven of the other large non-state hospitals will each be
equipped with basic diagnostic equipment (a fixed X-Ray, two mobile X-Rays, an
autoanalyser and pulse oximeter) and essential acute care equipment (two
portable monitor/defibrillators, an ECG machine, a respirator, an anesthesia
machine, a volumetric respirator, two nebulizers and incubators). The
obstetrics units will be provided with a fetal monitor, an ultrasound machine
and incubators. The Project will also provide 244 4-wheel drive vehicles to
improve transport and outreach activities.
14.   The Project will provide surveys of existing facilities, topographical
site surveys, soil tests, design of buildings, civil works, supervision of
construction and procurement of equipment and vehicles to strengthen essential
health services and their referral network in the project provinces. It will
provide on-the-spot training to strengthen the operation and utilization of
the new equipment.
Health PolicX and Management Component (USS44.4 million total cost)
15.   The Health Policy and Management component of the Project will improve
the quality of health care management in selected institutions byt
(a) upgrading the training of staff in policymaking, planning, management,
monitoring and evaluation; (b) decentralizing and restructuring management
responsibility in six pilot hospitals;VJ (c) introducing basic management
support systems in Provincial Health Directorates and selected hospitals in
the project provinces as well as evaluating a more comprehensive management
information system in one urban pilot hospital in western Turkey; and
(d) conducting pre-investment studies to support a broader reform of the
health sector. Activities supported under (b) and (c) are explicitly designed
as trial runs for later country-wide implementation.
16.   The Health Policy and Management component will consist of the following
four subcomponents: (a) Health Services Management Training; (b) Hospital
Management Restructuring; (c) Computerized Management Support Systems; and
(d) Pre-investment Studies and Project Management. Any civil works, medical
equipment and vehicles needed to implement subcomponents (a), (b) and (c) have
Two of the six pitot hospitals for the Hospital Management Restructuring subcomponent which uere
started under the First Health Project (Bilecik and Eskisehir), are outside the 23 project
provinces. The other four pilot hospitaLs under this subcomponent are the sawe as the four
hospitals that witl be renovated under the Infrastructure development subcomponent.



- 29 -                              Annex
been costed under the Infrastructure Development subcomponent. The computer
hardware and software needed under subcomponent (c) have been costed under
subcomponent (c), not under the Infrastructure Development subcomponent.
17.   Health Service. Management Trainina (USS10.7 million total costi.  This
subcomponent will strengthen the management capabilities of the health care
system by: (a) training a critical mass of Turkish trainers in the concepts
and methodology of modern health services management; (b) developing a
continuing education program to upgrade the managerial skills of hospital
managers, staff in health centers, and provincial Health Directors in the
project provinces, as well as selected KOH staff in Ankaral (c) providing a
rapid management development program tailored to the specific needs of the
pilot hospital managers; and (d) developing a strategy for extending this to
other parts of the country at a later time. The subcomponent will be
delivered by a partnership between: (a) a Turkish university (or a consortium
of two Turkish universities with at least one from the 23 project provinces)
which will provide the institutional framework for the trainers; and (b) a
suitably qualified foreign institution or consortium of institutions which
will provide the technical assistance. Turkish and foreian institutions will
train 26 trainers in the first year (20 of the trainers w_ll be retrained in
the fifth year of the Project). In the project provinces, these trainers will
subsequently be responsible for training 192 hospital staff, 288 people from
provincial health directorates and 120 people from the central KOH over the
seven and a half year Project cycle. They will also train 60 people from the
six pilot hospitals. In addition, 140 health center doctors and 100
specialists from the project provinces will be trained annually throughout the
Project cycle.
18.   The "Training the Trainers Program", which wilL provide the basis for
all subsequent management training activities, requires an early selection by
the partnership institutions of potential candidates for the program. Once
completed, this program will be followed by establishment of the phased
management training program described above. The management training needs of
the pilot hospitals will be met, in the initial phase of the project, through
an intensive eight week course provided in Turkish by the newly trained
trainers with support from foreign technical assistance. The participants
will then take part in a brief overseas study tour to observe the functioning
of decentralized hospitals and health services. Following the first cycle of
the basic management training program, more advanced continuing management
training programs will be offered at repeated intervals throughout the life of
the Project.
19.   The modular contents of the continuing management training programs will
vary according to the needs of the various participants. The range of
modules, however, will include introduction to: running health services;
health policy and planning; strategic management; management of change;
financial management and planning; using information for management; human
resource management; interpersonal skills and time management; epidemiology
for management; and managing quality assurance. The programs will have a
particular orientation towards improving the functioning of the essential
health service network, the appropriate referral system to secondary care and



- 30 -                              Annex I
the efficient operation of the hospital sector.   All the programs will be
designed to have immediate, practical benefit to the health service. The
Project will also strengthen the Masters level programs in health services
management at selected universities to meet the country's long-term needs.
Faculty and professional development will be supported through postgraduate
fellowships abroad (Masters and PhD degrees).
20.   The Project will provide technical assistance (four staff-months for
policy development, 63 staff-months for management support and 524 staff-
months for institutional capacity building), fellowships (58 staff-years),
local and international study tours, training, teaching materials, audio-
visual equipment, hardware, software and library resources to establish and
strengthen the described programs. The limited civil works required for the
now training programs have been costed under the Infrastructure Development
subcomponent.
21.   Hospital Manaaement Restructurina (USS4.5 million total cost).  This
subcomponent of the Health Policy and Management component will improve
performance of hospital services (cost-effectiveness, efficiency and quality)
by: (a) introducing a new organizational structure in six pilot hospitals;
(b) redefining the functions of senior managers in the pilot hospitals; and
(c) increasing the responsibility, accountability and autonomy (including
financial) of managers in the pilot hospitals. The Project will supports
(a) the recruitment, selection and development of hospital management teams;
(b) the establishment of departments responsible for business planning,
general management, finance, personnel, clinical affairs, and in-service
training; (c) the development and introduction of hospital policies and
procedures to support an increased autonomy of the hospitals and improved
referral systems; (d) the installation of computerized management support
systems to provide the information that is needed for rational decision
making; (e) the development of accounting systems, costing and pricing
mechanisms to improve efficiency in the use of resources (equipment,
materials, staff and services); and (f) the development of quality standards
for the improvement of patient care and the environment.
22.   Training in health services management and computerized information
systems will be provided under the Health Services Management Training and the
Computerized Management Support Systems subcomponents, respectively. The
Project will support macro planning exercises within the pilot hospitals as
guidance to managers in developing future-oriented business plans for their
institutions. Emphasis will be placed on developing an ability in strategic
planning, management of change, decision making, conflict management,
leadership development, financial management, accounting, monitoring and use
of information, communication and dealing with the external environment as
applied to the management of a health provider institution.
23.   The Project will provide technical assistance (29 staff-months for
policy development and 192 staff-months for institutional capacity building),
fellowships (72 staff-years), local and international study tours, training,
hardware, software, equipment, development of studies and interventions
designed to facilitate a decentralization and restructuring of management
responsibility within the health sector to the regional and local hospital
levels. The limited civil works required for hospital restructuring have been
costed under the Infrastructure Development subcomponent.



- 31 -                              Anane  1
24. QomputSriged Management Support Systems (USS12.4 million total costs.
This subcomponent of the Health Policy and Management component will provide
policymakers, managers, and health care providers with computerized management
support systems to improve the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of their
services. Thirty-four hospitals in the project provinces will receive small
network-based management support systems to perform basic hospital management
functions, such as personnel, payroll, accounting, general ledger, billing,
pharmacy, critical materials management, and admIssions, discharge and
transfer functions. one urban hospital in Western Turkey will receive a
comprehensive network-based management support system to perform and
integrates (a) financial and administrative management; and (b) clinical
functions, such as radiology, hematology, obstetrics, etc. In addition, the
comprehensive system will provide access to clinical records information.
Under the First aealth Project, a 15-module health information system (HIS) is
being developed for the central MOB and provincial Health Directorates.
Following successful deployment under the First Project, the Second Health
Project will extend a basic health information system to the Provincial
Directorates of the 23 project provinces. These systems will enhance overall
health care resource management, service delivery, and statistics collection.
Deployment of the basic and comprehensive hospital systems and the provincial
Health Directorate systems will all be tightly coupled, in terms of both
timing and substance, to training of relevant managers and staff.
25.   Hospital managers and staff will be trained in the concepts and the
specific functions provided by the computerized support systems being
implemented to: (a) gather accurate and up-to-date information on reasons for
visits to health facilities; (b) provide health services outputs, and track
expenditures; (c) identify ways to contain costs; and (d) operate their
services effectively and efficiently. Clinicians wiLl be trained to use the
system to identify cost-effective treatments by combining financial data with
information from the admission/discharge information system. Clerical staff
will be trained in data coding, transfers from paper to electronic forms,
aggregation of data from local to national levels, and analysis and
interpretation of data. This training will be provided under the Health
Services Management Training subcomponent of the Project.
26.   The Project will provide technical assistance (35 staff-months for
policy development and 350 staff-months for institutional capacity building),
study tours, and training to support development and implementation of the
application software. The Project will provide the necessary hardware,
software and office equipment. The limited civil works that will be required
to accommodate the new management support systems have been costed under the
Infrastructure Development subcomponent.
27.  Pro-investment Studies and Proiect Manacement (uSS16.8 million total
cost). This subcomponent of the Health Policy and Management component will
ensure that future reforms in the health sector focus adequately on reducing
the burden of illness due to preventable and treatable diseases and disability
in Turkey. A National Burden of Disease (NBD) study will be conducted,
applying the methodology developed for the 1993 World Development Report
(World Bank 1993). This methodology combines mortality and morbidity into a
single internationally comparable unit, the Disability Adjusted Life Year
(DALY). The purpose of the study will be to determine the total burden of
disease in Turkey broken down by age, sex and disease category according to
ICD-10 diagnostic codes- The study will assist the Ministry of Health in



- 32 -                             Anne  1
determining current health priorities and predicting potential trends into the
next century. Ar attempt will be made to conduct a subregional breakdown of
some of the indicators. When combined with in-country cost-utility studies, it
will be possible to determine affordable cost-effective packages of health
interventions that will address a significant proportion of preventable and
treatable disease throughout the country. The Project will develop the
capacity of institutions in Turkey to undertake such a study through technical
assistance and fellowships, supporting at least two study cycles at a five
year interval during the life of the Project. The selected institution(s)
will conduct the study nationwide, not just in the 23 project provinces (see
Annex 4 for details).
28.   This subcomponent of the Project will also conduct a limited number of
pilot studies to develop the Government's IHCR Program which could be
supported by a Third Health Project. It will continue providing technical
assistance and limited equipment to maintain an operational PCU in the MOH.
29.   The Project will provide technical assistance (110 staff-months for
project management support and 1,512 staff-months for institutional capacity
building), fellowships (15 staff-years), international study tours and
training in the form of pilot projects, feasibility studies and policy advice.
Most of the feasibility studies will involve lump sum technical assistance
contracts to support policy development. It will provide the necessary
hardware, software and equipment for the studies to be conducted in an
effective and efficient manner, and to arssist in restructuring the NOH.
30.  a summary of the Project goals, objectives and activities is shown in
Chart 1 above.
C. Project Costs
31.   The total cost of the Second Health Project is estimated at about TL9.8
trillion or US$200.0 million equivalent, including contingencies, duties and
taxes. Total base costs are estimated at US$126.9 million. The estimated cost
distributed among project components is shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT
X of    X Total
..  TL Billion -----  -.-- USS Million ---- Foreign  Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
1.  PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
1.1  PHC Trainirg            174.2  149.3  323.5  5.6  4.8  10.4   46        8
1.2 Basic Health Care Interventions  44.1    6.1   50.2  1.4  0.2  1.6   12  1
1.3  Infrastructure Developent   1.818.7  815.2  2,633.9  58.3  26.1  84.5   31  67
Suhtotal:  2,037.1  970.6 3.007.  _5J  31.1 96    P .     A
2. HEALTH POLICY AND KANAGEMIENT
2.1  PIN Training            110.8  106.5  217.3  3.6  3.4  9.0   49         5
2.2  Hospital Ngt. Restructuring  21.7   88.3  110.0  0.7  2.8  3.5   80     3
2.3  Computerized Management  119.8  148.9  268.7  3.8  4.8  8.6   55        7
2.4  Studies Project Mgt.    161.9  191.4  353.3  5.2  6.1  11.3   54        9
Ssbtotat:   414.2  535.1  _ 943.3  13.3  1.iL  30.4   56    2i
TOTAL BASE COSTS:  2.451.3 1.505.?  3.ff7.0  _ aLL 6Z.3        i s00
Physical Contingencies:   127.9   80.7  208.6  4.1  2.6  6.7   39    5
Price Contingencies:  4,585.4  1,052.7  5,638.1  63.4  3.0  66.4  5  52
TOTAL PROCT COSs:  7.164.5  2,639.1 980   146A1 _L. 20L0.    _7  m



-33 -                                            Annex  1
32.    Project costs are  summarized by expenditure  category  in Table 2.
Table 2s PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
i of     X Total
- n.TL Bitlion                ---- USS Million ----   Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign     Total     Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange  Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Uorks                   1,007.4       70.4    1,077.8     32.3      2.3    34.6      7       27
B. office Equip. & Materials        72.4      139.3      211.7      2.3      4.5     6.8     66        5
C. Medical Equipment               355.9      484.5      840.4      11.4    15.5    27.0     58       21
0. Furniture                        58.3        4.1       62.4       1.9     0.1     2.0      7        2
E. Vehicles                         89.5      172.1      261.6      2.9      5.5     8.4     6.        7
F. TechnicaL Assistane
1. Policy Development           108.4      115.5      223.9      3.5     3.7      7.2     52        6
2. Capacity Building            132.3       61.6      193.9      4.2      2.0     6.2     32        5
3. Project Management           113.1      106.3      Z21        6.6      3.4     .0      4_
Sub-Total Technical Assistance       353.8      283.4      637.3      11.3     9.1    20.4     44        16
a. Training                        227.7       87.8      315.5      7.3      2.8    10.1     28        8
H. Fellowship & Study Tours          2.4      151.6      154.0      0.1      4.9     4.9     98        4
Total Investment Costs             2.167.5    1.393.2    3.560.7    _J    44.7   1.2            2       20
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incremental Salaries             64.9        -         64.9       2.1     -       2.1     -         2
B. Operation & Maintenance          29.0       14.9       43.9      0.9      0.5     1.4     34         1
C. Equipment 0 & N                  67.4       56.0      123.5      2.2      1.8     4.0     45        3
0. Vehicle 0 & M                    42.2       35.1       77.2       1.4     1.1     2.5    45          2
E. Building 0 & M                   80.3        6.5       86.8      2.6      0.2     2.8      8        2
Total Recurrent Costs                283.8      112.5 .396.3         9.1    3.6   12.7         28 10
Total Baseline Costs              2.U1.3    1.505.7          3.95Z.0   78.6    48.3   126.9    38       lC
Physical Contingencries          127.9       80.7      208.6      4.1      2.6     6.7     39        5
Price Contingencies           4,585.4    1.052.7   5638.1    _.4_A         3      M         5       5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:              2.1ff.      L6391    9.83.7   16.A    53.9  jgj   ii                 1A
33.    Table 3 below shows a breakdown of project costs by component and
expenditure category. This table provides a matrix which can be used by the
implementing agencies as a clear reference point for matching the inputs to
the project activities.



-34 -                                              hnn2L
Table 3:  PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(US$ mIllIon)
- Primary Health Care------- -   Health Policy and Nanagement-.-
Basic Nth.
PHC   Care         Infrastr.  NOT      Hosp. Not. Caqmuter. StudIes   TOTAL
Trng. Intervnts.  Dev.       TraIning  Restruct.   Ngt.    Proj. NMt.
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                    -       -          64.0        -                     -        *      64.0
B. Office Equipment               -     0.3             -      0.8        0.1       7.4       0.1       8.7
and Materials
C. Medical Equipment              -       -         35.4         -          -         -         -      35.4
0. Furniture                      -       -           3.6        -          -          -      0.1       3.7
E. Vehicles                               -          10.3        -                              *      10.3
F. Technical Assistance
1. Policy Development         0.4      1.0                     0.1       0.5       0.7       8.2      10.9
2. Capacity Building          0.0      1.7             -       2.8        1.1      1.8       3.1      10.4
3. Project Management         1.8        -           6.5       0.5                   -       1.7      10.4
Subtotal Tech. Assistance      2.3      2.7          6.5        3.4        1.5      2.5      13.0      31.7
G. TraIinng                   10.1        -                     5.9        0.1      0.7       0.5      17.3
H. Fellowships/Study Tours    1.7         -                       -        2.7        -       1.4       5.7
Total Investment Costs         14.0      2.9         119.9      10.1        4.4     10.6      15.1     177.0
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries        2.2                    1.6       0.0        0.1                  -       4.0
B. operation & Maintenance                -           0.8       0.2          -                1.5       2.5
C. Equipment O&                   -       -          4.7          v  *   0.0        1.8       0.2       6.?
D. Vehicle O &                    -       -           4.1       0.2                    -                4.2
E. Building 0 & N                 -       -           5.3       0.2          -         -      0.1       5.6
Total Recurrent Costs           2.2        -          16.6       0.6        0.2      1.8       1.7      23.0
Total PROJECT COSTS              16.2     2.9         136.4      10.7        4.S     12.4      16.8     200.0
Taxes                             -     0.1          18.0       0.2        0.0      1.5       0.0      19.?
Foreign Exchange               5.4      0.2         28.9        3.9        3.2      5.5       6.8      53.9
34.   Bases of Coat Estimates.  Project costs were estimated as follows:
(a)   Base  Costs.  Cost estimates are based on a review of actual costs
incurred in other projects, such as the F1irst Health Project
(Loan 3057-TU) and the Employment and Training Project
(Loan 3541-TU). Additional information was derived from:
(a) costs of consultant services, fellowships and training based
on the rates currently charged by local, European and North
American consultants and training programs; (b) recent quotations
obtained from suppliers of hospital/medical and computer



- 35 -                             Annex I
equipment; (c) applications software costs from comparisons with
ongoing software development activities and estimated requirements
for technical books and journals; furniture costs are based on
market prices; (d) building and refurbishment costs from
consultants' surveys of the current costs for these items;
(e) funds allocated for the preparation of studies, estimated on
the basis of the aggregated costs of local and foreign specialized
services, unit costs for internal travel and subsistence, and
mission estimates of material and logistic needs; (f) staff-unit
costs from current public service salary scales with some
adjustments for the remuneration of local technical staff to a
level deemed competitive with the market for specialized services;
and (9) non-salary recurrent costs (materials and rent) based on
current Government rates. All project costs have been estimated
in US dollars on the basis of August 1994 prices at the official
exchange rate of TL31,180 per US dollar.94/
(b)   Contingencv Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency for
unforeseen physical variations (US$6.7 million) equivalent to five
percent of the base cost of civil works, goods, technical
assistance, training and fellowships, and ten percent for all
other project items. There is no physical contingency for staff
salaries. Price contingencies between negotiations (August, 1994)
and the end of the seven and a half year project implementation
period will amount to about US$66.4 million, or 33 percent of
total cost, and reflect Bank estimates of local and international
price increases.J/ Local price contingencies for FY95 are
particularly high, reflecting Turkey's recent economic situation.
in estimating the price contingencies, it is assumed that any
differentials between domestic and international inflation rates
will be offset by appropriate adjustments in exchange rates.
(c)   Foreion Exchanae Component.  The foreign exchange component is
estimated at about US$53.9 million including contingencies, or 27
percent of total project cost. Calculations of the foreign
exchange component were derived from an item-by-item analysis
resulting in the following: S percent for civil works; 75 percent
for medical and office equipment, computer hardware and software,
books and journals; 5 percent for furniture; 75 percent for
vehicles; 20 percent for training; 100 percent for foreign
fellowships; and 100 percent for foreign technical assistance.
The foreign exchange component in incremental recurrent
expenditure was estimated at 35 percent for the operation and
maintenance of computer hardware and software; 35 percent for
vehicles and other equipment maintenance; and S percent for
buildings maintenance.
W     Exchange rate assumptions for life of the Project: 34716 in FY95; 43156 in FY96; 50060 in FY 97;
55594 In FY98; 61783 In FY99; 68637 in FY 2000; 76436 in FY2001.
Fhreign inflation rates: 2.2 percent per year for the life of the Project. Loca l nfLation rates:
72.5 percent In FY95; 27.5 percent in FY96; 15.6 percent in FY9.7; 12.9 percent in FY98; and 11.7
percent in FY99-2001.



- 36 -                             Anne  1
(d)   Customs. Duties and Taxes.  The MOH is expected to be responsible for
all import duties on goods to be purchased under the Project.
Therefore, project costs include an estimated US$19.7 million equivalent
in direct and indirect taxes and duties on civil works, goods and
services, to be financed by the Government.
35.   Incremental Recurrent Costs.  The Project costs include TLI.4 trillion
or US$23.0 million to cover incremental operating costs directly attributable
to the Project during the seven-year period. These consist of salaries of
additional staff, and incremental operation and maintenance expenditure for
equipment, vehicles and buildings. Averaged over seven years, the yearly
requirement represents three percent of the projected 1995 budget allocation
for the MOH of TL54.7 trillion. Measures now being instituted in the health
sector to reduce recurrent costs, improve efficiency and increase collection
of user charges will place the incremental recurrent cost within sustainable
limits. During implementation, MOH will pay extra attention to monitoring the
adequacy of recurrent funds for maintenance and operation of facilities ane
newly instituted programs, and take the necessary actions to rectify any
deficiencies.
D.  Detailed Financino Plan
36.   The proposed Bank loan of US$150.0 million would finance 100 percent of
the foreign exchange cost (US553.9 million) of the Project and 76 percent of
the local cost, excluding taxes (US$96.1 million). The Government would
finance the balance of project costs (US$S50.0 million), or about 24 percent of
local costs (US$30.3 million) excluding duties and taxes, which are estimated
at US$19.7 million equivalent. Recurrent incremental costs comprising
building and equipment maintenance services, annual maintenance costs of
computers and software, staff salaries and other non-salary operational costs
(US$23.0 million equivalent) would be financed entirely by the Government.
The State Planning Organization (SPO) has formally approved the Project in the
investment program.
37.  Tables 4 and 5 show the required financing and the planned disbursements
by year.
Table 4s FINANCING PLAN BY YEAR
ank Fiscat LYM   1   996 M   197  1998 1999 2Q     MIgoal
Banr          16.2  67.5  37.3  11.3  9.2  4.7  3.8  150.0
Govermenat     2.8A  IL  10.1  4..   Li  4.9  LI.  J2J
Total         19.0  84.8 47.4  16.0  14.3  9.6  8.9  200.0
XL Juty 1, 1994 - June 30, 1995



- 37-                                 Aex I
Table 5: DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
Bank fiseal Year   1995/  1996  1997  1998  19   2000  2001  20
Annual           8.1    29.4  45.0  28.5  16.5  13.0  7.5  2.0
Cualsative       11           8 2.5 111.0 127.5 140.5 14J8.  150.0
Cumulative X Total    5   25   55   74   85   94   99  100
A/ July 1, 1994 - June 30 1995
II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Oraanizations Responsible for the Proiect
38.   The Borrower is the Republic of Turkey which is represented by the
Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. The Ministry of Health (XOB)
will have overall responsibility for the Project. (See Chart 2 for
organizational structure of MOH and PCU below).
Chart 2:  ORGANIZATION OF KOH AND PCU
MINISTER
WNER-SECRETAY
Coordinator           Depy Under-      Deputy Under-      Deputy Under-    Deputy Under-
Project Coordination  Secretary         Secretary         Secretary         Secretary
Unit
eputies:        General Directors:   - Personnel    Res. Plan. Coord.
- Malaria Control   - Primary Health Care - Administration and  Country
- TRC Control   - Curative Services    Financial Affairs  Dep. of Ext. Affairs
Refik Saydan   - Maternal Child  - Public Relation   Legal Consultancy
Inst. of Hygiene    Health/Family  Coordination    Gen. Dir. of Border
Planning                          and Marine Health
_------------------ -  Health  Education
39.   The Project Coordination Committee (PCC), which was established within
the MOM under the First Health Project, will also oversee the Second Health
Project. The Committee will provide guidance and advice on project
impl.mentation and ensure that the project objectives remain consistent with
national health policy throughout the life of the Project. The PCC will be
chaired by the Undersecretary of the MOH and will include the department heads



- 38 -                             Annex I
from the MOB General Directorates and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), as
well as representatives from the State Planning Organization and Treasury.
The Undersecretary, as Chief Operating Officer of MOH, will have full
responsibility for coordinating activities of the General Directorates. Day-
to-day coordination, management and monitoring of all project-related
activities will be the responsibility of the PCU which will coordinate
activities of both the First and Second Health Projects.
B. acreements Between Borrower and ImDlementation Acencies
40. MOH will have overall responsibility for the Project. The coordination,
management and monitoring responsibility for the project activities shall lie
with the PCU. The relevant project activities will be undertaken in the
project provinces, pilot hospitals and selected universities. The following
departments in the MOH will have special roles in many of the project-related
activitiess General Directorates for Curative Services (CS), Maternal and
Child Care/Family Planning (MCH/FP), Primary Health Care (PHC), Health
Education (HE), and the Research, Planning and Coordination Council (RPCC).
Special contractual arrangements will be established between MOH, selected
universities and consulting firms by the PCU.
C. Responsibilities of the Imolementina Acencies
41. Protcot Coordination Unit. Overall responsibility for day-to-day
coordination, management and monitoring of the Project will rest with Ministry
of Health's PCU. The PCU is headed by a full-time Project Coordinator who
reports directly to the Undersecretary or delegated Deputy Undersecretary.
The Project Coordinator, who is a senior civil servant, is assisted by deputy
coordinators and senior advisors. The unit is staffed with health specialists
and personnel with skills in accounting, procurement, contract monitoring,
information processing, records management, and health planning and
management. The PCU is supported by technical staff from both the NOR and
external consultants provided under the UNDP/OPS Management Services
Agreement.
42. Responsibility for the actual implementation will rest with the
implementing agencies described in Section B above. In specific areas such as
procurement of technical assistance, contracting with external consultants and
designing major procurement packages for civil works and equipment, the PCU
will be directly involved. The PCU has had considerable experience under the
First Health Project in using Bank procurement procedure. The PCU's major
responsibility will be to coordinate, manage and monitor the Project according
to the agreed POM.
43. The specific responsibilities of the PCU are the following:
(a)   ensure that financial resources required under the Project are
made available to the implementing agencies in a timely manner.



- 39 -                              Annex I
The PCU will ensure the movement of official documents and
contracts through the usual approval processes and undertake
measures to expedite their release;
(b)   monitor the availability of Government funds by consolidating
estimates of budgetary needs (investment and recurrent) of the
Project (prepared jointly with the implementing agencies) for the
upcoming financial year, sufficiently ahead of schedule to obtain
the comments and concurrence of the interested agencies, including
the Bank, prior to submission for Government/Parliamentary
approval;
(c)   monitor project expenditures and costs (local and foreign),
process loan disbursement applications in collaboration with the
Central Bank of Turkey, and track disbursements of the Bank loan
and Government funds;
(d)   ensure compliance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines in the
acquisition of equipment and software packages, administration of
suppliers' and technical assistance contracts, as well as
fellowship and training plans for all MOH departments and
institutions, including higher levels of management involved :-n
project implementation;
(e)   consolidate requests and procure goods, services, and works in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines;
(f)   prepare and distribute consolidated periodic reports to the
relevant government and other participating institutions,
including the Bank, reflecting: (i) the status of implementation
progress, problems encountered and corrective actions needed; and
(ii) current costs of each project component and estimated costs
of completion;
(g)   ensure the timely preparation and submission to relevant
government institutions and the Bank of annual audit reports of
project expenditure, including Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
and accounts;
(h)   liaise with the Bank and other involved agencies for project
administration and supervision matters;
(i)   ensure the placement and performance of staff receiving training
in Turkey and abroad, and of the consultants hired under the
Project; and
(j)   prepare the Project Completion Report (PCR) within six months
after the completion of the Project.



- 40-                               Annex 1
44.   MOH Department and other Imolementina Units.  The following MOH
departments and units will have responsibility for specific aspects of
implementation under the management and coordination of the PCU: The MCR/VP is
mainly responsible for maternal and child services as well as the delivery and
supervision of family planning services. The PHC is responsible for the
effective integration of all primary health care activities in public health
facilities, including rural health posts and urban health centers. Finally,
the HE is responsible for coordination of educational related activities and
vocational training programs. The MCH/FP, PHC and HE will be responsible for
implementation of the Primary Health Care Component. Curative Services
Directorate is responsible for operating the MOH hospitals and will be
responsible for activities relating to the Health Policy and Management
Component of the Project, with the exception of the Project Management and
Pre-Investment Studies sub-component.
45.   In addition, the Provincial Health Directorates are responsible for
implementing the health programs and overseeing general health activities at
the provincial level. In close collaboration with individual health care
units (rural health posts, health centers and hospitals), they will be
responsible for the detailed implementation of the various project related
activities.
46.   Each implementing agency will establish a mechanism with the PCU to
ensure the timely flow of resources for implementing its programs. Typically,
each implementing agency, under the coordination, management and monitoring of
the PCU, will be responsible for the following activities:
(a)   improving and updating TORS (the POX includes draft TORe for all
major technical assistance assignments), short-lists, and
contributing to technical evaluation of TA proposals received;
(b)   contributing to the preparation of detailed specifications and
procurement documents for approved equipment lists, contributing
to the review of bid packages and evaluation of offers receivedt
(c)   monitoring of detailed procedures, implementation schedules, and
program(s);
(d)   reviewing physical targets and preparation of revised estimates of
financial resources needed to support future actions; and
(e)   collecting and disseminating information, and preparation of
reports on implenantation of the relevant subcomponent.
47.  The following Chart shows the implementing agency/department responsible
for each subcomponent of the Project under the coordination, management and
monitoring of the PCU.



-41 -                                Annex I
Chart 3s PROJECT IMPLEMENrATION RESPONSIBILITIES
SibcqPWonent and ActiVity            Responaible Department   Implementing Units and Aaencies
1.    Primary Health Care
1.1   Primary Health Care Training   MCH/FP, PHC, and HE  Selected universities; ProvfncRal
Health Directorates; and health
care units; training team.
1.2   Basac Health Care Interventions  NCH/FP, PHC and CS  Provincial Health Directorates;
nd health care units.
1.3   Infrastructure Development     Procurement and Civil    PCW
Yorks Div. of PCtW RPCC
2.    Health Policy and Manauement
2.1   Health Services Mgt. Training  CS and HE            Selected University
2.2   Hospital Management Restructuring    CS             Pilot Hospitals
2.3   Computerized nanagement Systems  PCU                Selected Hospitals; Provincial
Health Directorates; and NIS Div.
of PCW
2.4   Preinvest. Studies and Proj. Mgt.    Selected Univ., PCU  Selected Universities, PCU
48.   The specific responsibilities of each implementing agency/department,
under the coordination, management and monitoring of PCU are as follows:
COMPONENT 1: PRIMARY iALTH CARE
(a)   Primary Health Care Training.  Responsibility for implementation
of this subcomponent rests with MCH/FP, PHC, and HE.
Implementation of this subcomponent will be carried out by
selected institutions, provincial health directorates, individual
health care units, and the var_..ous training teams which have
already been established (the Central Training Team, the three
Regional Training Teams, and the 29 Provincial Training Teams).
Specific objectives of the subcomponent include the following:
(i) institutionalizing a sustainable continuing education program
in PHC; (ii) implementing an integral approach to training
activities; (iii) improving community participation in health
matters; and (iv) strengthening PHC teaching in Health Vocational
Institutions. These objectives will be met by strengthening the
institutional capacity of the Ministry through recruitment of
consultants to support the development and implementation of the
training programs, training of trainers, faculty devolopment, a
fellowship program, teaching materials, audio visual equipment,
hardware, and the required software. The CDs will analyze and
apply lessons learned in the training related to successful
programs. A management consulting firm will be selected by MCH/FP
in accordance with Bank procedures to provide logistical support
to the implementing agencies.
(b)   Basic Health Care Interventions.  Implementation responsibility
for this subcomponent will rest with MCH/FP, PHC and CS. The



- 42 -                             Annexu 1
Provincial Health Directorates and individual health care units
will be responsible for implementing the following elementss (i)
public education; (ii) community-based activities; (iii) Lmproving
referral systems; and (iv) operational research. They will also
work closely with selected Universities, NOos, WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA,
and other related institutions. To insure successful
implementation of this subcomponent, the Provincial Health
Directorates and health care units will rece!.ve support from the
same management consulting firm recruited to support efforts under
the Primary Health Care Training subcomponent.
(c)  Infrastructure Pevelogmmnt.  Responsibility for implementing thli
subcomponent will be with the civil works and procurement division
of the PCU, in close collaboration with related departments of NOR
and recipient Provincial Health Directorates and health care
units. The PCU will be responsible for: (i) preparing TORs; (ii)
recruiting design and supervision consultants following procedures
acceptable to the Bank, for the construction and renovation of
hospitals, health care centers, and training centers; and (iii)
managing the new construction program for all health facilities.
Remodelling and upgrading of existing facilities will be done
under the responsibility of local authorities. Agreement has been
reached on the architectural designs for all health facilities to
be built under the Project. The process of selection and
acquisition of sites has been completed. The PCU will also be
responsible for coordinating and monitoring the procurement of
equipment, vehicles, and furniture. In carrying out these
activities, the PCU will work closely with the Research, Planning,
and Coordination Council of the MOH (division within MOH
responsible for construction and procurement), with a view to
permit it to take over most procurement activities and civil works
in the future.
COMPONENT 2: HEALTH POLICY AND MANAGEMENT
(a)   Health Services Manaaement Trainino.  Responsibility for
implementation of this subcomponent will rest with Curative
Services and Health Education General Directorates. The
development work and implementation of activities under this
subcomponent will be subcontracted through competitive bidding to
a Turkish university or a consortium of universities. The
university would be Turkish in order to ensure boths (i) the
necessary in-country institution building; and (ii) the ability to
design and deliver the proposed training programs in Turkish. The
Turkish university will be supported by a recognized foreign
consultancy institution which will be selected by MOH in
accordance with Bank procedures. The selected universities will
be responsible for: (i) study tours and workshops for management
teams of the pilot hospitals; (ii) training of trainers; (iii)
health services management training programs for staff in the MON,
Provincial Directorates, hospitals and individual health care



- 43-                              Annex 
units; and (iv) extension of the program to other parts of the
country.
(b)   Hosoital Management Restructurina.  Responsibility for
implementation of this subcomponent rests with the Curative
Services. The six selected Pilot Hospitals will be responsible
for implementation. They will be responsible for the development
of hospital financial management systems, strategic and business
plans, improved personnel management systems, and the
establishment of resource and quality assurance systems.
(c)   Comouterized Manaaement Suiooort Svstem.   Responsibility for
implementation of this subcomponent rests with the Management
Information Systems (MIS) Division of the PCU. This Division will
be responsible for: (i) the basic management support system
deployed to hospitals in the project provinces and an extension of
the ROH's Health Information System to the Directorates of these
provinces; and (ii) management of one hospital selected as the
test site for a more comprehensive MIS. The development work and
implementation of the activities under this subcomponent will be
obtained primarily from local and international consulting firms
and contractors, procured in accordance with Bank procedures.
Consistent with the national objective of developing the
informatice sector in Turkey, essentially all work will be
undertaken by the private sector.
(d)   Pre-investment Studies and Proiect Management Sunoort. The PCU
will have overall responsibility for recruiting consultants to
carry out the agreed preinvestment studies. Draft TORs have
already been prepared by the PCU and MOH for all the proposed
assignments. Consultants will be selected in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. The PCU will also be responsible for identifying a
suitable university or institution to carry out a National Burden
of Disease (NBD) study which will assess mortality and morbidity
patterns in Turkey, developing a rational frame of reference for
future policy directions in the health sector. A national
institution or consortia of universities will be contracted on a
competitive basis to conduct the study with assistance from a
foreign university with experience in this field. To support the
management of the PCU, the KOH may obtain administrative and
logistical support in form of "Management Support Services" either
by: (a) extending the existing Management Services Agreement (NSA)
between the MOH and the UNDP/OPS or; (b) through new contracts
with national and/or international institutions. The MSA was
originally awarded to UNDP/OPS at the beginning of the First
Health Project and was recently extended for that project.
49.   Pr2oiect operational Manual.  For each of the seven subcomponents of the
Project, the POX which has been prepared by the KOH and PCU describes the
following: (a) general/sector background (rationale for project
subcomponent); (b) key issues/problems (past, transitional, sector specific);
and (c) strategy for the proposed intervention: (i) objectives of
intervention (broad and specific goals); (ii) policy or legal framework4 and



- 44 -                              Annex I
(iii) the proposed implementation plan, detailing all major activities that
will be undertaken under the subcomponent.
SO.   Each subcomponent in the POx is described conceptually according to the
project activities that will be performed by individual teams and costed as
discrete packages. Cross-linkages between activities, timing, landmarks and
paths are presented in descriptive text, through charts (using Gantt Charts,
Pert Charts and Resource Histograms) and in tables. The detailed description
for each major subcomponent of the Project answers all of the following
questiones what, why, how, by who, when and where. The preparation,
management and implementation arrangements of each subcomponent describe the
responsible and implementing organizations (institutions, agencies or
individuals). Names of known institutions and individuals who would be
responsible for organizing and implementing are clearly indicated for each
subcomponent, Where such organizations or individuals have not yet been
identified, the selection process is clearly specified. The POX also
identifies and quantifies the resources that will be used during the remainder
of project preparation, early project start-up and implementation in terms of
investment costs and estimated incremental recurrent expenditure.
51.  Further details are provided in the draft TORs for all major technical
assistance assignments. The draft TORs detail the anticipated objective of
the assignment, scope of work (phases I, 1I, III, etc.), action matrix, timing
and duration of the assignment, deliverables, qualifications and experience of
staff, selection criteria and possible short list of appropriate organizations
or firms. These draft TORs will be reviewed, updated and finalized before
issuing the request for proposals. Finally, criteria for measuring and
evaluating the performance of the proposed intervention based on both meeting
the project development objectives (i.e. improving health indicators) and
success in accomplishing individual tasks (inputs and outputs) have been
provided for each subcomponent (see Section IV of the PIP for a summary of
these performance indicators.
D. Interacency Coordination
52.   The successful implementation of several subcomponents will depend on
close coordination among several different agencies in the public and the
private sector. Primary health care training and activities under the Basic
Health Care Interventions subcomponent will require close cooperation between
the selected management firm, the relevant MOH Gds, and the Central, Regional,
and Provincial Training Teams. A private firm will also be contracted to
assist in the coordinatlon and implementation of the computerLzed management
support systems in the health sector. The Health Services Management TraLLng
subcomponent will require external assistance from a Turkish university
supported by a foreign university. The university will have to work closely
with the appropriate KOH GDs, provincial health directorates and the six pilot
hospitals. The National Burden of Disease (NDB) study will be carried out by
another Turkish university or national institution with support from a foreign
university. since this study will be conducted nationwide, coordination
between all Provincial Health Directorates will be required. A number of UN
specialized agencies may also play a role in the implementation of the



- 45 -                                  Ane_
Project. On-going programs of NOH supported by WHO and UNICEF will be closely
monitored to identify areas where Project activities could benefit from
lessons learned. Experience under the First Health Project has shown that the
PCU can play an effective role in ensuring that there is coordination between
the various agencies. Adequate technical assistance is provided under the
Project to continue to support this critical role for the PCU.
E. Role of the World Bank Durina Supervision
53.   The Project will, on average, require about 25 staff-weeks of Bank
supervision per year during the first two years of implementation to launch
the many of the new project-related activities. These include the training of
primary health care workers, introduction of management reforms and
computerized management support systems in hospitals. Whenever possible, Bank
staff will supervise the First and Second Health Projects in the same
missions, thereby realizing economies of scale in utilization of Bank staff
resources. In addition, the administrative arrangements described in para 53
below cover supervision of much of the day-to-day management support provided
to the PCU, and this results in a reduced need for Bank input, as reflected in
the proposed supervision plan below:
chart 4: SUPERVISION PLAN
Timing        Staff Weeks                   Staffing W
FY1995       25 weeks      Bank resources (20 wks) of which:
- Task manager (10 uks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist (10 uks)
- Health Specialist CS uks)
FY1996       25 weeks      Bank resources (25 wks) of which:
- Task manager (10 wks)
- ImpLementation/Operations specialist (15 wks)
FY1997       20 weeks      Bank resources (20 wks) of which:
- Task manager (10 wks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist (10 wks)
FYIm         15 weeks     Bank resources (15 wks) of which:
- Task manager (8 wks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist (7 wks)
FY1999        15 weeks     Sank resources (15 wks) of which:
- Task manager (8 wks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist (T wks)
FY2000-2001   8 weeks      Bank resources (8 wks) of which:
(per year)                 - Task manager (5 wks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist (3 wks)
Suppletentary technical inputs will be requested through bilateral/multilateral cooperation in the
following areas: public health economics, health planning, management development, public health
education, and health information systems.



- 46 -                             Annex I
F. Administrative Arranaements
54.   Based on the successful administrative arrangements under the First
Health Project, the MOH has decided to continue obtaining administrative and
logistical support for the procurement of goods, works, training and
consultant's services described under this loan in the form of "Technical
Support to Procurement Activities" and "Management Support Services" through
national and/or international institutions hired in accordance with the World
Bank guidelines and procedures. The practice of using a revolving fund under
these contracts will continue. These organizations will ensure timely
payments for basic services, including the salaries of PCU consultants,
contractors, and goods. The MOH will also assume contractual agreements with
selected universities or national institutions for implementation of the
Health Services Management Training subcomponent and the NBD study.
Consulting firms will be contracted to assist in the coordination and
implementation of the Primary Health Care Training, Basic Health Care
Interventions, Management Support Systems and Preinvestment subcomponents.
1II. DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A. Time-Bound Schedule
55. Draft TORe for major technical assistance assignments have already been
prepared and final drafts have been issued prior to negotiations. Vehicle
lists and equipment lists for hospitals, health centers, and training centers
have been approved by the Bank. Standard bidding documents for works,
vehicles, and equipment have been developed under the First Health Project and
will be discussed and finalized in Turkey with GOT officials by the Regional
Procurement Advisor in March, 1994. Annex 3 contains the detailed schedule of
implementation by activity for each subcomponent. The schedule takes into
account the work carried out during Project preparation and reflects the
detailed implementation activities included in the PO. Table 6 below shows a
summary of these activities.



- 47-                                              Annml
lable 6s MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.
_q 96  ~2z              P    2 U9f1
PREPARATION
1. Creaticn of Central Adv. Teams                        *
2. Training of Central & Reg. Teams                      **
3. Curriculum Development
4. Develop. of Training Naterials t**
5. Develop. of Standard Equfp. Lists                      *
6. Develop. of Tendering Docs.                            **
7. Develop. of TORs for Consultancy
8. Hospital System Analysis
9. CHvil Warks Project Design                            *0000
10. Site Acquisition                                    *
9?4    ,s95      97 2Z   8  99   gg   Q1
ImpLEMENTAtllO
1. Training of Central 8 Reg. Teams                                       **                    00
2. Adaptation Training                                         *****00000000000000000000
3. In-service Training
4. Management Training                                         ************** ***
5. Civil Works:
A. Training Health Centers
4. Urban Health Centers                                   *
C. Renovation of Hospitals                                     *****
0. Public Health Lab                                               ***
E. Cold Storage                                                    **0
F. Upgradings                                               ***
6. Procurement
A. Wed. Equipment                                      0*  **  **
B. Computer Equipment                                       **  **
C. Vehicles
0. Furniture                                                 **  **
7. implement.. Hospital Info.                                        ***0000*0
8. Restructuring of Hospitals
4 -5 9'2Z  26 -o '% E1
WONITOR1N6
1. Supervision of Civil Works                              ****** *
2. Evaluation of Training                                        *   *   *   *   *   *   *



- 48 -                                        AnnfexL
B. Procurement Arrangementg and Schedule
56.        Procurement arrangements under the Project are  summarized  in Table 7 below.
Table 7s PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS 1/
(US$ Million)
Non Bank
CateoCy of Exvendlture                  ICe          kCS        OTHER       F3nancd   TOTAL       X IBR
1.   Civil Uorks                       51.8          1.6        10.6 b         --       64.0          80
(49.2)       (1.0)        (1.0)                  (51.2)
2.   Goods
2.1 Vehicles                      10.4                       --                    10.4          75
(7.8)                      -                     (7.8)
2.2  Equipment and Materials      30.3           3.0       10 8 2/                 "A 44.1       75
(22.7         (2.7)       (7.7)                  (33.1)
2.3  Furniture                     --            2.0        1.7 g-                  3.7          85
(1.4)      01 7)                   (3.1)
3.  Technical Assistance
3.1  Policy Development                                    10.9W         --       10.9         100
10.9)                   (10.9)
3.2  Project Ilplementation        --           --         10.4  I        --       10.4
(10.4)                  (10.4)       100
3.3  Capacity Building I/          --           --         10.5 IV                 10.5         100
(10.5)                  (10.5)
4.  TraininglFellowships/Study Tours  --             --         23.0 S                  23.0         100
(23.0)                  (23.0)
5.   Incremental Salaries               -            --          --           4.0 g/     4.0           0
(0.0)      (0.0)
6.  Operations &  aintenance                         --          -            2.5 g      2.5           0
(0.0)      (0.0)
7.  Equipment Maintenance               --           --          --           6 7 gB      6.7          0
(0.0)      (0.0)
8.  Vehicles Maintenance                -            -                        4.2 g/     4.2           0
(0.0)      (0.0)
9.   Buildings Maintenance              --           --          --           5.6 g/     5.6           0
(0.0)      (0.0)
................. ...... ..........----.--...  .......  ....
Total Financing Requirements       92.5        6 6         77.9         23.0      200.0
(79.7)      (5. 1)     (65.2)        (0.0)    (150.0)
NOTES: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
M/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan.
kI Force account procedures in the ease of smil buildings In remote areas and minor remodelling work.
S  Prudent local shopping/off-the-shelf purchases (aggregate-S$1.1 oillion) of la" than USS100.000 per
contract; about USS6.2 milliun could be procured directty through UNICEF/direct contracting; direct contracting
for about US$1.8 million for books and intellectual property; and International Shopping (aggregate-WUSS.7
ofilfon) of less than US$2N00000 per contract.
V Local shopping procedures for USS1.7 mIllIon.
/ Procurement according to Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
jt Includes the PPF advance of USS1.5 million.
gJ Nirfng of local staff and procreoent of non-salary items of recurrent expenditure financed by Gavernmnt and
procured fn accordance with local procedres.



- 49- _nnL 1
57.    a  summary of the procurement packages for works, equipment, and technical
assistance, indicating the schedule for tendering, the estimated cost and completion
time is shown in Table 8 below. (The details for each subcomponent are included in
the POM.)
Table 8s SUMKARY OF PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR
WORKS, VEHICES, EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE
Prepare
Est. )   Proc.         Tender                 Award      Contract
ifl1t     fl2Nthod     Docs        I mitat. Contract    iomiietX
J.   Cvf tUWorks
1. HeNlth Ctrs.                      31.6        ICe           Jul. 95      Sep. 95   Jan. 96   Mar. 97
2. Health Ctrs.                      17.2        ICe           Jan. 95      Mar. 95   Jul. 95   Dec. 96
3. ELazig Hosp.                       4.5        ICe           Jul. 95      Sep. 95   Jan. 96   Dec. 97
4. Van Hosp.                          3.2        ICe           Nov. 94      Jan. 95   Apr. 95   Mar. 97
5. Adlyaman Hosp.                     3.4        ICB           Apr. 95      Jun. 95   Nov. 95   Dec. 96
6. Kars Hosp.                         2.5        ICe           Oct. 95      Dec. 95   Mar. 96   Mar. 98
7. PH Labs K                          1.4        LCB           Oct. 95      Dec. 95   Mar. 96   Jun. 98
8. Cold Storage                       0.Z         LCB          Oct. 95      Dec. 95   Mar. 96   Jun. 98
Total Civil Works               64.0 £1
11. Vehicles                            10.4        ICe           Nov. 94      Jan. 95   Apr. 95   Apr. 96
11 t. ecflmet
A.Medical EOuic.
1. Imaging Equip.                    8.5        ICe           Dec. 95      Mar. 96   Jul. 96   Jun. 99
2. Apparatus                        12.3        ICB           Jan. 96      Apr. 96   Aug. 96   Jun. 9
3. Ned. Furniture                    3.6        ICe           Feb. 96      May 96   Sep. 96   Jun. 97
4. Med. Furniture                    3.ki       LCB           Feb. 96      Apr. 96   Aug. 96   Feb. 97
5. Med. Furniture gV                 0.6        LS            Dec. 95      Mar. 96   Jul. 96   Feb. 97
6. Med. Furniture S                  1.2        IS            Sep. 94      Dec. 94   Apr. 95   Aug. 96
7. Midwife Kits s/                   6.2        DC
B.Of iRce Eatuimnent
Coamuterized Humt. Informstion SystemS
1. Health Directorates, Hospitals   1.1         IC,           Jun. 95      Sep. 95   Jan. 96   Apr. 96
2. Comprehensive Hasp. System        0.7        ICe           Dec. 95      Mar. 96   Jul. 96   Aug. 97
3. Health Directorates, Hospitals   2.3         IC,           Jun. 97      Sep. 97   Jan. 98   Aug. 98
4. Health Directorates, Hospitals   1.8         ICe           Jun. 98      Sep. 98   Jan. 99   Aug. 99
Other Office Emainmant d/
5. Office Equip./faterials           0.5        IS            Nov. 94      Jan. 95   Apr. 95   Aug. 95
6. Office Equip./Naterials           0.5        LS            Nov. 94      Jan. 95   Apr. 95   Aug. 95
7. Caputer Equip., Softare/
Accessories                       1.8        DC            Jun. 95      Aug. 95   Dec. 95   Jan. 96
Totat EaUiD I                   47.8
V. Fumniture
1. Office Furniture                  2.0        LCB           Oct. 94      Jan. 95   Apr. 95   Oct. 95
2. Office Furniture                  1.7        LS            Oct. 94      Dec. 94   Mar. 95   Oct. 95
Total Furniture                  3.7
I/ Including contingencies.
bI  Will be divided into packages of less than US$500,000 for LCS
W An additional USS10.6 mllion would be through force account procedures in the case of small buildings in
remote areas and minor remodelling work.
IV Will be divided into packages of less than USS50,000 for local shopping and less than US$200,000 for
International Shopping.
g/ Estimate that this will be done in five lots over project life.



- 50 -                                               AfnlL 1
58.   A summary of the procurement packages for technical assistance, including
the tendering schedule, is shown in the table below.
Table 1s SUMMARY OF THE PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
EWt. Cost   Proc.    Prepare                          AWard        Contract
Component                        (US$  M) ethod    Tenderina           invitg,jon      Contract    Cgmt
I.   Primarv Health Care
A. PHC Traini-s
Package #1                       2.3          SL        Dec. 94        Jan. 95         Mar. 95       Jun. 2001
B.  Basic NC Interventions
Package #1                       2.7          SL        Dec. 94        Jan. 95         Mar. 95       Jun. 2001
C.  Inf rastructure g                6.5          SL         ...            ...             ...          ...
II. Health Policy & Manasement
A.  Health Services MNt.
Trajnina
Package #2                       3.3          SL        Dec. 94        Jan. 95         Mar. 95      Jun. 2001
S.  Hosfital Matt
Restructurin
Package #3                       1.5          SL        Dec. 94        Jan. 95         Mar. 95       Jun. 2001
C. Conwuterfled Mgt. Support
Package #4                       0.3          SL        Dec. 94        Jan. 95         Mar. 95      Oct. 1996
Package #5                       0.3          SL        Jul. 95        Sep. 95         Dec. 95      Jun. 1996
Packase #6                       0.7          SL        Oct. 95        Dec. 95         Feb. 96      Jun. 1998
Package #7                       0.7          St        Feb. 96        Apr. 96         Jul. 96      Dec. 1999
Package #8                       0.5          SL        Jul. 97        Aug. 97         Nov. 97      Dec. 1999
D.  Pre-investment Studies
and Prolect Manasmment
1. Pre-inmestment Studies
Package #9                       3.9          SL        Oct. 94        Dec. 94         Mar. 95       Jun. 2001
Package #10                      0.5          SL        Oct. 94        Dec. 94         Mar. 95       Jun. 1996
Package #11                      O.S          SL        Nov. 94        Jan. 95         Apr. 95      Dec. 1995
Package #12                      0.2          SL        Nov. 94        Jan. 95         Apr. 95      Dec. 1995
Package #13                      1.3          SL        Nov. 94        Jan. 95         Apr. 95      Dec. 1999
Package #14                      1.0          SL        Dec. 94        Feb. 95         May. 95      Dec. 1999
Package #15                      0.5          SL        Oct. 94        Dec. 94         Mar. 95    oDec. 1995
Package #16                      0.3          SL        Jul. 96        Sep. 96         Dec. 96      Dec. 2001
2. Prolect anaaement
Package #17                      3.1          SL        Jul. 97        Aug. 97         Nov. 97      Dec. 1999
Package #18                      1.7          SL        Jul. 97        Aug. 97         Nov. 97      Jun. 2001
TotaL      31.8
M/ Civil works professional fees.
59.   Procurement of Goods. Vehicle and equipment contracts which are
estimated to cost more than US$400,000 equivalent per contract will be
procured following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in



- 51 -                             Annex s
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IDED Loans and
IDA Credits" (May 1992). Bank standard bidding documents for goods which have
recently been developed for Turkey will be used. Equipment (about fifteen
major packages) will be packaged according to related specialized fields.
Vehicles totalling US$10.4 million equivalent will be procured following ICB
procedures. Equipment and vehicles procured through ICa will account for 75
percent of the total value of equipment requirements. The remaining 25
percent of the equipment value will be in packages suitable for procurement
other than ICB. In the comparison of bids for equipment to be procured
through lCB, domestic manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of
15 percent, or the existing customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers,
whichever is lower, over the cost, insurance and freight (CIF) prices of
competing imports, in accordance with Paras. 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 of
"Bank Procurement Guidelines" (May 1992). Based on existing relations between
UNICEF and MOH, there may be direct procurement from UNICEF of midwife kits
and disposable refills for midwives at health posts, health centers, and
maternal and child centers, at an estimated cost of US$6.2 million. This
amount will provide a revolving fund for the duration of the Project. It is
anticipated that each midwife would be provided with a new kit on average once
every 18 months.
60.   The exceptions to ICS procurement will be:
(a)   Local Competitive Biddino  LCD)B. LCD procedures, acceptable to
the Bank, would be used for the procurement of equipment and
furniture packages estimated to cost between US$200,000 and
US$400,000 per contract, not to exceed an aggregate amount of
US$5.0 million. This would consist of approximately 13 packages
of medical furniture and nine packages of office furniture for the
mid-sized hospitals and the urban and rural health centers, urban
in-service health training centers, and public health laboratories
supported under the Project. The employment of a management
consulting firm for Primary Health Care Training and Basic Health
Care support will also be made through LCB. Laws and regulations
regarding local procurement procedures and practices in Turkey are
being reviewed in the Bank in order to reach a judgement as to
whether local procedures are acceptable for Bank-financed
contracts. The findings of that review will be discussed with the
Turkish authorities and agreements will be sought by about June
1995 regarding any changes needed to make the procedures
acceptable to the Bank. However, in the meantime, the procedures
outlined in the Standard LCB documents drafted by the Bank will be
followed.
(b)   International Shonoina (IS).  Procedures for IS wiLl be used for
small amounts of equipment where the cost of 1CB will clearly
outweigh possible price advantages. Contracts for equipment
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract, not to exceed
an aggregate amount of US$1.7 million equivalent, will be awarded
under international shopping procedures, based on comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from three
eligible countries in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 52 -
(c)   Local Shonoina ILSI. Minor sundry items not exceeding US$100,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.8 million
equivalent, could be purchased on the basis of prudent local
shopping by comparing price quotations obtained from at least
three local suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank. This procurement method provides a rational set of
procedures acceptable to the Bank to purchase small items which
cannot be suitably packaged for LCB.
(d) Direct Procurement. Goods and technical licenses which the Bank
agreess (i) are of proprietary nature; (ii) the timely supply
thereof is critical for efficient project execution; or (iii) need
to be compatible with other installed equipment, may be procured
through direct negotiations with property and/or copyright owners,
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Such items
include contracts for intellectual property such as books,
technical journals,training materials, audio-visual materials,
computer applications software, including annual upgrading and
licensing arrangements, copyrights, translation and reprinting
rights for training materials, estimated to cost about US$1.8
million. Direct procurement also includes an additional US$6.2
million for UNICEF (see para. 58).
61.  Civil Works.  For civil works, contracts of US$0.5 million and above
will be awarded through international competitive bidding procedures. The
aggregate for ICB will be US$51.8 million. Smaller contracts of less than
US$0.5 million are not expected to attract foreign bidders and therefore will
be awarded through local competitive bidding procedures for firms which have
been pre-qualified, based on criteria acceptable to the Bank. The aggregate
for LCB will be US$1.6 million. Standard ICB and LCD bidding documents have
recently been prepared by the Bank for use in Turkey, and will be used for
civil works under the Second Health Project. Force account procedures will
only be used; (ii) when no satisfactory bids have been received; or (ii) when
LCB is not likely to succeed, as in the case of small buildings in remote
areas or minor remodelling.
62.  Technical Assistance.  Qualified firms will be invited to submit
proposals for comprehensive packages of consultant services and management of
fellowships and training in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency"
(August 1981). To keep the evaluation process manageable, no more than six
(but at least three) proposals will be invited following a short listing
acceptable to the Bank. As needed, the services of individual specialists not
to exceed US$100,000 per contract (mainly to develop computer applications
software) will also be contracted directly. It is estimated that technical
assistance will be procured in 18 packages at a total cost of US$31.8 million.
Two of these packages will include. the selection of Turkish universities or
national institutions, supported by local and foreign universities and
consulting firms to carry out the Health Services Management Training
subcomponent and the National Burden of Disease atudy. The Turkish
universities or national institutions will be selected by MOH using procedures
acceptable to the Bank. All technical assistance services will be procured in
keeping with draft terms of reference described in the PON. Implementing units
will provide adequate technical input to the PCU in the selection process.
Prior review of consultant contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for



- 53 -                              Annex 1
consultant firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent each or
(b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent each. However, the TORe of such contracts will be pre-
reviewed.
63.   Pro-investment and Development Studies.  Included in the above technical
assistance aggregate, the Project will provide funds (US$8.2 million) under
the Pre-Investment Studies and Project Management subcomponent for
studies/research/surveys related to a piloting/implementation of the
Government's 1HCR Program. Awards of contracts to institutions/specialists
for these studies will be in keeping with the provisions of the Bank
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants.
64.   In compliance with Bank procedures, standard model bidding documents and
prior review will be used for all ICS procurement. The Bank will continue to
review master lists of equipment, packaging of bids and updated cost
estimates. According to procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 of the Guidelines, the Bank will review under each subcomponent the
first two contracts for goods to be procured under LCB and estimated to cost
the equivalent of between US$200,000 and US$400,000. It is estimated that this
prior review will cover about 80 percent of the value of all contracts
combined for equipment and technical assistance. The remaining 20 percent of
contracts will be subject to selective post award reviews by the Bank during
the supervision of the Project. The Bank will review only TORs for consultant
contracts under US$100,000 equivalent; above this threshold standard, World
Bank review procedures will apply. If applicable, civil works contracts of
US$500,000 or more will be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.
65.   The MOH has also requested retroactive contracting of up to US$10.0
million and financing of up to a maximum of US$2.0 million to cover
expenditures incurred between appraisal and project effectiveness to support
the following activitiess (a) technical assistance to support coordination of
the primary health care training programs and coordination of programs such as
the Safe Motherhood and Midwifery Training Program; (b) technical assistance
from Turkish institution(s) to support implementation of the health services
management training program; (c) technical assistance to support
implementation of the management support systems subcomponent; (d) technical
assistance from Turkish institutions to support implementation of a National
Burden of Disease assessment and cost-utility studies in Turkey; and (e)
equipment for selected health posts, health centers, and maternal and child
centers.  Table 10 below shows the retroactive contracting summary.



- 54 -                                 Annex 1
Tale0ls2 RETROACTIVE CONTRACTING SUMMARY
(USS Million)
I.  Technical Assistance
A. Primary Health Care Training Management Fee  1.8
B. Health Services Management Training:
Operational Management (local)          0.2
Management Fee                          0.3
C. Coeputerized Management Support Systems:
Hospital System Analysis/Modelling      0.3
Basic System Development                0.3
Cofprehensive Systems                   0.7
0. Pre-investment Studies:
National Burden of Disease              3.9
Technical Assistance Sub-total                L:5
II. Eouf ment
A. Primary Care Equipment                     2.5
7TOAL                                  10.0
C. Disbursement and Financina Schedules
66. Disbursements. The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a
period of seven and a half years in accordance with the relevant profile for
the Region, based on the experience of the First Health Project and continued
strengthening of the PCU. The closing date will be December 31, 2001. The
disbursement period is expected to be met, as the major project expenditures
for medical equipment and computer hardware are scheduled to be incurred and
completed during the first four years of implementation. The financing plan
by disbursaement category is shown in Table 11.



- 55 -                                              Annex  I
Tablek1 : FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
(USS Million)
The                            Locat Duties
I aBL R       Goverrment        Total     For.  (Exct.   &
Amount     X   Amount    1-  Amount  X  Exch.  Taxes) Taxe
1. 1X           or
A. Civil Works                     51.2  80.0    12.8    20.0  64.0  32.0   2.5   53.2    8.4
S. Office Equip. & Materials       33.1  75.0    11.0    25.0  44.1  22.1  22.1   13.2    8.8
C. Furniture                        3.1  85.0      0.6    15.0   3.7   1.8   0.1    3.1    0.5
0. Vehicles                         7.8  75.0      2.6    25.0  10.3   5.2   6.0    2.3    2.1
E. Technical Assistance
1. Policy Development           10.9 100.0                -   10.9   5.4   4.1    6.7       -
2. Capacity Building            10.4 100.0       -            10.4   5.2   2.2    8.2       -
3. Project Management              j 100.0-   10.4   5.2   3.7    6.71                      -
Subtotal Technicat Assistarce    31.7 100.0         -        -   31.7  15.8  10.1   21.6
F. Training                        17.3 100.0       -        -   17.3   8.2   3.2   15.4       -
S. Fellowships & Study Tours        5.7 100.0                     5.7 _.5   5,6  _.2 
Total Investment Costs               150.0 100.0    27.0    85.0 178.1  87.6  49.6  109.0   19.8
:;. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries             -      -      4.0   100.0   4.0   2.0    -        4.0     -
S. operation & Maintenance          -      -      2.5   100.0   2.5   1.3   0.6    1.9        -
C. Vehiclo 0 & N                           -     10.9   100.0  10.9   5.5   3.5    7.4
0. Building 0 & N                          -      5.6 L Q000   5.6 _L fi   0.3    5.4.       _
Totat Recurrent costs                                23. 0   1000  23.0  11.6 4     4   18. 7 -
Total Disbursemmnt                   150.0  75.0    50.0    25.0 200.0 100.0  53.9  126.4   19.7
67.  Disbursements will be made as follows:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures; 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 85 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally;
(b)  100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance, fellowships,
and preparation of studies/research;
(c)  100 percent of expenditures for local training;
(d)  80 percent of expenditures for civil works; and
(e)  repayment of the PPF.
68. Table 12 below indicates forecasts of expenditures and disbursements for
the proposed Project.



- 56 -                                Annex 1
Table 12: FORECASTS OF EXPENDITURES AND DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Ba* Fiscal          Expenditures          Disbursements    Ciualative as   Smeter
Year & S eater                                                X Of Total    fram
Appraisal
Semster   Cumulative  Seester   Camilative                Date
FY 95
Jut.94-Dec.94          9.0         9.0       -
Jan.95-June 95        10.0        19.0       8.1          8.1     5           2
FY 96
Jut 95-Dec.95         42.5        61.5       8.1        16.5      11           3
Jan.96-June 96        42.3       103.8      33.8       37.5       25           4
FY 97
Jul.96-Oec.96         23.7.      127.5      33.7        64.5      43           5
Jan.97-June 97        23.7       151.2      18.6        82.5      55           6
FY 98
JuL.97-Dec.97          8.0       159.2      18.7       103.5      69           7
Jan.98-June 98         8.0       167.2       5.6       111.0      74           8
FY 99
JuL.98-Dec.98          7.2       174.4       5.6       120.0      80           9
Jan.99-June 99         7.1       181.5       4.6       127.5      85          10
FY 00
Jul.99-Dec.99          4.8       186.3       4.5       134.5      90          11
Jan.00-June 00         4.8       191.1       2.4       140.5      94          12
FY01
Jut.00-Dec.00          4.5       195.6       2.4       144.0      96          13
Jan.01-June 01         4.4       200.0       1.9       148.0      99          14
FY 02
Jut.01-Dec.01
Jan.02-June 02                               1.9       150.0      100          15
Closing Date: December 31, 2001
p/ Including Special Account and Retroactive Financing
D. Financial and Economic Analysis
69.   Shifting emphasis from hospital to ambulatory-baBed primary health care
is expected to reduce future cost-escalating tendencies, while at the same
time orienting the health sector to more affordable and cost-effective
interventions. Cost utility studies, however, would be undertaken subsequent
to the first round of NBD calculations, and updated in the light of findings
of the second round. The main components of the cost utility methodology will
be: (a) the identification of disease priorities (which is an output of the
NBD study); (b) identification of potentially effective interventions against
the most important causes of morbidity and mortality; (c) a determination of
the impact of those interventions; (d) a measurement of the costs of those
interventions; and (e) the combination of impact and cost information to
produce a cost per Disability Adjusted Live Year (DALY) gained for each
intervention. Since the DALY is a rather insensitive measure at the level of



- 57 -                              AnnexJl
specific interventions, more specific outcome measures will also be used to
derive cost-effectiveness measures (see Section IV of this Annex).
70. The cost utility studies would be undertaken under the same broad
institutional auspices as the NBD studies, because of the need for consistency
in the assumptions concerning the baseline epidemiological situation and the
impact of interventions. Therefore, both the Turkish institutions and an
international collaborating institution will need to assemble a capacity
ranging across the disciplines of demography, epidemiology, statistics and
health economics, to conduct these studies.
E. Audit Timetable
71. Proiect Audits. Project Accounts and the Special Account will be
audited in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank" (March 1982). The Borrower
will provide the Bank (within six months of the end of each fiscal year), an
audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank,
on disbursements against certified SOEs. The separate opinion should mention
whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawal applications. TORs for the scope of
such audits have been developed under the First Health Project.
72. Revortina and Annual Reviews. The PCU will prepare semi-annual
descriptive and financial reports on each project component, objective and
activity, beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness. The reports will
describes (a) current status; (b) deviations, if any, from the implementation
plan; and (c) the reasons for deviations and corrective actions being taken.
Sample progress-reporting documents are included in the POX. Reporting and
Bank supervision will focus on in-depth reviews of the policy framework for
sectoral improvements, the consistency of activities for each component and
subcomponent with agreements reached at negotiations, performance of the
implementing groups and institutions, assessment of emerging needs for
adjustments to project parameters, and possible follow-up operations which
could be supported by the Bank. Bank supervision will be based on the semi-
annual progress reports and the annual evaluation of project activities by the
NOR. This will be supplemented by a review of project expenditures and
availability of financial resources, in addition to substantive discussions
with technical assistance groups implementing and/or assisting in the
implementation of various components, and discussions with responsible
authorities. The POX will be the basis for supervision and reporting.



- 58 -                              Annex I
F. Main Proiect Risks
73. A major risk faced by the Project is that it may become difflcult to
implement and supervise activities in a number of the project provinces which
currently have accessibility problems. Contingency plans are included to
allow: (a) out-of-province training where necessary; (b) pre-selection in
problematic provinces of only urban facilities for new civil works to ensure
the possibility of an adequate supervision, staffing and supply of equipment;
(c) province-by-province coating to allow flexibility under a phased
implementation plan; and (d) use of a professional engineering firm to oversee
the construction programs. A second risk is the limited institutional
capacity of MOH line departments, especially in the area of training. This
risk would be mitigated by: (a) integration of staff trained through
fellowships financed under the First Health Project; (b) technical assistance,
including management contracts for logistic support in coordinating training
activities; (c) decentralization of training efforts to provincial teamsl
(d) modular distance-based education through TV and local discussion groups;
(e) improved coordination of the different General Directorates in an
integrated approach to training activities; and (f) collaborations with
universities as co-participants in the institutionalization of the training
programs.
G. other Factors Affecting Proiect's Success
74. There are a number of critical factors that could have an adverse affect
on the success of the Project. These include the followings
(a) High turnover rates of health personnel in Eastern Turkey;
(b) inadequate logistical systems to ensure that primary health care
facilities are adequately equipped, and supplied with drugs and
other consumables;
(c) lack of resources to extend basic health care programs to other
parts of the country; and
(d) inadequate budget requirements for investment and recurrent costs.
H. Loan Covenants for Implementation
75. Section V of the Staff Appraisal Report shows a complete list of loan
covenants to be monitored during the Project. The following covenants require
special attention to mitigate the risks indicated in Section 0 aboves
a.   the Borrower shall, by June 30, 1998 develop and initiate the
implementation of programs similar to the programs referred to



- 59 -                              &nnaL
under Part A(2)(a) of the Project [Basic Health Care
Interventions), to improve the quality and effectiveness of, and
access to, primary health care in the Borrower's provinces other
than the project provinces;
b.   The Borrower shalls (a) ensure that the Project shall be carried
out in accordance with the requirements, and other details set
forth in an operations manual (the Project Operations Manual)
agreed upon between tl)e Borrower and the Bank, as the same may be
amended with the agreement of the Bank; (b) employ consultants,
with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, in order to assist in the carrying out of the Project,
including in the management of the implementation thereof, the
design and construction supervision of the works thereunder and the
procurement of goods, works and services therefor; (c) ensure (i)
the adequate deployment and centinuity of primary health care
personnel in the Project Provinces and (li) the adequate equipping
and supplying with drugs and other consumables of the primary
heal*h care facilities located in the said provinces, all in
accordance with the requirements set forth in the Project
Operations Manual; and (d) ensure that the training activities
under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with programs,
including time-schedules for the implementation thereof and
criteria for the selection of candidates thereunder, satisfactory
to the Bank; and
a.   throughout the Project cycle, the Borrower will appropriate
sufficient funds to ensure the effective implementation of the
investment program, especially with respect to the annual
construction of approved facilities and incremental recurrent
expenditure for salaries, drugs and needed consumables in the
implementing institutions.
IV. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Actions to Monitor Develooment Obiectives
76. Tracking key monitoring indicators is necessary to measure the impact of
the project inputs on the key development objectives. These indicators have
been prepared and will be monitored throughout the project cycle (see Section
IV below). At the mid-term review, the need to fine-tune or restructure the
Project design will be based on the data received from these indicators.
B. Development Indicators
77. Given the essential role program monitoring and evaluation play in
determining the impact of a given intervention on development objectives,



- 60 -Am=-&
three sets of indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate progress during
implementation of the Second Health Project: input indicators, output
indicators and outcome indicators. In addition, the Project will initiate the
first NBD asseasment in the Region which will provide a comprehensive revlow
of Turkey's main morbidity and mortality patterns (see Annex 4 for details).
78. outcome Indicators will track whether or not the development objectives
of the Project have been met. Two criteria were used to select the basic
outcome indicators for health statues (a) that the indicator is known to be
sensitive to the intervention introduced under the projecti and (b) that data
will be readily available through routine collection on a provincial basis
without special studies or surveys. Zn Turkey, only three health status
indicatora, which can be derived from census data, qualify based on these
criteria: (i) infant mortality rates; (ii) fertility rates, and (iii) life
expectancy.
79. For each of the 23 project provinces, improvements in infant mortality,
decreases in fertility rates and increases in life expectancy relative to a
weighted national average, will be used as the ultimate benchmark of success
of the Second Health Project. In addition, the following six outcome
indicators and six intermediate process indicators will be tracked during the
project through survey sampling techniques:
80. Outcome Indicators
(a)  Infant mortality rates                           deor to below 40%
(b)  Under-5 mortality rates                          decr to below 80%
(c)  Child deaths due to ARD                          decr by 30%
(d)  Maternal mortality and case fatality rates       decr by 30%
(a)  Fertility Rates                                  decr by 30%
(f)  Infections due to Tetanus, Polio and Measles    decr by 95%
Intermediate Process Indicators
(a)  Antenatal and postnatal contact rates            inmr to 3 contacts
(b)  Ambulatory health center staffing rates          incr to 95%
(a)  Availability of antibiotics                       100% on spotcheck
(d)  Home DeliNzry/Hospital Delivery Ratios           decr by 10%
(e)  Contraception Prevalence Rates                    inmr by 30%
(f)  Immunization Rates (Tetanus, Polio, Measles)    inar to 95%
81. Throughout the Project, a Monitoring and Evaluation Committee will be
maintained and given responsibility for: (i) tracking the above indicators;
(ii) tracking inputs and outputs as they relate to the project development
activitioul and (iii) overseeing of the NBD and other pro-investment studies.
This committee will be headed by PCU General Coordinator.
C. Proieot Indicators
82. Input Indicatore will track planned investments in terms of contracting
technical assistance (staff-months), enrollment and time (staff-months) in



-61-                               Annex-1
training program  and procurement of goods and civll works (disbursements).
These indicatore will be represented in standard input tables for each major
subcomponent of the Project.
83. Output Ildicators will track items such ass (a) the number of studies or
reports that have been completed by a given date during the project cycle; (b)
the number training programs held and students trained: (c) the equipment or
vehicles that have been procured; and (d) the number of equipped facilities
that have been constructed or renovated. These indicators will be tracked in
standard Output Tables for each major subcomponent of the Project.
84. Input/Output Tables have been prepared for each subcomponent of the
project (see POX). These tables will be used to monitor the progress in
project implementation.
D. Financial Indicators
85. The POX contains detailed finuncial requirements based on the tLming of
major procurement packages. The P. will be responsible for monitorLng and
revising the Plan to ensure there is sufficient lead time to submit realistic
annual budget requirements to the SPO. The PCU w .1 also monitor the affect
of the Project on incremental and recurrent costs. The introduction of modern
management systems to hospital operations will improve the efficiency and
reduce overall unit cost. The Computerized Management Support System
subcomponent will use financial indicators (fiscal balance in the hospital
sector) as a means to measure the success of introducing efficient and cost
effective services.



- 63 -                            annex 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT:
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTFRN SOUTHEASTERN ANATOLIA
Project Cost Eetimates
Table of Contents
PA=e No.
I. *iSUMMARY TABLES
A.   Expenditure Accounts by Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
B.   Expenditure Accounts by Years   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
:2. DETAILED TABLES
A.   PHC Training  . . . . . .   . .       ..      ...            6/
S.   Basic Health Care Interventions . . . ... . .    . . . . . 69
C.    Infrastructure Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
D.   Health Services Management Training . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
B.   Hospital Management Restructuring . . . . . .  . . . .       76
P.   Computerized Management Support Systems . . .  . . . .       77
G.   Pre-Investment Studies and Project Management . . . . . . . 78



TttE 8EOOD HEALTH RDW
EpmW     ur  outs by Cmpa_mu-T Totus        ling Co _npnds
Pu,n   elhC m_                             Healhoicand   muwrt
Baslc Healthcm                                                      Sk
PHC         Car        lnaatnctuv       PHU      HospiaMgL  Cnputedzs    Proje
aT ewv o                  av m          T hitewesuwlgns  .w                       4         Tota_
L brausiusi Costs
A. Cid W                                                         64,046.3          -             -                             6404
S. Offio E   mt  a Madra                  -         292.4              -       843.8          572       7,412.9      13.4       8,742.7
C. Mei  Equ*rnat                                                 35,394.7                             -                        35,394.7
D. Fuw*NS                                               -         3,1             -              -            -       68.1      3,0.2
E. VeNcI                                                -        10.34.5-                        -            -          -     10,345.5
F. Tchnla Asud_w
1. p       O_ oDeepnmt              367.6         9962               -        64.4         485.7        725.6   86,9.8    10,8M.3
2. Cpo* Sin                          47.7       1,65.9               -    2,63.0         1,057.7      1,7S9.3    3,063.1    10,440.7
3. Pmjest Mmwanagmrt               1,64.7             -6,472.4               463.4            -            -    jJ0          10 446.5
&*tstd TedscI Ast,ance               2,23.1        Z,653.1        6,474      3,363.9       1,543.3      2464.    12,967.9    31746.
G. Trani                            10,1125             -              -    5,903.5          111.0        668        56.4    17,332.3
H. Feouandp Sd Tous                 1,666.3             -              -          -        2651.6             ^     1368s_    S,688.4
ToWhbrIWsIId CodS                     14,044.0       2,945.5      119,861.0    10,111.2      4,363.1      10,56.    150952    176,966.7
IL Recurntd Caods
A. hina lm aSwbbe                    Z155.6             -          ,62          35.7         147.             -          *      3,5A
B. Opri     ladtnance                     -             -          810.8       22.              -             -     1,4642      2,50.C9
C.Eq4lmt 0 &M                             -             -         4,736.0          -          23.7       1,811.0     154.5      6,725.1
Dnw OAM 0                                 -             -         4,051.3      152.0             -            -          -      403.3
E.DaBl O&M                              S-                       5335.4       167.4             -            *      129.3      5,631
TOtal Rhint Codes                     32155.6             -        161569.7      563.1         171.5       1,811.0    i,7480     23,036.9
Tdal PROJECT COSTS                    16,199.6       2,945S        136,430.7   10,694.3       4,534.7     12,377.7   16,843.1    200025.6
TM                                        *          56.5        17,971.7      166.8          11.4       1,42.6       36.8    19,731.
Forhloi ahGI                         5,432.4        219.5        28,032.7    3,853.6       3,199.9       5,4660     6,624.5    53,9W.7
x



TUMIaY SCOND HEAULH PJET
E      peuds Accouwts bYa-Thkals cd  Contngences
(US$100)
Totals   _   =_ _ Continoenckes
9419       9619      9619      9an9        am9       99100     00wl       Total
A. Ci Wodin                                -   44,043.7   19,102.6         -                                    4- 6,046.3
B. Office Equ  iad MBI I               561.9      410.1    1,746.9    3,12.5     27395       99.       81.8     ,742.7
C.  in', E6q4mt                       8,74.7   1Z177)    12,8.6    1,83          1,0372                        35,34.7
D. Funiwe                               73.4     Z6131     1,003.0         -          -         -        -      3,02
E. Vehl                                    -   10.3455          -          -          -         -              10,3455
F. Teulrded Asdstnc
1. Poky Dbevlpnt                    1,420.3    2,910.4    2,413.7    1,793.3    1,219.6    796.4    303.6    10,858.3
2. Capaciy Buln                     1,341.1    2,2495    2,233.1    1,707.1    1,4462     778.0    M65.      10,440.7
3. Prect Mwag                 ,    3,714.1    3,107.9 IJ              10.1      3572      361.0      55.4    10AZ
Subtot Technical Asdstc               6,475.5    8,27.8    6,440.7    4,559.5    3,022.9   1,937A    1,044.7    31,746
0. Trlnh                              2,613.4    2,4       327.7      2193.3    2,0.1   2,019.    2059.7    17A=
H FeloWs   and Std Tm                  567.6     863.9       9572      96.5      1          6.9.7    610.8  5,.
Total Ineme Cook                       18,46.6   82,621.1   44,774.8   12,480.1   10,0975    4,749.6   3,7.1    176,966.7
IL Recrent Code
A. Iusim   Sa8ue                       102.1       30        518s       697.8     704)      708.8    710.9      3,975.4
B. Operaon an M*banw                   207.2      308.8      320.5     410.0      415.3    419.1      4222      2,52.9
C. Equpnw0O&M                          230.8      607.       978.6    1,144.6    1,241.8   1,2552    1,266.7    6,725.1
D.Vhco0M                                26.8      665.7      69.       6926       722       709.8     716.3     4,2033
E.BuIdnO&M                              372        42.8      1712      528.2    I,125.    1,775.7    1534       5,6321
TotddReceCods                            604.1    2,1Z.7    Z679.1    3,4712       4,189.   48S       5W         23,038
Totdal PROJECT CUST                    19,070.7   84,M.7   47,453a    15,9513    14,237.3   9,618.1   8,866S     200,023.6
1.



TtW Y SEONDHEALTH PROJECT
TdaU  1. PlrC Trang
DelledSCosts
Unit  941i8 9t196W   9m   am   s,            GM1  Total Unit Cod   94         969     97  99   9_9# 99100  000              tol
t.LaodCoOsmwA                  "mwi       3          -     -         -      -     -     3      1.629     4.9      -       -          -       -          -      4.9
mSOCrnum                       monfths     1     -      -      -     -      -     -      1    15.083    15.1          -       -      -       -          -    15.1
a sSsurov h u                                                                                        _s 18.3      -   10.8    33         -              -    30.3
5u_Cs     _CXaisIC.                                                                                       36.2       -   10.8    3.3           -          -    50.3
S. _ein Trn*inh Tins.
1. t.mcsgTrnjm                 monIhS     2      -      -      -     -      -     -     2      1.629    3.3       -       -       -      -              -      3.3
2 Suu*wawYs#daeb                sb                                                                      48.8      -   16.3        -   16.3       -   16.3    97.5
sum" Roo" Trawnh Tamt                                                                                     52.0      -   16.3        -   16.3       -   16.3   100.8
C Puvtx*cn Tang Toams
I.Swr*wtibsdk                    is                                                                    295.8      -   65.0       -   65.0       -   65.0   490.9
O. bagmandsoolan
1      . nmtmkvuM
MsnsganafltFael                I                                                                     286.6  2*'    281.5  251.4  251.4  251.4         -  1,603.8
.Adspntli TAininug
LoWdConmast                  months     2      -         -  _         _     _         2      1.629     3.3          -           -      -       -             3.3
QuII   C^wOhtadh              lS                                                                     575.9  593.1  458.3  472.0  486.1  500.8  515.2  3,601.5
Si tatunAdSPWm TInO                                                                                    579.2  593.1  458.3  472.0  486.1  500.8  515.2  3,604.8        1
. Atomendinnd W elmksof          Is                                                                      6.5       -      -    4.3       -       -      -    10.8    o'
4. E*M*" M     edado           monlhs      4      -     -      -     -      -     -      4     2.281     9.1          -           -              -      -      9.1
a bieNeW Train
LoCd CSsam                   months      4     6      6     6      6     6      6    40      1.629     6.5    9.8    9.8    9.8    9.8    9.8    9.0    652
FpmegpcnM*W                  months      -     2      2      1     1      -     -      6    15.083       -   30.2   30.2   16.1   15.1         -      -    90.5
San*m Outo?d 0o                Is                                                                    138.0  141.5  109.3  112.6  115.9  119.4  123.0   869.7
Ss  Istade Tr"n                                                                                        144.5  181.4  149.2  137.4  140.7  129.2  132.8  1,015.3
C SpcaadlmTnl
Me       r*a.l to            nxmths      2      -     -      -     -      -     -      2     1.629     3.3       -      -       -      -       -      -      3.3
Ma. San*m,000ladm              is                                                                      1.3       -    1.3       -    1.3       -    1.3      5.3
FulrPImu*h Se dnuOmdId         Ib                                                                    102.3  102.3  102.3   43.3   43.3   43.3   43.3   480.3
MIeWHedat:LcTA               nxhs        -     2      -     I      -      -     -     3      1.629       -    3.3             1.6      -       -      -      4.9
MwaIHen  FomndTA              onts       -            -     I      -      -     -      2    15.083       -   15.1       -   15.1       -       -      -    30.2
MOntWMwWSefta wad4            IB                                                                         -    3.3   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4    75.6
En* Ha. SSe.nlnwrOuhaadis      is                                                                      3.3   19.5   19.5        -      -           19.5    61.8
T nam Ccrdft. LOC TA        months      -            -      -     -      -     -      1     1.629       -    1.6       -       -      -       -      *      1.6
Ttnm CaId Sein_O_dllad         no.                                                                       -    5.4       -       -      -    5.4       -    10.8       '
MC a* Ow H np Oe S roawhmdd7i   Is                                                                       -        0.4    0.9    1.0               -      23
-        ~~~~(S
StOON SpehdetdIann                                                                                     110.2  150.5  138.0   75.4   60.1   63.2   78.6   676.1         x
S__am   nmanettn      q of Tab"                                                                         1,136.1 1,206.6 1,027.1  940.5  938.4  944.6  726.6  6,920.0     s
E. r qUtMg dEvn
S For C _w*i*                  monts       I     -      I      -                        2    15.083    15.1            15.1       -                     -    302
z L.uooCokn"                   months      -      -     3      -     -      -     -      3     1.629       -       -    4.9       -   _          -      -      4.9
S_ liodg inanS Ev-anM                                                                                     15.1       -   20.0       -       .      -       -    351



TURKEY SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Table 1. PHC Trainkng
DStaIod Cost
antitIe                                                                      ease Cost
Unt   94195   96i   9197  97818  9UNM   1910000101  Total  Ui* Cost  94911 9 8   MM197   9701    918199   99100   00/01    Toal
F.Flblhlp                                no.         -      5      5       5       5      5       5     30       40.22         -   201.1   201.1   201.1   201.1   201.1   201.1   1208.6
0. 9at*Temu btlml                        r                                                                                     -    19.6        -    19.6    19.6          -    19.6      782
ti SbidVTinjta asamae t                  no.                                                                                   *    52.8        '        '        '    52.8        -    105.6
1.Fcrlp C     _                     Il monts      1       -      -       -       -      -       -      1      15.083    15.1         -        -        -        -       -        -      15.1
2.8 SntO_wmadp                                                                                                              -      23         -        -                                 2.3
h1 CaMMW lHa    Comma                                                                                                      15.1      23         -        -        -                -      17.4
J COmmmallftHakS Valltaers
1. Fap   Caloemdwnt                 mothns        1              1       -       -      -       -      2      15.083    15.1         -    15.1         -       -        -        -     30.2
2SO-MM OfetaA                          Is                                                                                   -        -      1.5        -       -        -        -       1.5
" aommulayt "amVel_ia                                                                                                      15.1         -    16.6        -        -        -       -      31.7
It TeachT?maa
1. LcalCMurtmA                      month         1              1      1      1       1       1      6       1.629      1.6        -      1.6      1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6       9.8
2 ForCOmant                           onths       I       -       -      -       -       -      -      1      15.083    15.1                  -           -                      -      15.1
sumlaea   TM"lng                                                                                                            16.7        -     1.8      1.6      1.6      1.6      1.6     24.9
LPHCfrT*clhtraI                          Is                                                                                    -    10.8    34.1    34.1    34.1    34.1    34.1    181.1
bde hwaaleit osts                                                                                                          1,582.2 1,493.1  1,392.6 1,200.1  1,276.0 1,234.2 1,064.3  9,242.5
A. IncremntalSS)SS                       my        23      46     69      69      69     69      69    414        2.737    63.0   125.9   180.9   188.9   188.9   188.9   188.9  1,133.2              1
TOMl Rftm. ntCea                                                                                                              63.0   125.9   188.9   188.9   188S9   18819 88.9  1,133.2                a
TOMl                                                                                                                        i1,645.1  1,619.1  1,581.5  1,388.9 1.,464.9 1,423.0 1253.1  10,375.6      00
Wa  S   _ _~aclm   20 p1tpmS_mb. Yt 1: 15 dayueo Yr. 3.10 daycw. Yr. 4 10Odqeu..
lb YSWdapadlcdmYt.1:45days;, 30p       ; Yn3 .,Sd.7:230da. 15        t i e c.
le S    _ _dardelpaft Yr. 1. 182 pibi II   mnd 45 da; Yra 3,5,7:4 pwcpinb an 30 days.
lb  arngermiteforar magemurto mC imnbirgmintaeeions(Tables arid42
lb 2Wdavytbrv  tan2 StSJdayfrwy.3-7.Yr.1:395x14Yt.2*.4tOSxOtd;Yr.34220xtOlYr4 4:5xtO,Yr.5: 44extOut;Yr.6:462 xlOd;Yr. 7. 4754xtOd.
WSSWdapVwtI;fat Yr.A:80 -itllpab SdaysYr. 4:60pmtlcpaffv, 2 days.
I S2VMAI rYS t  t aY d2 2:    aybrYl 3.7.Yr 1:1S01 x54  Yt.l 5&54b Yr.3.2017xSd;Yr.4: 2077x5d; Yt.&22t3d.Yr.& 22D4rd;yr.7:227ftdd.
Mth2 0t"ft 48 pwbrc4wat f 2 da
tl S20daymft        Yrn. l4 34 pilcipan1 _br  2day; Y a 4.7: tS0palrk"oleor20d"as
Ij S20rdm*arW*    Yr 2 481 5_, 5 dap. Yr. 3.7:200 pmtkcp -ta. Sr da&
lbS2~00Yipeft Yr. 1: 4ptd-   i _, Sda;  Yr. Zt37: 4  50 parlicnts S dam.
S2Wd0payrlicipiat 125 ptlcaft 3 days.
be Slf_6mrlcit Afftmur I day. .pardp;          Yr. 230, Yr.4:Yr.&6:70
la S10M6cipwmU. Iiydiay  beauWm
VS23naeatomN        Yr. 205 ponllipas iYr.. 21:2K psudmit



TUR uSCONOEBLNPROJEWT
TaM2m  ests "am cm* hUu.vSlMB
DC--dCogs
Q_8m                                                      ee _C.d
Unal Om   9              an118  Om   n0o  Ow1  TOal 1MCostm   966 3                7M  Om   99100  3191   Tobal
L. hwenm_  Coshts
A. adIen oftfb
I.ftOpMWA                                     1                                          1  I08   11          -     -     -      -     -      - t15.1*16
ICt                                           1      -           -           -      -    2    .69   1.6       -   1.6      - ^                -     33
a   b                                Is                               ~9                                      -  22.9     *  22.9
Sb _ _ .bra btl Pr                                                                                     39.6    -   24.8     -  22.9      -      -    87.1
LBO IluD
1.wpm_m                                                                                              97.8  97.8  130.3    -      -     -      -   32S
I TVtd*                               s                                                              58.7  5e.7  78.2            -     -      -   1t5.5
1RISPUpUIMu                        IS                                                                3.3   3.3   3.3      *     -     -      -     9a
Cm-- ) j                                                                                            22.9  22.9  22.9  22.9  22.9  29   2zs   160.
lAb ftiUmce l M lmoIdupt                                                                              182.6 182.6 234.7  229  229  229  2IU  SiT
C Rare" l-,,sm Osvleapms
1.pCcNU                            mah        1      -     -     -     -     -     -    1  15.083  15.1       -     -     -      *     -      -    15.1
a LawCanu,ir                       nlml       3      -     -     -     -      -     -    3   1.62    4.9      -     -      -     -     -      -     4.9
S b           Syistm   -                                                                               20.0     -            -     -     *      *    2D.0
I.  opalteLocdiGQildWOs
I.AmWCw                              bs                                                                 -     -852 652 652 652 652    325.8
. Op_aHa  ear'
. Log Oa
Fw        CoMN                     m          -    I      -      -     -     -     -    1  15.083      -  15.1            -     -     -      -    15.1
LoCount                             I         -                                                             I  -  -  -  -    1.29  -   1.6  -  -  -  -  1.6
Loc8doVkne)S  dss/e                 I                                                                  -652 652   652 6S2 62    65.2   391.
JLm9eim_                                                                                                -  81.9  652  652  652  652   652   407.7
a                                    1Ms&e  ls                                                          -  13.0  13.0  13.0  13.0  13.0   13.0   782
Outa.opeauiaI        ehf d                                                                                    94.9  782  782  782  782   782   485.9
Tota bmsdmui Costs                                                                                       2422 m2s 402T 168.3 1892  168.3  16.3  1,810.5
IL Reaet Code
A, Opesihanmd MI -I   -'                               -     -     -      -     .     -     -             .      -     .     - _
TotW Rereunt Codst
TOt                                                                                                      2422 27.5 402.7 166.3 1892  168.3  168.3  1,610.5
,b M.ugemnat aspects fhr Baic Heulh Cae 11_wntls costed under PHC Tf*nhg su _on t (babb I).
lbUC a SW  Yr. 1: 3 p nns, Yr. 2:3 propms Yr. 3:14 pror
b UC d TV spot $30,000. Yr. 1: 3 spats; Yr. 2:3 spoa; Yr. 3:4 spots.
WUr n $500. Ys. 14:10 each.
b 8se b be dan e       o prwnai W



TURKEY 8ECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Tabe2 h*as tue Dvelopmnt
Delnd Cods
Unit  94199 6  61 9    971J8 N91M61SlO0 00am  Totdal Ut Cost  94196             1916gyms 98199  t1891     001O1    TOtal
L bwso Co
Ci mWo
1.     " It
TSH        Cno-eali 2C0e                                  9 -    - 20  9           20   5Q.087        - 10,161.3  4,572.6     -      -      -       -    14,733.9
UIhauSaolac.nsm                no.      -   10      4      -     -            -   14   452.S41        - 4,52.4  1.810.6           -         -       -    6,337.0
PH Laboratas                   no.      -    3       -     -     -      -     -    3   254093         -   762.1        -      -      -      -       -      762.
Cotsitom .                     no.      -    3       -     -     -      -     -    3      38.49        -   115.5           -      -      -          -      115.5
NotMN.wN  alPalh                                                                                  - 15,66f.3  6,383.2           -      -       -    21,"465
ULpdalnt    _ 8dMnv
R"HCHbe      mnIu              no.      -   115            -     -      -     -  115    20.015           2,301.7          -          -      -      -      2,301.7
Urb nHow1hCeus                 no.      -   110      -     -     -      -     -  110    28.943        - 2963.7               --      -          -        2,03.7
PH Labnaords                   no.      -    4          -     -     -         -    4    23.094        -    92A4        -      -             -       -       92Z4
VanHb5ptiS l                            -   0.5   0.5      -     -      -     -        1.677.775      -   838.9   838.9           -         -       -     1,677.6
Kmm osptaib                    b        -   0.5   05       -     -      -     -    1  1348.995        -   674.5   674.5       -      -      -       -     1,349.0
AdpmaoHoepltao                 b        -   0.5   0.5      -     -      -           1  1,815.281      -   907.6   907.6       -      -      -       -     1,815.3
SezigHospid                    b        -   0.5   0.5      -     -     -      -        Z 2419.553     -  I 1MS  1;209.8       -      -      -       -      419.6
ub*ot"lw*pdlnO and Reanvaton                                                                            a 8988.6  3,630.8        -                         12,619A
SuMktSdCMvWorks                                                                                           - 24,553.9 10,014.0     -      -      -       -   34,567.9
S, PnoabnuIFes                     Is                                                                1,053.5  1,404.7   702A   351.2     -      *       -    3,511.
C. E_*pmen
1.P umasy caf
mIwsoI0sA                     batch     -    2      2      -     *      *     *    4  1,087.537       - 2,175.1  2,175.1      -      *       *      *     4,350.1
Ho"hiCuetdur i                                                                                     4282   428.2   283.2       -      -       -      -     1,139.7  0
ltealbPodhsIt                 pkgAi 1,199 1,199 1.184      -     -      -     - 3,582     0.691   828.3   828.3   818.0       -      -      -       -     2,474.6
ohpdtcwusrsimb                 I                                                                   56S2.    7892   789.2  7892  685.7       -       -     3.635.5
PubkEcsHb    Labxkbfi          pu.                                                                 279.1   279.1   239.3  310.7      -      -1093
_stet  PmayC                                                                                      2117.8  4,500.0  4,304.8 1,100.0  685.7    -       -    12708.1
2. Hosples
Otdabho                       pWl       9     9     9      -     -      -     -   27    89.412   804.7   804.7   804.7        -      -       -      -    2,414.1
GOenAlMuCar4                   pAa    10    10    10       -     *      *     -   30   190.288  1,902.9  1,9O;.9  1,S029      -      -       -            5 5.708.6
SpmPa                          Is                                                        .       2,040.4  2,040.4   040.4                                 6,121.3
SdOWHoqIWa                                                                                         4,748            4,748.0     -      -     --            14,244.1
at        pmd                                                                                        6,865.8  9,248.0  9,052.8 1,100.0  685.7   -       -   28,9522



nW SECON1 HEALTH PROJECT
Tabl 3.  ranm          d doevepme
Doalaed Codt
Una  mm  1         16717113 111  1001 01  Total Ut Cot  am    gun                       w7  r171    9aeo    amU0  01         Tdal
P. FumtU
1. NM HMealftaMN
TIIHIC.W,                       no.           20      9            -            -    29    24.634             49Q27   221.7       -                     -      714.4
tkbU. Haft Cenb                 n.       -    10      4      -     -      -          14    19245         -   192.4    77.0           -       -          -       294
PH Lebod                        n.       -     3      -      -     -      -     -     3      7.698             23.1                      -      -                23.1
708.2   296.7                                   1,006.9
R" I _Ces                       n        -   11S      -      -     -      -     -   115      2.309       -   265.8        -       -      -      -       -       285.8
tbHaf _Ctm                      no.      -   110              -    -         -      10       3.849            423.4           -          -                      423.4
ItHLat._de                      no.      -    4       -      -     -      -     -     4      7.698       -    30.8        -              -      -       -        30.8
vb4   H I_t                     no.      -      -     1      -     -      -     -     1    57.735        -             57.7       -      -       -               57.7
Ka.usll In                     "D.       -      -     t      -     -      -     -     1    4S.1SB        -        -    46.2       -          -          -        4B.2
M    m*e                        no.      -                                            I -  -  -  -  1    57.735  -  -    57.7     -                     -        57.7
ElmW    lW                      no.             - -          -     - I                1    57.735           -         -7.757.7
Siueo. R We_dNmb p_eNh                                                                                     - 719.8   219.4          --              - -           9392
D                                                           ~74- 1,42.0   518.1                                                       -      -              -     1,946.1
1.4WDV                              .      -  244       -      -     -         -      244    343S9         -                                                    8-391.0
Teol bweimnt Coasb                                                                                        7,9193 45,025A.6 20,27.2 1,451.1  685.7      -           753.9
a Reamrent coam
A. I   Im   Ia Sgimes                         -   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   02    02        1    847.21         -    84.7    84.7  169.4  169.4  169.4  169.4         8472,
D. Ope,mWdhb _w,c                  sm         -   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   02    02         1    446.31        -    44.8    44.6   89.3   89.3   89.3   89.3         446.3
C._ UnpuO& 
1.EqmIp i_tO&t it ee Csaer         I am                                                                   6.7    13.3    17.7   17.7   17.7   17.7   17.7         108.5
2.E U*vM*O8M HMsfPost            Gm                                                                      10.3    20.6    30.8   308   30.8   30.8   30.8          184.7
I EIqu_otmM    Olqnogd COMM      sm                                                                       9.0    21.3    33.6   45.8   56.5   58.5   565          279m2
4. uE_.wOtk P.l.HOlM Labs        Om                                                                       4.3     8.7    12.4   17.2   172   172    172            94.3
.EqePeuOW Hoepis                 am                                                                     118.5   238.9   355.4  355.4  355.4  355.4  355.4    2,132.3
S da equpm                                                                                                148.8   300      449.8  468.9  4.   477.5  477.5         2,798.9
D.VaOO&M                           sm                                                                         -   397.4   397.A  397.4  397.4  397.4  3974        2,3S4.3
E. t& M       Aie                  sum                                                                            -65.1  240.2  533.9  850.1  940.5                  .8
Tol    J RPeUen Cos                                                                                         148.8   827.5  1,041.7     3  T s687.  1,99.8 2,074.1    9,106.6
TOs                                                                .,068.i 45,853.1 21,328.8 2,814.3 2,353.2 1,963.8 2,074.1    84,475.5
la 200 bed..
lb 200 beds.
ia 200 beds.
id 313 beds.
%9 UCfiedh -5$1060. becalues eddon dSO% for Ilpebm
Sb20b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
WUCIS 188. 76 MaNtCen.., Inluds 2% apanlo of eiquijaemisenloes.AJo,23 autoclaes *20,OOWurl. Added autocavefor 2?HMC ~n=$20,00. 
Ig UC fw la_MM pos - $867. Cwren 2985 pm    ce  20% aimn of oqu*oet s.vle.
b l27degna  nS. Theb ft br sd be hp prjeiesl.dd autoc a nd mabAAbetorb 23 DOC.
V EPda bng labs UC   38600. 20 labs f It phasIg a 7,7, NM  Labs: UC   $100,000. 3 dlabs  in War 4.
423Of ts 30Whspa thep mae nere      n heobsttrl rIs.
1kInc   15% spor pads
a Swvid pan a pwt ori stnwn packe adWsable.



TURKEY SECOND HEALTH PIROJECT
Tabe 4 Hea  Sevkes Mmlgana t Trannig
Detabed Cosls
(US$ 1)
Quanis                                                       Base Cost
_Unit  4i   166       7 S71310119 9  99130 Owl Total UnItCost 941 3     96113   1697  S7.11 9163 .99M10 00131  Todal
A. PreparamyA MIM
I.Traintig             la
VAPiwi                           nO       1      - I                                 2  0.917       0.9      -    0.9     -     -      -     -    1.8
VRk    cr PA1rde                 no                          -  I                    2  1.148       1.1           1.1        -         -     .    2.3
VlCenwa                          no.      2      -    2      -     -     -      -    4   2293       4.6      -    4.6     -     -     -      .    9.2
Tail                             no.      2      -    2      -     -     -      -    4  0229        0.5      -    0.5     -     -           .    0.9
W*ls kardFlipChwr                no.     12      -    4      -                       I-  -   1    0.229  28  -    0.9     -     .      -          3.7
OvuhauT,qpawy&hde                no.      2      -    2      -     -     -      -    4   0.688      1.4      -    1.4     -     -      -     -    2.
Ova_Pnrojedar   n-.                       4            4     -     -     -      -    8   0.573      23       -    2.3     -     -     -      -    4.8
pladom                           no.      2 2          2     -     -     -           4   6.878    13.8       * 13.8       -     -     -      . 27.5
I  Put                           no.      4      -    2            -     -      -    82.868    11.5          -     .7     -     -      -     - 17.2
NaebookCanputm                   no.      2      -    2      -     -            -    4  2.293       4.6      -    4.6     -        - -  -         92
Cong us(PC) dpuluae              no.     24           12           -      -     -   36   2.868    68.8       *   34.4            -           -  1032
LCDWOP                           no.      2      -    2         -     -      -       4   1.719      3             3.4       9-         -     -    89
Tmkdg Mib                         bs                                                                9.5  23.1   28.1  29.7  28.4  22.7   8.3  147.7
S1tdaTraigqlmeaiu                                                                                   125.0   23.1  101.7  29.7  28.4  22.7   8.3  336.9
2.bey                               b                                                               171.9   28.7  28.7  28.7  28.7  28.7  28.7  343.9    ,
3.IdogdBAs_sgg ,mm                          4      -     -     -     -                 4  15.083    60.3       -      -           -      -     -   80.3
4. Ptd4bmTTfI
Load Tahn                         nn     24            -     -        -      -       24   2293    55.0       -      -            .-    -         55.0
FognCo                           nun      5      -     -     -                  -    5  13.756    68.8       -      -      -           -     -   68.8
sa*tat      m PuD'4IeTTT                                                                            123.8      -      -     -      -     -     -  123.8
S. LOWArTr*fn                      nun      6      -     -     -     -      -     -    6    3.21    19.3       -            -      -     -     -   10.3
8.f lYf f
Load T thuu                      nun     23    46      -                             S o -   -   69   2293    52.7  105.5  .  -        -     -  1582
Fo   CansumaV                    an     3.25    6      -           -      -     -  9.25  13.756    44.7   82.5            - -  -             -  127.2
s    Otmd                      n e        4     8 a                -      -     -   12   3.121    12.5   25.0       -     -      .     -     -   37.5
LaqagTrdl                        mm      2D      -     -           -      -         2D    321    64.2        -      -        -               -   642
sod mTT 1                                                                                           174.1  213.0                  - -  -       -  387.1
7. TTT2d
LodTrar                         mm        -      -                                  S6  o -    9   2203  -   -      -        t582            -  158.2
FaoeapCuns_                      -         -     -     -     -  2.25     -      -  225  13.756        -      -      -     .  31.0     -      .   31.0
s _dwo tw                      nXKk$      -      -        -       12     -      -   12   3.121                      -         37.5    -      -   37.5
SubtaTTT2                                                                                               -      *      -     - 226.6     -6 -  22B.6
N



TURKEY SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Table 4. Het Servies Management Training
Detailed Costs
(USS 000)
Quantles                                                        Base Cost
Unit  94196  95196 96197 97/98 9S19999100  00101 Total UnitCost 9419S   96196 96)97  971   939  991   00)01  Total
S. TTl Annual Seminr
LoalTatms                         mm         -     -   6.5   6.5   6.5  11.5  11.5  42.5   2.293           -           14.9  14.9  14.9  26.4  26.4   97.4
ForelgnConsulznl                  mm         -     -   0.5   0.5   0.5       1     1   3.5  13.756         -      -    6.9   6.9   6.9  13.8  13.8   48.1
SemnlnarOvethad                  module      -     -     1      1     1      2     2     7   3.121                -    3.1   3.1   3.1   6.2   6.2   21.8
Subtt M    Anua atSena                                                                                       -      -   24.9  249   24.9  46.4  46.4  167.4
9. Operationas Mangeen               Is                                                                    9.3    9.3    9.3   9.3   9.3   9.3   9.3   65.1
1IQ MalgentFee/e                     Is    0.19  0.19  0.15  0.12  0.13  0.12   0.1         I  264.11     50.2   50.2   39.6  31.7  34.3  31.7  26.4  264.1
Subto  Preparatory Actvits                                                                                 734.0  324.2  204.1  124.3 350.2 138.7 119.0 1,994.5
B. Train Progams
1.t Pi  HospIts
LocalTraines                     months     9    15   1.5       -     -      -         25.5   1.629    14.7   24.4    2.4       -      -     -     -   41.5
Foreign Conaults                 months     3      3     -      -     -      -     -    6  15.083    45.2   45.2          -     -      -     -     -   90.5
Semir Overhead                   module   12    20       -      -     -      -     -    32   3.121      37.5   62.4       -     -         -        -   99.9
Subotal Pilot Hospitals                                                                                   97.4  132.1    2.4      -      -           -  231.9
2z Large Hospials
Local Tranes                     moths       -   4.5    15  16.5       -     -     -    36   1.629         -    7.3   24.4  26.9       -     -     -   58.7
ForeinConsuants                  mofts       -     2    1.5     1      -                4.5  15.083        -   30.2   22.6  15.1       -     -     -   67.9
SemiaOvsled                      module      -     6    20    22       -     -     -    48   3.121         -   18.7   62.4  68.7       -     - _    149.8   w
Subtotal Large Hospitls                                                                                      -   56.2  109.5 110.6       -     -     -  276.3
3. Small Hospits
Local Tine                       mohs        -     -      -     3     3      3     3    12   1.629                -       -   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   19.6
SemnaroveOet                     module      -                  4     4      4     4    16   3.121         -          -      12.5  12.5  125   12.5   49.9
Subtotal Smal Hosptals                                                                                       -      -       -  17.4  17.4  17.4  17.4   69.5
4. Health Centers
Local Traier                     months      -  5.25  5.25  5.25  5.25  5.25       - 26.25    1.629        -    8.6    8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6       -   42.8
Sen*waOverhead                   modJle      -     7     7      7     7      7     -    35   3.121         -   21.8   21.8  21.8  21.8  21.8       -  109.2
Subtotal Heat Centers                                                                                        -   30.4   30.4  30.4  30 4  30.4       -  152.0
S. Provitclal Health Olr
LOca Trainets                    monts       -     -    12    12    12    12       -    48    1.629        -      -   19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6       -   78.2
Foign Cormna                     monfts      -     -     2      1     1      1     -     5 15.083          -      -   302   15.1  15.1  15.1       -   754
SeminOvehead                     modue       -     -    16    16    16    16        -    64   3.121               -   49.9  49.9  49.9  49.9       -  199.7
Subtotal Pronca Health Die                                                                                   -      -   99.7  84.6  846  84.6         -  353.4
6. MOH Trni  Program
Local Trainers                   monfts      -     3     6      6     6      6      -    27    1.629       -    4.9    9.8   9.8   9.8   9.8        -   44.0
FegnConsultants                  monfts      -     1     1      1     1      1     -      5   15.083       -   15.1   15.1  15.1  15.1  15.1        -   75.4 4
SeminwrOverhed                   nmdule      -     4                  8      8      -   36   3.121         - 12.5   25.0  25025.0  25.0                112.4   X
Subtotal MOH Trailnig Pogam                                                                                  -   32.5   49.8  49.8  49.6  49.8        -  231.8  r3
7. MOH Top Level Semdnr



TURKEY SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Table 4. Health Svlkes Managent TainIng
DetaIled Costs
(US$ MO)
Quantities                                                   Base Cost
Unit  9411 9S196 "97 97198 98199 99100 00101 Total UnI Cost 94195  9S196  96197  97198 98199 99100 00101  Total
LocalT Tulns                   months     I     I      I     i     1     1     1     7   1.629      1.6    1.6    1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   11.4
Foegn Cn"uItwI                 monh       1     1      1     1     1     1     1     7  15.083    15.1  15.1  ISA   15.1  15.1  15.1  15.1  105.6
SemaOvwOead                    modUl      2     2      2     2     2     2     2    14   3.121      6.2    6.2    6.2   6.2   62   6.2   6.2   43.7
Sublotal MolHTop LOW*iiQ k                                                                           23.0  23.0   23.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  160.7
S. SpeIalst Programs
Local TrnMs                      onths     -     -  3.75  3.75  3.75  3.75  3.75 18.75   1.629        -      -    6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   30.5
FognCon     s                  mons        -         1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   7.5  15.083        -      -   22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6  113.1
SeolnarOCbevted                module      -           5     5     5     5     5    25   3.121               -   15.6  15.6  15.6  15.6  15.6   78.0
St  SC     Prpr                                                                                                -   44.3  44.3  44.3  44.3  44.3  221.7
9. Sudy Tour
Forp C-onAsultsl               monthS      -     -    2      -     -     -      -    2  10.837        -          21.7     -      -     -     -   21.7
Paundpt E n eh                    Is                                                                  -      -  114.4     -      -     -     -  114.4
Sutoald SudyToWr                                                                                        -          136.1    -      -     -     -  136.1
Subtotd Trinin Programs                                                                               120.3  274.1  4952 360.1 249.5 249.5  84.7 1,833.3
C Foiowup ActVItes
1. Un*wskyst,engtening
MA Prwanl oIhs                             -    3      3     3     3     3     3    18  15.083        -   45.2   452  45.2  45.2  45.2  45.2  271.5
Stud Abrad: MBA                  year     4     6      6     6     6     6     6    40  39.735   158.9  238.4  238.4 238A  238.4 238.4 238.4 1,589.4   ;
Sutly Abmad: Phl.               degree    1      3     2     -     *      -     -    6 130.043   130.0  390.1  260.1         - - -780.3
Suoeae Unraws sy 3trengthening                                                                      289.0  673.8  543.7 283.7 283.7 283.7 283.7 2,641.2
2 Proram Extenon                                                   .
ForeignConsut                    n         -     -  0.75  0.75  0.75  0.75   1.5   4.5  15.083        *      -   11.3  11.3  11.3  11.3  22.6   67.9
LocalTA                        months               0.75  0.75  0.75  0.75  0.75  3.75   1.629        -      -    1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   6.1
Subtotad Program Exp.uaon                                                                               -      -   12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5  23.8   74.0
L Proam Eva on
FoimgnfConsultas                 nhs   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5       1   1.5   1.5      6  15.083     7.5    7.5    7.5   7.5  15.1  22.6  22.6   90.5
Locd TA                        mofts   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5 0.125  0.2S        1 3.375   1.629     0.8    0.8    0.8   0.8   0.2   0.4   1.6    5.5
Subtotal Progm Evaluation                                                                             &4    8.4    8.4   8.4  15.3  23.0  24.3   98D
SubtMFotewwapActMtbs                                                                                  297.3  682.1  S64.6 304.5 311.5 319.2 331.8 2,811.1
TotalInvsntCods                                       .                                                1,151.6 1,280.5 1,284.0 788.9 911.1  707.4 535.4 6,639.0



TURKEY SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Table 4. Health Semices Maagemt Training
Detailed Costs
(US$ 000)
Quantifies                                                     Base Cost
Unit  94)96 95196 96197 97193 9U99 99100 00101 Total Unit Cost 94196   9619   96197  97(96 96199 99/0  00(01  Total
L RecurAt Cods
A. IncretalSalades                    f no.     1     1     1      1     1      1     1     7   2.737      2.7    2.7    2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   192
3. Opeaing Expenses i                sum                                                                  18.5   18.5   18.5  18.5  18.5  18.5  18.5  129.5
C. VeOieand EquipfwentMaintnance      sum     0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       1  93.064    18.6   18.6   18.6   9.3   9.3   9.3   9.3   93.1
0. BiE isMadnnance                   sum      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   1.3  66.939    13.4   13.4   13.4  13.4  13.4  13A    6.7   87.0
Total Recutent Costs                                                                                        53.2   53.2   53.2  43.9  43.9  43.9  37.2  328.8
Total                                                                                                     1.204.9 1,333.7 1,317.2 832.8 955.1 751.3 572.7 6,967.8
la Suggested equipmernt Rs.
b Assumes $20/patcipant x 1 8 partclpant x 358 taInn modules.
s Includes 20 PTTs & 3 FTTs.
d Includes 20 PTTs, 3 FTTs and I FC.
e 20% d tofal TA hwsnent costs ($1440000 x .2 = $288,000).
V Unit cost for module assumes: $40/day x 18 partcipants x 6 nigtfs = $4,320.
g Technil assiance for the study tur.
h t  tbw to Europe for 66 stafftt, Ic     6 t s. Ar1fare $000;1Mng epenses $200. l week duation.
1J Cuium Development
One tull4bme seetay.
k Ofie n as and suppis.



TURKEY SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Tble S. Hospital Managune  Resructtung
Detbied Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantiie                                                     Base Cost
Unit  9419  9U96  96197 97191 99 9100 00101  Total Unit Cost 94195 95196 96197 S791 98199 100 00101  Total
L knestment Costs
A Ofie Eqpment
1. Hantwre                                 is                                                                  41.3     -      -     -     -      -     -    41.3
2. Soflware and Accesso                    is                                                                   6.9     -      -     -     -      -     -     6 9
Subta Offike EquIpment                                                                                           48.1     -      -     -     -      -     -    481
S. Technkal Assistance
1. Local Consultants (Capacity Rlultding)
Financl ManageMean                     monets    12      9     6   4.5      4      -     -    35.5   1.629  19.6  14.7   9.8   7.3   65         -     -    578
PeMsonnelMa M ek                       months      -   4.5   4.5      4    1.5     -     -    14.5   1.629      -   7.3   7.3   6 5   24        -     -    236
Managent tnfrm ahon Sstems             morths     6      -      -     -     ^      -     -       6   1.629   9.8      -      -     -     -      -     -     9 8
Other(Quality.,P _,rcuernMadnt.)       months     9      9     9      9     9     9      9      63   1.629  147  14.7  14.7  147   14.7  14.7  14.7   1026
FbciaAudit                             months      -     -    4      6      6     6      6      28   1.629      -     -   6.5   98    9.8   9.8   98       45.6
HospialManagemenl                      months      -   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5        45   1.629      -  12.2  12.2  12.2  122   12.2  122    733
Public Relations                       months                                                                326  32.6  32.6  32.6  32.6  32 6  32.6   228.1
Subtotal Local Consulants(Capacity uitIng)                                                                     76.6  81.5  83.1  83.1  7822  69 269.2   5409
2. Foreign Constants (Polcy Dev.)
OrWzage onatDevohpment/a               months     3      3     3     3      3            -      15  15.083  45.2  45.2  45.2  452  45.2         -     -   226.2
ResourcoM    _hanagernenl              months      2     2      -     -     -      -     -       4  15.083  30.2  30.2       -     -     -      -     -    60.3
Quaty Assurance Systems                months      2     2      -     -     -      -     -       4  15.083  30.2  30 2       -     -      -     -     -    60.3
MedicalAudit                           months      -     -    2       2     2      -             6  15.083      -      -  30.2  30.2  30.2      -     -    90.5
SubtoW Foregn Consutnts (Polky Dev.)                                                                          105.6 105.6  75.4  75.4  754-             -   4374    1
Subtotal Technkal Assistance                                                                                    182.2 187.0 158.5 158.5 1536  692  692   9783    _,
C. Extemal Training                                                                                                                                                     a,
1.Fesowships                               no.       8     8    14    14    14      8      6      72  30.165 241.3 241.3 4223 4223 4223 241.3 1810  2,171.9    1
2. Study Tours
GenraFhincalPeronnel Mgt.                no.                                                                 83.0      -     -     -      -     -     -    830
Qualty As_oaurnMedical Audit            no.                                                                    -  55.3      -     -      -     -     -    55.3
Bus. Admnn. In Cinica DIr.               no.                                                                    -      -  27.7         -        -     -    27 7
Subtotal Study Tours                                                                                            83.0  55.3  27.7      -     -     -     -   165.9
Subtotal Extenal Tralning                                                                                        3243 296.6 450.0 4223 4223 2413  181 0  2,3378
D. Local Trarinng
1. Worshops
ExecutieTeamMmefengs                     md      352   352   352   264   176   176    88   1,760   0.036  12.7  12.7  12.7   9.5   64    64    3.2    636
HospiaSlaffllsfn                        tnd        0     -      -     --                 -      60   0.036   2.2       -     -     -      -     -     -      22
Oocumentation                            Is                                                                    0.8     -     -     -      -     -     -      0.8
Subtotal Woshops                                                                                                15.7   27  12.7   9.5   64    6.4   3.2    66.5
Total Investment Costs                                                                                            570.3 496.4 621.2 5904 582.3 316.9 2534  3.430.6
D. Recurrent Cosht
A. IncrebnwalSa ase                          mm        -   36       -                               36   2.281          82.1     -            -     -     -    82.1
B.Equlpin_lOaM                              sum                                                                   2.0   Z0   2.0   2.0   2.0   20   2.0    14.3
Tota Reewrent Cost                                                                                                  2.0  84.1   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0    96.4
TOal                                                                                                               572.3 580.5 6232 592.4 584.3 319.0 255.4  3,527.1
% Chang Maemen
Vb For Central Autot



TURKEY SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Tale S. CoIqNatdnd Magement Support Systes
Detaied Cost
(USS 000)
Quantites                                                    Base Cost
Unit 149S  95196 9617 9-MB 9M99 9910  0010  Total Unit Cost 94t95 9596  96S7  97h98  98/99  99/00 00/01  Total
L ivestm  Costs
A. Equipment
1. Pvncwil H. Direct.        system     -     -      -    12    11      -     -   Z'  80.242       -     -       -  962.9  882.7      -     - 1,845.6
2.Hospdtb Basic              system     -    3      8    13    10       -     -    34  85.973      - 257.9  687.8 1,117.7  859.7      -     - 2,923.1
3. Hospts Compuuheuslv       systen           -     I      -     -      -     -    1 481.451       -     -  481.5       -      -      -     -  481.5
4. Spur Pat                    is                                                                  -      -    8.0  229.3  229.3      -     -  4665
Subtota Equdpnent                                                                                  -   257.9 1,177.3 2,309.8 1,971.7   -      - 5,716.7
BL Technical Assistnce
1. Pmv.H.M. Oeodmte npbnemnistn    Is         -      -    12    11 '          -   23   9.775       -     -       -  117.3  107.5      -     -  224.8
2. Hospt Ss. AnalyslModeftnv   Is                                                              207.1     -       -      -      -      -     -  207.1
Busic System Dkwaemutw        Is                                                                  - 1629        -      -      -      -     -  162.9
4.BascSys.IkmpnenJRsvlew      no.             3     8    13    10       -     -    34   9.775      -  29.3   78.2  127.1   97.8       -     -  332.4
S. Busic Svtem: Decanislzed Hosp.   is                                                             -     -       -   32.6       -     -     -   32.6
6. Cmwebnl Svsan               Is                                                                _    165.7  248.6   82.9   _         -     -  497.2
Subtota Technical Assistance                                                                     207.1  358.0  326.8  359.8  205.3      -     - 1,457.0
C. Traidnig
1. MlSBasicTrInIng             Is      24    18    48    78    60       -     -   228   1.084  26.0  19.5   52.0   84.5   65.0        -     -  247.1
2. PlM nuspft
StudyTourla                  Is                                                                  -          21.7                    -          21.7
MIS Trahlng for Manages      Is       -     -   35       -     -      -     -    35   1.445         -       50.6      -             -     -   50.6
aubtl PIot Hospital                                                                                -     -   72.2       -       -     -     -   72.2
3.Wwortp                       Is       2     1     1      -     -      -     -     4  18.061  36.1  18.1   18.1        -       -     -     -   72.2
SubtotalTrainfng                                                                                  62.1  37.6  142.3   84-5   65.0       -         391.6
Todal Inesfment Costs                                                                              269.3 653.5 1,646.4 2,754.2 2,242.0    -     - 7,565.3
I1. Recufrent Costs
A. EqulpWnt O & M               sum                                                                  -   5.8   32.4   85.7  131.4 131.4 131.4  518.1
B. Systns 0 & M
1. Cs" Sstean Develpmwp        Is                                                                  -  29.1   29.1   29.1   29.1  29.1  29.1  174.5
2. Compirahrnse System ODewopm    Is                                                               -  23.3  58.2   69.8   69.8  69.8  69.8  360.6
Toal Recurent Costs                                                                                    -  58.2  119.6  1846  230.  230.3 230.3 1,053.3
Total                                                                                               269.3 711.6 1,766.0 2,938.8 2,472.3 230.3 230.3 8,618.5
a 4 hospl ad I PCU staf. UCtaff = $6000.



TURKEY SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Table 7. Preivestment Studes and Project Maagement
DetaWed Cods
(USS °°)
Unit  946  95Ul 9197 971911  9199 9910 00101 Total UnitCost 94195  95J96  98U17  97198  98199  99100 00101  Total
L bnvsht  Cost
A. PCU EqupMt
1. PursoaulComu1srs                      unit     10     -                                    10   2.293   22.9      -       -      -      -     -     -    22.9
2. I -oo&Capr                            unit *          -      -     -     -     -      -    5   4.585   22.9        -      -      -      -     -      -    22.9
3. Lar PMlrs                             wlt       2     -      -     -     -     -      -    2   2.293    4.6        -      -      -      -     -      -     4.6
4. Ptaoaplr                              wilt      2     -      -     -     -     -      -    2   6.878   13.8        -      -      -      -     -      -    13.8
6. Pmsindle_cl,loe                       urnt      2      -     -     -     -     -      -    2   4.585    9.2        -      -      -      -     -      -     92
6. Oer CMo Eq*d mla                       la                                                                  -           22.9      -      -     -      -    22.9
7.6aftWe andsee_ h.4 ,b                   Is                                                                16.0      -    2.3      -      -            -    18.3
lUnto    PCu Eqpment                                                                                          89.4      -   25.2      -      -14.6
U. PCU Fwntu                              pkg                                                                462        -    7.7      -      -     -      -    53.9
C Techncl AssIsta
1. Prdect aeg  nt rigTA
Pmemt()                               mot        a 8   4      -     -            -     -   12  15.083  120.7   60.3        -      -      -     -      -   181.0
PrJet Miiwnu Fee t                    mont                                                             1,377.5      -      -     -     -     -        -      .5
Sbitotal Praote Managemaent forein TA                                                                    1,498.2   60.3      -      -                      1,55.5
2 Projetd IigL: Local TA
LocaoctMrad M".eId                    nths    12    12    12        -     -            -   36   1.629   19.6   19.6   19.6        -      -     -      -    58.7
Pn    hucPtnasr                       nxxths    12    12    12      -     -      -     -   36   1.629   19.6   19.6   19.6        -      -     -      -    58.7
AoaaunlbFien                          nmxonhs    12    12    12    12    12      *     -   60   1.629   19.6   19.6   19.6   19.6   19.6        -     -    97.8
ACwCfO_Ass_stt                        1,nths    24    24    24      -     *      -     *   72   1.303   31.3   31.3   31.3        -      *     -      -    938
Adn*fntet" Staff                      months   120   120   120   120   120       -     -  600   0.652   78.2   78.2   78.2   78.2   78.2        -         391.0
TransIos                              months    24    24    24      -     -      -     -   72   1.303   31.3   31.3   31.3        -      -      -     -    93.8
Pfcaremenlolo                         monKths    12    12    12     -     -      -     -   36   1.629   19.6   19.6   19.6        -      -      -          58.7   *
ProcrwmnetAssutan                     months    36    36    38      -            .     -   108   1.305   46.9   46.9   469        -      -      -     -   140.8  00
Bklmeto Enginew                      months    12    12    12    12    12       -     -   60   1.629   19.6   19.6   19.6   19.6   19.6        -     -    97.8   1
CM Ener/w                             months    12    12    12    12       -     -     -   48   1.629   19.6   19.6   19.6        6      -      -  -       78.2
CdA ftneeft                           monmths    36    36    36    36      -     -     -  144   1.303  46.9   46.9   46.946.9             -     -     .   187.7
Arct                                  mnts    24    24    24    24         *     -     -   96   1.303   31.3   31.3   31.3   31.3         -     -     *   125.1
Mecheos"Engznew                       months    12    12    12      -     -      -     .   36   1303   15.6   15.6   15.6         -      -      -     -    46.9
EkcalEng egr                          montrh    12    12    12      -     *      -     -   36   1.303   15.6   15.6   15.6        -      -      -     -    46.9
Caftsmant                             monxths    24    24    24     -     *      -     -   72   0.978   23.5   23.5   23.5        -       -     -70.4
Suntotl Poject ML:    TA                                                                                   437.9  4379  4379  2151.  117.3        -     - 1,646.2
3. SudIes
oni e Delanimbniatln                    is                                                               106.2   28.2   24.9      -      -      -     -   158.3
Pidae Seo Senobes                       b                                                                    -  246.3      -      -      -      -     -   246.3
Ihnon mid Regkiona Plantg              is                                                                    -  386.0      -      -      -      -          386.0
htedl Edla.n Qiua*                      is                                                                      188.7  294.3  105.5  106.3  94.9      -   789.7
Pnxrooon d boaeh Refonms                Is                                                                  -  173.4  137.3  137.3   72.2  54.2       -   574.4
Fkmn oMgl. dG4S Gs                                                                                           -  301.7      -      -      -      -     -   30.7
Pesnnad Re*Imfnect                     Is                                                                           -  119.6   55.6   48.4  57.8      -   281A
abonaultaden of inm.                    b                                                                361.4  378.8  596.7  597.0  310.8 265.6 162.7  2,6       X
_s_ts ShaMe                                                                                                466.6 1 7031,172.7  895.4 537.  472.4 182.7  5430..  N
Swotlt T_clmlcd Asdstan                                                                                    2,402.7 2,201.4 1,610.6 1,110.5  655.1 472.4 182.7  8,635A



TURKEY SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Table 7. fPe,nvestmt Studies and Project Manaeent
Detaied Costs
(USSVO)
Quantifie                                                       Base Cost
Unit  9496  N96  9B197  97   IIIIN  990110 00101 Total Uni Cost 94195  91K   96197  97M   NM   110  00101   Totl
D TraIning
1.PCUSTeaitak_t I                          Is                                                                  722    722    72.2               -     -      -   216.)
2. Oere FeWMhps A                          is                                                                 120.7  120.7  120.7  120.7  120.7       -      *   60.3
3. Omsa  Sud  Tos                          Is                                                                  86.9   86.9   86.9   869   86.9  88.9  86.9   608.1
4.W    op                                  Is      0.2   02    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1        1 108.389   21.7   21.7   21.7   10.8   10.8  10.8  10.8   10.A
StolTranIn                                                                                                      301.5  301.5  301.5  218.4  218.4  97.7  97.7  1,5365
Total wibestment Cos                                                                                             2,839.8 2,5028 1 45.0 1,328.9  873.4 570.1  280.4 10,340A
IL Recuren cogst
A).vhiietaEqulmmio& Mi                      sum      0.1   02    02    02    0.1   0.1   0.1        1  93.064    9.3   1&6   18.6   18.6    9.3   9.3   9.3    93.1
S. Opeaion and Miteance,                    sum                                                                  65.6   65.6   65.6   65.6   65.6  65.6  65.6   458.9
C. dia  tl                                  sum                                                                   .) 96 9.6              9.6    9.6   9.6   9.6    66.9
D. o5iceMe IkuSuppIia                       sum                                                                  '.s.3   53.3   53.3   53.3   53.3  53.3  53.3   373.0
TOta Recuent Costs                                                                                                137.7  147.0  147.0  147.0  137.7 137.  137.7   991.9
Totl                                                                                                             2,977.5 2,649.8 2,092.0 1,475.9 1,011.1  707.9 418.1 11,332.3
'A R    _pbcem# equiNl.
lb 20% d hIde     m
b Mgt. Fee. Bd an 7% of aN pjed TA.
%d Responibe fbt aIng  p ve-ee skd actiiles.
W Tean Leader (Cha Woar)
V 3 pnsons for 4 yeas each.
? 2 fu-tme peaems fo 3 lysas.
VI 10owpontdasy x 20 das xS5 staf x 3 year. Asumes 20 daysfu. and 60% of staff of 100 behg baned fr I nmoiheax.                                                              _
V 3 sfdaf4ea forMAPoj. bp .. HeFth MgS.. Publo Heah) Wor 1dst Oeywfprje. AsunsfIeiosllp o($40.00pw0'adaff.                                                                   '0
j i sdudy'aw- $1000 for awe $M2day kwrfig e_n; I week durtlon; 3 staff. I btmo. br 7 yeaw.



- 81 -                            Annflx
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT:
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTH EASTERN ANATOLIA
Detailed Implemeptation Schedul
Table of Contents
CHARTS
Paae No,
T.   Primary lealth Care
A.   Milestones in Project Implementation .......................... 83
B.   Primary Health Care Training .................................. 84
C.   Basic Health Care Interventions ..................
XI.   I-nfrastructure evelooment
A.   Civil Works.* . .....                        ........................ . 86
B.   Procurement ......... .. .................................. 87
XI. Health Policy and Manacement
A.   Management Training ......................... .. . ........88
B.   Hospital Management Restructuring . ......89
C.   Computerized Management Information System .................... 90
D.   Project Nanagement and Pre-investment Studies .........91



- 83 -                                Annex 3
Table 5: Milestones in Project Implementation
94     95      96     9 7    98         9g9    00   01
p   1. CREATION OF CENTRAL ADVISORY TEAMS
R   2. TRAINING OF CENTRAL&REGIONAL TRAINI
E   3. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT
p   4. DEVEL-OP. OF TRAINING MATERIALS
A   5. DEVE.OF STANDARD EOUIPMENT LISTS
R   S. DEV.OF TENDERING DOCUMENTS
A   7. DEV. OF TOR$ FOR CONSULTANCY
T   S. HOSPITAL SYSTEM ANALYSIS
I   9. CIVIL WORKS PROJECT DESIGN
O   10. SITE ACOLUISMON
N
1. TRAINING OF CENTRAL&REGIONAL TRAINI
I   2. ADAPTATION TRAININGS
M   3. IN-SERVICE TRAININGS
P   4. MANAGEMENT TRAINING
L
E   5. CIVIL WORKS
|    A. TRAINING HEALTH CENTERS
E    S. URBAN HEALTH CENTERS
N    C. RENOVATION OF HOSPITALS
T    0. PUBLIC HEALTH LAB.
A    E. COLD STORAGE
T    F. UPGRADINGS
I   6 PROCUREMENT
0    A. MED.EQUIPMENT
N    B COMPUTER EQUIPMENT
C. VEHICLES
D. FURNITURE
7. IMPLEMENT. HOSPITAL INFORMATION MO
I__ 8. RESTRUCTURING OF HOSPITALS
U   1. SUPERVISION OF CML WORKS
0   2. EVALUATION OF TRNINGS
N
T
0
R                                     I_I_I_I_T1___1_______1_____________I



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR PRIMARY HEALTH CARE TRAINING
TaNllm.                      SW_am_ At                                                                           lm       
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                                          "$>JR.8 QlN 314 Q l 02                                       mm mm  of' llll  
1. CasNE OmRflE  WORE5MW                   -020a 194 13fy
ESTABISH ADASRY  COMMITTEE                  ItYM1  23fM"M
ESTABLI TECHNICAL COMMitTEES                11!39g4 241 !II
r Fa"_ vtli _u                               I I II IIIV9I1
3IEVa    TRAING  MATERIALS                  03RI9   31Ma1
PROODUCE TRAININ MATERIALS                  021ft5  3W.AUM9
ORGAHNSE cOOXINATION MEETING 1l            0V394 _ei9                     *
______  O                          1MEETG  0a19  24013Dc_l                                          I
___    OORtD MEETING 13                260=11c11 2SIDeCJO
* RGTANISE MCME  REV  WVORKSHO               l2/JanI9S  221JmIg9fl
SMSE MANAGEMENT CONTRACT                    02iJ 311.95  3MagjItB*
a  EwMONITORANDMEVAUA  CRTERtIA          OIIJkd94 30iDecI94
NOYJJ.11l OYAoM4
1.TRAIN CIT                                   OIU 194  WIDeII 
TRA EG FE      TL   TEAMS                  Q         YJAp _ 
TRAIN REGIONRA       TETAIN                 t         23MM-
REGIW3AL TRAINING TEAMS                        399  0 215w_llllll         
TRAIN REFIAL TRANNG TEA1M                            02 17
TRAIN         I=          TEAMS               2Jt0Oe
TRAIN POOALTRAININ TEAMS                             01AodA7
TRAIN PROOCINCAL TRAINING TEAMS             WA3IJiMO    m
TRAI PROVINCIA TRAININ TEAMS                031.imiR  0110cmi0
AMAPTATI0N TRAINNS                           02isOA   3lietJtlI
IN SERVICEITRAINING                          o a   3lDeMIlI
MALARIA TRAININ                              O2ijarM9  3IIMarM9
MALARiA TRAININ                             021Jm19  021Ad
IALARtA TRAINNG                             04fJam5   0t
MAI)ttA TRAINING                            02IJaI   021A.                                                                                                       ,
FAMILY PLAINING                              2JM 34aA
BtUAL HEALTH  EAL__
TDMATRANNG                             0330d194. D3
TRAIN NWIfAL STAFF ON PC                      1 0          I I I III
TRAtN htHOStAL STAFF                      O1A SI31I_                                                            _:'9I
TRAIN HOISPITAL STAFF                      01fkm    3WkwM IS
1 TRAIN VHSI INSTRU1CTORS                     OI  IS 3IID.IA)
OLFS-lONWUS AMD STUDY TOMR                   S?JaIS   m3hcw
I. AIATI4lo   STILC  TOI*                             2MM
NATiONAL aorTas                            0     l STUDY T S  1  S
NA T1OAL 1 STUY  TOMS                       01       .&AMI9
NATNAL  STUD   TOMADS                             I 2WSM%l
ftumm39  Itu~4V
I ESTASLISI C NC                 0211~~~~wiwi5 31JDw~0                                                                                                                      x
a      a. TEAa*R                                  31ai



- 85 -                   Annex 3
ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
_ W           _ ____,__                ______a___
U  1 
O _  
zfi >B               
Fr-|j            
z I1..
l i i l  .I     



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR CIVIL WORKS
,TmoIiT.       I I I   InI  liI I                                                                         I
SURY OF          PlI.S         0Q3II DAIm43                                                                                            I             I I   I
WAtWEY O EMTM FACUJM    m        _OIJM3  OI
PROJECTOESIGN&DRAWAS          &I       etlSS   W1JI 
,_0AMMHEU3AL INCEM           mo l3         ~                   r                                                  
2.REUSED uNO.         ____    StA       I2 
4 COW STORAGE              1.I   III 5IIII III
ILUFORAIOM OF PRO 0AIIIS      @IJnS    Zal
1.UU* MT iiLien               0IJ9   2DecIS    III             II          L                                               
2. RURAL. IEALTH CENTERS       12119   20.Ig
3.PUauCHIEALTHIAS.             OlIAtrS   2e
REOTIONV.   IAT   OfPRSMPTLS   ow.JagVS   0tJnnISS
1. PROJECT ES    RI Iw                   li
2. TIOENDEOW                   0 4AbeS
3. INH TnE CONTRAC             0ih/JmmS  o1l.hi                       A
4. RNATNSO1iJtdu9   O1I.Aa1
VlA        31.OCM 2SIPobISS
KCARS                      CISAbti   31dM
W. NEIV                ~~~~~~lLJs*93  0VJdS
1. ACO1ISION OW S1T1           Iif1                                                                                               1194  I41F1bI4  a
2. SUREYIJimlB                               I      _I1  4
SITE SURVEY                  OlM.9   2W.AAN
3 SOL. TESTS                   SiffioviSt  3liJanIos
SCS.TESTS                     03/JuVlIUS rep
4. TENDERING                   OlWeI2W ISSSAtad
S. SIGN THE CONTRACT           03A1      I4
S. CONSTRUCTION PERIOD         I7   B   21c9
(10 TIM. 4 UIG. 3 PH1.. 3 CS)  lAaI4lA,9
7. CONSTRUCTION PERIOD         oitImarS
(to TIC, to uiJ)lShrB 184421A         9I
V.SUPERVISIO                  02/Janh
VLOPERATON ANDMAINtENANCE     O2IJarVS  31IeIlUU                                                                 -                             -                                                           - U
PM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*~~~~~~~~~~ ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       ~        :



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR PROCUREMENT
T.  NamI_ 199                                          1995         t996        t997        1998        t999         2000        2          2002
r#" Natne   _        End   Q4 Q~~~~1 f    _-s    i  Q    Q4   Q 3 02   Qt  Qf- 01    -4 bT    -di 0-4 Q41 i 444 Qs 1  -2 df 04.  a03 d-4dl Q62 a3
- iFeb94 OCfieb 94
Dliffeb194 01/FebI94
I. MEDICAL EQUIPMENT r  __     o1IFeb94 OiF       4Iebt84
biffeblB O1ffeb094
1.HINSTITUTION4S           0hi/Fetd42Sp
PREPARE TENDERING DOC._    OlffiWWi 24/            _
TENDERING                   26fDecl94 27/Jan_9I
(vgPle_¢oan___ 23/Jn/9 14/_ AII                                                                                                   II          I
PREPARE TENDERING DOC.      0/AP    0ttju191
TENDERING                   os5iNa/506Ft9
DELIVERY         =                   2Ju96
OPTLS:                       01fiG4 OfiFebO94             _lll                                                                           l    
PRF-PAR TEoRN DOC.           03un9 3                            _W  e  c#94l
TENOERING       _           O?t                                     **  all                                                                   l     l  
PREPARE TENDERING DOC.      06/     CSINov/* 
TEDRN                        150NovEth 05                                          * b  _
TENDERING                   I 90NwiMD 31fJon097
DELIVERY                    l7MA&7 -03/Jl/97
01/FebO94 01/eb094
FRITUR_                      ebjqj euF         4                                                                              II  II     I          I 
PREPARE TENDERING DOC.      27MUM 26IDe
TENDERING                   02/Juan/  13KkMarD
DEUVERY                     1103/Fi56/un9
PREPARE TENDERING DOC. _         _ 4Dd96
TENDERING                   l3iMw/9 24&Ju/96
DELIVERY                    2Yi96n IA  9|
01/IFebO94 01/e4
pred d



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR MANAGEMENT TRAINING
TtakN f*                _w _w  1E4                         1995       19              1        19          1909       2   -                   -2         2
W___U4101 Q2 U34                                     Qa          01          02 03 Q4   02 0Q3104 Of 02 03 UT o   -2P
LSELCI TlRAININGINSflIUIIOW       .tJFM  1       4 lli
1. PREPARE TENlBNG DOC,            11IeW4  31MWJ4
2. TENDERING PROCESS               Wm
3. CONTRACT           2                     NEW%
IL SELECTAN TR" FTT                1UFdf94  IIIP911*4
1. SELECT FTsII
2. TRAIN fT Tbt) 1I524Tii
1.CtRKl RRVMPN                    Q2ffeb94  0oS 
2.PILOT HOSPItlAL PROG            0t95A  290:09                             m 
3.TAS TE TRAINING lEE IS
1.SEtECTTAMNR811l                  029 50ove            l*                                                                    II 
2.nM_RW&lRSl_2m                    20#f45   3Ita6                                                                                                                             0      ll lll l      
4. EEl£Ct TRA.4t&R m    .          0208      _  1E                                                                                      m      m
S. TRAIN THI! TRARS R)             011MiaB9  241JarAU                                                                                             EU
111FdP9  11febR94   4
rPLOtmT 0  f" +S wITA IRMq        lIfe     lI I  II  I  II
____TRAIN_HOSPITAL STAFF                                                                              .. EUmm              U.mi3u         m   m ..
3. ORG.DEV.VW   TtO HOSP.          020llS. 38                                                     B  B      . _-                               BEE
1. LARGE HOSP1TAL TR PR.                                        02t                                S     7                              UE   E        _
2PROVYAL HEALTH  EC.             0&3F ac#1 ||l -__
3SMUl HOSPltAL TRb931DOl   1|l                                                                                                 _l
4. SPECIAL MAnN.G TR#A97                    000  1_ -___   lll  
&MNFML  3_1A|)aW                                                E£41l;                                                                           l        1I   
# # # 11 I I I I I II IlIeIlt4 _11FOW
-                                                             amom-    - -   - -  - - 02w    -       -31  -  - - Id --



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR
____________HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT RESTRUCTURING __  ____
Task Name            start     End    -      1994 -       1995         1996        1997         1998         1999        2000  J      2001
-I_,eo    oiec   Q41210 341123  _                   2    4    2     4    1_ 3         1     W    1     3    Q            4
LPREPERATION ACTPVIIE                 bOliOect3  OlIDecI93
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ 011Dec/9   01I/Dec/9
1I ESTABLISH STEERING COMMrMTE           01/Dec/9  31IDec/9
2. PESIGNA1T_4 PILOT HOSPITALS        -j  1/Dc/9  31/Dec/9
3. oEsigNATEk SATELLITE HOsprITALS - l03/Jan/9  30(Junl95
4.ESTABLISHE-XECUTIVETEAM/REGULARMEE  03/Jan$M5  31/Dec/01                           *i       *W        n             *      *      *      U      i     *    n
IPROMOT1O  AcTITnIEs       ____         01Dc8   017DEC/3
I. BIEFHOSPTALPERS ON L2ECENTRALIZATI  O3jJarr/   31/Mar/95
2 MEDtIA LA~UNCHf ON HOSPITA~LDECENTRALIZ  03/Jan9   31/Dec/01
3. PUBLIC RELATIONS         ____         03/Jan/95  31/DectD1
4 BRIEF LOCAL GOVERNMENTS                03/Jan/95- 31/Dec/01--                                               f=m3w
ADPROFF. ORGANISATIONS                01/ec93  0I/Decfi93
S. SWOT ANALYSIS0/an9 3/Jn5
6.SUYON CHANGE MANAGEMENT             03VJu/95 3_1/ALq?95                    12~
STUDY ON CHANGE MANAGEMENT              03/Jul/9   31/Jul/9
STUDY ON CHANGE MANAGEMENT              03/Jul/97  30/Jul9
STUDY ON CHANGE MANAGEMEtNT             06/Jul/98   31/Ju/9
STUDY ON CHANGE MANAGEMENT              06/Jut/99  30/Jul/9
liU. STABLISH NEW MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       01/Dec/93  01/Dec/93
-    16Dec/9  01/Dec/93 
1 ESTABL-ISH_FIINANCIAL  AN' iSYSTEM--  -03/Jan/95  30/Dec/9
RECRUI LOCAL CONCULTANTS                03/Jan/95  31/Decffl1
4 PROVDE TAFOR HOSPITAL MAkNAGR                     VPa/531Dc0
i ESTABLISH OUALITY' ASSlURlANCE SYSTEM--  03       YQ/9   1/ec9
6. PROVIDE INPUTS FOR M I S.             03/Jan/95  31/Dec/96
I?REER M!INE ACTMT Y LEVELS -FOR PILOT HO          28/Jun/96
8NEEDS ASSES. FOR HUMAN RESOURCES/EQ    01/Jul/9   31/Jul/I
9 PRE§PARE STRATEGIC AND0 B6U-SII.ES-S PLAS611A.2!9-6 28/'Auj-- piX
10. BUDGETING           T____           ~          2M
11 MONITOR HOSPITAL ANDPERSONNELPER~F  0~~~97        /P
12. FINANCIAL AUDITS                      02Jul/97  30/Jutil>
13_SWT_ANLYSI__         _ _____          03/Jwan0 30/Mar/00
14. MEDICALAUDITS       _     ___ 02Jan/7  31/e01*                                                                U            *EEE                             U
_______ ______   _____ ______  01/Dec93.   01/Dec/93
IV. STUDY TOLURSANDFELWSIS03/Jan/95  31/Dec/01UU                                        UUUU-*                 *     UU        UUUUUU-U                    UUU
01/Dec/93  01/Dec/93
feWa d                                                                                                                                         MIlestone  A   BUwnasyME
8un       -i



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR COMPUTERIZED MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
Tm* Name                     start      End       199 4          lt996              18889               1997                logs9              1998  
Q 03  04  01  02  03  Q4  0   02  0 3  04  Q1  02  03  04  Q1  Q2  03  04  Q1  Q2  03  04  Ql
L SYm  aNALYSIS F OSPTALS _a 01        _               _         _   -          m _       -
t. ftPATtCN                                   o_y       02obta* ___
_COTRACT AWARD                     _          3Mti
Sns A_ ' ea~s a_' &IOOG.....          -              
31. DhOVELOPMENT AND  LEMENTATNO              0 ASI      251F*W.                -   _    -          -    -                   -         -    -        - _   _             -
1. PREPARATY                  0__n! _                     1Feb?.                          _
t CONTRACT AWARD                              21fiPS    21fFibO
I             TTAT                            OtaMu      25f_,__U
IlV               D _L E etMID IEMEN ATMO        Wp      2WJmsl9_
s. PE tRATI                                 2_f__   2__A_L
2 CONTRACT AWRD                               2SIFgW9    0SIVft
3 D OMBITAATON                                2D31a*d    24_   _  
V. ItUtUH DO EDIA SItATLO           W I  vl#  " _ v__A_.
I. PREPARATION                               .2. 7    27i*c__ 
2 cNTAWARD                                      3m97    Wma9i
3 WEmE0T314                                   2      __1y97 25t111191 __ _
V. PROCUO r IOOOIWA15  LOT 2       _A Oc5   3A"?_
. PREPTON                                     O2lOAI9W    21Aa9V6                         _0
2 CONTRACT AWARO                               t3tbl9 13   W19t                                                                                                                  0
I DELffERY                                    23p9       19t9ihB 31_
VI. PROCURO0       LaOT                        y W A     3ItAPe -_
I.PREPARAtlON               OVAAS                       13i_-
2 CONTRACT AWARD                              2tN7    2tN7                                                                                           46
I DELIERY                                     23tJo,9    31lIA IOM.
VO. PROCUR-Or 0005M mLOT$ SUAPj                          SWAU#P. _
1 PREPARATION                                 OtAM_ 131N4. 8
2 CONTRACT AWAD                               204sB    2WJ  o "
I 08.RY                                       29ssJn    3II1 g Je 
ItD. F1tOCUR-OF 000051 UCItS      WIApd# 2#3  __s !
t PREPTION               __                   O___r_L    _    IS_  17
2 CONtRACT ISIIARD                            2WN~9  _211Nv9S
3 DBtKERY                  ,_231Jni7   2srNA 11ujf9
RU-     TRAtUASNUG _   _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __       12tJu#sS  611 cOm
L WO0RKStgOP: fT STAk..AS                      omf_    _ __ _m ,u
UL W.&: APPUCAT3OJaaS    2AtgIS5
u  W.s.: trim THEtALTH SECTOR       N01!  E3-owjN 
¶51  CIMAAMET TOIIR                _          WauIS      OW2nISUlltVN
FREPARATION. PREPARE TEMNRtNO DOCUMENT1
E7TTI    NO OUECTION FROM WW OBTAIN APPROVAL FOR BIDDINGI INMTATIONlGET PROPOSALS/ EVALUATION



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES
son P_______    -                                 4      _      _              19I             I-              I               I                0              21   1
orcir_raoq __-l                     .                      _ g                                                                               3 1 1 1
Pwmmd WAei4S4~6MW4  MWA
t   slsW                 ___                  I    c _  _ett  _           _                                                                                 I  It       1  5   1  1
XFttZCt6b#t~~~~~ak.                   _                n*= am a llll
,    ............A  ....
O OMA              S_         _      4f
c~~~~~~~~~~~&W Noo,"Uaet  1w    f  |tttl|1 
G~~~~~~~~~~tv^Y  tl__t sR tt   W ;_t"e-1l



- 93 -                           Annex 4
REPUBLIC OF TURKEy
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT:
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOMNT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTHEASTERN ANATOLIA
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Table of Contents
I.   Monitorina and Evaluation Overview     . . . .  . . . . . . . . . 94
A.    Input Indicators  . .       . . . . . . ..     . . . . . 94
B.   Output Indicators . . . . . . . s ..  . . . . . . . . . .  . . 94
C.   Outcome Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . .  95
II.  National Burden of Disease Methodology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
A.   Objectives   .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  . . . . . . . . . 104
B.   Broad Scope . .*. .*. .* . . .*. . .  . .  ... . . . . . . . . ios
NBD Study .       ..               .  . . . . . . . . . . 105
Cost-utility Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
Capacity Building . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
C.   Outputs   .       ......... . * . . . . . . . . . . . 109
D.   Timing and Duration      .................... 109
D.   Qualification . . . . . . . . . . ................. 110
D.   Selection Criteria  ....................  110
sII.  Attachment ouoted from Annex B. WDR 1993. Investinp in Health . . 111
TABLES
i.   Monitorina and Evaluation overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
A.   The 52 Variables Used by SPO to Classify Provinces  . . . . 97
B.   Provinces Grouped by Geographical Regions . . . . . . . . . 98
C.   Provinces Grouped by Level of Development . . . . . . . . . 99
D.   Infant Mortality Rates and Rate of Decline by Provinces . . 100
B.   Basic Indicators by Province Groups . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
P.   Baseline for outcome Indicators (to be completed) . . . . . 102
G.   Baseline for Intermediate Process Indicators  . . . . . . . 103
II.  National Burden of Disease Methodoloav  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
SII. Attachment Ouoted from Annex B, WDR 1993. Investina in Health . . 111
A.   Burden of Disease by Age and Sex  . . .. . . . . . . . . .114
S.   Burden of Disease in Females by Cause . . .  .  . .   . . .115
C.   Burden of Disease in Males by Cause . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
D.   Burden of Disease by Age and 3 Groups of cause  ..... . 119
Z.   Burden of Disease by Consequence, Sex and Age . . . . . . . 120



- 94 -                             Annoic 4
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT:
ESSENTIAL HEALTH ERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTHEASTERN ANATOLIA
I.  Monitorina and Evaluation Overview
1.    Health care projects are notoriously plagued by a la',k of reliable
baseline data as well as weak monitoring and evaluation systems. Bank health
projects, in particular, typically focus on project inputs and accountability
issues, such as whether or not the project complied with commitments
established in the Staff Appraisal Report, rather than on outputs and outcome
indicators in terms of improvements in health status or the performance of
health services (effectiveness, efficiency and quality of care). This makes
it difficult to assess the cost-effectiveness and impact of proposed
interventions.
2.    In practical terms, however, measuring the impact of a given
intervention on health status is difficult. For instance, although tracking
maternal mortality rates would be desirable for measuring the impact of the
Second Health Project on the health status of women, routine data for this
indicator is not readily available in Turkey and the relative infrequency of
maternal deaths in the population as a whole makes survey techniques
unreliable unless performed on a large population group which is costly and
labor intensive. Furthermore, information on maternal mortality is most
useful when it is cause-specific, which is rarely the case in developing
countries. As a result of such problems, although pregnancy in developing
countries carries a risk of death up to 200 times greater than in industrial
countries, many of these deaths go undetected, adding to the general
difficulty in assessing cost-effectiveness. It also makes it difficult to
determine if these programs have an impact on the estimated 7 million or more
newborns who die throughout the world as a result of maternal health problems.
3.    Given the essential role program monitoring and evaluation play in
determining the impact of a given intervention on development objectives,
three sets of indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate progress during
implementation of the Second Health Projects input indicators, output
indicators and outcome indicators.
4.    InDut Indicators will track planned investments in terms of contracting
technical assistance (staff-months), enrollment and time (staff-months) in
training programs and procurement of goods and civil works (disbursements).
These indicators will be represented in standard input tables for each major
subcomponent of the Project (see Project Operations Manual).
5.    Output Indicators will track items such as: (a) the number of studies
or reports that have been completed by a given date during the project cycle;
(b) the number training programs and students that have been trained; (c) the
equipment or vehicles that have been procured; and (d) the number of equipped
facilities that have been constructed or renovated. These indicators will be



- 95 -                              Annex 4
tracked in standard output tables for each major subcomponent of the Project
(see Project Operations Manual).
6.    Gutcome lnicatorg will track whether or not the development objectives
of the Project have been met. Two criteria were used to select the basic
outcome indicators for health statuss (a) first, that the indicator is known
tzo be sensitive to the intervention introduced under the project; and (b)
second, that data would be readily available through routine collection on a
provincial basis without special studies or surveys. In Turkey only three
health status indicators, which can be derived from census data, qualify by
these criterion, while at the same time reflecting the priority health
problems in the project provinces: (a) infant mortality rates; (b) fertility
rates; and (c) life expectancy.
7.    For each of the 23 project provinces, improvements in infant mortality,
decreases in fertility rates and increases in life expectancy relative to a
weighted national average, will be used as the ultimate benchmark of success
of the Second Health Project.
8.    Developing countries and Ministries of Health are often encumbered by
donor agencies, which demand the collection of different types of data. To
avoid this problem, while allowing for a more sophisticated assessment, than
would be possible through the above three basic indicators, the Project would
support a limited number of special studies and surveys to track an expanded
set of indicators. These additional indicators fall into two categories: (a)
true outcome indicators (improvements in health status)l and (b) intermediate
outcome indicators of health service activity (desirable utilization patterns,
efficient operation of health care facilities, adequate supplies, improvements
in modern contraceptive methods and increase in immunization rates). The
following six outcome indicators and aix intermediate process indicators would
be tracked during the project through survey sampling techniquess
Outcome Indicators                                          Tarcets
a.    Infant mortality rates                           de'cr by 40%
b.    Under-5 mortality rates                          decr to 80%
c.    Child deaths due to ARD                          decr by 30%
d.    Maternal mortality and case fatality rates       decr by 30%
e.    Fertility Rates                                  decr by 30%
f.    Infections due to Tetanus, Polio aiJ Measles    decr by 95%
Intermediate Process Indicators
a.    Antenatal and postnatal contact rates             incr to 3 cont
b.   Ambulatory health center staffing rates            incr to 95%
c.    Availability of antibiotics                      100% on spotcheck
d.    Home Delivery/Hospital Delivery Ratios           decr by 10%
e.    Contraception Prevalence Rates                   incr by 30%
f.    Immunization Rates (Tetanus, Polio, Measles)    incr to 95%



- 96 -                              Annex4
9.    Since it is impossible to disaggregate the relative importance of the
impact by improvements in clinical interventions on these indicator. from the
impact by improvements in health care management, the proposed indicators
would be used to assess the impact of the Second Health Project as a whole on
health status of tho pepul.tion in the 23 project provinces rather than the
impact of any specuific subcomponents.
10.   For the purpose of developing surveys to meaaure the expanded
indicatore in the 23 project provinces, it will be necessary to deviate from
the usual breakdown of the country into five geographic or five development
regions. The usual breakdown of the country into five geographical regions -
Eastern, Western, Southern, Central and Northern Anatolia - does not function
well as a basis for classifying the provineqs according to needs by bealth
indicators (see Map 1). The SPO has, therefore, grouped the country's
provinc s into four different regions based on demographic, income,
employment, education, morbidity and mortality indicators (see Map 2): (a)
first order priority provinces (PP1); (b) second order priority provinces
(PP2); (c) provinces with medium levels of developmentt and (d) developed
provinces. The 23 provinces selected for the Second Health Project are
economically the least developed PPl and PP2 provinces not already covered in
the Eastern Anatolian Region during the First Health Project, whose climate
and geographical conditions significantly weaken accessibility to health
services, especially in remote and mountainous areas (see Map 3). The project
provinces cover 16 percent of Turkey's total population (9 million people in
1990) and 29 percent of its surface area.
11.   The following pages provides (a) the 52 variables used by SPO to
classify provinces according to provincial groups by levels of developmentp
(b) provinces grouped by geographical regions used in Hacettepe Population and
Health Surveys; (c) provinces grouped by levels of development; and (d) basic
indicators by province groups. To monitor outcome during project
implementation, a similar set of tables would be developed, comparing the key
indicators in the 23 project provinces with the rest of the country.



- 97 -                                      Annex 4
TBIE 82 VARfABLBS USED BY SPO TO CLASSu                              s PRO
Dem.graphlc indicators
. Ralc of Uraunization
A Auntn avvragte growth rate of udban population
. Population density
A snuual net (in) migration rate
. Total Fertility Rate
. Population t)cpcudency Ratio
Emploijwn Indcators
. Total employment
. The propotion working in mining extracuon and quanis in total proincia employmt
. Poportion who work In manuaocturing In total provincia employment
Proportion who wurk in building and constnuction in toai provincial employmen
Propwrtion who vork in wholesale. restaurants and hotels in total prvicil em.ployment
Propmrtion who work In transportatIon. communcatiton n total provincial employment
. Portlio work In fnancial instItutIons. isurance. rea estate related jobs and ntItuton.
antl suppotwve serices in ttital provincial employmet
rIportion of wagc carners tn total provbieal employment
. I roportioni of wage earning females in totai provinia employment
HG.th Indicators
f Number of dentists TIer 10.000 persns in the provinte
. Number of doctors p-r 10.000 persons In the provic
:  Number of pharmaites per 10.000 personm in the province
. IMR
Educatlonal Indicators
. Uter&wy Rate
S Schooling rate at sweondaty kvel
. Proportion of higher educatin graduates in the pnovncial population
Industrial Indcators
. Manufacturisg industmy value added per capita-urban poplation
Per capita celctric ene  consumed in tidustty
. Total estabishe  awcr capacity in Industry
Agrultura Indlcat&  s
Vecgetable lrodiiction value per cApita rural populatkmn
. lroxrtion or of  ntlal Industrial vegetation to national industrial vegetation production
. Animal production value per ruad lIpulation
*Chemical [c.tlli7.r consumplttIo per hiectare
j Cultivated lanl per rural population
Consuction Indicators
. Per capia housing arca
. Number o'building permits
. Ier capita commercial building value
Fiuawial Indicators
. Per caplta 1public or private) t,*,l bank deposits
Agricultural Credits
Plrofessional Credits
. Industrial and Trade Credits
. Plr capita icwome and corporation tax
Proportion of ilnome aid corporation tax In total publc expenditures
nfrastructure    d Capita Acumulation Indcatom
. Length of auplalt roads cr hundred squar kilometer
Prooxwrtion of villages vith elctricty
. Proportion of vtllaes with drinking water
. Total public Investments for each province during 1963-84
Othe Welfare Indicators
. Per capita (colored and black-white) telvion sets
. Ier capita vidco
. Per capita music set
. Per ca?pita refrigeraors in rural are.
. Number of motor vehicles pe 10.000? people
.Number ofcanat per 10.000 persons
. Fuel Conxsumption
Ptr capita amount electrcity consutmed excluding Indust9y.
SOUX! SF0 (1990)



-98 -                    Annex 4
GROUPED BY GBOtRAPR"CAL
REtIONS USE IN HACETTEPE PPVJIATION
AND HEALTH SRVEwS
EAST                  NOR=T
ERZURUM                ZONGUDAK
TEIJVCELJ              KASTAMONU
DIYARBAKIR             SINOP
BhTJS                  SAMSUN
SIRT                   ORDU
SiVAS                 GCRESUN
ERFA                   RI1E
MALAri A               TRABZDN
KAHRAMANNARA$          ARVI7N
ADWYAMAN
GCM&$HANE                  BOUrN
ERZ7NCAN
KARS                   MUOLA
ELA7d                 JISPARTA
MARDIN                 BURDUIR
MUS                    ANTALYA
BINGAL                 MERStN
A(RI                   ADANA
VAN                    GAZ74NIEP
HAKKARt                HATAY
CPAIRE                 WEST
AFYON                 ISTANBUL
EWSIEnR                EI)RNE
BOW                    IARW
ANKARA                 TEKJRDA(
KONYA                  KOCAEEI
fCANKURI              SAKARYA
CORUM                  BURSA
YOZGAT                BAUKEStR
KAYSERt                CANAKKALE
NIODE                  MANISA
NEVEHR                IlMdR
iaREHR                 AYDIN
KVfAAHYA               DENI
U$AK
BfILCIK
TOKAT
AMASYA
s&w  s (198)



99                         Annex 4
PROVINCI4L GROUPS BY LEVEL OF
DEVELCPMENT (*
DEVELOPED                      PP
ADANA                   ADIYAMAN
ANKARA                  A(RI
ANTALYA                 BINGOL
AYDZIW                 Bf1S
BURSA                   DIYARBAKIR
ESKI$EHIR               GUMCI$HANE
VEL                     HAKKARI
tSTANBUL                KARS
IZMIR                   MARDINV
KOCAEl                  MUI
SIIRT
1nwCEl
VAN'
BAYBEURT
BA7MTAN
MED. DEV.           *LRNAK
YOZGAT
AFYON
BAUKESIR
BILECtK
BOW
BURDUR
%ANAKKALE
DENIZLt
EDIRtNE
GAZtANTEP
GCRESUN
HATAY                           PP2
ISPARTA
KAYSEWR                 AMASYA
KIRKLARELI               ARrvIN
KfONYA                   CORLM
KCrAHYA                  ELAZIf
MANISA                  ERZtrCAIV
MUCIA                    ERZURUM
NEVtEHIR                 ASrSTAMONU
NkdDE                    AfALA7YA
ORDU
SAKARYA                  SIVAS
SAWSLW                   TOKAT
7IEK1RDAId              $ANUUERFA
TRABZON                  YOZAAT
U$AK                    ZIGLA od et  b
ZONGULDAK                i        (O1 Centre and
Source: SPO. UNICEF (1990)
' fl pmvcs in eactgware stdby abet(calardernot bydeendof deeLopnwnt



- 100 -                                                Anneex 4
Thle Situtatioti of Mothcrs aind Cfhild1ren in Turkey
iNFANT MORTALITY RATES AND RATE OF DEWCUE BY PROVINCES.
1967. 1982, 1990  (per thousan)_
Rate                                        Rate 
1967                 of                   1982                   of                100
= *               DOtA                   I                     Dn8Ua_
RUOZON PROVINCzeS    ___                               (1967-62)  _____                             (1982a)
VA WA                       339                 25                    105                    41                    04
Ad'                         3140                5                     141                    3t                   308
I8l OOL                      500                3                     140                    27                  l306
8*21*                       3341                 0                    137                    39                    75
D*YA*54                     139                 12                    123                    39                    07
P OMOR R d _0I"                                30                     126                    4S                    as
PANK4a*                    S39        11                              124                    32                    e8
I       Mit£                        192                 12                    3t0                    42                   310
NAIW*V                     3126                 18                    103                    48                    69
IS5                 6                    148                    34                    1IS
139                I,                    124                    37                     78
ivxucn                      132                25                     tIq                    41                   s5
ttrAN                      147                   I                    14S                    28                   lOS
WATK4-                                                                                                             77
AKABTA                      206                33                     139                    55                    63
AMT&                        l61                 32                    114                   5s                     57
CANW                        1h4                32                     128                    S0                    50
OORWf                   208                 23                    l63                    48                    84
p         AIG                   t'                      31                    114                    42                    aS
p         Z#CAN                     369                 33                    113                    S8                    40
2a      ZRUN                        213                 25                    162                    30                    104
IUSIAVM                     101                24                     120                    48                    03
LAtAA                       135                24                     103                    S0                    53
"      AM      *            131                 18                    107                    41                    63
SNOr                        1S9                 13                    138                    53                    65
VAS                         191                27                     140                    50                    70
729                         199                22                     155                    55                    69
IA=JA                       113                1S                      96                    31                    66
TOZGAT                      I80                22                     130                    46                    70
AFN                         so180              28                     130                    48                    S9
I4UIJI13                    148                37                     93                     53                    44
01m                         IGK 309            39                     103                   G6                     40
1OVW                        I52                28                     110                    4,                   s5
PttDVR                      138                41                     el                     62                    31
136                37                     t3                     02                    33
N        DWVZtJ                      140                 33                     94                    S4                    43
8                                    177                47                      93                   S5                     39
0        G                           133                 18                    309                    43                    62
I        OIRJN                       113                 18                     93                    40                    50
v       NAUTA                        114                 18                     93                    42                    62
N        IRT/                        144                 35                     93                    60                    37
IWJ                         IGJ 164            32                     1II                    S0                    55
U      R3 WANSLI            178                48                     93                     59                    36
150                36                     W                      4S                    40
ECEtA                       159                31                     110                    51                    54
D         CAV                        178                 33                    120                    55                    54
a        M3P                         141                31                      97                    60                    39
V  IG91A                             309                28                      7S                    55                    35
X NB1~                                .49               29                     3oo                    63                    41
L.      If e                         3IM74              25                     130                    St                    t4
O        ORDU                        134                24                     102                    47                    54
P        ItkZ3                       101                 23                     78                    St                    40
B        BA VrIAA                    1330               29                      97                    43                    St
D        843898                     7Is                 22                     322                    47                   0G
364                39                     100                    U4                    40
m..N                         92                22                      72                    57                    31
$1*K                        36g7               30                     120                   s5                     51
UONOVIA4K            355~~is            to                     120                    48                    06
AMSARAr-                                                                                                           62
XARAI4N-                                                                                                           54
-    ~        ~     ~ .                                                                              45t3
ADANA                       125                 20                    100                    47                    53
O                                    147                 34                     94                    53                     44
*        AWrALTA                     1312                24                     65                    51                     42
V        A11F                        131                 33                     as                    53                    40
B                  15S                                   39                     97                    54                     45
L 171                                                    41                    102                    SS                     46
O        El                          132                 21                    10X;                   48                     55
_aAN .                      t31                21                     91                     42                    53
,                                    326                 32                     so                    5S                    42
it       IWCJ                        137                 23                     OR                    GI                    48
213W                ~~~~~~~149          2?                    too                     I8                    *0
* P. SHORTER. M. MACL=RA 0 982)
F. SNORtE. (1989)
T. XOCAUIN. (1989)
gOm, VMCF (1990)
*     77 Thso Seteravt11 amw not t     lttuck-d     1967 and 1982 data bxaat11c u.y rtveemtiy. 1989 tnd 1990. CacqltlLd the
statws of a pn vtwe.



- 101 -                                      Annex 4
?he Situation of Mothers andi COtildren in Tuirkey,
BASIC IDICA70RS DY PROVJNCE GROUPS
mwuo- m                  a            1                                         . 1                   11-1
o_mwgmv_vo8o&        w4 a                                  46                     e          19        U
1UftM&~~~~4E~~~W*4?88in..          £~~109     "I9        18N        *74         10        to8
Uwa,AuuuamwEAlvuIm.w               17*~~~~~~as  4111     1.84      0a"          174       Om8
esgs,g,tUSA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                    121                   gmh         INJ       Amtl
O_5ft0dU@442                                 1*6       1.85       .785       2*          2.42      7.49
mtmTam.AADG                                    .85*       t.OJ      .711        124         19 196
ZO8_z_t__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                      IM                    is          ISOr      anJ
SL WmOm.A01i0*AjM                             .8       -078        ACIS       1.4         1.42      40 
_mmimt tUX   "aw isE0                          laew  r    7.e        Ass        41.91       4.49      as9
COU 1111u *11?qlO53uinanMA10                               4e S9    4, se
SWUJVAL K#DICA0RS                               m ,                 mm   tr s. -            _aOM  wIn
vmamg                           .                e        let         sw         85          a,        of
t W "~~~~~~~~~~~~8 1s 41                                 *3*A       IJS         *01       19*
Tommaes                                         as         10        n71         S           49        0
inNfI_t                                         of                   8d          4?          48        U
stammosm                                       e8          7s         73         88           0        of
vimaji1                                                    Pi         so         6J7          3        is
w       nMAmasm                               sPow      SCO2901     12.74e     $1.31      34.40S    129
N* MALinnriin                                 1186       9. *       SAM        M0         2160      81410
Mio*BIDII ifNICAUTORS                     _____                     an       so         emmm .v    n
e     _XE.MuuAn  nA1aNr  111,04d0*U&6SA7        24         22         28          18         I?        19
-t W,awwuinv,Iaum a       4ht410SM    16             19         of         I6          14        1
I_UinMIANOfl65a 9                                       4          9           G          S         9
_        awAl~JI3*996.3 180               20                   34           2          10 
_T   nICA M                                we          1T                                7
U3Z%WJk-VX.It*. AaI                             41         S          39                     re         0
u1crftu *w *lt.M ^oAQi3 7s                                 61        n7          87          02        *
S*6NW*6 8N5&*1?DAiS.*4MfJAia*W             so        7           74         65         76        1
te      _     _     _ rsm ,  8mA9 ssngw. sw     85        85         67          so         78        Si
.LUW    _4@ lMU    UITtA13*1.18U1               82         so2    1    2          70         76        as
m.'5*0*o9ys1    ,s*ptu arntm 7 5-* 1i1*tl    FIS  2        73         75         75          79        14
M UbOSJAlf   ww        a8                    140       Its        3In         t w             *    all
OZ IUstOJt l tmwxOmnwo3 ISO                             1*4         186        104        Jos        *2
immsSm=w-.a n ox42a9                            36         31         41         30          SS        3s
t$_ls711. WArn 8431*1                          z4        * 38         47         24          25       2n
WTNU/TAM XNCOME W I CAT                        in                            t.    t mE    ___
wuImuau.80drnrImsJas.d.                          3         5           I          2          4         *
LawDaamai*?1806rn 0*78051855                    at                   to t6                   9 S1
Lt       t _tmBU JlnW N         son             18to       13         is         10           9        to
2*248mmmm__J_                                    6          9         18         10          17        Is
18.14 0 *1t J111                                 2         t1          3          2           6         6
mflma.1881 son5                                 25         21         82         37          31        *3
1141-SOnMK fMt_P  *01 31a                                              3          6          15        11
MCAM30O                           anm 3t 67                          so?         to9       1.70tt    2.t1t
tl Mmtw                                   3          9   _          .0                         J 57  109
Source: S     8(1999). UNCE  (1990)
*     Ise .cidknorsfor tau- CxwAl r.tgion shouul be considen.d. sqwvlely bec<tause G' P nutics <tre elrev<dy indtaled fit IPI.
PP2 or nt Afodutun Mmoped prauie groups



- 102 -                                                 Annex4
REION PIdueto Ueii5                                                                                     Tes    Palio mlT 10d.
Mmtali          W         mmwIyme  BAN              T_                                    __e
PAN          P             h                              C_ Deb Cue Dh" Cos   DeA
Adin             25           4             151           55                6    1       1    0    735        0
Adiynm           36            5            t1O           71                0    0       0    0    15S        0
Afyo             57            11           9             68                1    0       0    0    437        0
Agi              38            3            242           38                1    0       0    0    10         0
Am"              50            10           149           60                0    0       0    0    273        0
Ankte            16            1            25            31                1    0       1    1    845        0
Ant*y            21            3            51            46                3     1      1    1    613        0
Aztvla           7C           4              t13          17                1    0       0    0    131        0
Ay"             t31           6             26            54                0    0       0    0    879        0
UelIkiit         31           6             49            48                2     1      0    0    465        1
Biledt           33            6            261           53                0    0       0    0    154        0
BElag            24           3             0             40                0    0       0    0    53         0
BAth             36            1            215           36                2    0       0    0    120        3
Bob              32           7             50            56                1    0       0    0    18        0
Duzdut           37            a            29            50                1    1       0    0    120        0
BuM              27           4             46            40                0    0       0    0    870        0
Cmau             24           6             37            48                2     1      0    0    505        0
Cakiri           43           7             97            60                0    0       0    0    166        0
Coim             85            10           15            39                0    0       0    0    139        0
Dazia            28           4             1S0           37                0    0       0    0    1211       0
Dlyb             62           3             218           27                13    1      0    0    1566       5
Idli;            23           4             25            37                0    0       0    0    854        0
EwazI            20           2             55            43                7    0       0    0    110        0
Enwe             39           5             60            30                0    0       0    0    77         0
Eamum            66            11           34            75                2    0       0    0    199        0
Aieeh           59           7             14            41                0    0       0    0    1372       0
29           2             182          33                 10   3       0    0    113        0
Giam             24           2             1?            42                1    0       0    0    286        0
aumudw_          39           9             2071          79                0    0       0    0    27         0
N*.kaal          9            0             397           23                e    0       0    0    235        1
Nfay             30            5            50            65                1    0       0    0    230        0
bafea            24            a            20            52                0    0       0    0    630        0
Icu              S3            6            125           54                3     1      1    1    593        0
lhual            15                         51                              8    1       5    0    1777       0
1ir              20           4             102           35                2     1      1    0    2470       0
Kim              41            1            los          19                0    0       0    0    154        0
KeaimN           45            6            91            45                0    0       0    0    163        0
KeAd             21           4             54            44                2    0       0    0    1084       2
Kitclard         1S           2             0             48                0    0       0    0    140        0
KiM&k            32            6            48            67                0    0       0    0    60         0
Kout U30                       5            87            43                3    0i      1    1    621        0
Ko               42            5            81            S5                0    0       0    0    998        0
IweYa            52            8            137           45                0    0       0    0    325        0
Mshtna           33           4             149           47                2    0       0    0    414        0
mnini            36            7            1S            53                3    0       2    0    705        0
K m              39           4             90            68                0    0       1    0    344        0
MatE             27            1            86            28                0    0       1    0    271        1
MUd              26           S             42            49                0    0       0    0    378        0
mm.              21            1            212           36                8    0       0    0    163        0
N_vedAir         32            7            40            71                0    0       0    0    279        0
Nidt             S1            S            22            60                0    0       0    0    205        0
Otdu             27            3            57            45                0    0       1    1    404        0
Riz              is            1            26            36                0    0       1    1    540        0
Seka             32            5            55            49                0    0       0    0    374        0
S_mla            29           4             S1            39                0    0       0    0    2177       1
Suit             63           4             99            66                0    0       0    0    9f         0
Siop             49            8            83            S8                0    0       0    0    256        0
Siw              51            6            IS            40                1    0       0    0    S53        0
Tekkdq           24            5            0             56                0    0       0    0    525        0
Tobt             50            7            152           53                0    0       0    0    839        0
Tmbba            24            8            61            50                0    0       0    0    168        0
TurndU           26           3             110           32                0    0       0    0    19         0
S. Urk           St            s            262           29                3    0       5    0    200        0
Usdk             29            6            64            59                0    0       0    0    274        0
Van              4t           4             930           66                0    0       0    0    658        1
you*i            3S     s     3             in            Ss                0    0       0    0    330        0
ZoDpMak          16           2             110           22                0    0       0    a    117        0
Akuamy           27           3             IS            46                0    0       0    0    307        0
Behuat           61            14           154           86                0    0       0    0    75         0
tmm              26            5            91            SO                0    0       0    0    331        0
KkXkk            20            2            271           42                0    0       0    0    26         0
8_m              t8            2            131           59                0    0       0    0    321        0
Sisuk            31            1            605           1S                4    0       0    0    430        0
Buda             19           2             248           29                0    0       0    0    72         0
AsdJo                                                                       1    0       0    0    lS        0
l61i                                                                        0    0       0    0    16         0
AVERAGE          34.28        4.76          129.26        46.27   TOTA      95   12      22   5    34.285    3S



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        f
~~~~[g[4G[X[XEg[f#ff[rS[[fggfffft 1 
upisSsus;;;;sttStidGteSthusa;Gi;i8IA- ;aiuass;ae It;uu88AG  II  t
;Sa >a at§a  utaGsSe SGpiXbuiSitGaas£8SEa*wa                               PIs
4                                                                            142ab:Zsa0"Q*ae"ua3""axxnU"0!;bl^0lSEo§ttfi p
a ~~~~~  ~~~~  a      ~~~~l
4  _iaaaaasaatsXtnsaajjSSSS2Suaa$attauts 
Ia I-Eaaaaastataatusuas#>xSjtautX;52u""tt1
g sesussut¢fuat*ailsaSttasass#asasaaStuna929294ustaaja422snI



- 104 -                            AnnexL4
II.  National Burden of Disease Methodoloav for Second Health Proiect
12.   As a more comprehensive assessment of health status of the population,
the Second Health Project will conduct a National Burden of Disease (NBD)
asosesment in Turkey and cost-utility studies. This would ensure that future
reforms in the health sector focus adequately on reducing the burden of
illness due to preventable and treatable diseases and disability in Turkey.
The methodology for this measure will be based on the work of Murray and
Lopes, 1990, during preparation of the 1993 World Development Report.  The
methodology combines mortality and morbidity into a single internationally
comparable unit, the Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY).1/ This would
assist the Ministry of Health in determining current health priorities and,
when combined with in country cost-utility studies, make it possible to
determine affordable cost-effective packages of health interventions that
would address a significant proportion of preventable and treatable disease
throughout the country. The methodology for the proposed study, which is
summarized in Annex B of the 1993 WDR, is provided for reference in this Annex
of the Staff Appraisal Report. Two assessments, at five year intervals would
be carried out iuring the duration of the project.
13.   Under the Second Health Project, the Ministry of Health will seek
assistance from a Turkish institution or consortium of institutions to manage
and implement the NBD study. This Turkish institution will be oupported by an
overseas institution or consortium of institutions with experience in the NBD
methodology. The Turkish institution will hare final responsibility for
project outputs, and for the coordination of both Turkish and international
expertise. The following terts-of-reference (TORs) can be adapted as
appropriate to either the Turkish host institution(s) or the international
supporting institution(s).
Dbiectives
14.   The overall objective of this assignment will be to:
a.     conduct a NBD study in Turkey which, in conjunction with data oa
the efficiency of specific interventions, can provide the basis
for the rational allocation of resotrces in the health sector;
b.     undertake a series of cost-utility studies that will focus an
conditions identified as priorities by the NBD study and
determine the most cost-effective interventions to address these
priorities; and
c.     develop the institutional capacity in Turkey to undertake NED
and cost utility studies.
i/    Tables 8.1 to 8.5 frm Amex B of the 1993 WN are prowided as an attachmit to this Anmx a
exuples of the Burdmn of Disease by age, sex nd mjor diseae category.



- 105 -                            ADnne  4
Broad 8come
15.   The scope of the study will consist of three major sets of activities
which will be conducted in two phases over the seven and a half yearas (a) MID
studies; (b) cost-utility studies; and (c) capacity building.
16.   NE) Study.  The first major set of activities relates to the NBD study
itself. The NBD study requires demographers to determine the existing
population and overall mortality (1993) by age and sex and to model changes
over the coming decades. This data will be combined with cause-specific
mortality and morbidity estimates by incidence and fatality for a similar
range of diseases as laid out in the WDR 1993 (World Bank 1993), in order to
calculate the DALY loss by disease category and population component. Where
data is not available, estimates will be made by in-country disease experts
making clearly explicit assumptions as to how these estimates were derived.
17.   The NBD study will include the following detailed activities:
a.     Organize NMD launch workshop to include a presentation of the
World Development Report.
b.     Organize NBD study design workshop.
c.     Undertake a study of demographic data for the year 1993 by age
and sex, to determine population size and mortality in the
following age bands 0-4 yrs, 5-14 yrs, 15-44 yrs, 45-59 yrs. and
60+ yrs.
d.     Produce estimates for incidence and fatality from dtseases in
three broad groupingss (i) Communicable, maternal & perinatal;
(ii) noncommunicable; and (iii) injuries. Bach grouping will be
broken down into their individual diseases (Iyrox. 60). These
estimates will be sought from a wide variety of existing sources
including, vital registration data, clinic and hospital data,
and special studies.
e.     Combine activities under (c) and (d) to produce a statement of
the NBD, expressed in DALYs.
f.     Review how the NBD findings compare with the MEC estimates for
WDR 1993, and draw out implications for the establishment of
health priorities. Present findings to Ministry of Xealth, and
hold i-ional seminar to promote study impact.
g.     Undertake the design and contracting of four supp'ementary
morbidity and mortality studies during the project period to
fill priority data gaps identified during the first (1993) MND
assessment in order to improve the quality of the second MID
(1998) assessment. TA will be provided as required to this
exercise.
h.     Repeat exercise, centered around the 1998 situation, five years
after original study.



- 106 -                             annex 4
18.   Cost-utilitv 8tudies.  The second major set of activities relates to
the accompanying cost-utility studies. The cost-utility studies would be
undertaken subsequent to the first round of NBD calculations, and updated in
the light of findings of the second round. The coct-utility studies includes
(a) the identification of disease priorities (which is an output of the NMD
study under the first component); (b) the identification of potential
interventions against the selected conditions, and the determination of the
impact of those interventions; (c) the measurement of the costs of those
interventions; and (d) the combination of impact and cost information to
produce the measure cost per DALY gained for each intervention. Since the
DALY is a rather insensitive measure at the level of specific interventions,
more specific outcome measurea will also be used to derive cost-effectiveness
measures.
19.   It is envisaged that the cost utility studies would be undertaken under
the same broad institutional auspices as the NBD studies, because of the need
for consistency in the assumptions concerning the baseline epidemiological
situation and the impact of interventions. Therefore, both the Turkish host
institution and the international collaborating institution will need to
assemble a capacity ranging across the disciplines of demography,
epidemiology, statistics and health economics, if necessary by the formation
of consortia.
20.   The cost-utility studies will include the following de>-Ailed
activities:
a.     On the basis of the first NBD study, identify likely candidates
for intervention programs. These are to be selected on the
basis of both a high loss of DALYs and the judgement that there
currently exist (or will shortly become available) effective low
cost technologies against the selected conditions.
b.     Conduct a launch workshop on cost utility studies to disseminate
knowledge of the methodology, to debate contentious issues of
the methodology to be adopted in the Turkish studies, and to
review the selection of interventions to be studied.
c.     Using tlhe available data and the judgement of the expert peer
review group, construct estimates of the impact of intervention
programs, measured in DALY units and more specific outcomes.
d.     Estimate the cost of the intervention programs.
e.     Combine outputs of r) and s) above to generate estimates of cost
per DALY gained, and estimates of cost effectiveness, and
present results to national health policy workshop.
f.     Repeat the cycle in abbreviated form following second NBD study,
updating previous intervention studies and adding selected new
intervention programs.



- 107 -                            Annex 4
21.   Capacity buildino.  The third major set of activities rela.es to the
accompanying cost-utility studies.   This will include: (a) the es;ablishment
of a NBD Steering Committee; (b) national capacity building; and (c) foreign
contractor.
22.   Establlshment of a NBD SteerLng Committee. The Ministry of Health will
create a Committee, whose secretariat will be provided by the Project
Coorlination Unit, to oversee the NBD and cost-utillty studies. This
Committee will be responsible for major decisions concerning the studies,
including: (a) selection of the contractors; (b) approval of the annual
workplan and budget proposed by the project coordinator; (c) selection of
candidates for PhD and MSc fellowships and approval of the terme of their
fellowships; (d) selection of the members of the expert panel; le)
facilitation of access to official statistical sources; and (f) reporting to
the World Bank on the progress of the studies. The Committee will also be
responsible for resolving any disputes arising from the division of
responsibilities between the Tuxkish 'nstitution and the international
collaborating institution. It is anticipated that the NBD Steering Committee
will need to meet frequently during the initial period of establishment of the
Project. After the first year, the frequency of meeting should be specified
as not less than twice annually, and additionally at the request of the
Droject Coordinator.
23.   National Capacity Building.  The Turkish institution or consortium to
which this contract is awarded will be required to provide a comprehnnsive
package of inputs which, in conjunction with She technical expertise to be
provided under a separate contract with an international collaborating
institution, will be sufficient to undertake tha activities and produce the
outputs enumerated below. In particular, the institution will be expected to
provide: (a) a full-time NBD Coordinator who will be responsible for managing
the entire process of conducting the various studies; (b) counterpart
professional staff as needed in the disciplines of epidemiology, demography,
medical statistics and health economics who will work alongside experts from
the international institution; (c) support staff; and (d) accommodation with
computer facilities and international communications for the use of the
various working teams. The NBD Coordinator will be expected to manage the
payment of honoraria to the expert panel, the employment of field survey
assistants, the organization of project workshops and seminars, and the
publication of reports on the project. The NBD Coordinator will also be
expected to put forward nominations for the PhD and Msc fellowships, and to
design and implement the arrangements by which fellows are surpported in their
studies and engaged in the activities of the project.
24. The project coordinator will be expected to prepare for the approval of
the Project Steering Committee an annual budget and workplan, detailing
proposed activities, necessary inputs and expected outputc for the forthcoming
year. On conclusion of the project year, the project coordinator will prepare
a report on performance and budget for the Steering Committee
25.   The relationship between the Turkish and the international institution
is intended to be one of intellectual collaboration. The international
institution will supply inputs of technical assistance according to a schedule
laid down in their contract. The precise timing of those inputs, and the
scope of work for individual visits, will be negotiated between the NBD
Coordinator and the international team leader. In the event of irreconcilable
differences, matters in dispute may be referred to the NBD Steering Committee.



- 108 -                             Annex  4
26.   Forelgn Contractor.  The foreign contractor for the NBD and cost-
utility studies has two main tasks. The first is to supply the technical
skills and experience to guarantee that high quality research is performed and
published. The second is to ensure that there is a transfer of skills to the
Turkish counterparts, research assistants and study fellows engaged in the
project, and to a wider audience through workshops and seminars. The
structure of the NBD and cost-utility studies makes the Turkish NBD
Coordinator "de jure" responsible for all project outputs, and for the
coordination of all inputs (including international technical assistance
within the framework of the contract), but "de facto" the contractor's
personnel will have a large indirect supportive role to play in conducting the
studies.
27.   Capacity building will include the following detailed activitie0s
a.     Establish and equip accommodation provided by Turkish
institution and recruit additional staff as necessary.
Designate Turkish counterparts to all international staff.
b.     Recruit one PhD student each in demography, epidemiology/public
health, and health economics, arrange their attachment to the
project, and nrovide PhD scholarships in an appropriate overseas
institution.
C.     Establish expert Peer Review Group for disease estimates.
d.     Develop a detailed plan of local project costs, including
travel, secretarial and office costs and honorariums for disease
experts and additional estimators.
e.     Hold a series of workshops to explain methodologies to Turkish
ac.%demics and policy makers, and to present the results of
studies (these workshops are listed separately under NBD and
cost utility sub-activit.es).
f.     Under the umbrella of the coordinating institution the NID
coordinator would be responsible for overseeing the technical
work in cooperation with the technical review committee and the
participating institution providing technical assistance to the
project.
g.     In particular the NBD Coordinator would be responsible for
coordinating the varied institutional inputs into the project,
liaising closely with the overseas institution providing
technical suppc-.t and be responsible for production of all
reports relating to the project, ensuring publication in both
Turkish and English language versions.



- 109 -                            AnneLA
Outzuts
28.   The following are the expected outputs from this assignments
NB studiess
a.     completed demographic data projection papersl
b.     completed disease estimate paperst
c.     NBD (1993) estimates and report produced;
d.     national seminar presenting 1993 report findings, and report of
proceedings;
e.     four supplementary morbidity and mortality reports from four
special surveys conducted to compliment NBD;
f.     second NBD (1998) study estimates;
g.     Second national seminar to review changes over project: period
and impact of earlier studies on national policy formation.
Cost utility studies:
h.     papers on cost utility methodology;
L.     series of reports on cost utility of specific interventions, and
consolidated report on first series;
a.     national policy workshop and report on proceedings;
k.     updated series of reports following second NED study;
Capacitv buildina:
1.     expertise in NBD methodology institutionalized in Turkey;
m.     three Turkish PhDs trained in relevant methodologies, and
counterpart staff trained by association with studies; and
n.     extensive literature in English and Turkish created and
disseminated;
Timina and Duration
29. This is a seven and a half year study commencing in 1995 and finishing
end 2001. It is intended that the contracts will be awarded in 1994, allowing
an early start in 1995. The principal activities in 1995 and 1Q96 will be
concerned with the NBD studies, and again in 1999 and 2000. In 1997 and 1998,
lt is anticipated that 4 special studies to strengthen the disease date will
be undertaken. Cost utility studies will be undertaken in 1997 and 1998, and
updated and extended in 2001 in the light of the results of the second NBD
study.



- 110 -                             Annex 4
oualifications
30. The institutions bidding for this contract will require expertise in
the areas of epidemiology, demography, medical statistics (analysis of
morbidity and mortality data), health economics, and field research methods
(survey design, execution and data analysis). The NBD Coordinator and
principal investigators should have sound academic training and a record of
published research in the relevant fields. The foreign institution should
have a demonstrated previous involvement in the NBD effort and previous record
of performance in commissioned resea_rch and international collaboration.
Seloction Criteria
31.   Proposals made by bidding institutions will be judged on the revealed
capacity to coordinate and execute the project, to supply the required
personnel and guarantee their availability for appropriate durations, to
supply the support staff, and to have available (or to indicate the source of)
the accommodation and services required by the project team.
32.   It is unlikely that a single institution will have sufficient capacity
in all these areas of expertise, and it is therefore expected that bidders
will form consortia.   In this event, the bids will be judged additionally on
the arrangements made between institutions to guarantee coordination} bidders
will need to supply copies of the agreements made between the memoers of the
consortium, and these must clearly show commitment to the designated NOD
Coordinator and a readiness to accept his coordinating role. The bid must
clearly demonstrate the commitment of the institution and the individual to
engage the NBD Coordinator on a full time basis.



- 111 -                             AnnLx 4
Attachment Ouoted from Annex B
World Development Report WDER) 1993lnvesting in Health
11.   "The World Bank and the World Health Organization have undertaken a
joint exercise for this Report that quantifies the impact in loss of healthy
life from about 100 diseases and injuries in 1990 (Murray and Lopez,
background paper). The global burden of disease (GBD) combines the loss of
life from premature death in 1990 with the loss of healthy life from
disability. The OBD is measured in units of disability-adjusted life years
(DALYs) except in Table B.8, which presents only deaths. Disease and injury
categories are based on the Internatlonal Classification of Diseases, Ninth
Revlslon (1977). The criterion for selecting the diseases and injuries
studied was the expected magnitude of the burden within a specific age group.
The selected diseases and injuries account for more than 90 percent of
premature deaths and probably for a similar proportion of the burden
attributable to disability. The tables presented in this appendix include
subticals for different disease groups; the numbers presented in the subtotals
include DALYs lost as a result of the specified diseases and, in some cases,
several residual conditions."
12.   "Calculation of the disease burden is based on several assumptions,
some of which involve decisions about ethical values or social preferences.
The key choices are the potential years of life lost as a result of a death at
a given age; the relative value of a year of healthy life lived at different
ages; the discount rate, or extent of time preference for human life and
health; and the disability weights used to convert life lived with a
disaLility to a common measure with premature death. The choices are
described below. A full presentation of the methodology will appear in Murray
and Lopez (forthcoming)."
13.   "Duration of life lost due to a death at each aae.  The number of years
of life lost as a result of a death at each age is obtained from a standard
schedule of expectations of life at that age. A Coale and Demeny (1983)
"West" family model life table (level 26 with an excectation of life of 82.5
years) has been used as the standard for females. A comparable model with an
expectation of life of 80 years has been used as the standard for males. For
example, a female death at age 40 is assumed to represent a stream of lost
life that is equal to the female expectation of life at age 40, or 43 years.
Longer streams of life lost as a result of a female death as compared with a
male death at any given age seem to be justified by data for high-income
groups in low-mortality populations. These data show that women's
expectations of life at birth are still two to three years higher than
males'."
14.   "Value of a health year of life lived at each aae.  Most societies
attach more importance to a year of life lived by a young or middle-aged adult
than to a year lived by a child or an elderly person. The relative value of a
year of life at each age has been modeled for this exercise as an exponential
function of the form ka exp(-Ba), where a is age and B is equal to 0.04. This
function rises quickly from zero at birth to a peak at age 25 and then
declines asymptotically toward zero. The constant k is chosen so that the
total number of DALYs is the same as though uniform age weights had been used
(see Box figure 1.3).  It is important to note that while the first year of
life receives a very low weight, the life a newborn is valued accordlng to the
weights of all the years he or she is expected to live, that is, according to
the sum of the function over future years. In the absence of discounting,



- 112 -                             AneL 4A
therefore, the greatest lose of DALYs from premature death occurs from infant
deaths. The introduction of discounting means that the greatest loss from
premature death occurs in early adulthood, but that loss is only slightly
greater than the loss from an infant death. Largely because loss of life is
valued according to the future stream of age-specific age weights and not just
the weight for one year, the results of the analysis are not very sensitive to
the introduction of nonuniform age weights."
15.   "Time preference.  Since the stream of damage to health from current
illness and injury can extend years or even decades into the future, it must
be decided how to value the future relative to the present. This is a
controversial and unresolved issue becsuse there are two different arguments
concerning how to regard the future. first, societies typically prefer to
have a given amount of consumption today rather than tomorrow. This "pure
social rate of time preference" is usually assumed to be quite low, of the
order of 0-3 percent per year, meaning that the future is valued exactly or
almost as much as the present. Second, there is a reason for discounting the
future much more, if resources are not consumed today but are invested so as
to generate higher consumption tomorrow. The expected rate of growth of
consumption times the elasticity of utility with respect to consumption yields
a term typically assumed to be about 8-10 percent, comparable to the rate of
return on investments involving risk and taxation. In evaluating the global
burden of disease, it is assumed that this argument does not apply to human
lives, which are incommensurable with consumption; adding to healthy years
does not necessarJ.ly raise consumption per person.  This Report therefore uses
a discount rate of 3 percent per year, which could be entirely attributed to
pure time preference."
16.   "Higher discount rates would reduce the total burden of diaease because
future health damage from health losses in 1990 would account for less. More
important, higher discount rates would also alter the relative importance of
different diseases. Because the stream of life lost as a result of mortality
is, on average, longer than that caused by disability, higher discount rates
raise the importance of disability compared with that of premature mortality.
For the same reason, higher discount rates reduce the importance of premature
deaths at young ages in relation to those at older ages."
17.   "Disability weiohts.  Disabilities were assigned severity weights
ranging from zero, representing perfect health, to one, representing death.
These disability weights were determined at a meeting of experts in
international health who had not participated in the study. In order to
reduce the number of weights to be assigned and to emphasize large differences
in the severity of disability, each disability condition was assigned to one
of six classes of severity. The disabilities in a particular class differ in
kind (for example, blindness versus paralysis) but were considered to be of
equal severity. Each participant then voted on the weight to be assigned to
the entire class, not to individual disabilities, and the class was weighted
according to the average vote. It is important to note that many disabling
conditions lead to two or more distinct disabilities, which may be classified
in more than one class of severity."
18.   "The burden of disease could be computed using a prevalence perspective
(the extent of burden during a given year, no matter when a disease condition
began) or an incidence perspective (the future burden of that year's new cases
or incident diseases). An incidence perspective was chosen: the burden of
disease is the future stream of disability caused by incident cases in 1990.
This is the more logical way of dealing with mortality, and it is easy to



- 113 -                            Annex 4
apply to nonfatal disabilities. Disability-adjusted life years attributable
to premature mortality are calculated on the basis of 1990 deaths by cause, as
presented in Table B.8."
19. "Estimates of mortality by cause were based on three types of sources
vital registration data, model-based estimates, and epidemiological estimates
for particular diseases. Vital registration data for all countries with good
registration systems that attribute a cause of death were used with only minor
modificationsl such countries include most of the established market
economies, the formerly socialist economies of Europe, and a large proportion
of the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean. For China high-quality
sample registration data from the Disease Surveillance Points System were used
with some modifications. Vital registration data were also used for some
countries in the Middle Zastern crescent and Other Asia and islands regions."
20.   "A variety of models relating cause-specific mortality to total
mortality by age have been developed on the basis of the patterns of causes of
death recorded in nations with good registration systems. For the large
groups of causes-communicable plus maternal and perinatal, noncommunicable,
and injuries-these models have been used to allocate deaths to cause groups.
Whenever possible, these estimates have been validated by examining the
results of small-scale longitudinal population ssrveillance systems.
Estimates for mo-e detailed causes were built ul !rom assessments by disease
experts of incidence, remission, and case-fatality rates. These
epidemiological estimates by cause have been constructed so as to add up to
total mortality."
21.   *A different approach was used to estimate the DALYs lost through life
lived with a disability. A group of experts estimated the incidence, age
onset, and duration of disability for each specific disease on the basis of
community-based epidemiological data, routine health facilities information,
and, where necessary, expert judgement. Separate estimates were made for the
five age groups, two sexes, and eight regions in the study. When prevalence
was used to estimate incidence, the GBD incidence prevalence model was used to
check for consistency between the estimated incidence, remission rate, case-
fatality rate, and general background mortality rate. The same model was also
used to check estimated duration for reach disability. A completed first-
round set of estimates was reviewed at a conference hosted by the World Health
organization, and comments were taken into account. A second round of
estimates was undertaken and was subjected to the same review. The third
round of estimates is presented here. A fourth and final round of revisions
will appear in Murray and Lopez (forthcoming)."



-  114-                                             Annex  4
Table B.1 Burden of disease by age and sex, 1990
M lsonsofdisabaty.udted     Pntgeo               DALYs per 1,000 population
life yeats (DALYS) lost   of DALYs                                Maelfmak
Demographic region and age group   Male    Female      Total       losl      Male    Female    Total        atiao
Sub-Saharan Africa                 152.8    139.9      292.7      100.0       606       542       574       1.12
0-S                               83.8     73.3       157.1      53.7      1,765     1,559     1,662      1.13
5-14                              19.7     17.5       37.2       12.7        280      251       266       1.12
15-44                             36.2     35.6       71.9       24.6        349      335       342       1.04
45-59                              7.9      7.1        15.1       5.1        391      323       355       1.21
60+                                5.2      6.2        11.4       3.9        494      491       492       1.01
India                              145.3    147.1      292.4      100.0       331       359       344       0.92
0-5                               67.3     70.0       137.2      46.9      1,125     1,234     1. 178     0.91
5-14                              15.8     16.5        32.3      11.1        155       173      164       0.90
15-44                             30.8     35.0       65.8       22.5        154       191      172       0.81
45-59                             16.5     12.3       28.9        9.9        348       268      308       1.30
60+                               14.9     13.3       28.2        9.6        500       460      480       1.09
China                              103.5     97.8      201.3      100.0       177       178       178       0.99
0-5                               23.7     26.2       49.9       24.8        394       452      422       0.87
5-14                               8.8      7.4        16.3       8.1         91       82        87       1.11
15-44                             31.0     31.4       62.4       31.0        101      111       106       0.91
45-59                             17.3     12.2       29.6       14.7        239       190      216       1.26
60+                               22.6     20.5       43.1       21.4        462      397       429       1.16
Other Asia and islands             95.1      81.6      176.7      100.0        277      240       259       1.15
0-5                               36.8     30.4       67.1       38.0        840      724       783       1.16
5-14                              15.0     11.7       26.7       15.1        179       146      163       1.22
15-44                             24.3     22.4       46.8       26.5        151      140       146       1.08
45-59                             10.1      8.1        18.2      10.3        296       230      263       1.29
60+                                8.9      9.0        17.9      10.1        441      397       418       1.11
Latin America and the Caribbean    57.2      45.7      102.9      100.0        258      205       232       1.26
0-5                               18.1     14.4       32.5       31.5        629       520      575       1.21
5-14                               6.5      5.5        12.0      11.6        125      108        116      1.16
15-44                             20-8     15.6       36.4       35.4        199      150       175       1.33
45-59                              6.4      4.9        11.3      10.9        287       209      247       1.37
60+                                5.5      5.3        10.8      10.5        3f3       316      347       1.21
Middle Eastern crescent            73.9      70.3      144.2      100.0        288      285       287       1.01
0-5                               38.1     36.2        74.3      51.5        925       912      919       1.01
5-14                               9.3      8.2        17.5      12.1        142       133      137       1.07
15-44                             14.4     15.4        29.8      20.6        127      143       135       0.88
45-59                              6.3      4.7        11.1       7.7        284       211      248       1.35
60+                                5.8      5.8        11.6       8.0        427       372       398      1.15
Formerly socalist economies of
Europe (PSE)                    33.2     25.0        58.2      100.0       201       138      168       1.45
0-5                                3.0      2.4        5.4        9.2        216       181      199       1.19
5-14                               1.0      1.0         2.0       3.4         37        37       37       1.00
15-44                             11.3      6.3        17.6      30.2        148       84       116       1.77
45-59                              9.1      5.0        14.1      24.3        337       168      248       2.00
60+                                8.8     10.3        19.1      32.9        420       284      334       1.48
Established market ecotomies (EME)    52.0   41.6       93.6      100.0        133      102       117       1.30
0-5                                3.5      2.9        6.4        6.8        132       115      124       1.15
5-14                               1.3      0.9        2.2        2.4         24        19       21       1.30
15-44                             16.1     11.4       27.4       29.3         87       64        76       1.37
45-59                             11.6      7.2        18.7      20.0        175       106       140      1.63
60+                               19.6     19.2        38.8      41.5        324       227      267       1.43
FSE and EME                         85.2     66.6      1S1.8      100.0        153      113       133       135
0-5                                6.5      5.3        11.7       7.7        161       138       150      1.17
5-14                               2.3      1.9        4.2        2.8         29        25       27       1.15
tS-44                             27.3     17.7       45.0       29.7        105       70        87       1.51
45-59                             20.6     12.2        32.8      21.6        222       125      172       1.77
60+                               28.4     29.5        58.0      38.2        349       244       286      1.43
Denographically developing group   628.0    582.3    1,210.3      100.0        299      288       294       1.04
0-S                              267.7    230.5       518.1      42.8        952       924      938       1.03
5-14                              75.1     66.9       142.0      11.7        160       149      155       1.07
15-44                            157.6    155.5      313.1       25.9        159      165       162       0.97
45-59                             64.6     49.4       114.0       9.4        295       231       264      1.27
60+                               62.9     60.2       123.0      10.2        458       406       431      1.13
World                              713.1    648.9    1,362.1      100.0        269      248       259       1.08
0-5                              274.i    255.7       529.9      38.9        853       822      840       1.03
5-14                              77.4     68.8       146.2      10.7        140       131      136       1.07
15-44                            185.0    173.1      358.1       26.3        148       144      146       1.02
45-59                             85.3     61.6       146.9      10.8        273       198       236      1.38
60Wt                              91.3     89.7       181.0      13.3        417       333       371      1.25
Note: In this appendix the demographically developing group includes the Sub-Saharan Africa, India, China, Other Asia and idands, Latin
America and the Caribbean. and Middle Eastern crescent regIbns.



- 115 -                                               Annex 4
Table B.2 Burden of disease in females by cause, 1990
(haund reds of thousWs of DALys Iost)
Formrly
Latin         socialist Establisied
Sub.                Other  Amterka Middle eonomits  maket
Saharan             Asia and  and the  Eastern ourope economies FSEand Demographkialy
Dwsorinjury                  Africa  India  China  islands Carbbean crecent  (FSE)   (EME)   EME  derlopinggroup World
Communicable, matemnal, and
perinatal                1,038.7  m.9 281.4  419.8   207.6  387.8   25.7    48.8    74.5         3,108.2   3,182.7
Infectious and parasitic      716.7  409.9 133.0  228.8   120.6  189.6    8.5    22.8    31.4        1,769.6   1.830.0
Tubesculosis                 62.1  45.2  24.4   37.7    10.6   18.8    0.5         0.5     1.0       198.8     199.8
STDs exluding HIV            45.8  32.0  33.3   12.6    21.6    6.3    5.0        15.4    20.5       151.7     172.2
Syphilis                   23.9   3.4   0.0    0.1      1.6    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0        29.0      29.1
Chlamydia                   1.5   2.7   3.1    2.3      1.5    0.6    0.3        0.8     1.1        11.7      12.8
Gonorrhea                   1.6   0.1   0.2    0.2      0.1    0.1    0.0        0.0     0.1         2.2       2.3
PeMc inflammatoyt disease    18.7  25.8  30.0   10.1    18.3    5.7    4.8      14.5    19.3       108.7     128.0
Human imnunodeficiencyvirus   89.9  13.6   0.0    4.9    10.2    0.6    0.2        3.4     3.6       119.1     122.8
Diarrheal diseases          146.2  143.9  21.7   68.8    27.6   78.9    1.1        1.2     2.2       487.2     489.4
Acute watery               78.8  78.9  14.1   37.6    15.9  .41.7    1.0         1.0     1:9       267.1     269.0
Persistent                 44.6  42.6   3.6   20.5      7.1   24.6    0.0        0.1     0.1       142.9     143.0
Dysentery                  22.8  22.4   4.0   10.8      4.6   12.6    0.1        0.1     0.2        77.2      77.4
Chidhood duster             132.8  98.7   8.1   36.5      7.5   43.4    0.2        0.4     0.6       327.1     327.7
Pertussis                  22.0  15.2   2.7    5.6      3.4    7.9    0.2        0.3     0.5        56.8      57.3
Polio                       6.0   7.5   0.9    !.7      1.0    2.8    0.0        0.0     0.0        19.9      19.9
Diphtheria                  0.2   0.6   0.0    0.2      0.1    0.1    0.0        0.0     0.0         1.2       1.2
Measles                    77.5  48.5   1.5   19.3      1.9   19.9    0.0        0.0     0.1.      168.5     168.5
Tetanus                    27.2  27.0   3.0    9.8       1.1   12.7    0.0       0.0     0.0.       80.7      80.7
Meningitis                    6.4   8.2   2.8    4.1      3.3    5.3    0.6        0.5     1.0        30.1      31.1
Hepatitis                     1.3   1.7   2.2    1.4      0.9    1.0    0.2        0.3     0.4        8.4        8.9
;Malaia                     154.1   4.7   0.0   12.5      2.2    1.5    0.0        0.0     0.0       175.0     175.0
Tropitl duster               25.8   7.5   2.3    1.0    13.4    1.0    0.0         0.0     0.0        51.0      51.0
TrypanosomUasis             8.8   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         8.8       8.8
Chaps' disease              0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    12.6    0.0    0.0         0.0     0.0        12.6      12.6
histosomiasis              11.8   0.9   1.5    0.3      0.6    0.3    0.0        0.0     0.0        15.4      15.4
Leshmaniasis                2.0   5.0   0.4    0.4      0.1    0.6    0.0        0.0     0.0         8.6       8.6
Lymphatic filariasis        0.5   1.6  0.4    0.3       0.0    0.1    0.0        0.0     0.0         2.9       2.9
Oncwocecasis                2.7   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0        00      0.0         2.7       2.7
Leprosy                       1.1   2.6   0.0    0.8      0.3    0.2    0.0        0 0     0.0         5.1       5.1
Trachoma                      6.9   2.0   3.6    7.0      0.7    3.6    0.0        0.0     0.0        23.7      23.7
lntestinal heiminths          4.3  10.0  30.6   28.5    11.9    2.6    0.0         0.0     0.0        87.9      87.9
Ascarls                     2.2   5.7  18.7   15.7      6.7    2.4    0.0        0.0     0.0        51.4      51.4
Trdhuds                     1.5   2.4  10.9   11.6    4.5    0.0    0.0          0.0     0.0        30.9      30.9
Hookworm                    0.5   1.9   0.9    1.2      0.7    0.2    0.0        0.0     0.0         5.6       5.6
Respiratory infections        153.9  161.9  69.0   93.0    29.9   84.9    6.6       11.7    18.3      592.5      610.8
Lowerrespiatoryinfections   148.5  54.0  61.0   87.3    26.5   80.9    4.8         8.0    12.8       558.3     5n.1
UpperrespiratoryInfections    1.7   2.8   2.7    2.3      1.3    0.4    1.0        2.3     3.3        11.1      14.4
Otitismedia                   3.7   5.1   3.3    3.3      2.2    3.5    0.8        1.4     2.2        23.1      25.3
Maternal                       79.9  78.2  25.0   43.6    18.0   42.1    4.8        5.5    10.4        286.8     297.2
Hemorrhage                   14.3  13.7   6.4    7.5      2.5    4.7    0.5        0.9     1.4        49.1      50.4
Sepsis                       27.5  27.5   6.3   15.8      4.1   17.5    1.5        2.0     3.5        98.7     102.2
Edampsia                      4.2   3.9   0.7    2.0      1.6    1.3    0.0        0.1     0.1        13.7      13.8
Hypertension                  2.0   1.9   0.3    2.5      0.7    1.8    0.1        0.0     0.1         9.3       9.4
Obstructed labor             19.0  19.4   7.9   10.2      5.7   13.3    2.0        2.3     4.3        75.4      79.8
Abortion                      7.9   9.5   0.9    2.6      2.2    2.0    0.4        0.1     0.6        25.1      25.6
Perinatal                      88.2  122.9  54.4   54.5    39.1   71.2    5.7       88      14.5      430.3      444.7
Nonwommunicable               280.5  57.9 558.1  349.8   212.0  255.2  203.5   334.8   538.3         2,234.5   2,M.8
Malignant neoplasms            22.3  53.6  72.0   36.7    27.8   22.3   36.0    79.5   115.5          234.7      350.1
Mouth and oropharynx          1.0   6.3   1.8    2.5      0.4    1.1    0.4        0.9     1.3        13.2      14.5
Esophagus                     0.7   3.5   5.3    0.7      0.2    0.7    0.3        0.7     1.0        11.2      12.2
Stomach                       1.6   2.4  11.1    2.1      1.4    1.5    3.9        4.3     8.2        20.0      28.2
Colon and rectum              0.8   1.9   4.4    1.9      1.3    1.1    3.5        9.4    12.9        11.5      24.4
Liver                         2.1   0.6   9.0    1.8    0.2    0.6    0.3          0.8     1.1        14.3      15.4
Pancreas                      0.4   0.5   1.1    0.3      0.3    0.3    0.4        2.6     3.0         2.8       5.8
Trachea, bronchus, and lung   0.5   0.9   6.0    2.0      0.7    1.0    2.2        8.3    10.5        11.1      21.6
Melanoma                      0 5    0.1   0.1    0.1     0.3    0.1    0.5        1.2     1.6         1.2       2.8
Breast                        2.5   6.1   4.0    4.0      4.7    3.1    5.2       15.7    20.8        24.3      45.1
Ctevix                        4.6   9.6   3.1    4.7      4.3    1.9    2.0        2.3     4.4        28.1      32.5
Uters                         0.4   0.5   0.9    0.4      0.8    0.4    0.6        2.3     2.8         3.4       6.2
Ovay                          1.0   2.0   1.6    1.5      0.7    0.8    1.4        4.0     5.4         7.6      13.0



- 116-                                            Annex 4
Formeriv,
Latin         socialisi Established
Sub-                Other  Amenca Middlt economies  market
Saharan             Asia and and the  Eastemn of Euope c onomies PSEa nd DPnographially
Dieaseorinjury               Af*a  India  China  islands Caribbn crscent  (FSE)   (EME)   EME  detalopnggnUp Wrld
Noncommunicable diseases, malignant neoplasms (continued)
Prostate                      0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0       0.0
Bladder                       0.6   0.2   0.4    0.3      0.2    0.4    0.6        1.1     1.7         2.0       3.7
Lymphoma                      1.3   1.4   1.2    1.1      1.1    0.7    1.0       3.5      4.6        6.8       11.4
LeukLmia                      0.b   2.3   7.1    1.6      1.1    1.3    1.3       2.6      3.9        14.0      18.0
Diabetes mellitus               2.1  10.3  4.1    6.9       5.8    6.3    2.3       7.1      9.5       35.5       45.0
Nutritional and endocrine      39.9  90.6  38.6   41.6    23.9   27.4    5.1        8.6    13.7       262.1      275.8
Protein-energy malnutrition  10.4  29.2  10.1    4.4      4.6    5.1    1.1        1.2     2.4        63.9      66.3
Iodine deficency              8.5   6.9   4.9    6.4      2.6    6.7    0.0        0.0     0.0        35.8      35.9
Vitamin A deficiency         10.7  20.2  4.9   12.2       6.9    2.6    0.0        0.0     0.0        57.7      57.7
Anemia                        6.0  25.0  16.6   13.9      5.9    8.9    3.0        3.9     6.9        76.2      83.0
Neuropsychiatric               41.3  83.6  78.5   57.4    35.7   38.9   29.3    62.0    91.3          335.3      426.6
Depressive disorders         11.2  20.2  31.9   17.7    11.8   11.9    7.9    14.3    22.1           1fl4.d    127.0
Bipolar affective disorders   0.6   1.0   1.6    0.9      0.6    0.6    0.4        0.6     1.0         5.2       6.2
Psychoses                     2.7   11.4   7.8    4.2     2.7    2.8    1.2        2.9     4.1        31.6      35.7
Epilepsy                      5.5   9.5   6.9    7.0      3.5    5.1    2.6        2.8     5.4        37.4      42.9
Alcohol dependence            2.2   2.4   2.4    1.4      2.0    0.5    2.4        3.7     6.1        10.9      17.0
Alzheimes and other dementias    4.3   9.7  13.6    7.3   4.7    4.9    8.7    23.2    31.9           44.5      76.4
Parkinson's disease           0.3   0.7   1.0    0.6      0.6    0.3    0.8        1.9     2.7         3.4       6.2
Multiple sclerosis            0.7   1.3   1.7    1.1      0.5    0.7    0.6        1.1     1.7         5.9       7.6
Drug dependence               0.9   1.7   0.7    2.3      2.1    0.9    0.6        3.9     4.5         8.7      13.3
?osttraumatic stress disorder  3.2    5    7.0    4.4     2.8    3.1    2.7        4.5     7.2        25.5      32.7
Sense organ                     7.9   11.4   9.0    7.5     3.3    3.1    0.3       0.6      0.9       42.2       43.1
Glaucoma                      1.7   1.7   3.4    2.9      0.4    0.1    0.1        0.4     0.5        10.2      10.7
Cataract                      5.8   8.8   3.6    4.2      2.6    2.7    0.2        0.1     0.3        27?.      28.0
Cardiovascular                 66.3  138.0 133.4   86.5    45.9   62.8   82.2    98.1   180.3          532.9     713.2
Rheumatic                     6.1   12.7  12.2    3.9     1.8    3.1    1.8        0.9     2.7        39.8      42.6
Lachemic heart diseas         5.4  31.9  17.6   26.7    11.3   10.6   34.3    37.2    71n5           103.4     175.0
Cerebrovascular              25.3  35.0  58.1   21.8    14.0   18.5   29.7    26.6    56.3           172.6     229.0
Peri-. endo-, and myocarditis
and cardiomyopathy         16.0  31.7   4.4    9.4       7.2    8.9    1.3       2.5     3.8        77.5      81.3
Respiratory                    21.2  39.5  85.4   18.4    15.0   16.8    7.6    14.9    22.6           196.3     218.9
Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease                     3.0   7.3  50.9    3.7       2.9    3.0    3.1       S.      8.7        70.7      79.4
Asthma                       10.0   8.7  17.1    7.0      5.6    4.9    2.7        5.8     8.4        53.2      61.7
Digestive                      25.4  55.3  37.8   24.6    12.8   21.9    8.5        14.7    23.2       177.8     201.0
Peptic uker disease           1.S   3.6   3.9    1.9      0.7    1.2    0.8        1.8     2.6        12.8      15A
Cirrhosis                     4.8   8.4  10.0    5.3      3.0    2.7    1.4        5.1     6.5        34.3      40.8
Genitourinary                  10.1   20.3  12.8   11.4     6.6    8.2    3.8        6.2    10.0        69.5      79.5
Nephritis and nephrosis       5.6   10.6  11.1    6.9     4.5    4.5    1.9        4.3     6.2        43.2      49A
Benign prostatic hypertrophy  0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0       0.0
Musculoskeletal                 4.6   8.4  40.0   17.0    13.0    7.2   11.3    24.5    35.8            90.2     126.1
Rheumatoid arthritis          1.1   1.1   5.2    1.6      4.6    3.6    4.1       11.3    15.4        17.3      32.7
Osteoarthritis                1.7   3.1  31.1   12.9      6.6    1.9    6A        11.3    17.7        57.2      74.9
Congenital abnonnalities       29.6  45.9  35.4   25.5    14.9   27.1    7.3    11.2    18.6           178.4     197.0
Oral health                     5.2   14.1   8.9   11.7     5.9   10.2    9.0       5.7    14.6         56.0      70.6
Dental caries                 0.7   1.6   1.1    1.3      2.2    1.6    0.8        0.4     1.2         8.5       9.6
Perodontal disease            4.2   10.6   4.9    5.2     2.9    2.9    0.4        0.5     0.9        30.8      31.7
Edentulism                    0.2   1.9   2.9    5.2      0.8    5.6    7.8        4.8    12.6        16.7      29.3
Injuries                       79.6  119.4 138.5   46.2    37.2   59.9   21.1    32.1    53.1          480.8     533.9
Unintentional                  42.6  104.8  84.7   34.7    31.1   37.0   15.3    22.9    38.2          335.1     373.3
Motor vehide                  8.1   9A   12.3    8.5    17.9   16.4    4.5         9.2    13.7        72.6      86.3
Poisoning                     1.4   0.8   6.6    1.3      0.3    1.0    1.8        0.7     2.5        11.4      13.9
alls                          9.5  21.1  1$.2    7.3      2.7    4.6    2.8        7.4    10.2        64.4      74.6
Fires                         4.2   8.5   5.6    2.9      1.9    2.6    1.1        1.9     3.1        25.7      28.8
Drowning                      4.2   8.3  16.6    3.0      1.1    2.6    0.8        0.5     1.4        35.7      37.1
Occupational                  0.5   3.9   1.1    0.7      0.5    0.4    0.4        0.3     0.7         7.0       7.7
Intentional                    36.9  14.6  53.8   11.5      6.1   22.8    5.8       9.2    14.9        145.7     160.6
Self-inflicted                3.0   10.8  40.0    4.4      1.0    2.7    2.6       4.9     7.4        61.9      69.3
Homicide and violence         4.7   2.8  13.8    5.8      3.2    3.6    3.2        4.3     7.5        34.0      41.4
War                          29.2   0.9   0.0    1.3       1.9   16.5    0.0       0.0     0.0        49.8      49.8
Total                       1,398.8 1,471.1 978.0  815.7   456.9  702.9  250.2    415.7   665.9 .   5823.4   6,489.4



- 117 -                                            Annex 4
Table B.3 Burden of disease in mnales by cause, 1990
(hundreds of thousands of DALYs lost)
FOimerly
latin         secialist Established
Sub-                Other  America Middle economies  market
Salharan            Asia and and the  Eastern of Europe economies FSE and Demographically
Disesorinjury                Affica  India  Chtina  islands Caribbeant crescent  (FSE)   (EME)   EME  deelopin group World
Comnunicable, maternal, and
perinatal                1,046.8  704.4  228.0  438.0   226.3  347.2   24.5     42.3    66.8     2,990.9   3,057.7
Infectious and parasitic     763.7  404.9  117.6  258.4   137.7  180.2    8.0      18.2    26.3      1,862.5   1,888.8
Tuberculosis                 74.6  62.8  34.7  51.6    15.1   21.6    3.1          1.1     4.1       260.5     264.7
STDsexcludingHIV             28.9   5.3   0.8   0.6       2.4    0.3    0.1       0.2      0.3       38.3       38.6
Syphilis                   27.2   4.7   0.1   0.1       2.1    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0        34.1      34.1
Chamnydia                   0.3   0.6   0.6   0.5       0.3    0.3    0.1        0.1     0.2         2.5       2.7
Gonorrhea                   1.4   0.0   0.1   0.1       0.1    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         1.8       1.8
Pelvic inflammatory disease  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0       0.0
Human immunodeftciency
virws                      93.7  27.1   0.0   8.0    34.1    2.6    1.4         12.4    13.7       165.5     179.3
Diarrheal diseases          157.3  136.4  20.7  78.5    31.3   75.1    1.1        1.2      2.3      499.4      501.7
Acute watery               84.1  75.0  14.1  42.6    17.5   39.5    1.0          1.0     2.0       272.8     274.8
Persistent                 48.8  40.2   2.7  23.7       8.7   23.7    0.1        0.1     0.1       147.7     147.8
Dysentery                  24.4  21.3   4.0  12.2       5.1   12.0    0.1        0.1     0.2        79.0      79.1
Chidhood cluster            148.1  95.8   9.3  43.3       8.6   42.5    0.2       0.4      0.7       347.7     348.4
Pertussis                  26.1  14.3   2.8   7.1       3.9    7.5    0.2        0.4     0.6        61.7      62.2
Polio                       8.3  10.9   1.4   2.4       1.3    3.9      0 )      0.0     0.0        28.1      28.2
Diphtheda                   0.1   0.5   0.0   0.2       0.1    0.1    0.0        0.0     0.0         1.1       1.1
Measles                    83.0  44.9   1.5  22.3       1.9   18.8    0.0        0.1     0.1       172.5     172.6
Tetanus                    30.6  25.3   3.6  11.3       1.3   12.2    0.0        0.0     0.0        84.2      84.2
Meningitis                   11.5  11.9   4.0   9.7       3.8    7.4    0.8        0.6     1.4       48.4       49.8
Hepatitis                     1.1   1.4   4.5   1.4       0.7    0.8    0.2       0.4      0.6        9.8       10.4
Malaria                     161.0   4.8   0.1  12.9       2.2    1.3    0.0       0.0      0.0       182.3     182.3
Tropkal duster               39.0  11.3   3.8   3.1    16.3    1.5    0.0          0.0     0.0        75.0      75.0
Trypanosomiasis             9.0   0.0   0.C   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         9.0       9.0
Chagas disease              0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    14.8    0.0    0.0          0.0     0.0        14.8      14.8
Schistosomiasis            23.1   1.7   2.8   0.7       1.2    0.5    0.0        0.0     0.0        29.9      29.9
Leishmaniasis               1.9   6.8   0.6   1.5       0.3    0.9    0.0        0.0     0.0        12.0      12.0
Lymphatic filariasis        1.3   2.8   0.5   0.9       0.0    0.1    0.0        0.0     0.0         5.6       5.6
Onchocerciasis              3.7   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         3.7       3.7
Leprosy                       1.2   2.6   0.0   0.8       0.3    0.2    0.0       0.0      0.0        5.1        5.1
Trachoma                      2.1   1.1   1.1   2.4       0.4    2.2    0.0        0.0     0.0         9.3       9.3
Intestinal helminths          4.2  10.6  32.6  29.6    12.0    2.8    0.0          0.0     0.0        91.8      91.8
Asearis                     2.2   6.0  19.9  16.3       6.8    2.6    0.0        0.0     0.0        53.8      53.8
Thchuris                    1.5   2.5   11.6  12.0      4.5    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0        32.2      32.2
Hookworm                    0.5   2.1   1.0   1.2       0.7    0.2    0.0        0.0     0.0         5.8       5.8
Respiratory infections        162.5  155.7  60.0  103.4    33.9   80.8    8.2      12.5    20.7       596.3      617.1
Lowerrespiratory infections  157.1  147.3  52.1  97.4    30.2   76.9    6.5        8.9    15.4       560.9     576.4
Upperrespiratory infectons    1.6   3.2   2.8   2.5       1.3    0.5    0.9        2.1     2.9        11.9      14.8
Otitis media                  3.8   5.1   5.0   3.6       2.4    3.5    0.9        1.5     2.3        23.6      25.9
Maternal                       0.0  0Q0    0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
Hemorrhage                    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0       0.0
SepsIs                        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0        0.0
Eclampsba                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0        0.0
Hypertension                  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0       0.0
Obstructed labor              0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0       0.0
Abortion                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0Q0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Perinatal                     120.6  143.8  50.4  76.2    54.8   86.2    8.3       11.6    19.8       532.0      551.8
Noncomrmunicable              287.9  601.3  609.6  359.7   228.6  264.0  231.6    399.0   630.6    2351.0   2,981.6
Malignant neoplasms            225   65.7  113.1  41.4    25.3   26.5   49.9       995    149.4       294.6      444.0
Mouthandoropharynx            1.2   12.8   3.8   3.8      1.3    1.9    2.1        3.3     5.4        24.7      30.0
Esophagus                     1.5   5.0   11.7   1.3      0.7    1.0    1.3       2.8      4.1        21.2      25.3
Stomach                       1.6   4.7   19.9   3.3      2.4    2.1    6.4        7.0    13.4        34.0      47.4
Colon and recum               0.6   2.5   5.3   1.9       1.2    1.1    3.4       10.2    13.7        12.7      26.4
Liver                         3.9   1.6  27.4   4.8       0.3    0.9    0.4        2.5     2.9        38.8      41.7
Pancreas                      0.3   0.8   1.8   0.5       0.3    0.5    0.6        3.3     3.9         4.3       8.2
Trachea, bronchus, and lung   1.3   4.7   13.6   5.5      2.2    4.0   13.2    22.4    35.6           31.3      66.9
Melanoma                      0.3   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.2    0.1    0.5        1.5     2.0         1.0       2.9
Breast                        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0       0.0
Cervix                        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0       0.0
Uters                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0       0.0
Ovary                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0       0.0



-118-                                              Annex 4
Formerly
Latin         sxialib! Established
Sub.                 Other  America  Middle economies  narket
Saharan              Asia and  and the  Eastern of Eurpe economies FSE and Demographically
Diseaserinjury               Africa  India  China  islands Caribbean crescent  (FSE)   (EME)   EME  dneWopinSgroup World
Noncommunicable diseases, malignant neoplasms (continued)
Prostate                      2.2    1.9   0.3   0.9       1.6    0.7    1.1        6.7     7.8         7.7       15.6
Bladder                       0.8    0.8    1.4   0.7      0.7    1.3    1.8        3.3     5.1         5.7       10.9
Lymphoma                      3.2    3.1    2.6   1.8      1.7    1.6    1.6        4.8     6.4        13.9       20.3
Leukemia                      0.7    3.2   8.1   2.7       1.5    1.9    1.7        3.5     5.2        18.1       23.3
Diabetes mellitus               1.2    8.4   3.6   4.6       4.3    4.8      1.7      6.2     7.9        26.8      34.7
Nutritional and endocrine      42.5   91.4   27.7  40.5    23.0   25.4    2.9         6.9     9.8       250.6     260.3
Protein-energy malinutrition  11.2   26.3    6.5   4.9     5.2    5.2    0.6        1.2     1.8        59.3       61.1
Iodine deficiency             8.2    7.1    5.0   6.5      2.6    6.9    0.0        0.0     0.0        36.3       36.3
Vitamin A deficiency         11.1   20.9   4.9  12.9    7.2    2.9    0.0           0.0     0.0        59.9       59.9
Anemia                        4.1   19.7  10.2   9.5       3.9    6.3      1.3      2.2     3.5        53.6       57.2
Neuropsychiatric               55.8   93.7   81.7  66.7    46.8   41.7   35.1        78.2   113.3       386.4     499.8
Depressive disorders          5.3   10.7   16.6   8.6      5.7    6.0    3.5        6.8    10.3        52.8       63.1
Bipolar affectiv- disorders   0.5    1.1   1.6   0.9       0.6    0.6    0.3        0.6     0.9         5.3        6.1
Psychoses                     3.1   10.0   10.3   4.7      3.1    3.3      1.4      3.3     4.8        34.5       39.2
Epilepsy                      8.0   13.3   10.2   9.9      4.7    7.3    2.3        4.1     6.4        53.4       59.8
Akcohol dependence           14.9   16.6   16.6   9.4    14.1    3.7    16.4       24.5    40.9        75.3      116.2
Alzheimer's and other
deementias                  4.1    9.8   12.6   6.8      4.0    4.6      5.1     16.7    21.8         41.9      63.7
Parkinson's disease           0.3    0.8    0.9   0.6      0.6    0.3    0.5        1.6     2.1         3.6        5.7
Multiple sclerosis            0.6    1.4   1.5   1.0       0.4    0.6    0.5        1.0      1.5        5.5        7.0
Drug dependence               2.8    4.8    2.2   6.8      6.3    2.7    1.8       11.8    13.6        25.7       39.3
Posttraumatic stress disorder  1.9    3.3    4.4   2.6     1.7    1.9    1.2        2.7     3.9        15.8       19.6
Senseo.gan                      6.0   12.4   7.5   5.8       3.1    3.9    0.2        0.3     0.5        38.6       39.1
Glaucoma                      0.0    2.3    1.5   1.3      0.2    0.3    0.1        0.1     0.2         5.6        5.7
Cataract                      5.5    9.3    4.0   4.2      2.5    3.3    0.1        0.1     0.2        28.8       29.1
Cardiovascular                 55.6  146.7  148.4  85.0    48.9   64.0   89.8    120.9   210.7          548.6      759.3
Rheumatic                     2.4    6.0   9.1   2.0       1.4    1.6    1.6        0.5     2.1        22.5       24.6
tschemic heart disease        6.7   49.5   24.8  35.4    16.0   15.5    45.2       56.4   101.7        147.9     249.6
Cerebrovascular               17.4   27.5   68.4  16.1    13.2   15.5   21.8       23.1    44.9        158.2     203.1
Peri-. endo-, and myocarditis
and cardiomyopathy          17.1   36.3   5.2   9.6      8.7    9.5    2.3        4.1      6.4        86.2      92.6
Respiratory                    22.6   38.5   96.0  21.5    17.3   21.1    13.0       21.2    34.2       217.1      251.3
Chronk obstructive pulmonary
disease                      3.5    9.7  60.8   4.8      4.1    4.2    6.4       10.3    16.7         87.1     103.8
Asthma                        7.S    S.    18.2   7.5    .5.4    6.6    2.7         5.6     8.3        54.0       62.3
Digestive                      28.8   55.3   49.9  30.3    20.5   23.0   14.3        23.7    37.9       207.8      245.7
Peptk ulcer disease           2.0    6.4   7.3   2.9       1.2    1.7    1.8        2.7      4.5       21.4       26.0
Cirrhosis                     8.7   18.5   22.0  10.9      8.7    4.5    3.3       11.7    15.1         73.4      88.5
Genitourinary                  10.9   18.7  21.8  12.3       7.7   10.4    5.3        8.5    13.8        81.8       95.6
Nephritis and nephrosis       6.2   10.4   14.8   7.3      4.2    4.6    2.4        4.5      6.9       47.6       54.5
Benign prostatic hypertrophy  2.3    3.7   5.5   2.7       2.2    2.3      1.3      2.5      3.9        18.r      22.5
Musculoskeletal                 1.9    4.0   13.3  10.9      8.8    2.0    2.9       14.4    17.3        40.9       58.2
Rheumatoid arthritis          0.5    1.0   2.3   1.0       2.5    0.5    1.6        2.4      4.0        7.9       11.9
Osteoarthritis                0.6    1.2   8.5   8.9       5.6    0.7    0.8       11.1    11.9        25.4       37.3
Congenital abnormalities       33.8   48.4  34.8  27.8    16.2   29.7    8.4         12.3    20.7       190.7      211.4
Oral health                     5.0   15.1   9.2  11.3       5.6   10.4    7.5        5.0    12.5        56.5       69.0
Dental caries                 0.7    1.7   1.2   1.3       2.2    1.7    0.7        0.4      1.0        8.7        9.8
Periodontal disease           4.1   11.5   5.3   5.2       2.8    3.1    0.4        0.5      0.9       32.0       32.8
Edentulism                    0.2    1.9   2.7   4.8       0.7    S.5    6.4        4.1    10.5         15.8      26.4
Injuries                      193.6  147.6  197.6  153.8   117.2  127.9   75.5       78.8   154.3       937.8    1,092.1
Unintentional                 107.9  126.3  148.3  109.2    79.4   76.2   53.6       50.8   104.4       647.3      751.7
Motor vehicle                29.0   23.1   33.0  32.6    41.2   31.2   17.2    24.0    41.2            190.1     231.3
Poisoning                     3.9    2.1    8.0   3.9      0.5    2.3    6.7        2.0      8.7       20.7       29.5
FalOs                        20.3   28.9  23.5  21.0       7.2    9.7    5.7        7.9    13.6        110.6     124.2
Fires                         5.9    7.1   8.1   5.1       2.7    3.9    2.6        3.2      5.8       32.7       38.6
Drowning                     11.3    9.0   27.6  10.5      4.8    7,0    4.8        2.2      7.0       70.2       77.3
Occupational                  3.6    5.1    5.0   3.9      2.8    1.9    2.7        1.7      4.4    .  22.3       26.7
intntIonal                     85.7   21.4  49.3  44.6    37.8   51.7   21.9         28.0    49.9       290.5      340.4
Self-inflicted               13.9   11.1  29.8  14.9       2.9    7.2    11.6      14.6    26.3         79.7     106.0
Homicide and violence        21.2    8.2   19.5  27.1    30.8   11.5    10.2       13.4    23.7        118.3     142.0
War                          50.6    2.0   0.0   2.6       4.1   33.1    0.0        0.0      0.0       92.5       92.5
Total                        1,528.3 1,453.3 1.035.2  951.4   572.1   739.2   331.6    520.1   851.7   6,279.7    7,131.4



-  119 -                                       Annex 4
Table B.4 Burden of disease by age and the three main groups of causes. 1990
Communiw=bl dseases and
,natemtal and perinatal causes  Noncommunicabedisases        tnjuries
Rate                       Rate                       Rate
DALYs lost       (per 1,000 DALYs lost       (pxr 1.000 DALYs last     (per I,000
Din   hicreionandagmgop       (millitons) Percentage ppuktM) (milwons) Percntag population) (millions) Pentase population)
Sub-Saharan Africa             208.6    100.0    408.7    56.8    100.0    111.4      27.3    100.0    53.5
0-4                          132.5     63.5   1,401.5    18.2    32.1    193.0       6.4     23.4    67.7
5-14                          25.5     12.2    181.8      7.2     12.7     51.5      4.6     16.7    32.5
15-44                         44.8     21.5    213.2    12.3      21.6     58.4     14.8     S4.3    70.6
45-59                          3.7      1.8      87.7    10.2     18.0    240.5      1.1      4.2    27.1
60+                            2.1      1.0      92.4     8.9     15.7    383.0      0.4      1.4    16.7
India                          147.7    100.0    173.9   118.0    100.0    18.9       26.7    100.0    31.4
0-4                           97.9    66.3    840.7    33.4       28.3    286.6      5.9     22.2    50.9
5-14                          15.4     10.4      78.3     9.8      8.3     49.6      7.1      26.7    36.1
15-44                         27.1     18.3      70.5    27.3     23.1     71.1     11.5     43.1    30.0
4S-59                          4.7      3.2      50.2    22.6     19.2    242.0      1.5      5.7    16.3
60+                            2.6      1.8      44.8    25.C     21.1    425.2      0.6.     2.3    10.4
China                           50.9    100.0      44.9   116.8    100.0    103.0     33.6    100.0    29.7
0-4                           25.5     50.0    213.5    16.4      14.0    138.4      8.1      24.0    68.3
5-14                           7.9     15.5      42.1     4.7      4.1     25.3      3.6      10.8    19.4
15-44                         12.3    24.2       20.9    33.0     28.2     55.8     17.1     50.9    29.0
45-59                          2.7      5.4      20.0    24.3     20.8    177.1      2.6      7.6    18.6
60+                            2.5      4.9      24.6    38.4     32.9    381.7      2.2      6.7    22.2
OtherAsia and islands           85.8    100.0    125.7    70.9    100.0    103.9      20.0    100.0    29.3
0-4                           49.7    58.0    580.1    14.4       20.3    167.8      3.0      15.0    35.0
5-14                          15.2    17.8       92.7     8.0     11.2    48.5       3.5     17.6    21.5
15-44                         16.0     18.7      50.1    19.2     27.1     59.9     11.5     57.6    36.0
45-59                          2.7      3.1      38.5    14.2     20.0    204.8      1.3      6.7    19.3
60+                            2.1      2.4      48.5    15.2     21.5    355.0      0.6      3.1    14.4
Latin America and the Caribbean  43.4    100.0     97.7    44.1    100.0     99.2     15.4    100.0    34.8
0-4                           22.3    51.5    396.1       8.6     19.5    152.7      1.5      9.?    26.7
5-14                           6.2     14.4      60.7     3.6      8.1     34.5       2.2     14.1    21.2
15-44                         13.0    29.9       62.2    13.2     30.0     63.5     10.2     66.3    49.2
45-59                          1.2      2.8      26.7     9.0     20.5    198.2      1.0      6.6    22.2
60+                            0.6      1.5      20.8     9.6     21.8    310.0      0.5      3.2    16.1
Middle Eastern crescent         73.5    100.0    146.1    51.9    100.0    103.2      18.8    1^u.0    37.3
0-4                           55.1     75.0    681.5    15.2      29.3    188.3      4.0      21.1    48.9
5-14                           7.0      9.5      54.9     6.2      12.0    48.7       4.3     22.8    33.6
5-44                           9.1     12.4      41.1    11.5     22.1     51.8      9.2     49.1    41.7
45-59                          1.2      1.7      27.2     8.9     17.2    200.1      0.9      4.8    20.4
60+                            1.1      1.5      36.7    10.1     19.5    347.2      0.4      2.2    14.0
Formiely socialist economies of
Europe(FSE)                  5.0    100.0      14.5    43.S    100.0    125.7       9.7    100.0    27.9
0-4                            2.5     50.0      93.4     2.3      5.2     84.9      0.6      5.8    20.9
5-14                           0.1      2.7       2.6     1.2      2.7     22.1      0.7      7.0    12.5
15-44                          1.8     35.0      11.6     9.7     22.4     64.5      6.1      62.8    40.1
45-59                          0.3      6.8       6.0    12.2     28.0    213.7       1.6     16.6    28.0
60+                            0.3      5.4       4.7    18.1     41.6    315.9      0.8      7.9    13.3
Established market
economies (EME)              9.1    103.0      11.4    73.4    100.0      92.0     11.1    100.0    13.9
0-4                            2.7     29.3      51.8     3.2      4.3     61.5      0.5      4.9    10.6
5-14                           0.2      2.1       1.9     1.4      2.0     13.8      0.6      5.4      5.8
15-44                          4.4     48.8      12.2    16.0     21.8     44.1      7.0     62.8    19.2
45-59                          0.5      5.8       3.9    16.9     23.0    126.2       1.3     11.8     9.7
60+                            1.3     14.0       8.8    35.9     48.9    247.1       1.7     15.1    11.5
MSE and ENIE                    14.1    100.0      12.4   116.9    100.0    102.2     20.7    100.0    18.1
0-4                            5.2    36.6       66.1     5.4      4.7     69.5      1.1      5.3    14.1
5-14                           0.3      2.4       2.1     2.6      2.2      16.6      1.3     6.1      8.1
15-44                          6.2     43.9      12.1    25.8     22.1     50.1      13.0     62.8    25.3
45-59                          0.9      6.2       4.6    29.1     24.9    152.3      2.9      14.0    15.2
60+                            1.5     10.9       7.6    54.0     46.2    266.6      2.4      11.7    12.0
Demographically deveboping group   609.9    100.0    147.9   458.5    100.0    111.2    141.9    100.0    34.4
0-4                          383.1     62.8    693.7   106.2      23.2    192.3      28.9     20.3    52.3
5-14                          77.3     12.7      84.1    39.5      8.6     42.9      25.3     17.8    27.5
15-44                        122.3    20.0       63.2   116.4     25.4     60.2      745      52.5    38.5
45-59                         16.3      2.7      37.6    89.3      19.5    206.4     85        6.0    19.6
60+                           11.0      1.8      38.7   107.2     23.4    375.4      4.8      3.4    16.7
World                          624.0    100.0    118.5   575.4    100.0    109.2    162.6    100.0    30.9
0-4                          388.2     62.2    615.7   111.7      19.4    177.1      30.0     18.4    47.5
5-14                          77.6     12.4      72.1    42.1      7.3      39.1     26.6     16.3    24.7
15-44                        128.5     20.6      52.5   142.2     24.7     58.1     87.5      53.8    35.7
45-59                         17.1      2.7      27.5   118.3     20.6    189.8      11.4      7.0    18.3
60+                           12.6      2.0      25.8   161.2     28.0    330.3       7.2      4.4    14.8



-  120 -                                          Annex 4
Table B.5 Burden of disease by consequence, sex, and age, 1990
'milions of DALYs lost)
As result of premature death               As rstult of disability
Demographic regio and agegroutp       Mates        Fenales       Total        Maies        Fenales       Total
Sub-Saharan Africa                    119.5         105.7        225.2         33.3          34.2         67.5
0-4                                  71.6          61.8         1%.4         12.2          11.6         23.7
5-14                                 13.4          12.7            1          6.3           4.8         11.1
15-44                                26.1          2Z7          48.8         10.1          12.9         23.1
45-54                                 4.9           4.4          9.3          3.0           2.8          5.8
60+                                   3.5           4.1          7.6          1.7           2.1          3.8
India                                 100.8          99.7        200.6         44.5          47.4         919
0-4                                  53.0          55.1         108.1        14.2          14.9         29.1
5-14                                  9.4          10.8         20.2          6.4           5.7         12.1
15-44                                18.9          17.7         36.6         12.0          17.2         29.2
45-59                                 9.8           7.3         17.2          6.7           5.0         11.7
60+                                   9.7           8.7         18.4          5.2           4.6          9.8
China                                  62.2          53.3        113.5         41.3          44.5         85.8
0-4                                  16.6          18.7         35.3          7.1           7.5         14.6
5-14                                  3.2           2.3          5.5          5.7           5.1         10.8
15-44                                17.4          13.2         30.6         13.7          18.2         31.9
45-59                                10.8           7.0         17.8          6.6           5.2         11.8
60+                                  14.3          12.1         26.4          8.3           8.5         16.7
Other Asia and islands                 62.9          50.1        113.0         32.2          31.5         63.7
0-4                                  29.7          23.9         53.6          7.0           6.5         13.5
5-14                                  8.4           6.3          14.7         6.6           5.4          12.0
15-44                                13.3          10.1         23.4         11.1          12.3         23.4
45-59                                 5.8           4.3         10.1          4.3           3.8          8.1
60+                                   5.7           5.5         11.2          3.3           3.5          6.7
Latin America and the Caribbean        33.8          24.3         58.0         23.5          21.4         44.9
0-4                                  13.2          10.1         23.3          4.8           4.3          9.1
5-14                                  2.6           2.0          4.6          3.9           3.5          7.3
15-44                                11.4           6.6         18.0          9.4           9.0          18.5
45-59                                 3.4           2.6          6.0          3.0           2.3          5.3
60+                                   3.1           3.0          6.1          2.3           2.3          4..
.Middle Eastern crescent               51.5          46.9         98.4         22.4          23.4         45.8
0-4                                  31.1          29.6         60.7          7.0           6.6          13.6
5-14                                  5.4           4.9         10.4          3.8           3.3          7.1
15-44                                 7.7           6.2         13.9          6.8           9.1          15.9
43-59                                 3.6           2.6          6.2          2.7           2.1          4.9
60+                                   3.7           3.6          7.3          2.1           2.2           4.3
Formerly socialist economies of
Europe (FSE)                         21.5          13.0         34.5         11.7          12.1         23.7
0-4                                   2.1           1.5          3.5          0.9           0.9           1.8
5-14                                  0.5           0.3          0.9          0.5           0.7           1.1
15-44                                 6.9           2.1          9.0          4.4           4.2          8.6
45-59                                 6.1           2.7          8.8          3.0           2.3           S.3
60+                                   5.9           6.4         12.3          2.9           3.9          6.9
Established market economies (EME)     29.5          19.6         49.2         22.5          22.0         44.4
0-4                                   2.0           1.5           3.5         1.5           1.4           2.9
5-14                                  0.5           0.3           0.8         0.8           0.6           1.4
15-44-                                8.5           3.5         12.0          7.6           7.9          15.4
45-59                                 6.7           3.7          10.3         4.9           3.5           8.4
60+                                  11.9          10.6          22.6         7.7           8.5          16.2
FSE and EME                            51.0          32.6         83.6         34.1          34.0         68.2
0-4                                   4.0           3.0          7.0          2.4           2.3          4.7
5-14                                  1.1           0.6           1.7         1.3           1.3           2.6
1544                                 15.4           5.6         21.0         11.9          12.1         24.0
45-59                                12.7           6.4          19.1         7.9           5.9          13.8
g0+                                  17.8          17.0          34.9        10.6           12.5         23.1
Demographically developing group      430.7         380.0        810.7        197.2         202.4        399.6
0-4                   *             215.3         199.1         414.4        52.4          51.3         103.7
5-14                                 42.4          39.1         81.5         32.7          27.8          60.5
15-44                                94.6          76.6        171.3         63.0          78.8         141.9
45-59                                38.3          28.2          66.5        26.3          21.2          47.5
60+                                  40.1          37.0          77.0        22.8          23.2          46.0
World                                 481.8         412.6        894.3        231.4         236.4        467.8
0-4                                 219.3         202.1         421.4        54.8          53.6         108.5
5-14                                 43.5          39.7          83.2        33.9          29.1          63.0
15-44                               110.0          82.2         192.3        74.9          90.9         165.9
45-59                                51.1          34.5          85.6        34.2           27.1         61.3
60+                                  57.9          54.0         111.9        33.4           35.7         69.1



- 121 -                           annex h
JMPL3LIC or UM=
SECOND HEALTH PROJECTs
aSpNJIAL EEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN FASTERN AND SOUTH EASTERN ANATOLIA
Statug Retort on The First Health Prgieat
Table of Contents
Pa*-No.
A.   Background/Issues*******, .........................122
S.   The  Project .................................................. *122
C.   Achievements, Remaining Challenges, Lessons Learned......... ... 124
TABLT
Disbursement and Commitment Through Dec. 1994 ........... 128



- 122 -                            Annex S
REPUBLIC °F TURKEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECTs
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTERN AND SQUTH EASTERN ANATOLIA
Status Report on The First Health Proiect
A. Backaround/Issues
1.   The Basic Health Care Law of 1961 created a national health service
which was designed to expand health coverage in rural areas. Although the
service was intended to cover the whole country within fifteen years, this
ambitious objective was never achieved. Until the mid-1980s, public health
policy consisted mainly of building hospitals. This left inadequate funds for
equipment, vehicles or major repairs, and only marginal resources for outreach
services. Salaries absorbed most of the operating budgets, leading to
critical shortages of drugs, supplies and fuel, and a general decay of public
health services.   By the 1980s, less than 30 percent of Turkish children were
fully immuni7ed. In 1987, a second Basic Health Care Law was passed which set
the foundation of a general health insurance scheme, and extended the
regulatory functions of the Ministry. Yet, the health sector still lacked the
institutional and financial prerequisites to implement this law in an
equitable manner across the country.
B. The Proiect
2.   t.bjectives.  It was against this background that the Bank first became
involved in supporting the Government's health sector strategy during the mid-
1980s. This led to the preparation of the First Health Project (Loan 3057 TU
f-r USS 75 million) which became effective in October 1990.1/ The objectives
of the First Health Project, which is still under implementation were to: (a)
improve the health status through access for underprivileged populations to
basic health services in eight of the country's provinces (10 percent of the
Population) ;/ (b) enhance efficiency in service delivery and improve health
care financing; and (c) strengthen the management capacity of the Ministry of
Health (MOB).
3.   Detailed Description.  Specifically, the First Health Project financess
(a) construction or expansion of provincial health facilities and training
centerst (b) furniture, equipment, and vehicles for the above facilities; (c)
technical assistance, overseas and local training, and applied research; and
(iv) project monitoring and evaluation. It consists of two major components:
1/   Se Staff Appraisal Report 7433-TU, Jurw 29, 1990 and Sem;-AnuaL Progress Reports through Jure 30,
1993.
if   The eight provinces are Ankara, Diyarbakir, Istanbul, Nardin, Mugla, Sivas, Tokat, and Yozgat.



- 123 -                            Annex fi
a.    Reorganization and Strengthening of Provincial Health Services in
order tos
i.   extend coverage and improve services in eight under-served
provinces with a total population of nine million,3/
through the implementation of health programs, the
strengthening of management, the reorganization of referral
procedures, the upgrading or construction of health
facilities, and the provision of equipment and vehicles;
ii.   achieve a better distribution of health personnel, provide
in-service and induction training for medical and
paramedical staff in the ten provinces, and health education
training for primary school teachers;
b.    Institutional Development through three sub-componentes
i.    health manpower development, focussed on teacher training,
technical assistance for curriculum revision, local and
overseas training, study tours and attendance at
international meetings;
ii. development of a Management Information System, to be first
implemented in the ten project provinces; and
iii. support to the central level, through the strengthening of
HOH's management, planning, monitoring and supervision
capability, applied studies and research, and the
strengthening of the Project Coordination Unit.
4.    The First Health Project aims to reduce the most striking inequalities
in health status in eight provinces and, recognizing the complementary nature
of the MON and the other health care providers, it focusses on the population
not served by social security institutions. These institutions do not provide
coverage for about 25 to 30 million persons who depend almost entirely on the
MOB for their basic health needs. These are not only the rural population.
The figure also includes the urban unemployed as well as the workers of the
informal sector, and their dependents. Therefore, despite the expansion of
private medical facilities, and the projected increase in the number of social
security beneficiaries, the MOB must continue to play a major role, not only
in the provision of preventive services, but also in the coverage of curative
needs of a substantial proportion of the population.
S.   For these reasons, the First Health Project supports the expansion of
maternial and child health, and family planning services, to achieve a greater
impact in the reduction of maternal and infant mortality, as well as
fertility. Lack of access to basic health services and modern contraceptive
V/   Four criteria were used for their selection: (a) basic health indicators about or belou national
average; (b) presence of a strong and motivated technical team; (c) year-rourd accessibility; and
(d) canmfty end political support.



- 124 -                             Annex S
fertility. Lack of access to basic health services and modern contraceptive
methods are major causes of persisting high levels of fertility, short
intervals between births and high infant and maternal mortality rates among
under-privileged groups.
6.    The Project also opens the way for an increase in the revenues derived
from user charges, in order to help sustain the public health system. By
improving the effectiveness of the system, the Project will increase the
number of patients who are willing to pay for better quality services in
public health facilities. 'his will insure a regular flow of resources which
will complement budget allocations and thereby make the system more self-
sufficient.
7.    Finally, the First Health Project paves the way for major institutional
and structural reforms in the health sector. At present, the MOH lacks the
managerial capability to deal effectively with all its sectoral
responsibilities. The institutional development component of the Project is
especially designed to deal with this issue. The First Health Project must,
therefore, be seen as the first step of an important program, very much as a
large-scale pilot operation, designed to support Government's thrust in the
social sectors. It forms the basis for many of the interventions that will be
undertaken in the Second Health Project. Together the first two health
projects would lay the foundations for a more systemic reform of health care
financing which could be supported through an eventual third project in
parallel to or incorporating ongoing reforms in the social security system.
C. Achievements. Remainina Challences. and Lessons Learned
8.    Achievements.  So far, the First Health Project has been successful in a
number of areas. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) is now fully operational
and all subcomponents of the Project are being implemented. As of July 31,
1994, about US$16.14 million of the Bank loan (21.5 percent) has been
disbursed and another US$13.3 million has been committed. By the end of CY94
about 40 percent of the loan will have been disbursed. Technical assistance
has been instrumental in achieving the objectives of the Project as well as in
preparing for the second and third follow-up projects. Many of the planned
studies have been completed and the remaining are well under way. For
example, the Health Services Utilization Survey, Green Card Survey, HIS
Planning Study, National Development Indices Survey and the Financial Flow
Analysis have been completed. The data from these studies have been
incorporated into the design of the Second Health Project. Similarly,
construction of 98 health posts and S rural health centers has been completed.
Construction of 3 hospitals, 14 urban and 10 rural health centers and 6
training health centers has been started in March 1994. With the completion
of these units by the end of 1994, all of the PHC constructions will have been
completed. Tenders for the remaining 2 hospitals will be put out in November
1994, with a view to complete this work by the end of 1996. Finally,
procurement of medical equipment, furniture and computers is well under way.
Procurement of equipment for PHC facilities has been completed. Tendering
procedures for 246 vehicles out of total 329 have been completed.



- 125 -                            AM=LI
9.    The following summarizes the main achievements of the First Health
Projects
so   CvIl Works*
L.   Nev Constructions*
Completeds
- 98 health posts, S rural health centers
Continued:
- 3 Hospitals
- 14 Urban health centers
- 10 rural health centers
- 6 training health centers
To be tendered in 1994s
- 2 state hospitals
ii.   Upgradlngs:
Upgradings have been undertaken by Provincial Health
Directorates through the money transferred.
b.   Procurement:
i.   Medical Xquipments two lots of standard medical equipment
for primary health care facilities has been procured through
UNICEF.
sids for medical equipment for 51 existing hospitals has
been tendered. Medical equipment for to-be-constructed
hospitals which constitutes 76 percent of total equipment
budget will be procured after the completion of
constructions.
ii.   Vehicless  tendering procedures for 246 vehicles out of
total 329 have been completed. 183 of them were delivered,
approval of Ministry of Finance have been waited for 63
cross countries. The remaining 83 vehicles will be tendered
in 199S.
iii. Furnitures the first package of furniture and general
equipment for existing and newly constructed facilities has
been procured and delivered; a second bid package for the
furniture for the facilities to-be-constructed is being
prepared.



- 126 -                             Annex 5
iv.   Computers: a total 55 PCs have been procured and delivered
for PCU, MOH central organization and provinces.
c.     Sasj~g
i.    Local Training
Number of health personnel trained:
Physicians: 356
Nurses: 76
Midwives: 2725
Medical technicians: 14
Health College Students: 4500 (Advisory Services)
ii.   Overseas Training:
80.6 percent of fellowship budget used/committed
Long-term fellowshipss completed - 14 fellows
committed - 2 fellows
Short-term fellowships: completed - 6 fellows
d.    Technical Assistances
i.    Besides the individual consultants hired under the UNDP/OPS
management services agreement, the following studies under
institutional development have been completed/continued:
Health Services Utilization Surveys completed
Financial Flow Analysis: completed
GRIS Planning Study: completed
Green Card Survey: completed
Household Income Structure Survey: completed
National Development Indices Survey: completed
Health Services Cost Survey: first phase completed;
second phase continued;
Reorganization Study of MOH: completed
Health Personnel Attitude Surveys completed
Health Financing Options Study: tendering procedures
continued.
*.    Funds Committed
i.    In addition to the figures in the attached table the
following amounts have been committed as of March, 31 1994.
civil works:                        US$ 30.0 million
med. equipment for hospitals:       US$  8.5 million
vehicles:                           Us$  2.5 million



- 127 -                             Annex 5
10.   Remainino Challenaes.  The Firet Health Project had a slow start-up
period. This was primarily due to four factores (a) unfamiliarity by the
NOR with Bank proceduresl (b) frequent changes in senior management of the
MORH (c) failure to clearly define the role of the PCU in terms of its
relationship to MOR; and (d) weak institutional capacity of the MOR to develop
and implement large in-service training programs. Within the past 12 months
considerable progress has been made in addressing many of these problems.
Today, only one serious outstanding issue remains to be resolved. Although
the PCV has performed well in policy design and procurement, it has largely
failed as an implementing agency for many of the planned training-related
activities and community action programs. As a result, many of these
activities have been transferred back to the MOH as the responsible
implementing agency since it already has an institutional capacity to perform
these activities.
11.   Relevant Lessons Learned.  Several major lessons have been learned
during implementation of the First Health Project which are relevant to and
which are being applied during the design and eventual implementation of the
Second Health Project. First, using the PCU as an implementing agency rather
than as a coordinating unit was initially critical to the success of project
start-up due to the weak institutional capacity of the NOH. In the medium-
term, however, this strategy would prevent the NOH from developing an
institutional capacity to perform these activities itself. During the
implementation of the Second Health Project, an effort would, therefore, be
made to have the PCU reassume the function of a coordinating rather than
implementing unit. Second, successful implementation of the training-related
activities and community action programs would depend on mobilizing the
resources already present in the NOR and in the provinces rather than
duplicating this capacity within the PCU. It also would depend on a smooth
flow of funds and a strong capacity to provide the management and logistical
support needed to implement large scale training activities. Under the Second
Health Project, the Directorates of the NOH would become responsible for
implementing these activities but with the support of a private management
firm to be contracted using Bank procedures. OH and the PCU will continue to
receive support from agencies such as UNDP/OPS, WHO and UNICEF. Third, since
procurement-related activities and civil works are easier to implement than
training-related activities, more effort would be made to ensure that training
would be given equal attention by the PCU. Finally, activities that were well
designed in advance during preparation of the First Health Project have been
implemented much more successfully than those left open-ended. only well
defined activities have been included under the Second Health Project. The
KOH and PCU have prepared a Project Implementation Plan describing all
proposed project activities In detail.
12.   The broad implementation strategy for the remaining disbursements is as
followss (a) medical equipment, constituting 32 percent of the loan, will be
procured after the completion of constructions of the remaining hospital in
1996; (b) 12 percent of loan committed for civil works, which the Government
has decided not to use for this purpose, will be reallocated for technical
assistance and training; and (c) the remaining 16 percent will be disbursed
mainly for vehicles, technical assistance and training during the last two
years of the Project.



TURKEY
FIRST HEALTH PROJEC
LOAN
Disursmen comtmn
P-          Trough December 1994
D,b.  Com-tt.  TOrAL          Est. DIsb.  % of
CIomponents          Lon      YTD        YTD       YTD     thru 12/94   Loan
7/94      7/94      7/94
Dev. Prov. Services        62.60     12.60      11.9    24.50         23.00   31%
Heith Manpower Dev.         6.60      1.50      0.60      2.10         2.00   30% 
Managemnt In£o. System      4.10     1.00       0.40      1.40         3.00   73%                           X
MOH Cental Support          1.70     1.00       0.40      1.40         2.00   118%
TOTAL
75.00    16.10      13.30    29.40         30.00   40%
: We e    a                  I o         i
Notie: We expeca a reallocation of about $8 mMlion from Civil works to MIS and MOH Suppor in CY94.
Ln



- 129- -Tl  a  Fianres
R1EPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJEZCT
ESSENTIAL HEALTH 8ERVICES AND WNMAEMENT D9VELo
IN EASTERN AND 80pTH EASTERN ANATOLIA
Statistical Tables and Fiqures
Table of Contents
Paae No
Tables
1.   Basic Health & Population Stats. for 23 Project Provinces . . . . 131
2    HOM 1994 Budget Appropriations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .132
3.  MNO Expenditures by Activity and Department . . ....... ..133
4.   Distribution of Health Facilities in the Projeot Region . . . . . 134
5.   Type and Capacity of Hospitals in Project Provinces . . . . . . . 135
6.   Pilot Hospitals for Hospital Restructuring  . . . . . . . . . . . 136
7.   Type and Capacity of other Hospitals in Project Provinces . . . . 137
8.   Distribution of Vehicles in Project Provinces . . . . . . . . . . 138
7.   MO Consolidated Revenues & Expenditures  . . . . . . . .. . . . 144
10.  OECD Health care Manpower for 1987  1.9......    ...9 .145
II.  OECD Hospitals and Utilization Ranges 1987  . . . . . . . . . . . 146
12 .  OCD Health Care Financing and Expenditure for 1987 . . . . . . . 147
Ziaures
1.  IXR by Province Groups and by Settlement Types, 1990  . . . . . . 139
2.   Under 5 Mortality Rates by Province Groups, 1990  . . . a . . . . 139
3.   Prevalence of Disability at Birth Among Children of Ages 0-4  . . 140
4.   Prevalence of Disability from Illness Among Children Ages 0-4 . . 140
5.   Polio Morbidity/Mortality Rates, 1970-89  .        . .  . . . . * . 141
6.   Measles Morbidity/Mortality Rates, 1970-89  .     . . . . . . . . 141
7.   Neonatal Tetanus Morbidity/Mortality Rates, 1985-89 . . . . . . . 141
8.   Pertussis Morbidity/Mortality Rates, 1970-89  . . . . . . . .    142
9.   Diphtheria Morbidity/Mortality Rates, 1970-89 . . . . . .       142
10.  Students Per Teacher by Province Groups and Settlement Type . . . 143
11.  ONP, Proportion of GNP, and Proportion of Population  . . . . . . 143



- 131 -                 Tables and Figures
Baig ,Health and Poralation Statiatias for Turkey and 23 Protect Provinacs
TURREY         23 PROV.
Population (1991)                            57,600,000            __
Population (1993 Projections)                59,869,000       11,794,S87
Population Density / km2                           73              40
Fertility Rate S                                  3.4             8.7
Crude Birth Rate per 1000 pop.                    7.0             9.6
Infant Mortality Rate per 1000 pop.              58.0            78.6
Under-S Mortality Rate per 1000 pop.             70.0           104.0
Population Increase % (1985-90)                  11.4
Literacy Rate (total) %                          81.9            64.1
Literacy Rate (male) %                           91.1            77.9
Literacy Rate (female) a                         72.8            49.7
Primary Enrollment Rate (total) %                97.0            84.5
Primary Enrollment Rate (male) %                 99.0            91.3
Primary Enrollment Rate (female) %               94.0            76.7
Altitude (average meter)                    __   1,188.3
Temperature (C) / Lowest                        -19.8           -23.3
Temperature (C) / Highest                        40.0            39.6
Average Days with Snow/Year                      28.4            56.1
Health Posts                                   11,490           1,940
Health Centers (Rural+Urban)                 3,091 (total)        707
Hospitals (MKO)                                   634             120
Occupancy Rate                                     58              42
Population per Hospital Bed                       762           1,107
No. of Hospital Beds (NMO)                     74,078           8,156
Aver. Pop. Served by Health Posts               4,961           4,652
Aver. Pop. served by Health Centers            14,672          12,764
Population per physician                        1,027           2,985
Population per midwife+nurse                     668            4,328



- 132 -                   ables anLd Figures
MOB 1994 Budaet Atmrooriations
Million TL        Percentage
1.    Personnel                24,050,000
Other Recurrent           2,250,000
Total Recurrent         26,300,000             86.4
2.    Project Loans               284,000
Capital Investment       2,379,000
Total Investment          2,663,000             8.7
3.    Nationalization             150,000
Transfers                 1,343,327
Total Transfers           1,493,327             4.9
General Total            30,456,327           100.0
t              I      _     .              "~~~~~m



- 133 -                   ales'  And Piguire
MMR Uxcenditurep bv Actl,vity and Deoartment
fixuendit DeXy Activity       Million TL         Percentage
Personnel                     24,050,000             78.9
Official Travel                  129,618              0.4
Service Agreements (1)           265,900             0.8
Service Agreements (2)           110,000             0.4
Goods and Materials            1,823,310              6.0
Office Equipment                  30,792              0.1
Med. Equip. & Vehicles           495,000              1.6
Build. & Major Repair          2,058,000              6.8
Other Payments                       380              0.0
Transfers                      1,493,327              4.9
Total                         30,465,327           100.00
uxoenditure by Department
Support services               2,817,573            9.2
Curative Services             14,197,120           46.6
Primary Care and Social       11,81S,713            38.8
Fiscal Transfers               1,341,921            4.4
Service Contracts                      0              0
External Project Loans           284,000             0.1
Total                         30,465,327           100.0
Mother and Child Health Care/FP
Personnel                       S63,342
Travel Expenses                   3,920
Service Agreements                3,810
Materials and Supplies          102,200
Office Equipment                     39
Other Paymets                        20
investment Buildings              3,soo
Investment Equip/Vehicles        37,500
Sub Total For MCM/"P            714,689
McM/Primary Care Ratio                                6.0
ECH/Total MON Budget Patio                            2.3



- 134 -                     Tables and Fiures
DISTRIBUTION OF HEALTH FACILITIES
IN THE PROJECT REGION
No. of
Hospitals   Hospital Beds Health Centers Health
PROVINCES   MOH Total MOH Total   Rural Urban  POSt
ADIYAMAN            4    5  350      350    23    11    117
.AGRI               6    6  240       240    23_   9        110
ARDAHAN             3    3  160       160    19      6      63
ARTV IN             7    9  280      431    25       9      86
BATMAN              2    3 130        180     7      8      43
BAYBURT             1    1   70       70    11       41   44
BINGOL              6    6  260      260    11       9      73
BITUS               4    5  175    215        13     8      68
ELAZIG              5    9  896    1387    26    17    112
EFUZNCAN            8   1 1  325     32S    24       6      83
EFAZURUM           17   20 1300   2198    49    24         187
GUMUSHANE           3    3  175       175    13      5      69
HAKKARI             4    4  190       190     5      6      29
IGDIR               1    1   50       50    12       4      29
K.MARAS             5    8  755      851     17    15       98
KARS            _5       5  340  _680    2           9     116
MALATYA             5    9  510      992    39    27       159
MUS                 4    4  310      310    26       9      50
SIIRT               3    3  260      260    12    10        65
SIRNAK              2    2  100       100    11      8      43
S.URFA             11   12  720      854    38    14    119
TUNCEU              8    8  185       185    11      8      91
VAN                6    7  375       485    20    17       86
TOTAL             120  144 8156   10948   464   243   1940
Souces: Cwue Servces StatsIc, 1992
PCU



TYPE ANDCAPACITY oF HiosprTALS IN PROJECT PROVINCES
__________         ~MOH  HOSPITALS                                _ _ _ _ _
1045S Bode    30 Bodo        5075 Bodo     100125 Bode    150 Bode      200 Bode       250-375 SBd    1400+ S.d.
PROVINCES    1 2  3 Total 1(2  3 TOtIa    2  3Total 12  3 TOtUI      2  S 3TotalI  2 13 Total I2  3Total     2 3 TotaOTHERS
ADrfAMAN   0 00  0 00 1  1 3 00  30 0 0  00 00  0 10 0  10 00  0 0-00  0   -1
AGRI          3  0  0   3  1  0  2   3 -1  0  1   2  1  0  0   1  0  0  0   0  0  0  0   0  0  0  1   1  0  0l 0   0                  00
AROAHAN       0  0  0   0  2  0  0   2  0  0  0l 0  1  0  0   1  0  0  0   0  0  0  0   0  0  0  0   0  0  0l 0   0                   0
ARTVIN        310101 3  001 III1 300o   3 0  0 0    0  000   01                          00   1    I0  00     0  0 00    0            2
BATMAN        0  0  0l 0  1  0  0l I1  0  0  0l 0  1  0  0l I  0  0. 0   0  0  0  0   0  00  0   a  0  0  0   0                       1
BAYBURT       0 00    0  0  00    0  1 00    1 0  01    1 00o    l000 000                       0   0000    0  0-00    01    0
SINOOL        4 00    4  001            1     0    10   1000ooI        I   oI-   0  0 01    1 0  0    0   000  0    0                 0
SITUS         100  1 0 00  0 10 5  6 2 01  3 0 0 00  0000   0000  0 0a000   0    1
ELAZIG        I  0  0   1  0  0  1   1  1  0  0   11- I  0  0   1  0  0  0   0  01 0  01 0  1  01 0   1  1  0  0   1                  4
ERZINCAN      7 00    70  00    0  a000    00l0  0- 0 10  1    2 00o 0    0  00o0    00O-0.0    0                                     3
ER2UUM       12  0  0  12  0  0  0   0  3  0  1   4  0  00   0  0- 0  0- 0  0  0l 0   0  1  0  0   1  1  0  0   1                     3
GUMUSHtANE   1  0  0   1  0  0, 1   I  1  0  0   1  1  0  0   1  0  0  0l 0  0  0  0   0  0  0  0   GI 0  0l 0   01                   0
HAKKARI       0 00        @1301I   4010   1              1 t0 0    1 0 00    0  00  0             @000           000 0a  o   lo       0
IGOIR         0 0  0  0 000  0 100     10 00  0 0 0       0 0  000                                0  0000  000l0  0    0                        -
I(LRARAS~     0  0  01 0  1  1  0   2  1  0  01 1  21 0  0, 2  0  0  0l 0  0- 0   i -0  0  0, 0   0  I  0  0-   1                     3        L
KARS          2 00  2 1 00  1 1I-00  100 01 0 0 00  01 0 0  10a0 1  1 0 00  0    0
MA1.ATYA      1  0  0   1  2  0  0I 21 1  0  1   2  0  0l 0   0  0  0  0   0  0  0  0   0  1  0  0   1  0  0  0   0                   4
mus           0 00  012 01 1131120  3 00 000 000  0   0100  1 0 00  0000  0 oa    0
BUIRT         1  0  0   11 0  0  0l 0  1  0  0   10  0  0   0  0  0  0   0  1  0  0   1  0  0  0, 0  0  0  0   0                      0
SIRNAK        1 01    2001o  11  I01     2  0.00                     0 I00 0. 0000    00a0  0    000.0    0.    0
S.URFA        3 01    4  0  00    0  501 I   6 2101    3000 01 0                     -I.0.0.  1000              0010 Io I              1
TUNCEU        7  0  0   7  0  0  0   0  0  0  0   0  11 0- 0-  1 0  0l 0l01  0 0    0 0   0  0  0  0   0  0  01 0   0                  0
VAN           201   201                 1 301  4000  01o0 00  0 10 0  1 0.00  0 0 00  0    1
TOTAL    ~491013121 11 25 30 311                      14414013117101  121710  1    63102                      531lt0    4         2
2 : Under Conutnailon
3: MOH Progrmmi
Somme: cum" so - iNA, suggAm I= ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



PILOT HOSPITALS VOR HOSPITAL RESTRUCTIJRING
HOSPITALS          BILECIK       ESKi$EHIR    KARS            ELAZIG        ADIYAMAN    VAN
OF BEDS            130           408            165 -         292           210            240
SPECIALIST/GP   * 12/7           45/35          t817          38/15         21/9           30/5
OF POLYCLINICS   71,356           243,284       109,521       239,088       156,532        174,642
AVE.LENGTH OF   4.4              7.5            6.6           5             3.8            6.3
STAY
BED OCCUP.         27.1          70.7           82.8          65            65             58.7
RATE                                                           _
CDR                0.8            3.1           0.8           1.5           1.4            4
REVOLOVING         3,266,831      13,954,333    2,127,484     9,198,553     5,239,762      1,910,646
FUNDS
PROVINCES           175,526       641,057       662,155       498,225       513,131        637,433
POPULATION         43,548        447,926        120,351       272,812       175,647        207,870
(Centers)                                  _
OF BED11000         1.41          2.74          1.07          4.18          0.69           1.14
AVE.LENGTH OF   4.1              6.1            5             14.1          3.6            4.3
STAY
BED OCCUP.         25.7          60.7           66.9          99.4          51             44.6
RATE
CDR                 1.7           2.1           0.7           1.4           1.4            2.3
POLYCLINICS/GP   10194           6951           15646         15939         17392          34928
TOTAL PATIENT    1072             2343        12772           1817          2375           17t14 
DAYS/SPECIALIST  _               __



- 137 -                   _ables and Figures
TYPE AND CAPACITY OF OTHER HOSPITALS IN PROJECT PROVINCES
Social Insurance
University   Organisatlon    Private    TOTAL
PROVINCES-          1     2      1       2    1    2    1       2
ADIYAMAN           0      0      1       0    0    0      1     0
AGRI               0      0      0       0    0    0    0       0
ARDAHAN            0      0      0       0    0    0    0       0
ARTYIN             0      O      2    151    0    0    2    151
BATMAN             0      0      1      50 0       0      1    s0
EAYBURT            0      0      0       0    0    0    0       0
EINGOL             0      0      0       0    0    0    0       0
BITUS              0      0      1      40    0    0    1    40
ELAZIG             1   194       2    277    '   20    4   491
EFONCAN            0      0      1       0    2    0    3       0
ERZURUM            1   600       1    285    1   13    3   898
GUMUSHANE          0      0      0       0    0    0    o       0
HAKKAFI            0      0      0       0    0    0    O       O
IGDIR              0      0      0       0    0    0    0       0
K.MARAS            0      0      0       0    3   96    3    96
KARS               0      0      0       0    0    0    0       0
MALATYA            1    96       1    316    2   70    4   462
MUs                0      0      0       0    0    0    o       0
SIIRT              0      0      0       0    0    0    0O   '0
SIRNAK             0      0      0       0    0    0     o      0
SURFA              0      O      1    134    0    0       1   134
TUNCEU             0      0      O       0    0    0    0       0
VAN                0      0      1    110    0    0       1   110
TOTAL               3    890    12   1363    9  1991  24  2452
. . -    ..... - .._    
1: Existlng
2: Noof Beds
Source Curative Services StatIstics, 1992



DISTRIBUTION OF VEHICLES IN PROJECT PROVINCES
4x2    ~   4X4           AMBULANCE   MINIBUS           PICK-UP      ITRUCK          MIDIBUS  __BUS                SNOW MACHINE
PROVINCES               14  2 3   I 1  2  3    1   2   3    1   2   3                  2   3    1   2   3    1   2   3                        1   2      3
ADIYAMAN                91171  B         4 4          31                      0   0   8      a   0   2   2    0    1   2   0   0   0   0   0             0
AGRI                    6119  13    0 45   45  20  16   0   2   4   2    1   7   8    0   2   2    0    1   2   0   0   0   0   0                        2
AROAHAN                 0  1212    0 32   32  10  11   1   0   2   2   0   4    4   0   2   2    0    1   0   0    0   1   0   0                         0
ARTVIN                  0   19  19   2  42  40   14  17   3    1-  3   2- 0   9   9    0   2. 2    1   1   2   0   0   0   0   0                         0
BATMAN                  2  15  13    0  24  241011             1    0   2   2    1   41  31  0   21  2    0    1   2   0   0   0   0   0                 0
BAYDURT                 4 111   7   0  2424  12    7   0   2   3    1   0    51  5    0   21  2    0    1   2   0   0   a   0   0                        i
BINOOL                  9   17   8   0131  3117  15    0    1   3   2    2   el  4   0   21  2    0    1   2   0   0   0   0   0                         1
BITus                  1118s   7   8139831  1125  14    0   3   3    1  12  11    0   21  2   0    1   2- 0   0   0   0   0                              1
ELAZIG                  928  17    0157  5719  25    8    I   3   2    1 10    a    1   2    1   0    1   2   0   0   0   0   0                          0
ERZINCAN                9  24  15   1  44  43  13  17   4   0   3    3   0   6    8   0   2    2   0    1   2   0l  0   Ol 0   0    0
ERZURUM                24  41  17   0   90. 90  54  34   0   6   4    8    S  13    8   0   2   1   0    1   0   01  0    1   11  0                      2
OUMUSHANE               8 15    71   031 131    9 14    5   0   3   3-  0   7    7   0   2   2    0    1   2   0l  0    I   u   0                        0
HAKCKARI                6117 .13    0  232619  14    0   0   2   2    0   61  6   0   2   2    0.  I   0   0    0   0   0   0                            I
IGDIR                   31 0 17   0  25  25    7 11    4   0   2   2   0    41  4   0l  21  2    0   0   2   0   0   0   0   0                           0 
K.MARAS                12 23 111    0  434320  24    4   0   4   4   0  11  11    0   '2 12    0    1   2   0    0   0   0   0                           0     -
KARS                    9   171  8   3  48  43  22  17   0   0   3   3   0   7   7   0   2   2    0   1   0   0   0    1   4   0                         1-    00
MALAITYA               16 29 13    0  757517  19    2    3   3   0    2   7   5   0   2   2    0    1   2   0   0   0   0   0                            0     3
MUS                    12  19   7   01 42 142  261 16 I0    0   3    3    1   9   8    0   2   2    0    1   2   0   0    0   0   0                      1
SIIRT                  1415 16       10 34 24    2  171 5    1   3   2- 4   7~ 3    0   21 21  0    1   0   0   0    1   0   0                           1
SIRNAK                  4112    8   0   27  27  13  13 11   0   2   2   0    41  4    0   2    1   0    1   2   0    0   0l 0   0                        I
S.URFA                  8  29  21   0   64  64  24  33   9    1   4   3   3   18~ 15   0   2   2    0    1   2 ~t0                       0   0l    0     0
TUNCELI                 8 17    8   0  27  2710  14    4    1   2    ii  0   4   4   0   2   2    0    1   2   0   0   0    I   0                        1
VAN                    1 425 11    0  5151  22  26    4    1   3   2141                      7~  1   2    1   0    1   2   0    0   0   3   0            1
TOTAL                 197447  2511  2409641943  384 414   82  24  67 S4I 2_ 7915                 24_4 1             22   36   0   0   SI 0   0          1
I : Exidsng
2: Standard
3: To be procured
Source: PCU
I



- 139 -                        Tables. aud Figures
The Sihtation of Mothers anid Children in Turkey
UM Bsy PROVNwCE GROUPS AND BY SETILFiENT TYES. 1990
(pwr thousand)
PER THOUSAND
140
120
100 
80-
60 
40-
20-
0
PP I      PP 2     MEDIUM   DEVELOPED    GAP       TUR~KEY
DEVELOPED
PROVINCE GROUPS
Source: U'O UMCEF (1990)
ENDER 5 MORTAlUTY RATES BY PROVINCE GROLPS. 1990
(Per thousand)
PER THOUSAND
'00
80
60-
40-
20
PP 1     PP 2     MEDIUM   DEVELOPED    GAP    TURKEY
DEVELOPED
PROVINCE GROUPS
URBAN (ABOVE 20.000)  Ct1 RURAL (BELOW 20,000)  TOTAL
Source. SF0 VMCIEF (1990)



- 140 -                        Tabl,g  and F,ivres
The Siht ion of Mothers and Children in Turkey
PREVALENCE OP DIS41AT BIT AMONG  MREN O AGES
0-4BYPROVJNClGROUPS, 1985 (per 1lOOO)
PER 10,000
25
20
1 5
1 0
.5
PP 1     PP 2     MEDIUM  DEVELOPED    GAP    TURKEY
DEVELOPED
PROVINCE GROUPS
FEMALE    l  MALE
soure  s  (1989)
PREVALENCE Or DISAHIUIT FROM IZSS AMONG CWWREJ OP
AO' 0.48YPROVNCEGROPS. 1988  (per10.000)
PER 1 0,000
12
10                   AM
6 -
2
PP 1     PP 2     MEDIUM   DEVELOPED   GAP     TURKEY
DEVELOPED
PROVINCE GROUPS
Sasu e: 818F(1989)



- 141 -                    Tables and Figures
The Situationt of Mothers and Children in Turkey
POLIO MORIDITY RATES.                      POLIO MORTAIJTY RAI.
1970-1989 (per 100,000)                    1970198  per miloNa)
Oi   t._   ___ __                                 _ _ _ __._ _ _ __.'_ _._ _.... . 
FM I
e2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" =mI   6n3 0ao       es             a u X
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Souce: mm (1990)                          Sowoe M:B ( 10)
MEOSBWr MORBIDITY                          MRA S MORTAlTY
RTES 1970-1989                             RAES. 197,0-1989
(iperloo  OM)                              (per millfon)
pm,_.._p 
'I___-.  ,
Sauc: OB(1990)                            Souroe:JMIW (1990)
NEONATAL TETANUS                          NEONATAL TETANUS
MOR1taD12'Z RATE                          MORTAUTY, RATES
19R881989 (per 1O0000t0)                  1988-i1989 (per millIon)
___________      __t___.___         .p lIO
Sow     : MO  1990).                      Sowe:A MO  1990)



142 -             ~~~Tables and Figures
-142-
The Situation of Mothers and Children in Turkey
PERTUSMSI    MORIDTY                         PERTUt681       MORIAIITY
RAITES. 1970-1989                            RATS.& 1970-1989
er 100.000)                                  (per miUlon
04      A
Source: mnO  (1990)                          Source: MON (1990)
DWPHTRAu   MORBIDI1T                         DPBTrRA   NORTA UTY
RATES, 1970-1989                             RATIS. 1970-1989
pe 100,000)                                         ilion
,    \r . mm.. (19Suc. AW\190
S;  -- ..,  .-. ,. 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



- 143 -                       Tables and Figures
The Situatiots of Mothers anid Children in Tu rkeyj
STUDENTS PER TEACH&R AND BY PROVINCE GROUPS AND BY
SETTLEMENT TYPE. 19871988
50
40-
30-
20 
10 
0
PP 1     PP 2     MEDIUM  DEVELOPED    GAP    TURKEY
DEVELOPED
PROVINCE GROUPS
URBAN (ABOVE 20,000)   M    RURAL (UNDER 20,000)
Source: MONE (1989)
GINP, PROPORTION OF GIVP ANJD PROPORTION OF POPULATION BY
PROVINCE GROVPS. 1986($)
PERCENT                                                  US S
60 -                                                               2000
50 
1500
40-
30 -                                      ..1000
20-
10         .:
0                        .0
PP 1           PP 2          MEDIUM         DEVELOPED
DEVELOPED
PROVINCE GROUPS
GNP PER CAPITA (5)         2  PERCENTAGE OF GNP
PERCENTAGE OF POP'N
Source: E. OZUTU  (1988)



- 144 -                  Tables and PLaurs
MOH Consolidated Revenues and Exoenditures !1991 Current Values}
Source of Funds                Billion TL        Percentage
General State Budget             7,260.1             34.8
SocLal Insurance Funds           6,281.8             30.1
Personal Expenditure             7,315.2             35.1
Total                           20,857.1            100.0
Consolidated Expenditures
Public Provision                11,736.9             56.3
Private Provision                9,120.2             43.7
Total                           20,857.1            100.0
Ratios
Social Insurance/Public Exp.                         53.5
Social Insurance/Total Exp.                          30.1
Total Expenditure/GNP                                 4.6



- 145 -                  Tableg and Fioures
OUCD- ealth Car MaogMer for 1987
Per 10,000 Population
Doctors  NureaS Den-   Phar-  Nurse Nurse    MD
(MD)     (N)   tists  macists  /D  /Bsed    /8ed
OECD    Low   7.3     6.6    0.8    1.4    0.8   0.31   0.10
Range   High 33.8   173.2   11.1   11.2    7.7   1.26   0.70
Australia    20.2   106.6    3.9    6.5    5.3   1.05   0.20
Austria      19.2    64.2    4.0    2.6    3.4   0.60   0.18
Belgium      32.1    61.S    6.3   11.2    1.9   0.73   0.38
Canada       21.5    94.3    5.3    7.8    4.4   0.59   0.13
Denmark      25.6    S9.9   9.3    2.9    2.3   0.95   0.41
Finland      18.9    70.4    7.4    8.4    3.7   0.52   0.14
France       25.0    52.9    6.2    8.5    2.1   0.50   0.23
Germany      28.1    49.2    6.4    5.6    1.8   0.4S   0.25
Greece       33.3    26.5    9.1    6.6    0.8   0.51   0.65
Iceland      27.0    76.8    8.7    7.4    2.8   0.53   0.19
Ireland      14.1    70.6    3.4    3.1    5.0   0.68   0.14
Italy        11.1    38.7                   3.5   O.50   0.14
Japan        15.7    57.3    5.5    6.4    3.7   0.38   0.10
Luxembourg   17 9            4.9    7.4                  0.14
Netherlands  2V6             5.2    1.4                  0.20
New Zealand   1.4   83.9    3.6    7.6    4.8   0.91   0.19
Norway       22.6   173.2    8.8    7.3    7.7   1.10   0.14
Portugal     2S.7    25.1    0.8   10.0    1.0   0.55   O.S7
Spain        33.8    38.0    1.S    8.0    1.1   0.79   0.7'i
Sweden       26.8    86.2   11.1    5.0    3.2   0.68   0.21
Switzerland  15.0    85.6   4.7    2.1    5.7   0.79   0.14
Turkey        7.3     6.6    1.6    2.6    0.9   0.31   0.3S
UK           13.7    42.0    3.S            3.1   0.62   0.20
USA          23.4    66.7    S.9    5.9    2.9   1.26   0.44
Calculated from OZCD Health Data File, 1989.



- 146 -                T1ables aZn iurs
O CDKomiltals and Utilization Banton 1987
DBds per  Admission Length  Patient   Visits
10,90o  Rate as %     of Days per       per
Populatlon Population   Stay   Capita   Capita
OECD   Low    21.0       5.5       6.1      0.7       2.0
Range  SLgh  161.0      22.6      52.9      4.9      12.8
Australia     101.7     21.6       6.1      3.2       8.2
Austtla       107.9     22.6      13.4      3.3       5.6
BelgiuM        84.2     14.6      16.3      2.8       7.4
Canada        161.0     14.5      13.2      2.0       6.6
Denmark        63.0     20.5       9.1      1.9       5.2
FLnland       136.3     22.6      18.4      4.2       3.7
France        106.5     21.2      12.5      3.3       S.2
Germany       110.3     21.1      17.1      3.5      11.5
Greece         51.6     12.1      11.0      1.4       5.3
Iceland       144.9     20.3      16.0      4.0       4.9
Ireland       103.5     16.9       8.3      1.3       6.5
Italy          77.0     15.0      11.0      1.6      10.9
Japan         152.4      7.5      52.9      3.9      12.8
LUxembourg    125.3     19.0      19.8      3.7
Netherlandb    117.7    11.0      34.8      3.8       3.7
Now Zealand    92.0     13.0      12.9      2.1       3.8
Norway        157.5     16.3      11.0      4.9       5.7
Portugal       45.2      9.3      12.4      1.1       2.4
Spain          47.9      9.0      13.0      1.2       4.0
Sweden        127.3     20.0      19.7      4.2       2.7
Switzerland   108.9     13.2      25.2      3.0       6.0
Turkey         21.0      5.5       7.6      0.7       2.0
UK             68.3     15.8      15.0      2.1       4.5
USA            52.8     14.7       9.6      1.7       5.3
Calculated from OCD Health Data Fleo, 1989.



- 147 -                 xables anF Lour
ONCD Health Care Finanging and Expenditure for 1987
A          B     C     D     N     F    a
Ranges: Low      5.3       27.7   5.0  41.3  18.3   1.9  1.3
In %    High    11.2       68.1  21.8  97.6  75.5  19.S  8.3
Australia        7.2       49.8   8.4  70.5  56.3   5.6  4.3
Austria          8.4       29.3  11.S  67.1  18.3   9.6  6.2
Belgium          7.2       33.8  16.6  76.9  23.1  12.1
Canada           8.8       49.7  11.6  73.9  58.8   4.0  3.9
Denmark          6.0       65.2        85.5  75.4
Finland          7.4       44.4   9.6  78.6  S1.3   5.6  5.3
France           8.5       46.0  16.4  74.8  55.2  13.2
oermany          8.1       39.4  21.8  78.4  42.9  19.S  5.5
Greece           5.3       52.1        75.3  32.5         6.1
Iceland          7.8                   88.6  69.5         4.3
Ireland          7.4                   87.0  73.2         4.5
Italy            7.2       46.8  19.1  79.2  52.5  16.0  4.0
Japan            6.8       32.7  16.4  73.0  41.7  18.3  4.3
Luxembourg       7.5       27.7  17.0  91.6  28.9  14.4  8.3
Netherlands      8.5       57.3   9.5  73.9  64.7   7.9
New Zealand      6.9       65.9  15.4  82.5  66.0  15.2
Norway           7.5       68.1   5.0  97.6  69.1   3.7  6.2
Portugal         6.4                   60.7  43.6
Spain            6.0       50.3        71.5  48.3
Sweden           9.2              9.S  90.8  75.5   5.7  6.2
Switzerland      8.7       47.2        68.5  55.6
Turkey           3.5                   41.3
UK               6.0             10.5  86.4  56.7  10.1  4.7
USA             11.2       47.0   6.8  41.4  S8.9   1.9  1.3
A. Total health expenditure/GDP
S.  Total In-patient expenditure/Total health expenditure
C. Total drug expenditure/Total health expenditure
D. Public health expenditure/Total health expenditure
N.  Public in-patient expenditure/Public health expenditure
P. Public drug expenditure/Public health expenditure
0. Public capital expendlture/Public health expendlture
Calculated from ONCD Health Data File, 1989.



-149 -                            Qlass&=
REPUBLIC OF TURKRY
SECOND HEALTH PROE:
:4ENTXUA MEALMH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTH EASTERN ANATOLIA
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Allocative efficiency      - The extent of optimality in distribution of
resources among a number of competing uses.
Average Occupancy Rate     - Number of hospital days/(number of beds x 365)
average Length of Stay     - Number of hospital days/ number of admissions
Child mortality            -  The probability of dying between birth and age
5, expressed per 1,000 live births. The term
"under five mortality" is also used.
Cost-effectiveness
(in health care)           - The not gain in health or reduction in disease
burden from a health intervention ln relation to
the cost. Measured in dollars per disabllity-
adjusted life year.
Crude Birth Rate           - Number of live blrths per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate           - number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Disability-adjusted
life year (DALY)           - A unit used for measuring both the global burden
of disease and the effectiveness of health
interventions, as indicated by reductins in the
disease burden. It is calculated as the present
value of the future years of disability-free
life that are lost as the result of the
premature deaths or cases of disability
occurring in a partlcular year.
Bxternality                - A spillover of benefits or losses from one
individual to another.
Global burden of
disease (GBD)              - An indicator developed for the 1993 World
Development Report, Investlna in Health, in
collaboration wlth the World-Health OrganizatLon
that quantifles the loss of healthy life from
dlsaseg measured ln dlsability-adjusted llfe
years.



-150 -                             G1i  aara
Infant Mortality Rate       -  Annual deaths of infants younger than 1 year old
per 1,000 live births during the same year.
Intervention
(in health care)           -  A specific activity meant to reduce disease
risks, treat illness, or palliate the
consequences of disease and disability.
Life Zxpectancy at Birth   -  The number of yeara a newborn child would live
if subject to the age-specific mortality rates
prevailing at time of birth.
Low Birth Weight (LBW)      -  Infants whose weight at birth is less than 2,500
grams.
Maternal Mortality Rate    -  Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live
births in a given year attributable to
pregnancy, childbirth, or post-partum.
Median age at death         -  The age below which half of all deaths in a year
occur. This measure is determined both by the
age distribution of the population and by the
age pattern of mortality risks. It does not
represent the average age at which any group of
individual will die, and it is not directly
related to life expectancy.
Population-based
health sorvices             -  Services such as immunization, that are directed
toward all members of a specific population
subgroup.
Rate of Natural Increase   -  The rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to surplus (or
deficit) of births over deaths expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Rate of Population Growth  -  The rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to natural
increase and net migration, expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Technical efficiency        -  The extent to which choice and utilization of
input resources produce a specific health
output, intervention,, or service at lowest
cost.



-151 -                             G1osaarx
Tertiary care facility      - A hospital or other facility that offers a
specialized, highly technical level of health
care for the population of a large region.
Characteristics include specialized intensive
care units, advanced diagnostic support
services, and highly specialized personnel.
Total fertility rate        -  The number of children that would be born to a
woman if she were to live to the end of her
childbearing years and bear children at each age
in accordance with prevailing age-specific
fertility rates.
Under Five Mortality (U5M) -  Number of children that die between the ages 1
and 5 per 1,000 live births.



- 153 -                        Biblioggg2bv
REPUBLIC OF TURXEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT:
ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
IN EASTERN AND SOUTH EASTERN ANATOLIA
BIBLIOGRAPHY
MATERIALS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Publicaton
Barnum H, J. Kuttin, Public Hosvitals in DeveloPina Countries: Resource Uee,
Cost. Financina, Baltimore and London: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1993.
International Labour Office (ILO), Social Secugity [Minimum Standards 
Convention, No. 102 (Geneva: ILO, 1952).
Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Health, Turkey - National Proararme of Action
for Children: Better Child at 2000, 1993.
Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Health, Turkev - National Proarame of Action
for Children: Better Child at 2000, 1993.
Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Health - UNICEF, Master Plan of operations
1991-199S, Country Programme 1991-1995, Series No. 4, 1993.
Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Health (Directorate General of Health
Education) and UNICEF, Child PCH: Midwifery Training, 1991-95 Programme of
Cooperation, Basic Health Programme, November 1993.
WHO, Health For All by the Year 2000: Turkish National Health Policy,
Copenhagen: WHO European Regional Office WHO, 1989.
World Health Organization (WHO), Regional Office for Europe (RON), TaXgast for
Health for Alls Targe=s in SuDPort of the European Reaional Strateav for
Health for All, Copenhagen: WHO, ROE, 1985.
UNICEF, The Situation Analysis of Mothers and Children in Turkey: Country
Prooramme 1991-95, Series 2, Ankara: UNICEF Turkey Office, 1991.
UNICEF, The Proaress of Nations, New '..'rk: UNICEF, 1993.
UNICEF, The State of the World's Children, Oxford: Oxford University Press,
1993.
UNICEF and Republic of Turkey, Progaress Reno-t on Country Proaramme
-mlem ntation, December 1993.
UNDP, Human DeveloDment Re_ort, New York: UNDP, 1990.



- 154 -                        glbl$caraghv
World Bank, Investing ln Health, World Development Report (WDR) 1993,
Washingtons World Bank, 1993.
Publicationg lCont'd)
World Bank, Surkev: Health Sector Review, Report No. 6089-TU prepared by Louis
0. Vassiliou, Washington: World Bank, 1989.
World Bank, Turkey: Issues and Options in Health Care Financina, Report No.
8042-TU prepared by Louis 0. Vassiliou, Washington: World Bank, 1990.
World Bank, First Health Project, Staff Avnraisal Report, Report No. 7433-TU,
Washingtons World Bank, June 29, 1990.
World Bank, Turkey - Women in Develoament, prepared by Sandra Hadler,
Washingtons World Bank, 1993.
World Bank, Makina Motherhood Safe, prepared by Anne Tinker and Marjorie A.
Roblinsky, World Bank Discussion Papers No. 202, Washingtons World Bank, 1993.
ReDoort§
Bott, M. and David J. O'Neill, "Requirements for Self-Government Hospital
Status: A Case Study at Ankara General Hospital", December 17, 1991.
EMS, Overseas Enterprises, "Report on the Financial Management in
Decentralized Hospitals," Ankara: NMS, July 1993.
EMS, Overseas Enterprises, "Training in the Health Care Sector," Ankara: NMS,
October 1991.
Price Waterhouse and SPO, "Health Sector Masterplan Study: Report on the
Current Situation," Ankara: SPO, January 1990.
Priva Danismanlik, King's Fund College and CASPE, "Cost Analysis," Working
Report, Ankara: Project Coordination Unit, MOH, July 1993.
Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Health, "Semi-Annual Progress Reports for the
First Health Project," through June 30, 1993.
Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Health - UNICEF, "Mid-Term Review," UNICEF
Draft Report of Cooperation, January 1994.
Schieber, George and Jerry Norris, "Health Sector Reforms in Turkey," Report
prepared for USAID, 1990.
Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Health (Directorate of Mother and Child
Health) in Collaboration with Hacettepe University (Institute of Population
Studies) and Macro International Inc. (Demographic and Health Surveys),
"Turkish Dewographic and Health Survey," 1993.



- 155 -                        Bibigraphy
World Bank, "Turkey: Recent Economic Developments and the 1993 Economic
Program," Draft Report and Annex, 1993.
Renorts (Cont'd)
World Bank, "Social Service Study," Draft Report, 1993.
World Bank, "Labor Narkets: Issues and Policies," Draft Report, 1993.
World Bank, "The Turkish Pensions System: Issues and Recommendations," Draft
Report, 1993.
World Bank Proiects
Agricultural Extension and Research (Loan 2405-TU)
Drainage and On-Farm Development Project (Loan 2663-TU)
Izmir Water & Sewerage Project (Loan 2818-TU)
Istanbul Water Supply Project (Loan 2888-TU)
Agro-Industry Project (Loan 3077-TU)
Third Agricultural Extension Project (Loan 3090-TU)
Ankara Sewerage Project (Loan 3151-TU)
Second Agricultural Extension Project (Loan 3177-TU)
industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU)
industrial Schools Project (Loan 2536-TU)
Non-Formal Vocational Training Project (Loan 2776-TU)
Second Industrial Training Project (Loan 2922-TU)
National Education Development Project (Loan 3192)
Employment and Training Project (Loan 10331-TU).
A Basic Education Project currently under preparation, is expected to support
access to basic education.
First Health Project (Loan 3057-TU)
Commissioned Paners in Proaress
Health Services Utilization Survey: completed
Financial Flow Analysis: completed
GHIS Planning Study: completed
Green Card Surveys completed
Household Income Structure Survey: completed
Health Services Cost Survey: first phase completedi second phase continued
Reorganization Study of MOH: continued
National Indices Survey: continued
Health Personnel Attitude Survey: continued



- 156 -                         ibliJaKAhv
Reports and Workina PaDere
Brief Description of Health System in Turkey.
Eastern Anetholia Health Development Project Preparation Mission, Hospitals
Decentralizaiton Component Technical Memorandum, September 1992.
Eastern Anetholia Health Development Project, Hospital Decentralixation
Component, Planning & Implementation - May 1992.
Eastern Anetholia Health Development Project. Manpower Development & Training
Interventions - May 1992.
PCU, Hospital Decentralization Objective.
First Component: Health Care Delivery. Guidelines for Project Preparation -
May 1992.
Institute Development (Health Care Reforms) Progress Report - August 31, 1992.
Introduction of a Regional Health Authority.
Model of General Health Insurance Systems.
Need for an Acting Regional Health Administration
Third Health Project, note on State Hospitals Management & Finance, July 3rd,
1992



IBRD 2558
S''9.   9   30°                                           ,,                                                     40_                                   GEORGIA                      Z
BULGARIA                                          LACK SEAa
TEDIRE OKOOIt1RE
--9  ,  <                so/@=NGU,UD^K    IAMON>l                                                Se-   9  -                    ,  /C)4 S)~~~~~ ARMENtAg 
/ X * ZONOULDM   ,    ASTM 0-0S0   oi
WX 0                                                                        e     @vtsAf
GREECE  TEORDA~~~~  ISTAmOUL1~~,~~J  j~T®~~~~1    aow                (M0iADAY                                   --G:UNOOI
Mo,A,o,o             1              0                       0      ORU,)  TOK(AT
;50 a   q       4                !                  \                  StR                  s)   F                                     GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS USEDk                                       35 
?                                                                                                  -  v   I N   T URKISH    DEMO GRAPHIC SURVEY AND HIPS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E R U   ( A G
EFZNCA 0
f   MEDTERA EA SEA~                         <                                                         WESTERANKARA*    EAMT YCZS    VILAMIC
B&IKUIR  EM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REP OF
riles,mdwesfc~~~~~~~~~~~OLAKYA                                  O%winov TUMLS°0 71,0I(   CNRALDNATOA AIA
KltOMETER3 0                                                         5                  150YASE -IE
NVrS-UR~ ~~~~~~~~~~ VAAOAJRr                                              51R
0                 
AwEGorEAN                                 30-                        >>  O A                         35                                                        3
TURKEYI
MEDITERRANEAN SEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AULV
E7                                                                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTEN                   RVNECPTL
ANTALYA         icp~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ETRL                                                         *   ATOALCPIA
~~~  MItES 0   00  190     14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       NOR  -I~~~~~WSERN       PROVINCTED  BOUNDARDIES           GE
The          y             KILOMETERS 6    so    160   160   200   260                CYRSEASTERN                                                                                  -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
boordores.                     ~~~~~~~~~~30                                                35,                                                       30r               Province names are the some as prosince copiftos.
APRIL 1994



S'  '-\  30  ............ tlNor 40 GEO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD ?25581
t z t<WII/U Xl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~35                                                                                                                              -\     IWORO           >/G JAg AwE A 
BULGR]A-r"\Cti, 0-zGr6NI{
GREEC*2sX~~~~~~t3AC SEAa{N      7z;                          _                                       U         _                      7e_0r                                                 ,,
i;~~~~ER    (FKRKA f      =.   
X,'wD                                                                                                              N .                                                                               AR:E£
~~~~~~~~~~~ CANITRNENSA                                                                                                      P2I                                 RVNC    APTL
e b                              S~~~~~~ >                        \                            DEVELOPED                   @    NATIONAL CAPITAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EURU
rhebsahmos clorsdmmsmmfrm   lalLS 0   50 10|0  10   ~   9                                             MEDIU   DEVELPED    -~   PROVICE BOUDARIE
om ony e hh wnh mm IOO sho_n on              g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eloci                                                                            -
fthemmvmorzlddosom&Gmly,oemhyml52t  NLOEE o  5!0   100   150   2bo   250  t    CYPRUS   <  \                      B    GAP                         _    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES[VA
sm rhm legol slows of sny hawhay.ANKARor                                             YOZ                 I
cmyendommmmmforescSmmeofwch   3pO  <  <~~    3l5                     )                                     I                Provincenomesorethesomeesprcvin.ecoc REP O



IBRD 25582
30s                                                  35 GG EORGIA                                                                                                 BRD 2558
BULGARIA                                      BLACK SEA               .-'                           .\ SAMIN    M0MW 5<2
_v~~~0RN  E®bSKLSE                                               * ZONUWiAK     KP51iMONOU                               ,, ZE                                                                 \vKAS ARMENIAm
fUsqnkopns *                                                                                                                                                         B)       .       O ,; - GRESUN  T   A
GREECE 2                                                                                                  AMASYA            -            GAMTYA0   DAY-5T
SEA -X  S  ®(Mo                                      '                  ', , :ORU- TOKATZ                                                           AUR  /R
(c~~~~~~~~; ~~~~B)URSA   (%550K                                                                            WASA* 515  )      -
O       mL                                   AYA          ''"   --'' 5'   VOZOSTL' 1           SA                 Y                                         TUKEISLAMIC
R   MEDITERRAN9N SEA                                             <                >                                          s   PROVINCE CAPITAALSYOZOA
woJsESO                       ESIONAL                                                                                                                                                 REP OF
AFYON                                                                                                                         fR
IhebnUndorSiro;r<torde° t   MILES 0, 5* 0  10,0  I,S0 B )                           y                                       _   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Thhidercdonoiffc0rc 5,1,0                                                GEONSAt c'GO 5bMk10    0  5                   M-CPU    H\_ ITRNTOA-BUDRE
AEGEAN rl                                            EJ,
SEA                                                                                     Roas        I                                                                                             RA
;U.IN        BODENIZU     B) B)SSSR5T
BURDUR
ANYAJY                                                                            RIAN                          TURKEY
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
oen"                                                                        Y Mf V                                                                       PROJECT PROVINCES                                  35 -
PROJECT PROVINCES
0   SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
MEDITERRANE4N SEA                                                                          9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROVINCE CAPITALS
0,5 ndo,5,  5.03 9                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 NATIONAL CAPITAL
~~~  'v"  '~~~~~~~~~'                                                             -   ~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
th. ftHd 8%2-       LOMEOERS E    go   o1so  1A0   369   25                 YPU                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
30'                                                    35'                                                     5 Pro"inoce names are the some as p,ovince capitals.
APRIL 1994



IBRD 24903R
X BULGARIA    a                                                                                                                             GEOGI k            24903
BLACK SEA         '                 
*                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARMNA
GREECE- 
AEGEAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AkY
| >/KA? ., Sl Xf + X * e-> ,4 \_F NM~~~~~~~~~~OKA                                                                                    G~
x, g g s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BONARIEAS
Tbejd,,:         IAIIS t    5.0    190    lp                                                                           -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
BZlx          >          6DE3s 1o  i6  iA   *                 CYPRUS                                                           F  rowinve nomes &e the sc,ee asp,ovncfecopifohs
MARCH 1994



