                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 31604-TU

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (CPL-38020 SCL-3802A SCPD-3802S)

                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 150 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                 TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                        TURKEY

                                        FOR A

                               SECOND HEALTH PROJECT




                                     October 27, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective 05 June 2005)

                  Currency Unit = New Turkish Lira
            I New Turkish Lira = US$ 0.74
                           US$ 1 = 1.35 New Turkish Lira

                         FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1-       December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANC        Antenatal Care
CDC        Center for Disease Control
CHRMS      Computerized Human Resource Management System
CMSS       Computerized Management Support System
CPR        Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DALY       Disability Adjusted Life Years
DHS        Demographic and Health Survey
GOT        Government of Turkey
HHDR       Home/ Hospital Delivery Ratio
HOIS       Hospital Information System
HTP        Health Transition Project
IMR        Infant Mortality Rate
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MEER       Marmara Emergency Reconstruction Project
MMR        Maternal Mortality Rate
MOH        Ministry of Health
MSA        Management Service Agreement
MTR        Mid Term Review
NBD        National Burden of Disease
NHA        National Health Accounts
OPCS       Operations Policy and Country Services
PCU/ PIU   Project Coordination Unit/ Project Implementation Unit
PHCP       Primary Health Care Project
PSR        Project Supervision Report
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SIS        State Institute of Statistics
SHP        Second Health Project
SPH        School for Public Health
TFR        Total Fertility Rate
U5M        Under 5 Mortality
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
UNOPS      United Nations Office for Project Services
WDR        World Development Report


                Vice President:         Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director          Andrew N. Vorkink
                Sector Director         Charles C. Griffin
               Sector Manager           Armin H. Fidler
           Task Team Leader:            Ibrahim Akcayoglu

                                           TURKEY
                                    Second Health Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               12
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 24
6. Sustainability                                                                     26
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      27
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    31
9. Partner Comments                                                                   33
10. Additional Information                                                            34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  38
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  40
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  41
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  44
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 46
Annex 8. The Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                       48
Annex 9. List of Equipment purchased and status of THC construction in 23 Project     61
Provinces
Annex 10. Analysis of Trends for Selected Health Outcomes 1993-2003.                  65
Annex 11. Comments Received from MOH on August 15, 2005                               70

Project ID: P009076                                                  Project Name: Second Health Project
Team Leader: Ibrahim Akcayoglu                                       TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Health Project                                    L/C/TF Number: CPL-38020; SCL-3802A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3802S
   Country/Department: TURKEY                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (86%); Central government administration (14%)
                  Theme: Other communicable diseases (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Health system performance (S); Population and reproductive
                            health (S); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/05/1988                                     Effective: 01/31/1995                01/31/1995
     Appraisal: 08/15/1994                                         MTR: 07/14/1998                  07/14/1998
      Approval: 09/22/1994                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Director:               Andrew N. Vorkink                              Michael Wiehen
Sector Manager:                 Armin H. Fidler                                Ralph Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:             Ibrahim Akcayoglu                              Alexander Preker
ICR Primary Author:             Anne Bakilana


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Second Health Project (SHP) should be seen as part of a broader Bank supported program in Turkey
after the adoption of the 1987 Basic Law on Health Services, which opened the door for new efforts by the
Government of Turkey (GoT) to improve the performance of its health sector. The Second Health Project
(SHP) aimed to expand on the activities of the First Health Project (FHP) to the country's 23 most deprived
provinces. At the time of its preparation, overall health indicators showed that Turkey had seen major
improvements in health indicators since the 1960s. Life expectancy at birth was around 67 years in 1991,
up from 47 years in 1960; child mortality was around 94 per 1000 live births, down from 217 per 1000 in
1960; and Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) was about 58 per 1000 live births, down from 208 per 1000 in
1960. Indicators for the country's most deprived eastern provinces were worse. IMR in the 23 project
provinces stood at 78.6 per 1000 live births and under-5 mortality stood at 104.0 per 1000. While these
deprived areas had more or less the same average for the population served by health posts (4, 961 for
Turkey vs. 4, 652 project provinces' average) and almost the same number of health centers (14, 672 for
Turkey vs. 12, 764 for the 23 project provinces), there were large inequalities in other health indicators.
For example, the population per midwife or population per nurse ratios were quite uneven (668 Turkey
average vs. 4, 328 for the 23 project provinces). For the 23 project provinces, Total Fertility Rate (TFR)
was about 8.7 children per woman compared to 3.4 Turkey average; and the literacy rate was about 50%
for women in the eastern provinces compared to the Turkey average of 81.9%.

     The Loan Agreement states that the objectives of the Second Health Project were to: a) upgrade and
     expand the provision of health care in the project provinces; and b) improve health care
     management. These objectives were stated slightly differently in the project's Staff Appraisal Report
     (SAR) as follows: The primary goal of the SHP was to reduce the burden of disease due to
     avoidable illness and disability in Turkey. To achieve this goal, the specific development objectives
     (DOs) were to: a) improve equity of access to essential health services in 23 Eastern, low income
     priority provinces; and b) improve the quality of health care management in selected institutions.
     The project aimed to improve health status, reduce infant mortality rates, decrease fertility rates and
     improve life expectancy in the participating provinces. The objectives of the project as stated in the
     SAR have formed the basis of this project's implementation and supervision.

The Bank's Implementation Completion Report (ICR) writing guidelines specify that this ICR must assess
the degree to which the project's objective was clear, realistic and important for the sector and the Bank's
country assistance strategy. This ICR finds that the objectives of the SHP as stated in the SAR were in line
with health sector priorities in the country and they were consistent with the Government's desire to
improve health status in the 23 poorest provinces. The objectives responded to the Bank's overall strategy
for health and development as expressed in the Bank's 1993 World Development Report (WDR).
Objectives were also consistent with the 1993 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and are still relevant to
the 2003 CAS objectives. This ICR found that though the aim and objectives of the project were very clear,
they were also too broad and over ambitious. The breadth of the project's objectives, the untenable links
between its many activities and project objectives, as well as various issues of project design (as discussed
under Section 3.5), meant that project activities were not well focused and were not designed to meet or to
measure the expected outcomes of the project.




                                                    - 2 -

In addition to the SHP, the Bank has assisted in the Government of Turkey's efforts to improve health
outcomes in the country through its support for three other health sector projects as follows:

l The First Health Project (FHP) was the first Bank financed project in Turkey. It was approved in May
    1989 with objectives to: i) improve access to basic health services in 8 underprivileged provinces; ii)
    enhance the efficiency of delivery of service; iii) improve financing of the public health system; and iv)
    strengthen the management capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH). The FHP closed in December
    1998, with approximately US$60 Million over the appraised budget and about US$31 Million in
    outstanding liabilities. The FHP received an overall outcome rating of satisfactory at ICR but was
    rated unsatisfactory by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED);

l The third health project in Turkey funded by the Bank was the Primary Health Care Project (PHCP). It
    was signed in June 1997 with objectives to improve access and quality of primary health care in 2
    provinces; and to serve as the basis of extending the tested health care primary reforms nationwide. The
    PHCP faltered because implementation depended on passage of three laws, none of which received the
    necessary support to be enacted. After 21 months of stagnated implementation and almost no
    disbursement, most of its proceeds were reallocated to the Marmara Earthquake Emergency (MEER)
    project in 1999. The PHPC closed in June 2001, having supported only a small fraction of planned
    activities and without achieving its intended development objectives; and

l The fourth health project supported by the Bank became effective in July 2004. The overall objective
    of the Health Transition Project (HTP) is to support health sector reforms that aim to improve
    governance, efficiency, user and provider satisfaction and long term fiscal sustainability of the Turkish
    health care system. This project responds to the current Government's Urgent Action Plan and the
    Program for Transition in Health, which aims to institute health sector reforms to address health
    inequalities and inefficient use of resources which contribute to poor health outcomes in Turkey.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The SHP's development objectives were revised in 1999 to address significant delays in implementation
during its first five years and to address financial shortages and health sector challenges raised by the 1999
earthquakes. The project's overall aim remained the same but an extension was made to the objectives so
as to address the needs of five provinces affected by earthquakes. The objectives of the project were
restated in the Project Implementation Report (PIR) as follows:

The project's primary goal is to reduce the burden of disease due to avoidable illness and disability. The
specific objectives of the revised project were: (i) to improve equity of access to essential health services
in 23 eastern low-income, priority provinces, and 5 provinces affected by the August and November 1999
earthquakes; and (ii) to improve the quality of health care management in the Ministry of Health (MOH)
and selected institutions. The project aimed at improving health status, reducing infant mortality rates,
decreasing fertility rates, and improving life expectancy in the participating provinces.

Reasons for Project Revisions: By November 30, 1999, about two years before the project was expected
to close, project output was noticeably behind schedule and only about 25.6% of the loan had been
disbursed against the expected 90%. There were three main reasons that led to delays and the revision of
the project:

1. Significantly delayed implementation caused by diverse factors as follows:
l Borrower's        decision to postpone implementation of the Infrastructure Development
    sub-component (under Primary Health Care component) to Project Year 3. In 1995/1996
    Turkey's economy went through a period of macroeconomic turmoil. As a result, tight fiscal controls



                                                      - 3 -

  were adopted by the Government and this led to a decision to concentrate its efforts and finances to the
  completion of the FHP which was still being implemented at that time. This had a serious impact on the
  implementation of the Infrastructure Development sub-component (which was to involve the largest
  portion of activities supported by the project - almost 70% of the SHP) which was then postponed to
  Project year 3;

l Serious shortages of Government contributions. Another direct result of the tight fiscal measures
  adopted by the Government after the mid 1990s was that by Mid Term Review (MTR) the
  Government's share of total disbursement amounted to about US$1.2 million; the expected figure by
  this milestone was US$ 34.9 million, i.e. the Government's contribution amounted to 3.4% of what it
  should have been. This was critical to implementation of all activities that required the Government's
  contribution.

l Key legislation was not tabled in parliament. Implementation of Hospital Management Restructuring
  sub-component stalled and were later dropped when the Law on Primary Health Care Services and
  Family Physicians failed to get the needed support to pass into law. This legislation, which was key for
  the implementation of most activities under the Health Policy and Management component, did not
  receive the needed support from the various Governments that led the country in the 1990s (SHP's
  implementation probably spanned 11 different Turkish Governments).

l Ineffective structure and functioning of the PCU. By 1999, it had become apparent to the Bank that
  the structure of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and its working relations with the Ministry of
  Health (MOH) were strained and ineffective. The PCU was originally convened to manage
  implementation of the FHP and was originally acknowledged as a key player in the successful
  implementation of Bank supported health projects, which at one point included all three health sector
  projects (FHP, PHCP, and SHP). Until around 1996 the PCU worked in close partnership with the
  MOH. At MTR, its staffing of mostly well paid consultants and some MOH civil servants, and its
  management which was independent of the MOH were considered ideal by the Bank. The status of the
  PCU was that of a dynamic center of excellence in supporting project implementation, in piloting
  activities, conducting academic studies and in formulating health policy. This was a model PCU,
  showcased across the region as an example to emulate.

      According to the Bank's internal documents, relations between the PCU and MOH began to
  deteriorate around 1996, mostly due to changes in governments and political affiliations. The
  management of Bank supported health sector projects began to be questioned by new and subsequent
  administrations, and tensions between the PCU and MOH grew to the extent that from 1996/ 1997
  onwards, the PCU was seen to be working in competition with the MOH, basically seen as trying to
  implement activities that were the responsibilities of the MOH. This resulted in reduced cooperation
  between the MOH and PCU, making the PCU ineffective which considerably slowed down
  implementation especially since the project design had not assigned implementation tasks to MOH or
  its divisions.

l Lengthy judicial processes concerning Bank supported Health Projects.The implementation of the
 SHP was severely affected by lengthy and extended inspections and investigations on project related
 activities. At the core of these investigations was the alleged misuse of loan proceeds from Bank
 supported projects. As was extensively raised by those interviewed during the ICR Mission, these
 investigations impacted negatively on the performance of the PCU. Not only did these continuous
 inspections require that documents be produced whenever requested (meaning that time performing
 normal duties was reduced); presence of inspectors from different Government agencies in the same
 building and same floors as the offices of the PCU created a high degree of suspicion, a climate of fear
 and generally an unhealthy working environment. The real result of all these events created a strong



                                                  - 4 -

    reluctance on the part of PCU Coordinators and staff to take any decisions that could potentially lead
    to future inspections, for example for many months in 1999 contract signing for project activities
    slowed down significantly. It is the Bank's understanding that all allegations of fund misuse have so far
    been unproven.

2. Earthquakes that shook Turkey in August and November 1999:
These earthquakes caused the Government of Turkey an estimated US$1.8-2.2 billion fiscal burden. As
requested by the Government, the Bank agreed to reallocate US$22.5 million from the SHP (and US$ 14.5
million from the flailing PHCP) towards earthquake emergency reconstruction activities which formed a
package of some US$270 million quickly put together from the proceeds of 8 loans from the Bank's
various sectors and presented to the Board within 3 weeks of the earthquakes. These were additional
resources to those of the Marmara Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project (MEER) (US$ 505 million)
whose main objective was to help restore living conditions in regions affected by the earthquakes, to
support economic recovery and resumption of growth and develop an institutional framework for disaster
risk management and mitigation. In the health sector, MEER together with the portion of funds from SHP
were to support the repair of damaged healthcare facilities and strengthen community mental health
services to better prepare the country for disaster. MEER is expected to close in May 2006.

3. The need to rectify a faulty Management Service Agreement (MSA) between MOH and UNDP/UNOPS:
According to the Bank's internal documents and interviews held with the project's Task Team Leader at
Mid Term Review (MTR), it became apparent that the MSA contracted between the Government of
Turkey and UNDP/ UNOPS in 1995 did not meet the Bank's fiduciary and financial management standards
or the various clauses of the Loan Agreement. This was not the first time that an MSA had been used in
Bank operations, among the forerunners in the region was the MSA signed between the Government of
Turkey/MOH and UNDP/UNOPS to provide management of activities relating to activities of the FHP.
The MSA worked in the following way: after advice from the MOH/Government on items that needed
funding, UNOPS forwarded a Blanket Application for Withdrawal of project proceeds to the Bank after
which deposits to UNDP's account in US$5 million lots would be made. In return UNDP would undertake
procurement, enter contracts with individuals, engage consultants and firms; and administer fellowships
and study tours on behalf of the Borrower for a management fee of about US$2.8 million, which is about
5% of the total cost for activities to be managed (US$54.7 million). Both the first MSA under the FHP and
the one under the SHP were hailed as great successes in speeding the flow of funds by circumventing
cumbersome Bank and Government of Turkey bureaucracies while the PCU stayed on course with
management of the project. However, the MTR raised concerns about the lack of an audit clause and lack
of sufficient oversight of project      activities by the Bank. It was also a concern that by relegating
management of such a large portion of the project to the UNOPS, the PCU (which already had close to 200
staff) and the MOH were not gaining valuable experience in managing the project. In fact, a large
proportion of total disbursements at MTR was of funds that had been disbursed to a Management Service
Agreement (MSA) account and did not yet represent delivery of goods and services.

3.3 Original Components:
The total project cost was estimated at US$200 million (US$150 million Bank loan and a Government's
contribution of US$50 million). The project had two components with seven sub-components.

Component 1: Primary Health Care (US$155.6 million total cost). Aimed to improve equity of access to
essential health services in 23 low income priority provinces through: a) upgrading the training of primary
health care personnel; b) expanding basic health care interventions known to be cost effective; and c)
strengthening the network of health care facilities to support the above activities. This was the centerpiece
of the Second Health Project. This component had three sub-components. as follows:



                                                     - 5 -

a. Primary Health Care Training (US$16.2 million): The aim of this sub-component was to improve the
quality of essential health services by upgrading the training of primary health care personnel in the 23
project provinces. The project was to support: a) curriculum development, practice-related learning
materials and assistance in revising program evaluation criteria; b) training of trainers; c) strengthening of
in-service training programs; d) support in developing follow-up and supervision mechanisms; and e)
opportunities for further training in primary health care related areas;

b. Basic Health Care Interventions (US$2.9 million): The aim of this sub-component was to improve the
effectiveness of essential health services through: a) extension of successful interventions to 23 project
provinces (UNICEF-inspired Safe Motherhood and Midwife Training Program, the Acute Respiratory
Infection Program, and Child Nutrition and Growth Monitoring Programs); c) support for public education
campaigns (TV and advertising campaigns); c) development/ implementation of referral system; d) support
for community participation and involvement by Non Government Organizations NGO) in the health
sector; and e) Evaluation of cost-effective interventions through operational research; and

c. Infrastructure Development (US$136.5 million): The aim of this sub-component was to improve
access to essential health services in the 23 project provinces through: a) the refurbishment and upgrading
of existing facilities; b) the construction of a limited number (49) of new facilities; and c) the procurement
of basic diagnostic equipment, furniture and vehicles. The civil works focus was on the construction,
furnishing and equipping of 29 urban in-service training centers, 14 urban health centers, 3 public health
laboratories; and 3 cold storages for vaccines. The project was also to support renovation, furnishing and
equipping of 4 mid-size hospitals with 200-300 bed capacity, 110 urban health centers, 115 rural health
centers and 4 public health laboratories. In addition the project was also expected to equip health posts with
midwife kits and refills, equip the largest state hospitals in each province, 4 obstetrics hospitals and 7 other
large non-state hospitals in project area with basic diagnostic, acute care and obstetric equipment; and
provide 244 four wheel drive vehicles.

Component II: Health Policy and Management (US$44.4 million total cost). Aimed to improve the
quality of health care management in selected institutions by: a) Upgrading the training of staff in policy
making, planning, management, monitoring and evaluation; b) decentralizing and restructuring management
responsibility in six pilot hospitals; c) introducing basic management support systems in Provincial Health
Directorates and selected hospitals in the project provinces as well as evaluating a more comprehensive
management information system in one urban pilot hospital in Western Turkey; and d) conducting
pre-investment studies to support broader reform of the health sector. This component had four
sub-components.

a. Health Services Management Training (US$10.7 million total cost): The aim of this sub-component
was to strengthen management capabilities in health care system through: a) Training a critical mass of
Turkish trainers in concepts of modern health care management; b) development of continuing education
program to upgrade managerial skills of hospital managers, health center staff, health directors in project
provinces and Ankara MOH staff; c) providing a rapid management development program tailored for pilot
hospital managers; and d) development of a strategy to extend this training to the entire country. It was
expected that Turkish and Foreign institutions would train a total of 46 trainers who will be responsible for
training 192 hospital staff, 288 people from Provincial Health Directorates, 120 people from the central
MOH and 60 people from pilot hospitals. In addition 140 health center doctors and 100 specialists from
project provinces were expected to be trained annually for 7.5 years duration of the project. The project
was also expected to support 63 staff-months for management support and 524 staff-months for
institutional capacity building, 58 staff years in fellowships as well as study tours, teaching materials,


                                                       - 6 -

audio visual equipment, hardware and software and library resources to establish and strengthen the
programs described;

b. Hospital Management Restructuring (US$4.5 million total cost): The aim of the sub-component was
to improve cost effectiveness, efficiency and quality of hospital services through a) introduction of new
organizational structure in six pilot hospitals; b) redefinition of senior management functions in pilot
hospitals; c) increasing the responsibility, accountability and autonomy (including financial) of managers in
the pilot hospitals. The project was to support the recruitment, selection and development of hospital
management teams; establishment of departments responsible for business planning, general management,
finance, personnel, clinical affairs and in-service training; the development and introduction of hospital
policies and procedures for increased hospital autonomy; the development of accounting systems and
pricing mechanisms to improve efficiency of resource use; and development of quality standards for
improvement of patient care and the environment;

c.   Computerized Management Support Systems (US$12.4 million total cost):                  The aim of the
sub-component was to improve cost effectiveness and efficiency of health services through a computerized
management information system. The sub component would support: a) introduction of network-based
management support systems for hospital management, personnel, payroll, accounting, billing, general
ledger, pharmacy, admission discharge and transfer functions to 34 hospitals in the project provinces; b)
setting up of comprehensive network-based management support system to integrate financial and
administrative management with clinical functions (radiology, hematology, obstetrics, etc.) including
providing access to clinical records in one urban hospital in Western Turkey. In addition, the project was to
support the extension of the 15 module basic Health Information System (HIS) developed for MOH and
provincial Health Directorates under the FHP to the Provincial Directorates of the 23 project provinces.
This HIS was expected to enhance overall health care resource management, service delivery and statistics
collection. Also to be supported was hospital manager and staff training in concepts and functions of the
computerized support systems and also to support development and implementation of application
software; and

d. Pre-investment Studies and Project Management (US$16.8 million total cost): The aim of this
sub-component was to ensure that future reforms in the health sector focus on reducing the burden of ill
health due to preventable and treatable diseases and disability in the country. The project was to support a
National Burden of Disease (BOD) study using the methodology used in the Bank's 1993 WDR so that the
total BOD in the country could be disaggregated by age, sex and disease category according to ICD-10
(International Classification of Diseases) diagnostic codes. In conducting this study, the project would
assist the MOH build capacity to undertake such a study and use the obtained data to set health priorities
and predict trends in key indicators. The sub-component was also to support cost-utility studies that would
help identify affordable cost-effective packages of interventions for preventable and treatable diseases in
the country. To strengthen PCU Management capability to expedite project implementation and conduct
pre-investment studies activities were planned that would support the provision of staff training, materials
and equipment to PCU to support project administration and procurement.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Loan Agreement was amended in September 1999 to include support for five additional provinces
affected by earthquakes. Given the urgency with which the support for these additional provinces was put
together, not much detail on activities to be supported appears in the Project Implementation Report.
Project revisions were considered minor and were therefore not presented to the Bank's Board of Executive
Directors. Revisions to the project included:




                                                     - 7 -

l A reduction in the size of the project so that there were fewer activities and reduced total cost, with
    some of the proceeds going towards the support of earthquake related activities;

l Rightsizing the PCU by substantially reducing the number of staff from about 190 at the end of 1999
    to less than half that by mid 2000; and adopting an appropriate skills mix by keeping a smaller number
    of qualified staff that would work in more consolidated teams. The Bank team that came on board in
    1999, ensured that the function of the PCU was redirected towards coordination and away from
    implementation; and most of the tasks of implementation were moved out of the control of the PCU to
    the MOH and its departments. As the PCU reverted to its original purpose of coordination, only the
    Infrastructure Development sub-component and project management tasks remained under the PCU.
    Major improvements in working relations between the MOH and PCU were seen after these major
    changes within the PCU, it is fair to say that these changes considerably speeded implementation; and

l Substantive corrections to the MOH-UNDP/UNOPS Management Service Agreement were made so
    that the agreement included tighter financial management, a restriction such that only management of
    procurement of training services was authorized and not of goods as was the case before. For the first
    time, an audit clause for loan proceeds managed under the MSA was added.

These revisions took into account the little progress that had been achieved by the project, the reduction in
funds due to the reallocation of US$22.5 million to earthquake related health-care needs, other evolving
sector priorities and the feasibility of completing implementation in a reasonable time frame. Project
closure date was kept as December 2001, though it was understood that implementation would be
completed in three years and that an extension (to December 2002) would be granted closer to this closing
date. The project finally closed in December 2004, after three requests for extensions were granted to
enable the Government to complete implementation. The first extension was to June 2003, the second to
December 2003, and the third and final, to December 2004.

According to the Project Implementation Report (PIR) produced for the 1999 revisions, the total cost of the
project was reduced from US$200 million to about US$185 million (US$150 million Bank loan remained
the same but the Government's contribution was reduced to US$35 million). The revised total cost
included US$25.4 million that had been allocated for earthquake rehabilitation activities. After considering
various pieces of information about the revised project, one could say that the total cost of SHP
components (without earthquake related activities) could be expected to range from a minimum of
approximately US$ 125 million to a maximum of approximately US$ 158.8 million. Unfortunately, the
PIR only presented the cost of components to be covered by the loan proceeds that had yet to be disbursed;
and so for the purpose of this ICR the following revised total costs were obtained by adding up loan
proceeds that had been disbursed, loan proceeds yet to be disbursed, Government contributions that had
been disbursed as well as the expected Government contributions.

Revisions to the Primary Health Care Component. The aims of this component remained basically the
same but after revisions the total cost of the component was re-estimated at US$80.6 million, a substantial
reduction from US$155.6 million originally estimated, mostly because of reduced activities under the
Infrastructure Development sub-component. Reasons and nature of revisions are discussed under the
relevant sub-components.

 a. The Primary Health Care Training sub-component: The revised total cost was estimated at $15.9
million, not too different from the original amount of US$16.2 million. This sub-component was to
continue supporting original project activities as described above;

b. The Basic Health Care Interventions sub-component: The revised total cost was estimated at US$8.2
million, a substantial increase from the originally estimated US$2.9 million total cost. Though the aim of
the sub-component remained the same, activities on community participation and involvement of NGOs in



                                                     - 8 -

health sector and those related to the development of a referral system were dropped after failure to
operationalize community participation, which would have included the establishment of community health
committees, training of community health workers; and training of school teachers in selected public health
issues. In their place interventions and programs such as Safe Motherhood and Family planning were
scaled up, and later, support for immunization campaigns, which were not in the original design, was
added. This significant upward revision in the budget for this sub-component is a reflection of a relative
success of activities that had been achieved before revisions especially because other sub-components. had
yet to see any output; and

c. The Infrastructure Development sub-component: The revised total cost of US$56.5 million instead
of US$136.5 million originally estimated caused the most drastic change in the estimated total cost of the
project. Instead of all the activities that were originally planned, the focus of this sub-component became to
provide a locus of training in the 23 poorest provinces through well-equipped functioning Training Health
Centers (THCs). These are facilities that would offer accommodation of trainees and provide primary
health care services under one roof. The project would also enhance diagnostic capacity in selected
hospitals by purchasing selected medical equipment for 23 state hospitals, and 7 maternity non-large
hospitals. The large downward revision of the budget reflects the decision that activities in the
sub-component had already been severely delayed as was presented under Section 3.2, and so fewer
activities were to be supported.

Revisions to the Health Policy and Management Component. The revised total cost of US$43.4 million
was very close to the original estimate of US$44.4 million. However, though the aims of the component
also remained the same as in the original design, there were important changes within sub-components.
some of which were rearranged by dropping some activities, merging some and separating others as
described below:

a. The Health Service and Hospital Management sub-component: This was a new sub-component
aimed at consolidating activities of the Health Services Management Training and those of the Hospital
Management Restructuring sub-components. Since all the activities of the Hospital Management
Restructuring sub-component were dropped (after the Law on Primary Health Care Services and Family
Physicians failed to materialize), activities to be supported were those related to the Hospital Services
Management Training only which meant training of Provincial Health Directors and Hospital Managers as
was described under Section 3.3. A proposal to establish a Flagship Center that would act as a center of
excellence for health sector management and training to support health sector reform key studies in Turkey
was added. This new sub-component had an estimated total cost of US$7.97 million;

b. The Computerized Management and Support System sub-component: The revised total cost of
US$14.4 million was an increase from the original US$12.4 million, though the sub-component was to
support fewer activities than was in the original design. The sub-component was still to support the
development of the CHRMS system, but the extension of Hospital Information System (HOIS) for MOH
and 23 project provinces was scaled down in order to streamline the already challenging task of developing
CHRMS (HOIS=HIS discussed under Section 3.3c above). Support for HOIS mainly involved purchase
of computers and other equipment on which to run CHRMS, this support was extended to all provinces of
the country;

c. The Studies sub-component: In the original project design, undertaking of at least two key studies as
well as project management activities were to be jointly supported under one sub-component titled `Project
Management and Studies'. After revisions, the budget for Studies was separated from that of project
management mainly to transfer the bulk of implementation tasks out of the PCU and into the MOH. The
Studies sub-component's total cost was estimated at US$4 million, this was to finance the BOD study;
NHA-CE studies plus any other studies identified during the course of implementation; and



                                                       - 9 -

d. The Project Management sub-component: The original total cost for the Project Management and
Studies component was US$16.8 million, after revisions, the total cost for Project Management (now
separate from the Studies sub-component) was estimated at US$16.8 million meaning that the cost of
Project Management was effectively revised upward, although the PIR does not provide sufficient
information to justify this increase. These funds were to support all the functions of the PCU as described
in previous sections; as well as to cover the total fee of US$2.7 million for management functions
performed under the MSA between the MOH and UNDP/ UNOPS.

Lost opportunity. Project revisions in 1999 provided an opportunity to re-evaluate the added value of
Bank's financing for the reduced project, given that expected policy reform activities had failed to move
forward. It was also an opportunity to realign activities to realistic development objectives that could be
achieved within a reasonable time frame and to bring to life a dormant Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
system that had so far not been made use of. However, this opportunity was not taken, and the revisions to
the project primarily consisted of dropping some activities while keeping some of the most difficult to
implement given the lack of capacity in the country and the degree of coordination needed to implement
them (such as Infrastructure Development and Computerized Management Support System). In addition,
insufficient time was allowed for the completion of the revised components.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Bank's OPCS guidelines for ICRs specify that this ICR must assess the quality of the design of the
project as well as the reasonableness of assumptions about external factors that are likely to have affected
implementation and achievement of the project objectives. The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG)'s
Quality at Entry (QER) rating for the SHP is not available (because the effectiveness of the SHP predates
QAGs QER). However, this ICR rates the Quality at entry as Unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

l Poor link between project components and its development objectives (DOs). The aim and
    objectives of the SHP were clearly defined in the SAR. They responded to poor health in the country
    and were well aligned with the Government's efforts to improve health status in the country which were
    consistent with the Bank's 1993 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and remain relevant according to
    the 2003 CAS objectives. The SHP was an ambitious project that aimed to change major health
    outcomes in 7.5 years, an unrealistic objective. Moreover, the proposed project activities were not only
    too numerous and unfocused, they were also not well designed to meet the expected outcomes of the
    project.

    For example, the link between large investments in hospital and health care infrastructure (70% of the
    project) and the expected project goals were not sufficiently addressed in the SAR. The existence of
    low hospital bed occupancy (42%) among populations with extensive health needs among the poorest
    inhabitants of the country and the proposed further investments in infrastructure was raised in the Staff
    Appraisal Report (SAR) and by Bank staff who were the peer reviewers of the project. Despite this
    knowledge, the issue of policy that would adequately address factors hindering equity of access
    received little mention in project design. On the other side, the project did include important elements of
    policy reform and of capacity building, demonstrating elements of conflict on how the specified
    objectives of the project could be reached. Unfortunately, the project was not sufficiently detailed in the
    purpose of the large amount of training that was proposed or how the risks of high rates of turnover for
    health sector staff in the 23 project provinces would be mitigated.

l The long period between project concept and approval did not improve the final design of the
    project. Deficiencies in design are probably partly explained by the fact that the SHP's Project
    Concept Document was produced in 1988 and the project, as conceived then remained basically the



                                                    - 10 -

  same as it was approved in 1994. What this means is that developments in the country and in the
  health sector in general had little impact on the approved project 6 years later.

l The design was not sufficiently informed by health sector research on major factors hindering
  access to health care in the Eastern Provinces of Turkey. The SHP could have greatly benefitted
  from analysis on whether access in the poorest 23 provinces was limited by poorly developed
  infrastructure, distance, quality of existing services, political, socio-cultural factors or cost. Basically
  the project could have been better designed if analysis on why, despite the availability of hospital beds
  and other health care facilities in the project provinces, the population still had very poor health
  outcomes. Instead the design relied heavily on the concept that health can be improved by more
  investments in the number of health care facilities.

l The design was complex and overestimated the capacity of implementing agencies. Though the
  SHP had only two components, the number of activities was large and included a large infrastructure
  component aiming to expand access to health care; and a large number of training activities aiming to
  improve management and delivery of service.              All these activities required close MOH-PCU
  coordination (which at most times was ineffective as was described before), as well as coordination of
  various key players (eg., MOF, Ministry dealing with land issues) at central and provincial
  directorates. The project design did not adequately factor in the need to build the capacity of the
  implementation agencies themselves, which had already been identified during implementation of the
  FHP and in the SAR as very limited. The design particularly failed to adequately address lack of
  capacity in procurement of Training and of IT goods and services (infact in the early years of
  implementation, the Bank itself did not seem to have sufficient capacity in this area). In addition,
  capacity to monitor and evaluate progress and outcomes was not adequately addressed.

l Inadequate consideration of risks and reality. The design did not factor in potential risks of having a
  large PCU that operated as a separate entity from the MOH, the risks of political instability and many
  changes in Governments, the reality of bureaucratic processes in the country, limited capacity of local
  construction firms and the reality of shorter construction work calendar in the Eastern regions of the
  country; and the risks and consequences of delays in implementation of the IT component. The design
  was also rather vague on how community participation could be mobilized, probably due to the lack of
  analysis on how community participation and involvement of NGOs in the health sector would be
  operationalized (essential to meeting the objectives of the Basic Health Care sub-component). In fact,
  the project's operational manual gives limited information on how this was to be put in action. In
  general, there was little participation of stakeholders in the design of this project probably reflecting the
  fact that the importance of stakeholder involvement in project design was not as keenly appreciated
  then, as it has become in more recent years.

l Lessons from the FHP were noted but recommended solutions were inadequate.                        The Staff
  Appraisal Report (SAR) clearly notes reasons for FHP's slow start (for example, the PCU's
  unfamiliarity with procurement, poor PCU/ MOH capacity to develop and implement large
  infrastructure and training programs and frequent changes in management of MOH). Solutions
  identified and expected to make implementation of the SPH smoother, such as continuation of the
  MOH-UNDP MSA and reliance on a large PCU, did not reflect these lessons.

l Monitoring and Evaluation framework described some of the expected outcomes and impact; but
  it was inadequate in how M&E would be managed.                 According to the SAR, there were several
  project outcomes and results that the project aimed to achieve; and for some of these, thirteen 13 very
  specific indicators, targets as well as adequate baselines were defined as presented in Annex 1 on Key
  Performance Indicators. Those targets which were specified can be evaluated as very specific and
  measurable, but they were very ambitious given the expected length of the project. Unfortunately, no



                                                   - 11 -

    indicators were specified for other expected outcomes such as those related to equity of access and
    improved health care management. The SAR acknowledged the challenges involved in measuring some
    of these expected outcomes that depended on training and Information Technology Investments; and as
    a result, these were basically left unspecified, with no baseline and therefore not measurable. In
    addition to lack of targets for some outcomes, for a number of the indicators, baseline data were not
    available and the methods for data collection, the scheduling and frequency of data collection were not
    specified.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Bank's OPCS guidelines specify that this section must assess the degree to which the project in its
entirety achieved its development objectives as specified in the SAR. In undertaking this assessment,
particular attention has been paid to make a distinction between the project's performance in using project
inputs (for example, specified budgets for the different project components), from project output (training
programs, curricula, infrastructure, and all other activities and purchases that were supported by the
project); expected project outcomes (better equity of access and health care management); and the expected
project impact (lowering the burden of disease, lowering IMR etc). The aim of this assessment is not to
evaluate the extent to which the project's implementation met the procurement plan that was agreed to
between the Bank and the implementing agency in order to deliver the expected outputs of the project. It is
important to note that inputs do not always lead to outputs and that outputs may not necessarily lead to
expected outcomes. Moreover, in some cases, even when expected outcomes are achieved, the expected
impact might not be forthcoming especially when the impact is dependent on factors beyond the scope of a
particular sector-specific project such as the passing of a particular legislation.

In the case of the SHP, the design of the project was based on a number of assumptions including the
existence of a causal link between project outputs (such as construction of Training Health Centers,
medical equipment, training, investments in IT, basic health care interventions, research) and project
outcomes (such as improved equity of access to health care and improved health care management) which
were then expected to have an impact on IMR, child mortality, life expectancy etc. Based on this project's
design, implementation of project activities was carried out on the assumption that project funds had been
rationally allocated across project components (for example, that it was rational to allocate 70% of the
project to support infrastructure development activities); and that if all activities were completed as
designed and in accordance with procurement plans agreed with the Bank, then this would lead to
successful outputs, which would mean that outcomes are also successful and that the expected impact
would be forthcoming. It is quite grave, that the design of the SHP did not appropriately link the project's
expected outcomes and impact from the proposed inputs and outputs. It is also unfortunate that the project
did not undergo major revisions or restructuring to correct this deficiency, i.e. the original and revised
objectives remained more or less the same; and so this assessment still will rate the achievement of
outcomes given the original objectives. While the project did succeed in producing a sizeable proportion of
expected outputs, the overall achievement of the project's objectives is rated Unsatisfactory for the
following reasons:

l The SHP was not designed to meet the expected project outcomes because of the very weak link
    between project objectives and the bulk of planned activities. In the end, despite the large amount of
    output from this project, it is likely that their contribution to expected outcomes is, at best, very
    modest. In addition, it is unfortunate that those important and much needed policy reforms that would
    have been key in changing the management of health care in the country were later dropped from the
    project and therefore most of the capacity building activities are unlikely to have added to expected



                                                     - 12 -

    outcomes;

l Despite this project's implementation being longer than originally planned, project activities were still
    not fully completed at project close and so the expected outputs were not achieved. Moreover, because
    of the length of time that passed between project design and implementation of some sub-components
    some outputs were no longer very useful by the time they were delivered; and

l Significant deficiencies in the original design of the M&E framework, as well as monitoring and
    evaluation of project outputs and outcomes created a real challenge in the rating of achievement of
    project objectives, in some cases, even of expected outputs; and of outcomes. This was especially
    challenging for measuring the outcome and impact of training activities and of Information Technology
    investments. The achievement of objectives is therefore rated against the degree to which outputs that
    should have contributed to goals are seen to have done that. Rating of project aims and goals was
    considered using available data that was amenable to evaluation of trends in selected health indicators
    for the period 1993-2003, which covers most of the duration of implementation.


Objective I: Improvement in equity of access to essential health services in 23 Eastern, low income priority
provinces (and 5 provinces affected by the August and November 1999 earthquakes)*. The achievement of
this objective is rated Unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

l The improvement of access to health services in the 23 project provinces was given a very high priority
    in the project's SAR. After the revisions of 1999, this was expected to be achieved partly through the
    construction of Training Health Centers which were designed to provide training facilities to provincial
    health sector staff and also to provide accommodation for those attending training. In addition these
    buildings were designed to also offer primary health care services to the population living in the
    neighborhood of the THCs. At project close, the construction of 5 of the 23 THCs was incomplete and
    the use of those completed THCs as centers of learning or as health care centers had yet to begin.
    Given the faults in how this project was designed, it is debatable whether activities that were expected
    to contribute to better equity of access are really going to have the desired effect despite the hard work
    that went into completing them. On the positive side, improved access to faster diagnosis through the
    purchase of diagnostic and pediatric equipment is likely to have contributed to improved access to
    timely diagnosis of major health concerns in the 23 project provinces. Visits to 5 state hospitals during
    the ICR mission noted that purchased equipment was being used and staff appreciated the benefits of
    having modern diagnostic equipment within proximity; and

l One of the main factors hindering equitable access to health care in the project provinces was the
    unavailability of health care providers in these areas (See section 3.1 above). Training supported by
    this project was expected to alleviate this shortage. Unfortunately, a large number of staff that received
    training did not stay in the project provinces and therefore their contribution to this particular objective
    was probably minimal. The fact that staff that had received training moved and that benefits might
    have accrued to provinces other than the 23 that the project aimed to support, might not necessarily be
    considered a bad outcome or fault of the project, although it cannot be stated that this was positive for
    the project provinces. On a positive note, reports of field visits to the provinces confirm a great
    appreciation for this training on individual staffs' development.

*Though a thorough analysis of earthquake related activities supported through the MEER Project
will be undertaken when the project closes in 2006, it is likely that upon assessment of the MEER
project, some positive contributions in improving access to essential health services in the 5 provinces
affected by the earthquakes are likely to be attributed to the SHP. The project has so far supported
drafting of the National Mental Health Policy; strengthening of emergency health stations; rehabilitation of


                                                     - 13 -

hospitals, construction of health centers; and purchase of medical equipment and furniture for damaged
health care facilities.

Objective II: Improvement in quality of health care management in selected institutions. The achievement of
this objective is rated Unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

l Health sector management reforms did not materialize. The project supported significant quantities
     of training of managers but the benefits might not have been directly beneficial to improving the quality
     of health care management within the central MOH or in the 23 Provincial Health Directorates.
     Indirectly, these trainings could have acted as non-monetary forms of compensation to health sector
     workers in the project provinces, but in absence of the necessary health sector reforms, beneficiaries
     continued to work in the way they had always worked as was learnt during the ICR Mission; and

l Expected improvements in competence and cost effectiveness of health services expected from
     Computerized Management Support System have yet to be realized. For reasons that will be
     discussed in the following sections, a large part of the CMSS is not operational and though the project
     did fund training on general computer literacy and to a smaller extent training of development, support
     and implementation of application software, a high proportion of IT staff did not stay long in the
     employment of the MOH.

Other project goals and aims: To reduce the burden of disease due to avoidable illness and disability in
Turkey; and to improve health status, reducing infant mortality rates, decreasing fertility rates and
improving life expectancy in the participating provinces.

It is not possible to rate the achievement of the project's primary goals and aims because:
l No baseline Burden of Disease (BOD) data exists for Turkey. The 1993 WDR which was extensively
     used in project design, presented the BOD for broad regions of the world and not for specific countries.
     Data from the BOD study, conducted through the support of this project, shows that Turkey disease
     burden is approximately 10, 802, 494 DALYs. However, one can neither say how the BOD has
     changed in the 10 years of implementation or quantify how the project's activities have played a role in
     whatever changes there might have been during this time; and

l Though the SAR provided a baseline of various health outcomes for provinces, there was no evaluation
     strategy for data collection for the 23 provinces during the course of implementation meaning that no
     direct attribution to project activities can be made. Moreover, for other outcomes evaluation design was
     weak in that monitoring and evaluation questions were vague and not well articulated.

     Without suggesting attribution to the SHP, especially since the contribution of this project to the
     overall yearly MOH budget was very small, trends in various outcomes for 5 regions (grouped
     provinces) of Turkey between 1993 and 2003 were compared. These trends were not drawn from data
     collected under the project's M&E system; they are only meant to demonstrate what has happened in
     the country in the 10 years when the project was implemented. Demographic and Health Survey (DHS)
     data, not surprisingly, show change in some of the health indicators with specified targets in the SAR
     over the course of the last 10 years. The East (with 22 of 23 SHP provinces as well as 3/8 of FHP
     provinces) and North regions are some of most deprived in the country; these and others, were
     compared to the better-off West region. All other things being equal, it is reasonable to expect that
     those regions comprising of project provinces should, at the minimum, not have experienced a
     worsening of health outcomes in 10 years. More information on DHS data, the methods used in
     analysis and the targets that were specified in the SAR is presented in Annex 10.




                                                      - 14 -

1. IMR has dropped from about 53 per 1000 in 1993 to about 29 per 1000 in 2003; and under-5
mortality has dropped from 61 per 1000 in 1993 to about 37 per 1000 in 2003 but regional differences
have worsened. Though IMR has declined, for the poorest provinces, IMR is almost at levels experienced
by better-off regions a decade ago; and the West-East, West-North regional gap in IMR might have
increased between 1993 and 2003.

                                              Figure 1: Regional Trends in Infant Mortality Rates 1993-2003.



                                  7 0

                                                                1 9 9 3        1 9 9 8        2 0 0 3

                                  6 0



     000                          5 0

        per

           Rate                   4 0



                                  3 0
               Mortality


                        Infant    2 0



                                  1 0



                                    0
                                        W e s t      S o u t h    C e n t r a l       N o r t h        E a s t    T u r k e y




Target in SAR was to lower the 23 project provinces' IMR by 40% and U5 mortality by about 23%. The
largest drop in IMR has been experienced by the West, South and Central regions. After 10 years, not only
are these declines short of the SAR target, actually when East and North are compared to the West region,
the difference in child deaths as measured by IMR and U5 mortality seems to have grown.

2. TFR has declined marginally from about 2.7 to about 2.2 children per woman; the largest drop
was in the North, Central and East regions. Contraceptive prevalence rate increased from about 63% in
1993 to 71% in 2003, the increase was quite large in the East region where it increased by about 37% (to
reach 58% in 2003) compared to 3.8% for the West (to reach 74% from an already high 72% in 1993).
The increase in CPR for the East region was above the SAR target which was to increase CPR by 30% and
lower the 23 project provinces' TFR by 30%. After a decade, the gap in CPR between the West and the
East region remains about 16 percentage points.

Figure 2: Comparison of the Gap in IMR between the West and other regions.




                                                                               - 15 -

                                                                                        3 0




                                                                                        2 5
     region
                                                                                                                           1 9 9 3             1 9 9 8                  2 0 0 3
           West                                                                         2 0

               the
                  to
                                                                                        1 5




                                                                                        1 0
                    compared


                            when                                                          5


                                IMR

                                                                                          0

                                                                                                     S o u t h                 C e n t r a l                          N o r t h                       E a s t
                                   Excess
                                                                                        - 5




Figure 3: Percentage change in IMR, U5M, TFR, Full vaccination rates, HHDR, CPR and ANC rates
between 1993 and 2003.

                                                                                              9 0
                                                                                                                 W e s t      S o u t h        C e n t r a l           N o r t h        E a s t       T u r k e y
                                                                                              8 0

                                                                                              7 0                                                                                                                 A N C


                                                                                              6 0

                                                                                              5 0
                                         1993-2003                                                                                                                                            C P R
                                                                                              4 0

                                                                                              3 0

                                                  outcomes                                    2 0

                                                                                              1 0
                                                                                                     I M R           U 5 M              T F R         F u l l v a c .           H H D R
                                                          selected                              0
                                                                  in
                                                                                            - 1 0

                                                                                            - 2 0
                                                                    change
                                                                                            - 3 0

                                                                                            - 4 0

                                                                          Percentage        - 5 0

                                                                                            - 6 0

                                                                                            - 7 0

                                                                                            - 8 0




3. All regions saw improvements in the proportion of births that are delivered in health care facilities.
Nationally, the ratio of percentage of births delivered at home (HHDR) compared to those at a health care
facility dropped from about 0.67 to 0.27 between 1993 and 2003. Target in SAR was to lower the 23
project provinces' Home Hospital Delivery Ratio (HHDR) by 10%. The smallest change has been in the
West region, where the proportion born at health care centers was already highest in 1993; and largest in
the Central and North regions, but the ratio in the East still remains far below the national average even
after a 64% improvement in 10 years.

4. The percent of women who received antenatal care also increased from 63% to 81% nationwide.
Target in SAR was to increase antenatal and postnatal contact rates to three contacts. DHS data did not
allow for analysis of number of ANC contacts, available data allowed for analysis of general contact rates,




                                                                                                                                           - 16 -

these show that the most significant change in ANC coverage has been in the East region where the
proportion of women who received ANC from a low level of 34% in 1993 (compared to 86% in the West).
Despite this improvement, the gap compared to the West region remains 30 percentage points (lower from
the 52 percentage points gap in 1993).

5. The percent of children fully vaccinated decreased from 65% to 54%. Target in SAR was to
increase immunization rates for tetanus, polio and measles to 95%. This analysis could only obtain
comparable data on full immunization and these data show that there has been a worsening of full coverage
of children against these major diseases. All regions experienced declines in proportion of children that
were fully vaccinated but the most severe decline occurred in the South, followed by the West regions. In
light of vaccination campaigns that are discussed in the output section of this ICR, it is very difficult to
judge whether or not those campaigns had any effect in minimizing the size of the decline in the East and
North region.

4.2 Outputs by components:
This section will provide a component by component evaluation of the achievement of their specific
objectives as stated in the SAR, paying particular attention to whether the project was appropriately
designed to be able to achieve its objectives and whether there was sufficient criteria set for measuring the
achievement of objectives.

Component I. Primary Health Care (Original total cost: US$155.6 million, Revised total cost:
US$80.6 million and Actual total cost: US$80.58 million).
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.

The objective of the Primary Health Care component was to improve equity of access to essential health
services in the 23 low income priority provinces. The achievement of this objective is rated as
unsatisfactory partly because the link between activities that the project supported and the expected
outcomes was very weak to begin with. In other words, the project as designed is unlikely to have led to the
expected outcomes. In some cases, the achievement of the objective is hard to evaluate because no
indicators for how outcomes should be evaluated exist. Of the three sub-components under this component,
only the Basic Health Care Interventions sub-component is evaluated as a successful contribution to the
objectives of the component and of the project, as is discussed below. The project supported an impressive
quantity of training activities under the Primary Health Care Training sub-component, but its contribution
to improving equitable access to essential health services and improving capacity at selected health care
facilities is very difficult to judge. Part of the Infrastructure Development sub-component remained
incomplete at project close, nevertheless, given the weak link that can be made between the need to
construct the THC as a way of improving access to essential health services in the provinces, it is very
probable that the contribution of this sub-component is very modest at best.

Analysis by sub-component
a. Primary Health Care Training (Original total cost: US$16.2 million, Revised total cost: US$15.9
million and Actual total cost: US$ 12.7 million): Training output from this sub-component is considered
partially successful in contributing to project objectives of improving access to health care because training
is likely to have better prepared new health care workers for the new working conditions in the Eastern
provinces. The PCU/ MOH estimates that as many as 27, 000 people might have been trained by this
project under this sub-component. The project is also likely to have built capacity, especially at the School
of Public Health (SPH), in preparation and coordination of these types of training. However, given the high
staff turnover in the project provinces, the contribution towards better equity of access from those who
received training is hard to measure. Difficulties in measurement of achievements from this sub-component



                                                     - 17 -

are exacerbated by the fact that while post-training questionnaires were filled by course participants, these
largely focused on participants' satisfaction, and not on working skills or practices making it impossible to
comment on the impact that such training would have had.

The project supported two types of basic health services instruction to health personnel:
l Adaptation Training: This was targeted at first level health personnel new in their posts, newly
    appointed to the province or appointed to MOH from other public institutions, usually on the
    agreement to be employed in first level health institutions in deprived provinces. Training ran for 10
    working days and included the following topics: characteristics of the province regarding health
    services; legal arrangements regarding health services and workers; functions and management of
    village clinics; basic principles and techniques of health service planning; introduction to epidemiology
    in regional health management; participation of public in health services; and health programs.
    According to the PCU/ MOH, there were 12, 749 health personnel who received this type of training.

l Career Development Training: This was provided to ensure personnel had the knowledge and
    capabilities to improve efficiency in provision of health services. These were organized by the
    Provincial Health Directors and Provincial Training Teams, training was targeted at first level health
    centers. Training included topics such as: environmental health; family health; mother health and
    planning; child health; mental health; training on health issues encountered frequently in the provinces;
    general principles in control of contagious diseases; diseases preventable by vaccination; respiratory
    system infections; diseases transmitting via water and foods; sexually transmitted diseases; zoonotic
    diseases; tropical diseases; chronic diseases frequently encountered in the first level of healthcare; first
    aid services and emergency interventions; preventive eye health; mouth and teeth health; and nutrition.
    According to the PCU/ MOH, there were 14, 349 people who received this type of training.

Training was a result of collaboration between MOH Headquarters, Provincial Health Directorates (PHDs)
and Universities (including a critical role played by the SPH) to develop training materials. The project
supported the creation of Provincial Training Teams and Central Training Teams at the MOH; and,
eventually these acted as Trainers of first level health personnel in the provinces. Training Teams received
"Train the trainers" instruction once every two years aimed at improving their training capabilities.

b. Basic Health Care Interventions (Original total cost: US$2.9 million, Revised total cost: US$8.2
million and Actual total cost: US$7.4 million): This sub-component is evaluated as having made an
important contribution to better basic health care interventions by supporting key immunization campaigns,
family planning efforts; and by supporting the drafting of various drug protocols, in addition to providing
training to MOH staff and supporting important public information campaigns. Not only are all these
output likely to have contributed to the status of public health in the project provinces, through this
sub-component, the project also supported production of protocols that will have lasting utility in the health
sector for years to come. Specifically the following activities were supported by the project:

l Rational Use of Drugs. The project supported studies and training in rational drug use concepts.
    Approximately 160 persons participated in "train the Pharmacotherapy Trainers" sessions and
    approximately 14 publications were produced. In addition, the project supported Rational Drug Use
    studies which produced important findings on how significant savings for health care budgets can be
    obtained through more economic use of pharmaceuticals; prescription assessment studies and some
    research using patient registry books as well as direct recording of prescriptions in pharmacies was
    undertaken in two project provinces (Bayburt and Bolu); Training for Provincial Training Teams who
    were expected to train Rational Drug Use concepts to new personnel as part of routine training
    sessions; and collaboration of academicians in ensuring that the Rational Drug Use concept is a part of



                                                    - 18 -

    medical school training and was supported by the Higher Education Board recommendations on the use
    of the designed training program in universities medical faculties.

l Development of "Diagnosis and Treatment Guidelines for First Level Health Institutions". These
    provide guidelines to be used in identification and solution of frequently observed health problems at
    first level health institutions. Fifty-thousand (50, 000) copies of the "Diagnosis and Treatment
    Guidelines for First Level Health Institutions (2003)" have been printed and distributed to doctors
    providing first level health services.

l Vaccination campaigns to eradicate measles. Though this activity was not originally included in the
    original project design, it was probably one of the few successful outputs of the project. Working with
    the MOH, and other partner organizations (WHO, UNICEF, CDC), the Bank supported purchases
    through UNICEF of 28 million doses of measles vaccines, 34 million doses of combined
    diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus (DPT) vaccines; Equipment and materials (vaccine carriers, disposable
    safety boxes, refrigerator monitors, temperature data loggers, syringes, used-syringe safety boxes, ice
    boxes, refrigerators, freezers, cold chain monitors and laboratory kits); Development and organization
    of formal training seminars, educational meetings and through the provision of guidelines, action plans,
    training material on vaccine management, adverse event management, vaccine logistics, cold chain
    management, and injection safety; and part of MOH's public campaigns on immunization.

l Public education and health promotion programs: The project supported studies on maternal and
    child health, malaria, tuberculosis and cancer; procurement of family planning methods (26.4 million
    condoms; 396, 000 IUDs); and material development and printing, and training of health workers and
    the public. It is unfortunately, not possible to link the outputs from health promotion programs or
    vaccination campaigns to the large increase in contraceptive use or in the decline in full immunization
    that were presented in the previous section.

    It is understood that various attempts have been undertaken to compile and analyze data linking project
    activities under this sub-component with the expected health outcomes. It is also the case that the
    Government, the World Health Organization (WHO) and UNICEF have conducted analyses on
    immunization coverage and associated issues such as injection safety. It is unfortunate that all such
    data have not been properly brought together so as to ascertain the impact of investments made under
    this sub-component with, for example, fewer disease outbreaks, or with program design and delivery.
    There has also been no published reports on the impact of health promotion exercises such as those on
    safe motherhood and family planning. Despite this absence of concrete evidence on impact, activities
    delivered under this sub-component required a real uptake of new ways of delivering basic health
    programs in the supported provinces, it is for this reason that the sub-component is seen as a successful
    contribution to objectives of the project.


c. Infrastructure Development (Original total cost: US$136.5 million, Revised total cost: US$56.5
million and Actual total cost: US$60.48 million):           At project close, the project had supported the
construction of Training Health Centers (THCs) and the equipping of project provinces' state hospitals, as
well as maternity hospitals with diagnosis and pediatric equipment and vehicles. Overall, however, because
of the poor link between the objectives of the component and the bulk of the output that were planned
(largely the construction and equipping of THCs), the contribution of outputs from this sub-component to
the objectives of the project (i.e. to improve equity of access to health care) is considered marginal.
The output supported by this project included:
l The construction and equipping of 18 out of the expected 23 THCs . The ICR Mission observed that
    these buildings are spacious (3, 391 m2) four floor buildings, they include a basement, two floors



                                                      - 19 -

    intended for clinical health care purposes and two additional floors intended for training and
    accommodation facilities for trainees. All the buildings are of identical proportions though they will
    serve very different catchment areas, ranging from populations of about 35, 000 in Bayburt to 130,
    000 in Erzurum. Some of these buildings are in provinces with high seasonal migration and some are in
    provinces which already have a large stock of unused health centers, such as Bayburt. The contribution
    of additional facilities in some of these provinces to the improvement of equity in access to health care
    is hard to evaluate.

l The project supported purchase of equipment for 23 existing State Hospitals and 7 maternity hospitals
    including 795 pieces of medical equipment including Anesthesia units and ventilators; Equipment for
    to support surgery and electro medicine procedures; 100 Different pieces of laboratory equipment;
    Computed tomography equipment; Magnetic resonance imaging; Diagnostic ultrasound equipment;
    Pieces of Neonatal therapy and care equipment; Monitoring and emergency equipment; 34 X-ray
    imaging equipment; 23 cross country vehicles; and 23 minibuses. A full list is available in Annex 9.

Several reasons led to the less than successful implementation and output from this sub-component. These
include the initial delay in starting construction caused by the Government's decision to postpone activities
until Project Year 3; delayed bidding of construction work to June 2002 meaning that construction began in
September 2002 (i.e. 8 years after effectiveness); the dispute between the MOH and the construction firm
supervisor causing a year's delay after MOH suspended construction while it undertook investigations for
irregularities in contracts; poor capacity of some construction firms which resulted in a very slow pace of
working and work of unacceptable standard and the fact that some firms went bankrupt midway through
construction activities. Part of the reasons for incompletion of the THCs is also due to the unrealistic time
frame for completion that was set after the 1999 revisions, the timetable did not take into account the
shorter working calendar caused by harsh winters in the Eastern provinces. The new project closing date
basically meant that construction was expected to be completed within 12 months of work, since work
could only be done in 6 months of the year.

Component II. Health Policy and Management (Original total cost: US$44.4 million, Revised total
cost: US$43.4 million and Actual total cost: US$42.2 million).
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.

The aim of this component was to improve the quality of health care management in the MOH and selected
institutions. Output from this component is considered to have had limited success in contributing to the
improvement of quality of health care management in selected institutions because: i) legislation that would
have changed the system within which managers work and hence made the training output beneficial to
health sector management did not materialize; and ii) an important sub-component which was expected to
improve the management of health care (CMSS), though considered complete by MOH, still has major
shortcomings as will be described below. It is unfortunate that for all the impressive quantity of training
supported by the project, this might not necessarily have improved management of health care in the
country. On the positive side, the project successfully supported the Studies sub-component as described
below. As with previous subcomponents, neither the SAR nor the PIR provided yardsticks for measuring
output from training or IT investments, it is only possible to measure achievement against what was the
expected contribution to the objective.

Analysis by sub-component

a. Health Services and Hospital Management (This sub-component was created after the 1999
revisions with an estimated Total cost of US$7.96 million. Its Actual total cost was US$8.22 million).



                                                     - 20 -

This sub-component is considered unsuccessful in improving the management capacities of provincial
health managers and hospital managers because: i) key legislation necessary for changes in hospital
management systems was not enacted; and ii) high staff turnover in the project provinces. The project
supported Health Services Management Training for 148 Provincial Health Directors, Deputy Provincial
Health Directors and MOH staff who participated in the Health Services Management Training. Health
Services Management Training was also provided to 372 Chief Hospital Physicians, Hospital Managers
and Chief Nurses of hospitals with 50 bed capacity. ICR Mission interviews with beneficiaries of training
revealed a mixed view of the relevance of the training received, in terms of content and relevance to the
Turkey situation, and also that in absence of policy reforms the training received did not change the way
they worked. But the training was described as a useful incentive to workers in deprived provinces.

b. Computerized Management and Support System (Original Total cost: US$12.4 million, Revised
total cost: US$14.4 million and Actual total cost: US$11.3 million). This sub-component was not as
successful in improving cost effectiveness and efficiency of health services as would have been expected.
Implementation of this sub-component suffered significant initial delays caused by inadequate initial
systems analysis, insufficient consultation with would be users of the proposed new system, lack of
internal support for the Human Resource Management (HRM) cluster; and also due to poor performance
from a subcontractor. As a result of significant delays in completing software related activities and the
deployment of the Computerized Human Resource Management System (CHRMS), the system's usefulness
was bypassed by other IT developments within the Government. The project supported:

l Development of a Computerized Human Resource Management System (CHRMS) which involved
    four sub-clusters described below:
    Financial Management Cluster was designed to enable development of plans and to enable effective
    allocation and control of financial resources. By project close the software application had been
    developed but the application has not been used as was envisaged in the original design. One of the
    reasons is that the Ministry of Finance has adopted its own budget software which is used by all
    Government agencies including the MOH. It is not clear whether this software application will ever be
    used in the future.
    Materials Management Cluster was designed to centrally keep track of material movements, stocks,
    fixtures, medical equipment, vehicles, general resource management and maintenance processes. By
    project close the application software had been developed but the application is not being used. The
    main reason for this is that all public health institutions including the Provincial Health Directors can
    now procure their own requirements without the need to go through the MOH, meaning that there is no
    longer a necessity for the MOH to centrally keep track of materials and stocks movement, a
    development that was not foreseen at the systems requirement stage.
    Human Resources Management Cluster was designed to keep track of personnel movements, payroll
    and accruement related transactions. This sub cluster initially received little support because of the fear
    that personnel decisions will no longer be influenced by individuals and eventually required personal
    intervention of a high level MOH official to become operational. By project close, this was the only
    cluster that is at least partially useful to the MOH though the system still needs further customization
    to meet new and additional HR and IT requirements of the MOH.
    Drugs and Pharmacy (Regulatory) Information Cluster was designed to perform functions of the
    General Directorate of Drug and Pharmacy at MOH, and that of the Division of Pharmacy at PHD's.
    By project closure the software application had been developed but was not being used, and at the time
    of ICR preparation the software did not contain any useful data that could assist in performing
    functions of the relevant directorate.

l    Purchase of Hardware: The project supported the purchase of equipment for operations in the central



                                                     - 21 -

    MOH and in the provincial health directorates. This included: 523 workstations, 80 printers, 11
    workstations and 3 printers for each Provincial Health Directorate (PHD) as well as equipment to
    support computer networks including power supplies, cables etc.

l Training in Information Technology: The sub-component also supported training of 5, 230 MOH
    staff in IT areas of general computer literacy; office automation; system operation; network
    management & maintenance; system management & maintenance; human resource management
    system; finance resource management system; material resource management system; and drug &
    pharmacy information system. Part of this training was on the 4 sub-clusters of the CHRMS, of which
    only 25% is now used by the human resources department of the MOH. Interviews with MOH's
    Department of Data Processing indicated that despite the large amount of training it is hard to gauge
    the impact of these training activities on management capacity at MOH since many of those trained in
    IT support, development and implementation of application software had left the employment of the
    MOH. At the time of the ICR, the DIP which is responsible for implementation of the CMSS is
    strongly supported by IT consultants, a situation that raised serious concerns as to how CHRMS
    revisions will be undertaken and how investments in IT are in general supported within the MOH.

c. Studies (This sub-component was created after the 1999 revisions with an estimated Total cost of
US$4.2 million, the Actual total cost was US$5.5 million).            This is by far the most important
contribution of the project. The project successfully supported two key studies that are already providing
useful information to the Government, MOH and other researchers. Though attempts to prepare for
implementing activities in this sub-component are mentioned early in project implementation (1996), the
work really started after the project was revised in 1999 and it was a major feat that was accomplished in
the last 2-3 years of the project and required commendable effort from the School of Public Health which
oversaw the whole exercise of coordinating data collection and processing. These studies are making, and
will continue to make, extremely useful contributions in the decision making process by the Government
and MOH. In most measures, activities of this sub-component has built capacity to undertake such a
study, to use the obtained data to set health priorities and predict trends in key indicators and also to
identify affordable cost-effective packages of interventions for preventable and treatable diseases in the
country.

l National Burden of Disease Study. The National BOD-CE Study is already providing YLL, YLD
    and DALY values calculated using GBD 2000 standard, differentiated by age, gender, region,
    rural-urban differences and cause of death, as well as projected values for 2010 to 2030. HALE values
    by age group and gender were also calculated. A household survey was conducted (11, 481
    households) to record incidences of deaths (ICD 10 system) in the past one year which identified
    preventable deaths and the preventable burden of disease. Data for the calculation of Cost-effectiveness
    of selected health care interventions from 29 health institutions. Estimates were made for 38
    interventions and using these, 9 basic service packages were developed.

l National Health Accounts. The project supported the collection of the first NHA data base for 1999
    and 2000. A two-phase representative household survey that identifies household health expenditures
    was conducted; questionnaires and surveys were designed and applied in order to obtain data on the
    health accounts of 152 institutions of those with 742- bed capacity. The data was collected using the
    recommended OECD approach and meet policy requirements of the country. The data is a
    commendable effort of collaboration between the School of Health Administration, Hacettepe
    University, Bigiktas, The Ministry of Health, and the Harvard School of Public Health.

l Capacity Building. In order to build capacity outside the School of Public Health, the State Institute of
    Statistics (SIS) has been entrusted with the tools for future NHA data collection tasks. This will also
    enable future efforts to conduct NHA data will receive financial support through the national budgetary


                                                    - 22 -

    process. In addition, the following capacity building activities were undertaken. Two training sessions
    (2 weeks and 1 week long) were held for Committee Members of all Health Organizations; 60
    participants from various units of the Ministry of Health and from other sectors ( Ministry of Internal
    Affairs, State Statistics Institute, State Planning Organization; Treasury, Pension Fund, Social
    Security Agency for the Self-Employed, Social Security Agency, Ministry of Finance, Universities)
    attended a 2-week training session on BOD-CE which also included the use of DISMOD taught by
    WHO officials; 176 voluntary personnel from Provincial Health Directorates received "Remote
    Training Program" on BOD-CE; and 100 people, including Provincial Health Managers from 81
    provinces, attended a 1 week workshop on the methodology and results of the BOD-CE study.

d. Project Management (This sub-component was created after the 1999 revisions with an estimated
Total cost of US$16.8 million and the Actual total cost was US$17.2 million). The evaluation of the
outputs from this sub-component is based on the overall management of the project from its effectiveness in
1995 to its closing in 2004. The Bank acknowledges that           management of the SHP can be clearly
distinguished between a pre-1999 phase when coordinating and management of project implementation was
highly ineffective; and a more effective post-1999 period where there were significant improvements,
especially in the last few years of implementation.

l Up until the 1999 revisions, there is little demonstrable output from the SHP. Primarily due to the
    ineffective functioning of the PCU that had been entrusted with the responsibility of coordinating
    project activities, as well as financial management and procurement. Despite having close to 200 staff
    (this included consultants paid under the MSA and civil servants), most of the few activities that the
    project was supporting were being undertaken under the MSA because the PCU had actual little
    capacity in planning activities, procurement, accounting or in financial management. Consultants
    employed at the PCU were implementing project activities including engagement in academic studies
    and health policy formulation, functions that were more under the realm of the MOH. Over the years, a
    rift between the MOH and PCU had developed to a level that significantly slowed down
    implementation when cooperation with MOH dwindled with frequent changes of Government and the
    resulting frequent PCU management turnover (the SHP probably saw 11 PCU coordinators in 10 years
    of implementation, 9 of these in the first 5 years).

l When a new Bank team took project leadership in 1999, they found an overstaffed PCU with an
    inconsistent quality of skilled staff. Project accounting was poor, there was inadequate preparation of
    annual work programs and preparation of bidding documents and procurement took too long. After the
    1999 revisions, implementation responsibilities were transferred to MOH units, keeping only the
    Infrastructure Development sub-component under the PCU, the function of the PCU was redirected
    back to coordination, the number of staff was reduced and as a result the performance of the PCU
    significantly improved. Management became more effective, especially in functions such as project
    reporting which became adequate, but audit reporting and financial management generally remained
    problematic mostly due to high turnover of financial management staff. The post-1999 management
    also coincided with more stable Governments and, as a result, better continuity of MOH and PCU
    management. Despite these major improvements, the PCU's performance in monitoring and evaluation
    of outputs and outcomes, i.e. in defining and identification of baseline data, scheduling of data
    collection and in identifying responsibilities for ensuring data availability of measurable indicators)
    remained weak as it had been throughout implementation.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:



                                                     - 23 -

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
It is very likely that the health sector in general benefited from the large volume of training supported by
this project as was presented above. In addition, the project's support of the Studies component did build
the School of Public Health's capacity to coordinate the design and data collection of two important areas
of health management. This capacity is now being transferred to the State Institute of Statistics (SIS) which
has been entrusted with the tools for NHA-CE data collection. Though the project supported a significant
quantity of training, its institutional development impact is rated as Modest for a number of reasons:
l Training was not supported by relevant policy reforms and was diluted by high staff turnover. There
     are various estimates as to how high the staff turnover rates are for the 23 project provinces. The
     Bank's documents puts this rate at about 50%, ascertained at the time of a 2002 Bank mission which
     aimed to explore M&E opportunities. This ICR's preparation interviews (March 2005) in the 5 visited
     provinces estimated that of those that received training about 70% had left the province (it could not be
     estimated how long the staff that left had stayed after they had received training, this might have given
     a better perspective on this issue), a primary health care service survey in 2002 estimated that staff
     turnover rates were about 25.4 % for physicians, 16.1% for midwives, 18.7% for nurses, 22.8% for
     health officers and 14.0% for environmental officers. Similar concerns are relevant for the CMSS
     sub-component which trained a large number of staff in Information Technology topics.

l Variations in quality of training received. Training beneficiaries interviewed during the ICR Mission
     had very different views on the quality of training received; many considered training as a perk for a
     challenging job rather than a way of improving the way they have always worked.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
l Earthquakes:        The 1999 Marmara Earthquake caused the Government an estimated US$1.8-2.2
     billion fiscal burden. This diverted government resources and efforts to emergency reconstruction
     resulting in sharp decline in government contribution to SHP by about US$15 Million.

l Poor capacity of contractors: Part of the delayed implementation of construction activities can be
     explained by poor capacity of construction firms, a situation that delayed construction and in some
     cases necessitated the rebuilding of some Training Health Centers. Implementation was also delayed
     when some construction firms went bankrupt causing major delays as strategies to bail them out were
     figured out.

l Weather: In the crucial last stages of implementation, the construction of THCs was also delayed by
     the uncompromising winter weather of the Eastern regions where construction firms' capacity meant
     that construction could take place for a maximum of 6 months of the year.

l Security: The war in Iraq during 2003 negatively affected the Turkish economy and diverted the
     Government's attention. Actually, the war with Iraq was given as a valid reason to extend the project
     for the second time, since it was envisaged that an inflow of refugees into the Southeastern parts of the
     country could stress health care needs in the region. In addition, the special security situation in the
     eastern part of the country might have hindered implementation and as a result could have affected the
     final achievement of outcomes.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
l Financial Crises: Turkey went through several financial crises in the life of this project. Not only did
     the resulting tight fiscal measures cause constant delays in counterpart funding but economic crises



                                                     - 24 -

   severely affected personal incomes of the population which are likely to have contributed to worsened
   access to health care.

l Cumbersome government procedures: Project implementation was considerably delayed, in some
   cases months were added at crucial stages of implementation because of lengthy Government
   procedures. For example, the 2002/ 2003 directive mandated that all payments, even those from the
   Loan Account, be approved by the MOF in addition to all approvals required by the MOH. This
   significantly delayed approval of Letters of Credit for procurement of vaccines, and actually delayed
   delivery of vaccines by about 16 weeks. Another bureaucratic hurdle was caused by differences
   between Turkish and the Bank's procurement procedures which led to additional lengthy reviews and
   internal approval procedures.

l Management Service Agreement: The UNDP/UNOPS-MOH MSA was an expensive arrangement;
   and while it was an innovation and among the pioneers in using alternative project delivery systems in
   order to speed implementation, the lack of transparency, its cost and the fact that it did not build
   capacity, significantly diminished its value.

l Political instability: Frequent change of power and weak coalitions led by minority parties in the
   1990s was not a conducive environment for public policy reform. Consequently, in this uncertain
   environment, bureaucratic caution and controls increased, and political leadership changes resulted in
   long periods of inaction, policy reversals and highly disruptive personnel changes at the PCU and
   MOH. Political instability also partly contributed to the lengthy judicial processes, a situation that was
   extensively discussed by all past and current staff at the PCU as having negatively affected their ability
   to make decisions.

l Wavering government commitment and shortage of champions: While the Government showed
    strong will to continuously extend the project and to keep the Bank engaged, its commitment to
    meeting the project aims and goals in a reasonable time frame was severely lacking. This project
    significantly suffered from lack champions for reforms necessary to implement key components such as
    the Hospital Management Restructuring and initially the computerization of the management of human
    resources.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
l Size and structure of the PCU. The PCU became a large, overstaffed implementation agency with
    poor capacity to actually implement project activities despite its size. There was large overlap in
    functions performed by highly paid consultants and staff who performed duplicated tasks, a situation
    that was very cost ineffective.

l Failure to avail qualified Financial Management, Procurement and Management Information
    Systems staff. There were long periods where the PCU did not have qualified financial management
    staff resulting in poor internal financial control. Part of the reasons for poor output from the CMSS
    subcomponent can be explained by lack of IT staff qualified in MIS within the PCU, a shortage that
    was exacerbated by high rate of staff change which the PCU was not able to keep up with. This
    situation precluded continuity and contributed to delays in implementation.

l Monitoring and Evaluation. The PCU did not ensure availability of staff that could monitor and
    evaluate project output and outcomes. Despite the availability of a project baseline and the multitude of
    data sources that could have been used to track progress, this remained one of the weakest components
    of the project.


5.4 Costs and financing:



                                                    - 25 -

The 1999 revisions reduced the total project cost from US$200 million to US$185.00 million (US$ 150.00
million Bank loan remained the same, but the Government contribution was reduced to US$ 35.00 million).
The total project cost was further reduced in August 2003 when US$ 22.15 million of the loan was
cancelled following a request from the Government citing country reasons which had led it to believe that
this portion of the loan would not be exhausted by project close. With this cancellation, the Bank's loan was
reduced to US$127.85 million, meaning that the total expected project cost (inclusive of support for
earthquake rehabilitation) was effectively reduced to US$162.9 million, i.e. 81.5% of the original amount.

At project closure, the actual total project cost amounted to US$131.72 million (this being 66% of the
original estimated cost of US$200 Million); about US$112.48 million of the loan amount had been
disbursed (about 75% of the original loan amount) about US$9 million remained undisbursed and 55% of
the original estimated Government contribution had been disbursed by project close. As will be seen in
Appendix 2, the Government's total contribution was 66% of the revised expected contributions and for
various components its contribution was actually much higher than was estimated at the revisions
'reappraisal', though the dollar amounts of the contributions were indeed very low. The discrepancy
between the original loan amount of US$150 million against the disbursed (US$112.4 million) plus
cancelled (US$22.15 million) plus undisbursed (US$9 million) amounts to about US$6 million. The Bank
understands that this discrepancy could be explained by the various currency changes that the Loan
accounts were subjected to in the early years of the project. The project's loan accounts were first held in
US dollars, then changed to Deutsche Marks and later changed to the Euro.

A number of reasons led to this large difference between the originally estimated total project cost and the
actual project cost. This includes: the very slow start up that necessitated revisions where a number of
activities were dropped from the project, macroeconomic turmoil that affected Government contributions
during the early years of implementation and the earthquakes that led to reduction of the SHP budget to
fund earthquake reconstruction. In addition, the actual project cost is less than was expected because of
lack of capacity in procurement of certain medical facilities which led to them not being procured (this was
the case for Magnetic Resonance Imaging equipment which was expected to be procured under the
Infrastructure Development subcomponent). At the time of ICR preparation, Turkey has already repaid the
Bank US$ 63.8 million (more than 50% of the loan amount). The repayment started in February 2000,
about the time of project revisions when little of the project's output could be shown; and in this year the
Borrower paid the Bank a significant proportion (73%) of the total amount that was disbursed that year.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Unlikely.

The current Government has stated its strong commitment to extend health coverage to the entire
population of Turkey; and to pass laws that will restructure the social security system, establish universal
health insurance; and restructure and reorganize the MOH. It is conceivable that activities and output
initiated through the support of the SHP might have some use in reforms which are crucial for the
implementation of HTP. However, the sustainability of both the activities and achievement of the SHP is
rated as unlikely, first, due to overall lack of successful outcomes from the project, meaning that there is
little to sustain at this point; and second because the Bank has not seen concrete plans or evidence
concerning some activities that were supported by the project. For example:

l The sustainability of activities related to the CMSS remains a concern. At ICR preparation, only
     25% of the CHRMS system is operating at an acceptable level and until the ICR Mission arrangements
     had yet to be confirmed for the systems' revisions. Unless the non-operational sub-clusters are revised



                                                     - 26 -

     and made operational, the investment in the CHRMS system will have a negative economic rate of
     return. Another concern with the CMSS is one that probably applies to the general sustainability of
     Information Technology investments, that is, how best to finance the high cost of IT consultants who
     largely manage the system for MOH's Department of Information Processing (DIP). It is the Bank's
     understanding that for now continued support for IT consultants manning CMSS will be provided
     through the Bank supported Health Transition Project, however in the long run the MOH needs to find
     a sustainable way to finance and support IT investments.

l The sustainability of Training Health Centers and their future role as locus of training in the
     provinces is not very clear. While it is encouraging that an agreement has been reached to complete
     the construction and equipping of Training Health Centers under the support of the ongoing HTP, it is
     still not clear how training needs such as those supported by the SHP will be sustained in the future.
     This is especially a concern since the poorest regions of Turkey that were targeted by the project, suffer
     from very high staff turnover.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There has been no need for formal arrangements to transfer implementation to regular operations because
after 1999, project implementation (apart from Infrastructure Development subcomponent) largely became
the responsibility of the MOH: i) basic health care interventions were implemented by different units within
the MOH; ii) primary health care training and activities related to the studies subcomponent were
undertaken by the School of Public Health in collaboration with universities inside and outside Turkey; and
iii) implementation of the CMSS was the responsibility of the MOH's DIP, strongly supported by a group
of IT consultants.

The Bank-supported HTP provides an opportunity to continue engaging in activities around the completion
and sustainability of infrastructure development activities. Future evaluations of this project should not
only look at completion of construction but also their staffing, their usage and whether provincial staff
receive necessary training. Attempts should be made to adequately assess: i) the rate of staff turnover in
the project provinces and how recent Government decisions to employ contractual health sector staff might
alleviate the shortage of staff in the provinces; and ii) how activities under the IT subcomponent and others
within the MOH will continue to be supported. Though the SHP did not collect sufficient information to
allow for monitoring or evaluation of outcomes, it might be possible to: i) track health outcomes for the
provinces through further disaggregated analysis of DHS data (for example to look at immunization rates),
data from the BOD, the NHA and Cost Effectiveness studies supported by the SHP; and other studies that
are readily available; ii) conduct a thorough evaluation of the Bank's focus on health and poverty and how
much the Bank's involvement in the health sector has contributed to human development in Turkey.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.

l In identification, the Bank appropriately outlined major shortfalls in the country's health
     indicators and identified priorities according to both the government's development strategy and
     the Bank's assistance strategy. However, the Bank did not make use of the best global practices to
     address identified needs and did not invest in pertinent sector work on the main drivers of health status
     in Turkey.

l During preparation the Bank could have further assisted the Borrower in putting in place
     adequate project management structures. This is especially true for the procurement of training


                                                     - 27 -

    services, information technology as well as the procurement of sophisticated medical equipment. In
    addition, the Bank could have further assisted in arrangements for sound financial management
    structures and in providing more useful suggestions to compensate for insufficient project management
    capacity.

l At appraisal, the Bank's provided sufficient quantity of staff for the appraisal mission.              The
    mission included five health specialists, three IT specialists, two operations specialists, one economist
    and three team assistants. However, continuity to supervision was inadequate as the project's leadership
    changed a few months after the project was appraised though a significant proportion of other team
    members stayed on even after the project became effective.            The lending instrument, a Sector
    Investment Loan (SIL) was appropriate, given more limited choice of instruments a decade ago when
    compared to recent years.

l The Bank's performance in appraisal was unsatisfactory for uneven evaluation of commitment.
    The commitment of the Government of Turkey at the time of project preparation was appropriately
    appraised as very strong, but there was little appraisal of support from other stakeholders and
    beneficiaries especially those in the project provinces. The importance of involving all stakeholders in
    project design was probably not as well appreciated then as it has become in recent years. Given prior
    experience from the First Health Project, the appraisal of MOH and the PCU's capacity was highly
    unsatisfactory; and appraisal of the PCU's financial management capacity and of political risks was
    deficient.


7.2 Supervision:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.
The SHP was implemented over 10 years during which time quantity and quality of supervision
significantly varied. The following factors were considered in this rating:

l Sporadic quantity and quality of supervision: SHP conducted 19 documented supervision missions
    over 10 years (3 missions short of the average 2 missions a year), though according to discussions with
    individual team members there might have been more missions than official records have managed to
    capture. Missions were an average of 2 weeks long and involved approximately 4 people. However,
    prior to 1999, Missions that involved field visits to the provinces were few and on-site supervision of
    the infrastructure development component happened rarely if at all. Annex 4 shows that there was a
    long gap in supervision between March 1996 and December 1997, this is explained by team leadership
    changeover that made mission travel impossible to arrange. Documentation shows that periods around
    revision and near project closure received more intensive supervision and management oversight than
    did other periods. The supervision of SHP was indeed exemplary for some years after the 1999
    revisions as was appropriately concluded by the QAG quality of supervision review of 2001. However,
    ICR mission interviewees acknowledged the superior quality of advice given for some subcomponents,
    but also some advice of marginal quality in other areas, a fact that can be explained by different teams
    that supervised the project since its approval. Quality of supervision was also marred by the slow
    reaction to challenges posed by the evolution of tensions between the PCU and MOH over a period of
    many years. Challenges posed by these situations could have been assessed and addressed earlier than
    they were;

l Uneven management oversight and supervision: Especially in the early years of the project (pre
   1998), the role of management in supervision is not clearly visible (explored in Bank documentation
   and ICR preparation interviews with former team members). All in all, the project did receive focused
   management attention around crises (e.g. at MTR when deficiencies in the MSA became apparent); and
   when major decisions such as whether to close the project or not had to be made. The earlier years of



                                                    - 28 -

  implementation, the signing of the MSA and the poor use of monitoring indicators could have received
  more attention than was the case. The supervisory role of management was clearly deficient in failing
  to provide sufficient oversight of legal covenants. Clearly the Bank failed to supervise the signing of the
  MSA between the MOH and UNDP/UNOPS by giving a `no objection' to an arrangement that
  contravened Bank regulations;

l High project leadership turnover in the early years of project supervision: The supervision of the
  SPH was led by 6 different Task Team Leaders (TTLs) who led their team for periods ranging from
  less than 6 months to periods of approximately 4 years (the first two crucial years of project
  supervision saw 3 different TTLs). ICR preparation interviews with MOH/PCU counterparts
  acknowledged the very different personalities, commitment, hard work and supervision `styles' that
  characterized the different TTLs and the relationships that they had with them. But they also
  commented on the disruptions and adjustments that had to be made in working relations when these
  changes occurred;

l Poor articulation and use of indicators: The lack of Bank capacity in supervising monitoring outputs
  and outcomes was very noticeable. The use of M&E tools was completely non existent in the first 5-6
  years of implementation.       The MTR did not sufficiently address this deficiency and no formal
  evaluation of the project progress was ever conducted. The 1999 revisions redefined some of the M&E
  indicators but articulation of how outputs, outcomes and impacts could be measured still remained
  weak. There was marginal attention to progress towards development objectives and more serious
  attention paid to disbursement and component by component activities. Efforts to strengthen M&E in
  2002 clearly identified ways to revive monitoring of output and outcomes but these probably came too
  late and did not really take off;

l Serious lack of realism in progress reporting: Overall, the rating of project progress was seriously
  disconnected from reality, in many cases, being more favorable Satisfactory than the justified
  Unsatisfactory (apart from the final years of the project when the rating was the appropriate U). Even
  after the project was revised and implementation had improved considerably, it is still difficult to
  justify that progress towards meeting objectives for this project could have been rated S even during
  periods of major improvements in supervision, partly because the original design of the project is
  unlikely to have led to a Satisfactory outcome. Interviews with various members of teams that worked
  on this project acknowledged the missing project Development Objectives -project activities link,
  though this was never acknowledged during supervision.

l Project extensions were not effective: The Second Health Project was extended three times on trust
  that the Borrower was committed to seeing project activities completed. It is debatable whether the
  decision to revise the project in 1999 (which effectively guaranteed an extension) could have been
  handled differently. Recall that in 1999, two years before the original project closure date, little output
  had been achieved and a number of factors were hindering implementation and supervision. With the
  benefit of hindsight, it is clear that it would have been advisable to fully restructure the project in 1999
  by redefining the DOs, significantly reduce the size of the project for activities that had yet to start but
  keeping activities that were absolutely necessary for achievement of goals and then allow the project to
  close in 2001 as was originally planned. On the other hand, once the decision to revise and later the
  project were made it is clear that a realistic project closing date should have been set to enable
  completed construction of the Training Health Centers. In hindsight, it is clear that despite the
  perceived strong Borrower desire to keep the project open, there were sufficient factors and reasons
  that should have led to a decision to close the project even earlier.

l At times ineffective engagement with the Borrower: Prior to 1999, the working relation between the
  Bank and the MOH/ PCU was not an effective one. The Bank lacked independence in providing a true



                                                    - 29 -

    picture of project status, and, at MTR the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was
    characterized by strong control of information by the PCU/ MOH resulting in a lack of transparency in
    reporting of implementation progress. After a new Bank team came on board in 1999, the Bank and the
    MOH/ PCU worked harder to establish an effective working relationship that significantly speeded
    implementation in the 3 of the 4 final years of the project. During this time the Bank maintained and
    nurtured dialogue with the Borrower leading to the signing of the HTP which deals with some of the
    systemic issues that remain a challenge to the Turkish health sector.

l Deficient documentation and record keeping:               The quality of documentation of implementation
    progress varied significantly from one team to another, being exemplary in some cases but thin in
    others. Overall, at the end of 10 years of implementation, the Bank's performance at record keeping
    and storage is highly unsatisfactory. For the pre-1999 years, there are missing Aide Memoires, Aide
    Memoires with no annexes and incomplete Project Supervision Reports. Different locations of project
    team leaders at different times (from Washington to Budapest, to Ankara, to Washington and finally
    Ankara), the Bank's reorganization and the introduction of IRIS all contribute to what might be a
    skewed and incomplete history of project implementation and supervision. A concrete example of this
    incomplete picture was presented under point 1 of this section.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated Unsatisfactory. Despite consistency with the Bank's assistance
strategies, the project's identification was deficient and the design was overly complex for an insufficiently
prepared PCU and MOH. Despite providing ample quantity of supervision, the quality of supervision
during crucial years of implementation was deficient. The Bank was also deficient in supervision of the
Borrower's monitoring and evaluation of project outputs and outcomes, making it a real challenge to reach
a conclusion on the impact of this project. However, despite the lack of success of the SHP and all other
previous Bank supported projects in the country, the Bank's team maintained dialogue with the Borrower
and engaged the Borrower in a new project that will focus on very much needed reforms.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.
The Government's commitment to the goals of this project can be clearly seen in its eagerness to finance
the infrastructure development activities of the SHP. However, the quality of preparation of the project
could have been strengthened by a strong health sector strategy that clearly defined the Government's
priorities and commitment. Such a strategy should have been informed by more rigorous analysis of health
sector issues. The lack of success for most activities of the SHP proves that the Borrower was not
sufficiently prepared for the operational aspects of the project. Functions such as procurement and financial
management were not sufficiently covered by a solution such as the MSA with UNDP/UNOPS. The
Borrower did not involve other stakeholders in preparation and was therefore not prepared for the lack of
support for subcomponents that required reforms.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.
The unstable macroeconomic environment, that persisted for almost as long as implementation lasted,
severely affected the Government's ability to provide timely and sufficient counterpart funds, a factor that
adversely contributed to delays in implementation. While the Government remained committed to keeping
the project active and to the completion of activities, political instability of the 1990s and the ensuing lack
of support for important health sector policy reforms made the implementation of activities of the Health
Policy and Management component impossible. Insufficient support for a sub cluster of the Computerized



                                                      - 30 -

Human Resources Management System also caused significant delays in implementation and final
outcomes of the Health Policy and Management component. In addition, implementation was severely
slowed down and made ineffective by the Government's inability to ensure consistent appointment of PCU
staff and managers with sufficient technical and management skills. The high rate of changes in MOH
Ministers and other high level counterparts also contributed to lack of continuity in the Bank's engagement
with the sector.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.
The performance of the MOH was severely affected by inadequate capacity to not only manage
implementation but to also operationalize the Government's intentions on improving health outcomes in the
most deprived provinces. In some ways, the MOH was affected by political instability that resulted in
many changes in the leadership and direction of the MOH as well as high staff turnover in general. These
changes also caused a general lack of focus on outcomes, instead attention was more on delivering on
activities of the project which were unfortunately not well linked to project objectives.

         Though the PCU's performance saw very significant improvement in management of the project
after the 1999 revisions, overall, the PCU's management over 10 years was ineffective. A highly ineffective
PCU structure, which was not only overstaffed but also cost ineffective, eventually marred working
relations with the MOH whom they had to closely collaborate with. Shortage of skilled financial
management staff at the PCU resulted in marginally adequate accounts and audits, an ailment that was
exacerbated by the high rates of turnover partly caused by political instability and the negative working
environment created by long judicial processes around the work of the PCU.

         It is due to the limited capacity of the MOH and the difficult working relationship between the
MOH and PCU that shocks mentioned under Section 5 above                  had such a negative effect in the
implementation of this project. Portfolio review of projects which were being implemented in the same
environment show that implementation of these other projects did not suffer as negative an outcome as did
the SHP.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.
The unsatisfactory overall Borrower performance is partly explained by the lack of a strong cohesive and
long term strategy to improve poor health outcomes in the poorest provinces of the country. A strong
strategy that clearly addressed issues around equity of access would have withstood the various changes in
political leadership and would have guided the various Governments that took leadership of the country at
different stages of implementation. Despite its strong desire to complete activities planned, the Borrower
was not able to effectively support the project with timely counterpart funds or with adequate staffing of
the PCU. Most importantly, deficient monitoring of outputs and outcomes of the project meant that
valuable lessons that could have been gained in factors that affect project performance have been lost.

8. Lessons Learned

l Deficiencies in initial project design can not be easily remedied midway through implementation
    unless effective restructuring is undertaken: The most fundamental lesson from implementation of
    the SHP is one that is very basic and one that is applicable to all projects irrespective of sector or
    region. The importance of project design can never be underestimated. The initial design of the SHP
    missed almost all the elements of good project design. A key deficiency was that the project design was
    not based on sufficient knowledge of the Turkish health sector. In addition, the project was too
    complex, it was ambitious and unfocused and inflexible to changing political and economic conditions.



                                                    - 31 -

  Analytic sector work would have highlighted many of the deficiencies in project design, especially in
  identifying priority challenges that needed to be tackled first in the worst off regions. Another more
  specific lesson that arises from this project is that efforts to revise a project that had significantly
  flawed original design requires more drastic action than minor revisions and intensive supervision.
  Despite some exemplary supervision and hard work injected into the project after 1999, it was
  disappointing but probably not surprising to see that project performance did not improve sufficiently
  to lead to a satisfactory outcome. Another basic lesson is that, once a project is revised then sufficient
  time must be allocated to completion of activities.

l The Bank needs to adopt a culture where statements of expected project impact are more
  realistic: The SHP's development objective very clearly responded to the needs of the country at that
  time. However, part of the failure of the SHP to have any measurable impact rests squarely on the fact
  that the project over promised in its statement of expected impact on major health indicators by the end
  of the project's implementation. The expected impact of the project should have been stated more
  modestly, especially when ones considers that there are other important determinants of health
  outcomes which were not being addressed by this particular project.

l Pay attention to recommendations from reviews of design quality: Though this project became
  effective before the inception of Quality at Entry (QEA) reviews by the Quality Assurance Group
  (QAG), it was comprehensively peer reviewed at the time of its preparation. Documentation shows
  that a number of design deficiencies were raised in early stages of preparation and sound
  recommendations were brought to the attention of the project preparation team. These were not
  incorporated in the final design; it is hence not a surprise that the project did not meet the anticipated
  outcomes.

l It is possible to maintain dialogue on global good practices in the midst of unsatisfactory
  implementation: Preparation and signing of the fourth Bank supported HNP project occurred towards
  the final and difficult years of implementation of the SHP. By that time it had become clear that the
  final rating of the SHP would likely be unsatisfactory. It is therefore commendable that the Bank team
  continued to engage the Government in dialogue on the major factors affecting health outcomes in the
  country. In many aspects, the design of the HTP is very far removed from that of its predecessors in
  terms of areas of focus, the choice of lending instrument, and economic sector work that informed the
  project, all of which show that the Bank and the Borrower have taken seriously some of the lessons of
  previous projects' implementation.

l The role of project coordination units in assisting Borrowers to produce sustainable and
  appropriate outputs needs careful evaluation: The risk of a PCU becoming a parallel unit,
  implementing rather than coordinating the project is a real one. Such PCU's invariably undermine the
  Borrower's capacity to undertake procurement and financial management, they deprive the Borrower of
  the best local staff and it can become very difficult to collapse such units back to the relevant Ministry
  when a project closes. Implementation of the SHP underscored the importance of carefully considering
  the added value that PCUs might bring.

l While training activities might not guarantee efficiencies and performance improvements by the
  end of the project, but for poorly paid employees training might maintain morale and facilitate
  future policy changes: The SHP supported an impressive quantity of training activities for which
  measurable benefits are hard to find especially since training was not supported by policy reforms and
  because there was a high degree of staff turn over. But such training was mentioned by beneficiaries to
  be an important compensation for working in more remote less advantaged provinces. It has also been
  suggested that training in health sector management planted seeds of change that might benefit
  implementation of proposed health sector reforms, some of which will be supported under the HTP.



                                                  - 32 -

l Bank supervision tasks need to be more focused on achieving measurable outcomes rather than
    outputs alone: In addition to ensuring that supervision teams are focused on providing both quality
    and continuity in supervision, (in which case the team must have the right skills mix, with members
    that understand local ways of doing business, preferably led by a locally based experienced health
    expert), it is critical that quality supervision is provided through closer collaboration between the
    country and sector teams which in the case of the SHP might have ensured that the project was more
    firmly rooted in the reality of the country and would have benefited more from experiences of other
    projects. The importance of closer links between country and sector teams could have provided checks
    and balances in the enforcement of the articles of the loan agreement and bank procedures, for
    example.

l M&E must become a focus of Bank work and teams have to be accountable for the formulation
    and supervision of realistic M&E tasks: The Bank needs to be more accountable in designing and
    supervision of M&E even when projects lacked this focus at design. The Bank must lead by example
    by training its own staff on the importance of M&E, and gain sufficient knowledge on tools to measure
    outcomes and the impact of outputs that are not easily measured such those from training and IT
    investments. Unless Bank teams are accountable for supervision of M&E, it will be hard to convince
    Borrowers to build capacity in this area. It is no longer defendable that the Bank and Borrower are still
    unable to evaluate outcomes of loans.

l Arrangements such as the MSA might be beneficial in select circumstances, but the Bank must
    assure at all times that a project is audited by an independent auditor who meets the Bank's
    accounting and auditing standards: By serving the original purpose, arrangements such as the MSA
    between MOH and UNDP/UNOPS can be extremely useful in speeding implementation in countries
    where bureaucratic processes might be a hindrance. However, it is imperative that the Bank continues
    to assure that resources from supported projects are properly accounted for by including auditing
    clauses that satisfy the Bank's standards and guidelines. In the case of the SHP, standards of auditing
    provided by the Borrower's Treasury internal auditors did not meet standards of auditing acceptable to
    the Bank and though this deficiency was later remedied, it was at the cost of the project in terms of time
    that was spent on internal Bank inquiries and investigations by the Borrower.

l The Bank's position against alleged fund misuse must be more forcefully presented: In the past
    decade or so, the Bank has taken a very clear public stance against misuse of funds in projects it
    supports. One of the key messages received during the ICR interviews was that the Bank needs to
    work harder at delivering its message of zero tolerance on corruption and misuse of funds; and to
    further explain that the Bank has an internal processes of dealing with such allegations. In its
    supervision of the SHP, Aide Memoires show that the Bank did raise its concerns regarding the impact
    that lengthy judicial processes were having on PCU performance, though to the public, the Bank
    remained silent on specific allegations of misuse of funds from the SHP. The Bank did conduct its own
    internal review of the MSA, civil works and awards of architectural design contracts and found the
    allegations to be without evidence. Though it is appropriate that the Bank should not interfere in a
    country's internal investigative/ judicial processes, when allegations of Bank project funds misuse are
    raised, the Bank should make further efforts to reassure the beneficiaries of Bank loans that the Bank
    does not tolerate funds misuse and that there are Bank procedures in place to address any such
    allegations.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Government's contribution to this ICR is included in Annex 8.



                                                     - 33 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

The Government provided the ICR team with comments on the draft version of the ICR which was sent to
the Government for review on June 22, 2005. These comments were received on August 15, 2005, and are
included under an Additional Annex 11 of this ICR. The ICR team carefully reviewed these comments and
made changes where appropriate, as well as clarified sections where additional information was needed.
The revised, current version of the ICR was shared with the Government again based on which the
Government agreed that the ICR could be distributed to the Bank Board of Executive Directors, with the
Government's original set of comments attached as an Annex to the ICR.




                                                 - 34 -

     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


 Indicator/Matrix      Target in SAR/ PIR                    Actual/latest Estimate
 I. SAR original       Improve the following outcomes
 Outcome goal:         in the 23 provinces:
 Improvement in        i) Reduce IMR by 40%;                 IMR: Turkey: 52 in 1993; 29/ 1000 in 2003: a 45%
 health indicators                                           reduction. Project provinces: reduction by 32%
 (IMR, MMR, TFR,
 and Life              ii) Reduce U5M to 80%;                U5M: 61 in 1993; 37/ 1000 in 2003: a 39% reduction.
 Expectancy).                                                Project    Provinces: a 30.4% reduction.

                       iii) Improve MMR by 30%;              MMR: Turkey: estimates range from 52 per 100 000 (1999)
                                                             and 130 per 100 000 live births (1997). No data were
                                                             available to measure this outcome for project provinces.

                       iv) Reduce TFR by 30%;                TFR: Turkey: 2.7 in 1993; 2.23 in 2003: a 17% reduction.
                                                             Project provinces: a 17% reduction.

                       v)    Reduce   Infections    due to   No data were available to measure this outcome.
                       Tetanus, Polio and Measles by
                       95%;

                       Intermediate Process Indicators:
                       vi) Increase ANC to 3 counts;         ANC: Turkey: 63% in 1993; 81% in 2003: 29% increase.
                                                             Project provinces: 79% increase. No data were available to
                                                             measure the number of ANC counts. Data is on any ANC.

 PIR restated the      vii) Decrease HHDR by 10%;            HHDR: Turkey: 0.67 in 1993; 0.27 in 2003: 60% increase.
 Outcome goal as                                             Project provinces: a 64% increase.
 follows: Overall
 health indicators     viii) Increase CPR by 30%;            CPR: Turkey: 63% in 1993; 71% in 2003: 13% increase.
 should be                                                   Project provinces: a 37% increase.
 commensurate
 with health           ix) Increase immunization rates by    Full vaccination: Turkey: 65% in 1993; 54% in 2003: a 16%
 Turkey's income       95%.                                  decline. Project provinces: a 14% reduction.
 level.
 (No numerical         x) Improve life expectancy.           Life Expectancy in Turkey rose from 68.9 years in 2000 to 70
 targets were set).                                          in 2003. There was no numerical target for this indicator.

                       xi) Reduce Child deaths due to        No data were available to measure this outcome.
                       ARD by 30%;

                       xii) Improve ambulatory health        No data were available to measure this outcome.
                       care staffing rates to 95%;

                      xiii)   Improve      availability of   No data were available to measure this outcome.
                      antibiotics by 100%.
 II. Improvement       SAR did not define outcome or impact indicators to measure output             from certain public health
 in health care        interventions (TV ads for e.g.); training; or IT investments. Their contribution was to be `measured' by
 management.           improvement in health outcomes. PIR did not define indicators for this outcome.
III. PIR set goal: To Reduce Burden of Disease                No baseline (pre project) BOD data exists for Turkey and BOD by
reduce regional       discrepancy by region.                provinces data were not available. Turkey's DALY in 2002/ 2003



                                                           - 35 -

health disparities.                                            amounts to 10, 802, 494 (2, 730, 794 from Group I diseases, 6, 905,
                                                               893 from Group II disease, 1, 165, 807 from Group III diseases). It is
                                                               therefore impossible to say how the BOD has changed in the decade of
                                                               implementation.

                                                                 Using other readily available data such as DHS and
                                                               without   suggesting attribution to project activities:

                                                               Regional disparities in some outcomes have improved:

                                                                The gap in CPR between the West and the East region has narrowed

                                                                but remains about 16%;
                                                                The West-East difference in TFR has narrowed from 2.4 in 1993 to
                                                               1.8
                                                                children in 2003;
                                                                The West-North-East gap in HHDR has narrowed; and
                                                                The West-East gap in ANC has narrowed by 73%.

                                                               Regional disparities in some outcomes have worsened:
                                                                In 1993, difference in IMR between the West region and
                                                               the        East region was about 17 percentage points this
                                                               has grown to 19 in 2003.
                                                                The West-North gap in U5 Mortality has grown from 1.5
                                                               %age points in 1993 to 18% age points in 2003.




     Output Indicators
  PIR Indicator                       End of Project Target in PIR               Actual Output
1. More equitable and improved
access to essential health services
in 28 provinces.
i. Continued training of health       # Curricula developed and adopted;         12, 749 people received adaptation
staff                                 # of professionals trained;               training
                                      # training materials produced and           14, 349 received career development
                                     distributed;                                training
                                      # production of evaluation reports
ii. Expansion of basic cost           Rational drug use campaign                 160 persons trained as Train
effective health care interventions. implemented;                                pharmacotherapy trainers;
                                      clinical referral program designed,        14 economic use of drugs publications
                                     adopted and implemented;                    produced;
                                      # of operations research projects          diagnostic guidelines produced, 50 000
                                     awarded                                     copies distributed;
                                                                                  RDU studies completed and RDU
                                                                                 implemented.
iii. Support Public Information       # of public education marketing            Vaccination campaigns supported.
programs                             campaigns implemented
iv. Improvement in capacity for       23 training health centers constructed     17 THCs constructed;



                                                              - 36 -

selected health care facilities.                  and operational, including furnishing,                    23 minibuses and 23 4x4 vehicles
                                                  equipment and training                                   bought;
                                                   # health posts                                          795 various diagnostic and emergency
                                                   # health State hospitals equipped                      equipment bought and delivered (see
                                                   # vehicles procured and delivered                      Appendix 9).
2. Improvement in the quality of
management at central level and
at selected affiliated institutions.
i. Upgrading the training of staff                 # health trainers trained;                              520 trained in health services
in policymaking, planning,                         # continuing education programs                        management.
management, monitoring and                        produced;                                                 Flagship center was not established.
evaluation.                                        Flagship Center established and
                                                  operational;
                                                   # of management courses offered to
                                                  hospital managers
ii. Introducing basic management  Basic Health Statistics Module (BHSM)  CHRMS has been completed but not
support systems in Provincial                     and Core Health Resource Management fully operational.
Health Directorates and selected                  System (CHRMS) fully implemented and  523 workstations; 80 printers; 11
hospitals in the project provinces. operational                                                            workstations and 3 printers for each
                                                   MIS staff trained in network member                    PHD;
                                                  institutions                                              Equipment to support computer
                                                                                                           networks including power supplies and
                                                                                                           cables etc.
                                                                                                            5, 230 received training in IT.
iii. Conducting pre-investment                     NBD study adopted under WHO                             NBOD-CHS has been completed.
studies to support broader reform                 auspices;                                                 NHA has been completed.
of the health sector.                              NHA study adopted under OECD                            876 participation in NHA and BOD
                                                  auspices;                                                training.
                                                   Other studies TBD.
v. Strengthen PCU Management                       # Consultants hired;                                    No available information on exact
capability.                                        # Training procured;                                   number of consultants hired.
                                                   # Equipment procured and delivered                      Various training was provided.
                                                                                                            Equipment has been procured.
*The SHP's SAR did not present output indicators in the conventional log frame matrix format, the SAR described expected output in the text under the
relevant sub-components and these have been reproduced in this ICR under the relevant Section 3.3. These were also listed with timetable detail in the
Project's Operations Manual. When the project was revised in 1999, the expected output described in the SAR had yet to be realized and so the PIR designed
a log frame matrix that was produced to fit the reduced number of project activities. But the PIR's log frame did not quantify the expected output for most of
the project activities. Given these two factors, this table simply lists outputs as foreseen in the 1999 revisions.




                                                                                  - 37 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
I. Primary Health Care                                      96.50           64.66            65.97
II. Health Policy and Management                            30.40           19.74            61.64

Total Baseline Cost                                        126.90           84.40
 Physical Contingencies                                      6.70             4.55           64.93
 Price Contingencies                                        66.40           42.77            64.41
                         Total Project Costs               200.00          131.72
                   Total Financing Required                200.00          131.72


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          51.80             1.60        10.60          0.00         64.00
                                 (49.20)           (1.00)      (1.00)          (0.00)       (51.20)
2. Goods                          40.70             5.00        12.50          0.00         58.20
                                 (30.50)           (4.10)      (9.40)          (0.00)       (44.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         0.00          4.00          4.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Other                           0.00             0.00        31.80          0.00         31.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (31.80)         (0.00)       (31.80)
5. Miscellenous                    0.00             0.00        23.00          0.00         23.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (23.00)         (0.00)       (23.00)
6. Miscellenous                    0.00             0.00         0.00          19.00        19.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
    Total                         92.50             6.60        77.90          23.00        200.00
                                 (79.70)           (5.10)      (65.20)         (0.00)      (150.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            5.81         0.00           0.00         5.81
                                  (0.00)          (23.22)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (23.22)
2. Goods                           4.85            0.00         0.09           0.00         4.94
                                 (36.75)          (0.00)       (5.33)         (0.00)       (42.08)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         0.00           1.19         1.19
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Other                           0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)      (10.43)         (0.00)       (10.43)


                                                - 38 -

    5. Miscellenous                             0.00                0.00               0.00                0.00                0.00
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)             (36.75)              (0.00)             (36.75)
    6. Miscellenous                             0.00                0.00               0.00                7.30                7.30
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)              (0.00)              (0.00)
       Total                                    4.85                5.81               0.09                8.49               19.24
                                              (36.75)             (23.22)            (52.51)              (0.00)            (112.48)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                 Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                      Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  Bank          Govt.         CoF.         Bank          Govt.         CoF.        Bank      Govt.   CoF.
1. PRIMARY HEALTH                 74.90          5.70                     73.38          7.20                      98.0     126.3
CARE
1.I Primary Health Care           15.50          0.40                     11.40          1.30                      73.5     325.0
Training
1.2 Basic Health Care              8.10          0.10                      7.20          0.20                      88.9     200.0
Interventions
1.3 Infrastructure                51.30          5.20                     54.78          5.70                      106.8    109.6
Development
2. HEALTH POLICY                  42.60          0.76                     39.02          3.20                      91.6     421.1
AND MANAGEMENT
2.1 Health Service &               7.90          0.06                      7.82          0.40                      99.0     666.7
Hospital Management
2.2 Computerized                  13.80          0.60                     11.28          0.10                      81.7      16.7
Management Support
System
2.3 Studies                        4.20          0.00                      4.10          1.40                      97.6       0.0
2.4 Project Management            16.70          0.10                     15.90          1.30                      95.2     1300.0
Unallocated                       10.00          1.00                      0.00          0.00                       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs                    0.00         23.00                      0.00          2.84                       0.0      12.3
Total (SHP only)                  127.50        30.50                     112.48         19.24                     88.2      63.1
MEER *                            22.20          3.00                                                               0.0       0.0
(allocated+unallocated)
TOTAL**                           150.00        35.00                     112.48         19.24                     75.0      55.0

   Notes: The appraisal estimates in this table refer to estimates produced for the revised project in 1999. These appraised
   estimates were obtained from various pieces of information contained in the PIR. It was decided to use revised project
   components instead of the original components because the 'actual' data is only available for revised components; and so for
   those components that were carried over in the 1999 revisions, their original estimates were presented in the relevant Section
   4.2. * After the 1999 revisions, support for earthquake recovery and reconstruction activities was added to the objectives of the
   SHP, though activities to be supported were not individually described or costed in the PIR given the urgency in which these
   activities were added to the project. These activities are referred to in this table as 'MEER'. SHP's 'MEER' support was
   coordinated with other health sector activities of the MEER project which closes in 2006. In the PIR, the support for MEER
   activities together with an "unallocated" amount of US$10 Million and Recurrent costs US$23 Million gave a total SPH cost of
   US$185.00 Million. **At project cost, total project cost for SPH activities only, amounted to US$131.72 i.e. 66% of the
   original appraisal total cost.




                                                               - 39 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No data were available to enable costs and benefits analysis for this project.




                                                  - 40 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Preparation
              05/061991                8    TASK MANAGER (1);DRUG
                                            CONTR. LAB SPEC (1);
                                            TRAINING SPEC(1);
                                            ARCHITECT (1); HEALTH
                                            ECONOMIST (1); PUBLIC
                                            HEALTH LAB SPEC (1);
                                            PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (1);
                                            MIS SPEC (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/05/1994             10     SR. HEALTH ECON (1); SR
                                            OPERATIONS OFF (1); SR
                                            IS ADVISOR (1);
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); IMPLEMENTATION
                                            SPEC (1); PUBLIC
                                            HEALTH SPEC (1);
                                            CLINICAL TRAINING
                                            SPEC (1); HEALTH
                                            SERVICES MNGT
                                            TRAINING SPEC (1);
                                            ACUTE CARE SPEC (1); IT
                                            SPEC (1)
              08/15/1994               7    SR HEALTH ECON (1); SR
                                            OPERATIONS OFF (1);
                                            COUNTRY COUNSEL (1);
                                            OPERATIONS OFF (1); SR
                                            PROCUREMENT ENGINEER
                                            (1); SR DISBURSEMENT OFF
                                            (1) CONSULTANT (1)

 Supervision
              09/14/1995               6    SR. HEALTH ECONOMIST             S              HS
                                            (1); TECHNOLOGY SPEC
                                            (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                            MEDICAL EMERG. SPEC.
                                            (1); HEALTH ECONOMIST
                                            (1); TASK MANAGER (1)
              03/31/1996               2    SR. ECONOMIST (1); MISSION       S               S
                                            LEADER (1)
              12/08/1997               2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                            PORTFOLIO MANAGER (1)
              07/14/1998               8    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              U               S
                                            (1); OP ANALYST (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1); PROC




                                             - 41 -

                SPECIALIST (2); MIS SPEC
                (1); BUDGET ASSIST (1);
                CONSULTANT (1)
03/26/1999    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         U    S
                HEALTH ECON. (1); PUBLIC
                HEALTH SPEC. (1);
                IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                PROCURMENT SPEC. (1); MIS
                SPEC. (1)
08/05/1999    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         U    U
                HEALTH ECON. (1); MIS SPEC
                (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                IMPLEMENTATION SPEC (1);
                PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (1)
12/04/1999    6 TEAM LEADER (1); SR.          U    U
                HEALTH SPEC (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPEC (1); PR.
                HEALTH CARE SPCT. (1);
                HEALTH FACILITY ARCH.
                (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                (1)
06/22/2000    6 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER           U    U
                (1); PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.
                (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                INF. TECHNOLOGY SPEC. (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
11/21/2000    6 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER           S    S
                (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1);
                HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SP
                (1)
02/16/2001    4 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER           S    S
                (1); PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.
                (1); HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
06/05/2001    7 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER           S    S
                (1); HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1);
                INFORMATION TECH. SPEC
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                IMMUNIZATION CONS. (1)
12/20/2001    7 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER           S    S
                (1); HEALTH SPEC (2); SR.
                PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                MANAGER, ECSPE (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                CONSULTANT (1)
07/02/2002    5 PROG. TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                PRIM. HEALTH CARE SPEC



                - 42 -

                                            (1); PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.
                                            (1); IT MANAGEMENT
                                            CONSUL. (1); OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (1)
               12/03/2002              9    PTL (1); OPERATIONS               S    S
                                            OFFICER (1); HEALTH
                                            SPEC/CONSULTANT (1);
                                            LEAD SPEC (1); SR.
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MNGT SPEC. (1);
                                            SR. HD ECONOMIST (1); IT
                                            MNGT CONSULTANT (1);
                                            PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1)
               06/19/2003              6    PTL(1); HEALTH SPEC/              S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);IT
                                            MNGT CONSULTANT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MNGT SPEC. (1)
               11/04/2003              5    COUNTRY MANAGER (1); SR           U    U
                                            HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); TTL
                                            (1); IT SPEC (1); HEALTH
                                            SPEC (1)
               12/09/2003              2    TTL (1); IT CONSULTANT (1)        U    U
               04/14/2004              1    TTL (1)                           U    U
               06/21/2004              1    TTL (1)                           U    U

 ICR
               03/25/2005             2     TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1)            U    U



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  149                           426
  Supervision                            286                          1046
  ICR                                      19                           50
  Total                                  454                          1522




                                            - 43 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Turkey Health II Bank Preparation Documents:
Pre-appraisal mission TOR, AM and BTOR. World Bank. 1993.
Appraisal Mission TOR, AM and BTOR. World Bank 1993.
Staff Appraisal Report. World Bank. 1994.
Project Implementation Report. World Bank 1999.
Loan Agreement. Loan Number 3802 TU. World Bank. 1994.
Memorandum of Agreement between the Government of Turkey and UNDP for MSA. 1995.

Turkey Health II Bank Supervision Documents:
Project Status Reports. 1995-2004.
Aide Memoires. World Bank. 1995-2004.
Back to Office Reports. World Bank. 1995-2004.

Other Projects Documents:
Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction. PID. 1999.
Turkey Health I. Implementation Completion Report.
PHCP. Implementation Completion Note.
Health Transition Project. Project Appraisal Document.

Other:
World Development Report. 1993. World Bank.
Demographic and Health Survey 1993. MOH, Hacettepe University and Macro Int. 1994.
Demographic and Health Survey 1998. Hacettepe University and Macro Int. 1999.
Demographic and Health Survey 2003. MOH, Hacettepe University. 2004.

Turkey Health II ICR Mission Timetable and List of Individuals Interviewed for ICR
Preparation.
Date                        Meetings with                     Position/ Role in Project
 March 14: Ankara           Haidar Mezarci                    PCU Coordinator
                            Izzet Yuksel                      PCU Planning and Coordination Unit
                            PCU Staff                         PCU Procurement Specialist
 March 15:Ankara            Suleyman Can Numanoglu            Former PCU Coordinator
                            Mehment Fettahoglu                Former PCU Coordinator
                            Hassan Bagci                      PCU Deputy Coordinator
                            Irem Guner                        Former PCU FM Staff
                            Selcuk Mustafa Metiner            Former Deputy PCU Coordinator
                            Salih Mollahaliloglu              School of Public Health
                            Mehtap Kaital                     School of Public Health
                            Candan Obuz                       School of Public Health
                            Nazan Yardim                      School of Public Health
 March 16:Ankara            Andy Vorkink                      Country Director Turkey
                            Nicole Klingen                    Sr. Health Specialist, MNSHD
                            John Innes                        Turkey HD Coordinator
                            Ahmet Muderrisoglu                Former PCU Senior Health Advisor
                            Nihat Akpinar                     MOH, Head of Dept of Info Processing
 March 17: Ankara           Marie-Helene Bricknell            Turkey Country Manager
                            Ibrahim Sirer                     Sr. Procurement Specialist
                            Esra Ulukan                       UNDP
                            Usame Yalcin                      UNDP
                            Hakan Taplamacioglu               UNDP



                                                    - 46 -

 March 18: Ankara         Treasury Officials (2)               Treasury World Bank Projects Unit
                          Seda Aroymak,                        Senior Financial Management Specialist
                          MOH Staff (3)                        Users of CHRMS

 March 21: Istanbul       Dr Sabahattin Aydin                  Deputy Under Secretary MOH
                          Dr Cetin Gumusoglu                   Construction Firm Supervisor
 March 22: Gumushane      Vali Veysel Dalmaz                   Governor of Gumushane
Province                  Dr Engin Yilmaz                      Provincial Health Director
                          Dr Mehmet Karaduman                  Chief Hospital Physician
                          Deputy Chief Physician               Beneficiary of Training
                          State Hospital Head Nurse            Beneficiary of Training
 March 22:Bayburt         Vali Musa Kucukkurt                  Governor of Bayburt
Province                  Dr K.Kadri Karaoglu                  Provincial Health Director
                          Dr Sinan Bashekemi                   Chief Hospital Physician
                          State Hospital Head Nurse            Beneficiary of Training
 March 23: Erzincan       Vali Vekili Faruk Isik               Governor of Erzincan
Province                  Dr Mesut Turan                       Provincial Health Director
                          Dr Koray Bingol                      Chief Hospital Physician
                          Deputy Provincial Health Director    Beneficiary of Training
                          State Hospital Head Nurse            Beneficiary of Training
                          Hospital Manager                     Beneficiary of Training
 March 23:Tunceli         Vali Vekili Ozkan Demir              Governor of Tunceli
Province                  Dr Muslum Tarkan                     Provincial Health Director
                          Dr Feruz Zeydan                      Chief Hospital Physician
 March 24: Malatya        Vali Vekili Erol Rustemoglu          Governor of Malatya
Province                  Dr Sezai Demirel                     Provincial Health Director
                          Dr Bulent Topaloglu                  Chief State Hospital Physician
                          State Hospital Head Nurse            Beneficiary of training
                          Ass. Chief State Hospital Physician  Beneficiary of training
 March 25: Ankara         Haluk Ozsari                         Former PCU Coordinator
                          Goskein Aktulay                      Former Deputy PCU Coordinator


Others interviewed:
Armin Fidler (ECSHD Sector Manager; former project TTL); Ibrahim Akcayoglu (TTL);Alexander Preker
(AFTH2; member of project appraisal team and former TTL); Ajay Chhibber (OEDDR; former Country Director);
Virginia Jackson (Consultant MNSHD; member of project appraisal team); Betty Hanan (ECSHD, former TTL);
Sally Zeijlon (ECSPS; former Turkey country team); Nadeem Jaganjac (Consultant MNSHD; former team
member); Evelyn Villatoro (LCOPR; former team member-procurement); Sunil Bhattacharya (ECSPS, Regional
Procurement Manager); Donna Edgerton (MIS Consultant).




                                                    - 47 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

i.       PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion report (ICR) for the Second Health Project in Turkey, for
which Loan 3802-TU. This ICR was prepared by Health Project General Coordination Unit of
Ministry of Health of Turkey, acting as Project Coordination Unit for the Second Health Project.

ii. PROJECT SUMMARY

a. Project Objectives:
The primary objective of the Second Health Project, which started on 28 September 1994 closed 31
December 2004 is to reduce the burden of disease due to avoidable illness and disability in Turkey. To
achieve this goal, the specific objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve equity of access to essential
health services in 23 eastern, low-income, priority provinces; and (b) improve the quality of health care
management in selected institutions.

b. Project Description:
The Project has a total budget of US$200million (World Bank US$150million; Turkish Government
US$50million) and consists of the following two components.

I) The Primary Health Care Component will improve equity in access to essential health services by:
(a) upgrading the training of primary health care personnel;
(b) expanding basic health care interventions known to be cost-effective; and
(c) strengthening the network of health care facilities to support the above activities. This component
forms the centerpiece of the Second Health Project. It sets priorities based on the leading causes of
mortality and morbidity, and it will keep these at the forefront of debates on reforms in the health care
system.

II) The Health Policy and Management Component will improve the quality of health care management
in selected institutions by:
(a) upgrading the training of staff in policymaking, planning, management, monitoring and evaluation;
(b) decentralizing and restructuring management responsibility in six pilot hospitals;
(c) introducing basic management support systems in Provincial Health Directorates and selected hospitals
in the project provinces, as well as evaluating a more comprehensive management information system in
one urban pilot hospital in western Turkey; and
(d) conducting pre-investment studies to support broader reforms in the health sector.
         Activities supported under (b) and (c) are explicitly designed as trial runs for future countrywide
         implementation.

I) THE PRIMARY HEALTH CARE COMPONENT
The Primary Health Care Component consists of the following three subcomponents: (a) Primary Health
Care Training; (b) Basic Health Care Interventions; and (c) Infrastructure Development.

(A) PRIMARY HEALTH CARE TRAINING
i. Development Of Learning And Training Materials And Curricula:
Objectives: Training materials that will increase/improve/enhance the knowledge and skill of the persons in
every rank working in the submission of health services are planned to be developed.




                                                     - 48 -

Implementation:
* An conformity training set has been prepared to be used in the harmonization training courses for the
personnel working at the Ministry and the provincial organizations, university specialists/experts and the
primary health care personnel/family health personnel.

* In order to support the activities carried out for the training programs, training materials on different
subjects have been published. Training materials not only for the health personnel but also for the public
have been published.

Results and Impacts:
The development, testing and revision of the consistent training materials according to experience.
ii. Training Teams In Each Project Province
Objectives: Formation of training teams in provinces under the Second Health Project.
Implementation:
Provincial Training Teams (PTT) in Provinces and Central Training Teams (CTT) in the Ministry have
been composed under the Second health Project for the educators that will be assigned to train the staff.
The teams were trained. The aim was to give and improve the skills of educating. The training teams
participated in the educators training regularly (twice in a year) during the Project.
Results and Impacts:
The formation of training teams and their continuance

iii. Enhancement Of Training Teams Training
Objectives: The systematic training of the primary health care staff.
Implementation:
In regard to the health programs carried out many training activities have been implemented for the primary
health care personnel through the cooperation of the relating units of the Ministry and PTT. The annual
integrated training programs of the Ministry with the participation of all the units have been prepared by
the Technical Committee of the Primary Health Care Training and the training courses were carried out
according to these annual plans. Monitoring and evaluation meetings regarding the training were held
regularly by the Technical Committee, problems were identified and solutions were brought to
attention/developed.

Under the Health Project, the basic health care courses for the health personnel were classified under two
titles; adaptation and development training.

Adaptation Training: The adaptation of the primary health care personnel is aimed. This training, was
given to the personnel who have just started working, who have just been appointed and that have worked
in foundations apart from the Ministry of Health and have been appointed to the Ministry of Health and to
the health personnel who has just started working at a unit which provides family health care, with the
pre-condition to work in the family health establishments in the Health Project Provinces.

The subject titles of the Adaptation Trainings are given below:
 The conditions/characteristics of the health care in the Provinces.
 The legal regulations relating to health care and the employees/personnel
 The function and management of the Health Centers
 The basic principles and techniques of health care planning
 Epidemiology in the regional health management
 The participation of the public in healthcare



                                                     - 49 -

 Health Programs

The Adaptation Trainings were given 10 working days to the target group mentioned above by the PTT.

Development Training: Its purpose is to give the necessary knowledge and skill to the personnel in order
to increase efficiency in proving health care. The Province Health Managers and PTT have planned these
training courses by taking the prior problems of the province or some parts of the province or some social
groups. The target group of the development training is the whole health personnel according to the
program to be carried out with the pre-condition of working at family health establishments.

The main subjects of the Development Training has been given below:
 Environment health
 Family health
 Mother health and planning
 Child health
 Mental health
 Training for the problems often seen , caused by the condition of the province
 The general principles of the control of contagious disease
 Diseases that could be prevented with vaccine
 Respiratory infections
 Diseases from water and food
 Sexual Diseases
 Zoonotic diseases
 Tropical diseases
 Chronic diseases seen in family health
 First aid and emergency
 Preventive eye health
 Mouth and dental health
 Nutrition, etc..

Achievements in numbers
The number of the personnel to be trained is calculated according to the "Personnel Projections to be
Trained and Expected According to Years in the Second Health Project Provinces". As a result of this
during the project adaptation trainings for 29.192 health personnel and development training for 16.068
health personnel will be achieved.

By the end of 2003 within the scope of Second Health Project a total of 37.936 (10.839 by central training,
27.097 by provincial training) health personnel were trained.

Basic Health Care Services Project: trainings started in Eskiehir and Bilecik provinces in 1998 but after
the 1999 Marmara earthquake, the Project was amended and it was turned into Marmara Earthquake
Emergency Aid Program. According to this it was decided that basic health care services would be given
not only in Eskiehir and Bilecik but also in Bolu, Dzce, Kocaeli, Sakarya and Yalova and these would be
financed in the scope of Second Health.

By the end of 2003 a total of 6.418 health personnel (877 by central training, 5541 by provincial training)
were trained in those provinces in the scope of MEEAP.

So by the end of 2003 a total of 44.354 health personnel (11/716 central training, 32.638 by provincial


                                                    - 50 -

trainings) were trained in the scope of Second Health Project.

As a result of this, it is seen that % 98 of the expected and planned personnel trainings have been completed
within the scope of Second Health Project.

Results and Impacts:
Continuity and institutionalization of the training programs.

iv. Monitoring And Evaluation Of Training Activities:
Objectives: Monitoring and Evaluation of Training Activities
Implementation:
There were studies to track down the changes created by the trainings and to observe the efficiency of the
trainings and their impacts on the field.
The success levels of the trainees were evaluated by the tests and feedbacks prepared by the training teams
according to the subjects. Also, the trainees were given training evaluation forms, and thus their feedbacks
for training organization, the training content and the trainers were taken. The information concerning the
trainings was reported to the Health Project through a report prepared by PTT

Results and Impacts:
It is hard to identify the impact of the trainings on the services provided on the field.
It is hard to say which changes are created by the trainings because there are many factors creating change
in service. However, by looking at the findings of the Project staff in field and the findings of the Health
Centers Research between 1997-2002, it is seen that there are solid changes created by the trainings.

(B) BASIC HEALTH CARE INTERVENTIONS

i. Rational Drug Use (RDU)

Objectives: Primary health care rational drug use means decreasing the economic and social burden in
society caused by irrational drug use and preventing physiological, biological and psychological harms.
Implementation:
1. Pharmaco -therapy trainings
2. Pharmaco economy trainings
3. Prescription evaluation works
4. Developing Diagnosis and Treatment Manuals for Primary Health Care
5. Developing National Drug Policy.
6. Books published and adapted

1. In pharmaco therapy trainings, the aim is to develop ability in the health personnel about prescription
   writing, its usages in law suits, the methodologies relating to this, and the usage of this methodology in
   education. The trainings will mainly be given for provincial training groups, and each health staff
   member coming to the province will be given Rational Drug Use Training. Also, many academicians are
   included in these trainings as participants, so medicine school students would also benefit from the
   trainings. Moreover, YOK (Higher Education Council) published a recommendation saying that our
   trainings should be implemented in the Medicine Schools of Universities.

2. In pharmaco therapy trainings, a total of 160 people (73 academicians, 87 doctors working         in MOH
     hospitals) were trained. Then, the 87 doctors gave the trainings in their provinces to 1048 doctors.
     These figures are expected to be higher because of the ongoing trainings.


                                                       - 51 -

- 1526 January 2001  "pharmaco therapy training" Ankara
- 4-14 July 2001  "pharmaco therapy training" Ankara
- 17-29 October 2001  "pharmaco therapy training" Ankara
- 24 June4 July 2002  "pharmaco therapy training" Konya

3. Pharmaco economy trainings. The most important results of the Rational Drug Use works can be done
     by the works concerning economic evaluation. Awareness was maintained that these evaluations are
     crucial especially for the countries with limited health budgets. It was not possible to interpret and to
     evaluate the results of such research for RDU within the Central Organization. So, for this issue,
     trainings were held to train the health sector staff on basic issues and to raise awareness. In the future,
     it is planned to carry out works such as evaluation of drug cost-efficiency, rationality cost.
     2-13 September 2002 "Evidence, Money&Drug Selection"-Pharmo economy training" Antalya

4. Prescription evaluation works: Researches were made in some field provinces by making use of patient
   registers in project provinces and by keeping records of the prescriptions which the pharmacies directly
   get in one day. These researches are mainly about drug expenses and rationality issues. Among those, the
   research for Bolu province was completed and was reported. Bayburt research was also completed.
   Similar researches will be completed for Erzurum, Adyaman, Malatya provinces. The results of these
   reports are important regarding the policy making process based on the rationality tendencies and costs,
   as a result they were reported to the senior levels. Fourteen book/booklet/brochures etc. were published.

Results and Impacts:
Such works conducted within the scope of Rational Drug Use made it clear that there were some problems
in the consummation of drugs. The trainings revealed pre-graduate and post-graduate deficiencies regarding
the pharmaco therapy and pharmaco economy.

With the help of the pharmaco therapy and pharmaco economy trainings, the concept of "rational drug use"
was put into the agenda of the health sector. Again in this scope, Rational Pharmaco therapy Trainings
were launched in the Medicine Schools of 10 universities for the pre-graduation students. Moreover, trade
unions started to attribute importance to the subject and they started to prepare in-service trainings and
congresses. Thus, all sector stakeholders were brought together for the creation of drug policies.

ii. Developed Diagnosis And Treatment Protocols

Objectives: In order to provide the scientific resources needed especially for the Primary health care, it is
aimed to develop protocols for diagnosis and treatment with or without drugs especially concerning the
common health problems.
Implementation:
It was a long process to develop the Family Health Diagnosis and Treatment Manuals. The first product
"Diagnosis and Treatment Manual for the Primary Health Care" (2002) was published in 12.500 copies
and introduced with a press conference in March 2002. The final product "Diagnosis and Treatment
Guidelines for the Primary Health Care  2003" was published in 50.000 copies and started to be
distributed to the doctors in September 2003. It is aimed to send it to some limited number of universities
so that it can be a source for their RDU implementation. The Guidelines has 69 main titles. Those titles are
the most common problems encountered. More than 100 academicians, doctors, health sector associations,
foundations, and organization contributed to its preparation.
Results and Impacts:
"Diagnosis and Treatment Manuals for the Primary Health Care 2003" was submitted to the use of the
doctors working in the primary health care. Moreover, the Medicine Schools in some of the universities


                                                      - 52 -

started to use the manuals in their education programs before graduation. Likewise, the Ministry of Finance
used this manual as the fundamental manual while preparing the drug lists. Also, it was stated that this
manual was going to be used as the fundamental source after the transfer to the Family Medicine



iii. Research To Seek Increased Efficiencies

Objectives: A research was planned to evaluate the prescriptions written in the Primary health care
institutions for evaluating RDU
Results and Impacts:
The research is carried on by evaluating the samples chosen from among the research data.

iv. Public Education And Health Promotion
Objectives: Executing the Health Programs
Implementation:
Studies concerning the mother health, child health, malaria, tuberculosis, and cancer were carried out under
the name of Basic Health Care Services Training Programs by the related units. During these works,
material development and publication and training of health staff and public were conveyed.



C) INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT

i. Procurement
Objectives:     To ensure timely and cost-effective procurement of equipment, supplies, furniture and
vehicles.
Implementation: During the term of the project, mainly on the basis of the international competitive
bidding, primary health care facilities were provided with standard medical packs (through UNICEF),
vehicles procured for use in transport of both sick people and medical staff, and medical equipment
purchased for existing hospitals and 23 training health centers. The list of major procurement is as follows;



(1) Medical supplies for 2985 health posts and 753 health centers (2) Furniture for 2985 health posts and
753 health centers (3) Medical equipment for public health laboratories (4) 80.000 doses of Rabies
Vaccines and 1000 ampoules of Anti-Venom Serum through UNICEF (5) 5,000,000 doses of BCG
vaccines through UNICEF (6) Cold chain materials through UNICEF (7) 8,000,000 doses of Polio
vaccines through UNICEF (8) 23 Cross country vehicles and 23 minibuses (9) medical equipment for the
Gynecology, Pediatrics, Emergency Care Services (10) 360,500 BCG injections through UNICEF (11)
28.5 million doses of measles vaccines (12) 26.4 million Condoms (13) 396,000 IUD (14) 134
hemodialysis equipment (15) 100 Fetal Monitors (16) 115 incubators (17) 115 Transport incubators (18)
100 radiant warmer (19) 20 million 2cc injectors and 6 million BCG injectors (20) 1 Cobalt-60
Radiotherapy device and 1 X-Ray Simulator (21) Medical supplies under Measles Elimination Program
(22) Laboratory equipment, dental equipment and ECG for 23 Training Health Centers (23) furniture and
medical furniture for 23 training health centers (24) training devices for 23 training health centers

Sustainability: All the procurement packages under the procurement program are now under the control of
the Ministry, no sustainability problems are foreseen.
Delays in Implementation:
The main delay is due to the delay in the completion of construction of 23 training health centers.



                                                    - 53 -

Results and Impacts:
All the procurement packages were procured and distributed to the relevant health institutions.

ii. Civil Works:
Objectives:
The objective of the Project is strengthening the infrastructure of Basic Health Services in the Eastern part
of Turkey. In this context, coverage of a wider geographical area, outreach to all population concerned and
more importantly increase in quality of health services targeted. An important element of the Project is
training and exposure of the staff engaged in basic health services to new developments and/or
technologies.

The training type health centers are identical and will encompass Health Center, Training Center and
Dormitory on 4 stories+basement floor. The Project includes landscape of the land, connection of the
building to information technology network systems as well as existing infrastructure utilities.

The area covered by the construction program is very large and the construction has been divided into 6
packages each being undertaken by a different contractors.

1. SHP 1P - EK n. Taah. San. Ve Tic. A..
 Artvin Training Health Center
 Bayburt Training Health Center
 Erzincan Training Health Center
 Erzurum Training Health Center
 Gmhane Training Health Center

2. SHP 2P - ERS naat Sanayi ve Tic. A..
 Ardahan Training Health Center
 Ar Training Health Center
 Idr Training Health Center
 Kars Training Health Center

3. SHP 3P - ADAN Mh.Mt. San.ve Tic. A..
 Adyaman Training Health Center
 Kahraman Mara Training Health Center
 anl Urfa Training Health Center

4. SHP 4P - YDA n. Taah. San. Tic. Ltd. ti.-AKSA n. Tic. Ta. A..
 Bingl Training Health Center
 Elaz Training Health Center
 Malatya Training Health Center
 Tunceli Training Health Center

5. SHP5P - KAYA n. th. hr. Taah. Tic. Ltd. ti.
 Hakkari Training Health Center
 Van Training Health Center

6. SHP 6P - KUZU Toplu Konut naat Ltd. ti.
 Batman Training Health Center
 Bitlis Training Health Center


                                                   - 54 -

 Mu Training Health Center
 Siirt Training Health Center
 rnak Training Health Center

The consultant firm was Parsons Brinckerhoff (PB) for the supervision of civil works. The Headquarter of
PB was located in Malatya and administrative regions were located in Erzurum for SHP 1P-EK n.
Taah.San. ve Tic.A. and SHP 2P-ERS naat San. ve Tic.A.. and in Malatya-Siirt for SHP 3P-ADAN
Mh.Mt.San.ve Tic. A., SHP 4P-YDA n.Taah.San.Tic.Ltd.ti.-AKSA n.Tic.Ta.A., SHP5P-KAYA
n.th. hr.Taah.Tic.Ltd.ti. and SHP 6P-KUZU Toplu Konut n.Ltd.ti.

Implementation:
Under the 2nd Health Project ;
Ardahan, Ar, Idr, Kars (SHP 2P-ERS naat Sanayi ve Tic. A..), Adyaman, Kahraman Mara, anl
Urfa (SHP3P-ADAN Mh.Mt. San.ve Tic. A..), Bingl, Elaz, Malatya (SHP 4P-YDA n. Taah.
San. Tic. Ltd. ti.-AKSA n. Tic. Ta. A..), Hakkari, Van (SHP5P-KAYA n. th. hr. Taah. Tic. Ltd.
ti.), Batman, Bitlis, Mu,Siirt and rnak (SHP 6P-KUZU Toplu Konut naat Ltd. ti.)

Training Health Centers have been completed successfully and the remaining six Training Health Centers
are expected to be completed in 2005.

Sustainability :
Since all the Training Health Centers constructed under the 2nd Health Project are now under the control of
the Ministry of Health, no sustainability problems are foreseen.



Delays in Implementation:
The Commencement date was 08 November 2002 and Original contractual period has ended on 06 May
2003. Since the work was stopped till the 06 June 2003 and Consultancy and Supervision Services for the
Project has been carried out by the Ministry  APK (Research, Planning and Coordination) Board through
out the dates between 06 June 2003 and 08 September 2003 and PB has recommenced Consultancy and
Supervision Services as of the date of 08 September 2003 in accordance with the Amendment No.1 of PB
Contract signed on 05 September 2003, Contractors have been granted time extension until the date of 31
October 2003.

Since the civil works couldn't be completed, Ministry of Health has granted a second time extension to the
Contractors until 31 December 2003.

In the joint meeting held on 06 January 2004 at World Bank Office, it was mutually agreed upon, in order
to provide the required quality of works under the winter weather conditions,to prepare additional protocols
with certain conditions that the condition of `'non  working days'' of the Public Works General
Specifications will be considered for the construction period to govern instead of the contract clause `'
constructions will continue without interruption''.Contract Amendment NO:1(Kaya construction exclusive)
was signed on 15/01/2004 between the MOH and Contractors. Completion dates of construction on
province basis have been rearranged.

The Health Ministry has suspended all construction works and the Consultancy and Supervision Services
until 01 April 2004 at all sites excluding Van and Hakkari which are at provisional acceptance stage.

It has been observed that some of the Contractors are not meeting the time schedule they have submitted to


                                                    - 55 -

PCU on February 2004 and they have been requested to submit their additional measures to speed up and
complete works in a timely manner. Health Centers construction in a several provinces could not be
completed in time.

As a result of extension of the Loan until December 2003, allocation couldn't be found for 2004 budget
and the World Bank credit could be included in the government budget only as of the end of July 2004.
Therefore, payment certificates of firms for December 2003 could only be processed by the end of July and
by the beginning of August 2004. So Contract Amendment No:2 was signed on 15/09/2004 between the
MOH and Contractors. Completion dates of construction on province basis have been rearranged again.

The Training Health Centers in 17 provinces have been completed but unfortunately Artvin, Bayburt,
Erzincan, Erzurum, Gmhane and Tunceli Training Health Centers could not be completed and the
reason for this are given below :

At SHP-1P package sites of Eki naat, there has been no activity during the months of June and July 2004
because of finance problem of the firm. As the work schedule given by the Contractor was found
unacceptable, it was instructed to start works immediately and submit a revised work schedule, however no
action was taken until the date of 31th July 2004.

During August 2004 works have been ongoing for a short period in all sites apart from Erzurum site,and
the contractor has been warned to start up with the works at all sites immediately. During the meetings with
consultant and the firm it was evaluated that the firm's financial difficulties increased and as the contractor
faces some financial challenges, it has difficulty in procuring equipment and organizing the teams that will
carry out the works and it is considered that if financial problems are overcome, Eki Insaat can achieve a
better organization and planning, and constructions can be completed by the end of 2004. So a second
Advance Payment was given to contractor in order to complete the work by the end of 2004. But
unfortunately the work could not be completed in five provinces.

As regards to Tunceli site within the scope of SHP-4P, the Contractor YDA&AKSA could not complete
the works regarding the site arrangement works. Resulting from the implementation of the "Reconstruction
Law" land boundaries have changed in the cadastral drawing of the parcel on which Tunceli province
Health Center building is constructed. Hence the building partly covers the adjacent parcel and at the side
subject to high retaining wall construction, approximately 60 cm relocation is subject to matter. Since this
situation has not yet been reflected to the municipal settlement drawings, issues; such as parcel boundaries,
whether the small land pieces at road side will be part of the parcel or not are not clear. Because of these
reasons stated above, site arrangement works will be stopped until a new layout plan is going to be
produced.

II) The Health Policy and Management Component

(A) HEALTH SERVICES AND HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT

i. Training For Provincial Managers And Hospital Managers
Objectives: Increasing the management capacity of the Provincial health managers and hospital managers
Implementation:
Health Care Services Management Trainings
Provincial Health Care Directors, Provincial Health Care Assistant Directors, and elected health care staff
joined these trainings.




                                                     - 56 -

The trainings are carried out between:
Two groups: 4 Feb 2002 - 15 Feb 2002
Two groups: 1 April 2002 - 12 April 2002
148 health managers and ministerial health staff joined this training.

Hospital Management Trainings
These trainings were for: the Head Doctors, Hospital Managers, Head Nurses, Province Health
Directorates Inpatient Treatment Institutions Unit chiefs, and managers working in the Curative Services
General Directorate who are chosen from among the managers of the hospitals with 50 or more bed
capacities in the provinces within the scope of Second Health Project.

The trainings are carried out between:
Two groups: 8 Oct 2001 - 19 Oct 2001
Two groups: 30 Oct 2001 - 10 Nov 2001
Two groups: 11 Mar 2002 - 22 Mar 2002
One group: 15 April 2002 - 26 April 2002
Last two groups: 6 May 2002 - 17 May 2002

372 hospital managers and ministerial staff joined this training.
In total 520 personnel joined the trainings.

Results and Impacts:
Through the Health Management and Hospital Management Trainings, 520 health managers and central
staff of the Ministry were trained. It was found out through the general evaluation questionnaires that the
trainings were very productive for the participants with respect to introducing new perspectives in
managerial sciences, health management and hospital management, and for developing their existing
information.

(B) COMPUTERIZED MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT SYSTEM
Objectives: To establish information systems necessary for service planning, delivery and evaluation at all
levels and to improve information transfer. It is also aimed to enhance the effectiveness, efficiency and
transparency of MOH activities on the national level and to enhance effectiveness and efficiency of health
care services in the selected MOH hospitals within the Project Provinces.

Major activity carried out within this context is Core Health Resources Management System (CHRMS).
With CHRMS, it is planned to create the more institutional and contemporary structure by using
Information Technologies in human resources, material, pharmaceuticals and financial management in
central Ministry of Health and 81 Provinces Health Directorates. The main goals of the project in line of
the given object are given below;

 To accelerate the information flow between Ministry of Health (MoH) and Provincial Health Directorates
(PHD).
 To ascertain the needs in a shortest time by tracking the resources.
 To get reports and statistics completely / quickly regarding to planning.
 To provide activities on line between central MoH and PHDs resulting standardization and coordination
 To provide Management Decision Support System.

The provision and installation of technology infrastructure in central MoH and 81 PHDs, software
development, training and on-site support will be covered by CHRMS Project

Implementation:


                                                    - 57 -

Within the scope of the CHRMS project, where all the software applications (Human Resources
Management System, Financial Resources Management System, Material Resources Management System
and Drugs and Pharmacy Information System) have been implemented according to the web based
architecture, local area network (LAN) infrastructure regarding CHRMS have been installed according to
the "Star network topology" in central MoH and in all 81 PHDs, and frame relay connections between
PHDs and central MoH using TCP/IP Protocol have been established.

523 units of Work Stations and 80 units of Printers for CHRMS users in central MoH and 11 units of
Work Stations and 3 units of Printers for CHRMS users in each PHDs have been provided and installed. A
"Frame Relay" telecommunication services has been provided for the connection between central MoH and
PHDs. Uninterrupted Power Supplies (UPS) have been established in 41 PHDs where they have needed.
The improvements in network connections have been made for those PHDs having poor connection to
central MoH.

For CHRMS user in each PHDs and central MoH, Computer Literacy, Office Automation Package,
System Management and CHRMS Software trainings have been given and , On Site Support services
following the training program have been provided. Beside, electronic personnel registry files kept by
central of MoH and PHDs have been transferred to Human Resources Management System /CHRMS
database.

All the hardware (servers (for application, database, backup and load balancer), firewall, router, switch,
modem,and etc) which are necessary for the web based architecture have been installed in the system room
that is located in the Data Processing Department / Ministry of Health.

C) STUDIES
i. National Burden of Disease and Cost Effectiveness Study
Objectives:

1. Estimating Turkey's burden of disease,
2. Cost calculations for 29 health institutions.
3. Calculating cost-effectiveness of specified health operations
4. Building basic health packages to minimize burden of disease with existing sources.
5. In this scope, in the "Household Research", a sample of 12.000 households is taken to evaluate the
mortality, morbidity, disability and health condition of the country. It was also planned to take more than
one research in order to identify the seasonal differences of diseases
6. it was also planned to make Oral Autopsy Research in 60.000 households to determine the causes for
death .
Implementation:
1. Causes of death in the GBD 2000 standards and YLL, YLD and DALY values were calculated in the
basis of age, sex, region, countryside- city.
2. Projection values/equivalents were figured out for the tears of 2010, 2015, 2020, 2025 and 2030.
3. HALE values are calculated in the basis of age and sex groups.
4. The rate referred to the population for the elected 8 risk factors was calculated and preventable and
unpreventable burden of diseases was calculated.
5. Cost calculations were made in a total of 29 health institutions.
6. Cost-effectiveness calculations were made for the 38 interventions at clinical based and 9 interventions at
public health based identified in TOR.
7. A total of 9 basic service packages were produced.
8. Household Research (in 2 periods) was conducted in 11.481 houses.


                                                     - 58 -

9. In 60.000 houses, deaths were specified for the last 1 year and the causes of death were identified
according to the ICD 10 coding system.
10. Turkey life tables were calculated and the life expectancy at birth were calculated.
11.Crude death rates for Turkey were figured out.

Results and Impacts:
Household research was carried out in two periods to see seasonal differences. But no seasonal difference
was identified between the acute and chronic diseases. Also the household head was asked about the acute
diseases for the last 2 months and chronic diseases excluding the last two months within the family. But the
expected results were not taken. Apart from these, all the other expected results were taken.

ii. National Health Accounts Study (NHA)
Objectives:
Broadening the scope of the National Health Accounts (NHA) (basic principles, terminology and
classification) and establishing the first NHA data basis for the years 1999 and 2000.

Implementation:
 Distribution tables including the financing institution, service provider and function classifications were
made
 A two-phase survey representing Turkey was conducted on household expenditures in order to identify
the out-of-pocket health expenditures in Turkey
 Surveys and questionnaires were developed and applied in order to obtain data on the health accounts of
different institutions:
1. The hospital survey conducted at 152 institutions selected among those with 742 in order to see
expenditures from Financing Agents to Service Providers and Functions, to fill in the Function tables.
2. Ministry of Defense,
3. Private Provincial Administrations,
4. Municipalities,
5. Health institutions affiliated to State Owned Enterprises (KT),
6. Private Funds,
7. Health Institutions under Privatization Administration,
8. Private Insurance Companies,
9. Private Health Institutions,

 Besides identifying the health expenditures based on the regions and social classes, predictions were made
for the Source x Financing Institution, Financing Institution xAge, Financing Institution x Gender,
Financing Institution x Input Tables.
 For institutionalization purposes;
1. Two trainings, the first of which lasted for 2 weeks and the second for one week, were given in order to
build the required capacity of human and knowledge. The Committee Members of all health organizations
in the health sector joined these trainings.

2. For institutionalization purposes : data collection tools were provided with the State Institute of
Statistics which was considered to be authorized and convenient due to its institutional and legal status
upon its request, financing was included in the budget for 2003 by the State Planning Organization for the
beginning. NHA study institutionalized at SIS and consequent years SIS begin to make the study.

Results and Impacts:
 Identifying the operational scope of the health sector according to their activities


                                                     - 59 -

 Distribution tables including the financing institution, service provider and function classifications were
made
 A two-phase survey representing Turkey was conducted on household expenditures in order to identify
the expenditures of out-of-pocket in Turkey
 Turkey became the data providing country to OECD about health expenditures
 Turkey National Health Accounts 1999-2000 Based on System of Health Accounts book was published
and delivered to all related institutions and people.




                                                     - 60 -

Additional Annex 9. Equipment purchased and status of construction for 23 Project
Provinces.


Province  THC      Hospital        Vehicles and Medical Equipment Received.
                   Name
Adiyaman 100%      Adiyaman State Aspirating Pump, Surgical-2; Centrifuge, Hematocrit-1; Centrifuge, Universal -1;
         complete; Hospital       Defibrillator-1; ECG, With        Interpreter, 12 Channel -1Sterilizer,e, Binocular-1;
         equipment                Monitor, Bedside-4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic-1; Steriliser, Dry Air -1; Ventilator,
         being                    Intensive Care -1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic -1; X-Ray, 500 MA, Floating
         installed                Table-HF-1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
                   Adiyaman       Aspirating Pump, Paediatric,2; Aspirating Pump, Surgical,2; Bilirubinometer,1;
                   Maternity and  Centrifuge, Hematocrit,1; Centrifuge, Universal ,1; Defibrillator,2; ECG, With
                   Child Care     Interpreter, 12 Channel, 2; Foetal Monitor,1; Incubator, Infant,1; Incubator, Infant,
                   Hospital       Transport,1; Infant Care System With Ventilator,1; Microscope, Binocular,1; Monitor
                                  System, Central Unit, w/4 Monitors,1; Monitor, Bedside,4; Nebulizer, ltrasonic,3;
                                  Phototerapy InstrSterilizer,esuscitation System, Mobile,1; Steriliser, Dry Air,1;
                                  Ventilator, Intensive Care,1; Ventilator, Intensive Care, Paediatric, 1.
Agri     69%       Agri State     Anaesthetic    Device,    Automatic     Ventilator,1;  Aspirating    Pump,  Surgical,5;
         complete; Hospital       Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1; CT Scanner, Whole Body, 1;
         equipment                Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1;
         being                    ECG, With      Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1; Electrosurgical Unit , 1; Microscope,
         installed                Sterilizer,1; Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 1; Steriliser, Dry Air , 1;
                                  Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted , 1; Surgical Set, Delivery, 2; Surgical Set,
                                  Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 1; Vacuum Extractor, 1; Ventilator,
                                  Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; X-Ray, 500 MA, Floating
                                  Table-HF, 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
Ardahan  65%       Ardahan State  Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 7;
         complete  Hospital       Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1; Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table,
                                  1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel
                                  , 2; Electrosurgical Unit , 1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Microscope, Binocular, 1;
                                  MonitPhototherapy, 4; Nebulizer, USterilizer,3; Phototerapy Instrument , 1;
                                  Steriliser, Dry Air , 1; Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted , 1; Surgical Set, Delivery, 2;
                                  Surgical Set, Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 1; Vacuum Extractor, 1;
                                  Ventilator, Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1
                                  minibus
Artvin   60%       Artvin State   Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 7;
         complete; Hospital       Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1; CT Scanner, Whole Body, 1;
         equipment                Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1;
         being                    ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel , 2; Electrosurgical Unit , 1; Incubator, Infant, 1;
         installed                MicroscPhototherapylar, 1; Monitor, Sterilizer, Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 3; Phototerapy
                                  Instrument , 1; Steriliser, Dry Air , 1; Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted , 1; Surgical
                                  Set, Delivery, 2; Surgical Set, Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology,1; Vacuum
                                  Extractor,1; Ventilator, Intensive Care, 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic, 1; 1
                                  4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
Batman   100%      Batman State   Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 2; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 5; Delivery
         complete; Hospital       Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 2
         equipment                Channel , 1; Electrosurgical Unit , 1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 2;
         being                    Phototerapy Instrument ,1; Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted , 2; Surgical Set,
         installed                Delivery, 2; Surgical Set, Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 2; Vacuum
                                  Extractor, 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; X-Ray, 500 MA, Floating
                                  Table-HF, 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
Bayburt  75%       Bayburt State  Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 5; Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1;
         complete; Hospital       CT Scanner, Whole Body, 1; Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow
         equipment                Detector, Foetal Use, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel , 2; Incubator, Infant, 1;
         being                    Microscope, Binocular, 1; Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 3; Phototerapy
         installed                Instrument , 1; Steriliser, Dry Air , 1; Surgical Set, Delivery, 2; Vacuum Extractor, 1;




                                                     - 61 -

                                    Ventilator, Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1
                                    minibus
Bingol   100%      Bingol State     Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 2; Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1;
         complete; Hospital         CT Scanner, Whole Body, 1; Defibrillator, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1;
         equipment                  Microscope, Binocular, 1; Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 1; Steriliser,
         being                      Dry Air , 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1.
         installed
                   Bingol           Aspirating Pump, Paediatric, 2; Bilirubinometer, 1; Defibrillator, 1; ECG, With
                   Maternity and    Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1; Foetal Monitor, 1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Incubator, Infant,
                   Child Care       Transport, 1; Infant Care System With Ventilator, 1; Monitor System, Central Unit,
                   Hospital         w/4 Monitors , 1; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 2; Phototerapy Instrument , 2; Resuscitation
                                    System, Mobile, 1; USG, 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care, Paediatric , 1.
Bitlis   100%      Bitlis State     Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 7;
         complete; Hospital         Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1; CT Scanner, Whole Body, 1;
         equipment                  Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1;
         being                      ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel , 2; Electrosurgical Unit , 1; Incubator, Infant, 1;
         installed                  Microscope, Binocular, 1; Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 3; Phototerapy
                                    Instrument , 1; Steriliser, Dry Air , 1; Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted , 1; Surgical
                                    Set, Delivery, 2; Surgical Set, Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 1; USG, 1;
                                    Vacuum Extractor, 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer,
                                    Automatic , 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
                   Bitlis-Tatvan    Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Paediatric, 2;
                   Maternity and    Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 2; Bilirubinometer, 1; Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1;
                   Child Care       Centrifuge, Universal , 1; Defibrillator, 2; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel , 2;
                   Hospital         Foetal Monitor, 1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Incubator, Infant, Transport, 1; Infant Care
                                    System With Ventilator, 1; Microscope, Binocular, 1; Monitor System, Central Unit,
                                    w/4 Monitors , 1; Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 3; Phototerapy
                                    Instrument , 2; Resuscitation System, Mobile, 1; Steriliser, Dry Air , 1; Surgical
                                    Table, Gynecology, 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care , 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care,
                                    Paediatric , 1.
Elazig   100%      Elazig State     Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 2; Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1;
         complete; Hospital         CT Scanner, Whole Body, 1; Defibrillator, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1;
         equipment                  Microscope, BiSterilizer, Monitor, Bedside, 4; MRI, 1; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 1;
         being                      Steriliser, Dry Air , 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer,
         installed                  Automatic , 1; X-Ray, 500 MA, Floating Table-HF, 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
                   Elazig Maternity Aspirating Pump, Paediatric, 2; Bilirubinometer, 1; Defibrillator, 1; ECG, With
                   and Child Care Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1; Foetal Monitor, 1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Incubator, Infant,
                   Hospital         Transport, 1; Infant Care System With Ventilator, 1; Monitor System, Central Unit,
                                    w/4 Monitors , 1; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 2; Phototerapy Instrument , 2; Resuscitation
                                    System, Mobile, 1; USG, 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care, Paediatric , 1
Erzincan 65%       Erzincan State   Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 5; Delivery
         complete; Hospital         Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12
         equipment                  Channel , 1; Electrosurgical Unit , 1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 2;
         being                      Phototerapy Instrument , 1; Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted , 1; Surgical Set,
         installed                  Delivery, 2; Surgical Set, Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 1; Vacuum
                                    Extractor, 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
Erzurum  70%       Erzurum          Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Paediatric, 2;
         complete; Maternity and    Bilirubinometer, 1; Defibrillator, 2; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel , 2; Foetal
         equipment Child Care       Monitor, 1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Monitor System, Central Unit, w/4 Monitors , 1;
         being     Hospital         Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 3; Phototerapy Instrument , 1; Resuscitation System, Mobile,
         installed                  1; Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted , 1; Surgical Set, Delivery, 2; Surgical Set,
                                    Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care , 1;
                                    Ventilator, Intensive Care, Paediatric , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1;
                                    X-Ray, 500 MA, Floating Table-HF, 1.
                   Erzurum          Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 2; Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1;
                   Numune           Defibrillator, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1; Microscope, Binocular, 1;
                   Hospital         Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 1; Steriliser, Dry Air , 1; Ventilator,
                                    Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 3; X-Ray, 500 MA, Floating




                                                       - 62 -

                                   Table-HF, 1
Gu' shane 60%       Gumushane      Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 5;
          complete; State Hospital Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1; CT Scanner, Whole Body, 1;
          equipment                Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1;
          being                    ECG, With      Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1; Electrosurgical Unit , 1; Microscope,
          installed                Binocular, 1; Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 1;Steriliser, Dry Air , 1;
                                   Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted , 1; Surgical Set, Delivery, 2; Surgical Set,
                                   Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 1; Vacuum Extractor, 1; Ventilator,
                                   Intensive Care , 1;X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; X-Ray, 500 MA, Floating
                                   Table-HF, 1
Hakkari   100%;     Hakkari State  Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 5;
          equipment Hospital       Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1; Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table,
          being                    1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel
          installed                , 2; Incubator, Infant, 1; Microscope, Binocular, 1; Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer,
                                   Ultrasonic, 3; Phototerapy Instrument , 1; Steriliser, Dry Air , 1; Surgical Set,
                                   Delivery, 2; USG, 1; Vacuum Extractor, 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film
                                   Developer, Automatic , 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
Igdir     100%      Igdir State    Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 5;
          complete; Hospital       Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1; CT Scanner, Whole Body, 1;
          equipment                Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1;
          being                    ECG, With      Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1; Electrosurgical Unit , 1; Microscope,
          installed                Binocular, 1; Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 1; Steriliser, Dry Air , 1;
                                   Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted , 1; Surgical Set, Delivery, 2; Surgical Set,
                                   Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 1; Vacuum Extractor, 1; Ventilator,
                                   Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
K.maras   100%      K.Maras State  Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 7;
          complete; Hospital       Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1; Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table,
          equipment                1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel
          being                    , 2; Electrosurgical Unit , 1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Microscope, Binocular, 1; Monitor,
          installed                Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 3; Phototerapy Instrument , 1; Steriliser, Dry Air ,
                                   1; Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted , 1; Surgical Set, Delivery, 2; Surgical Set,
                                   Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 1; Vacuum Extractor, 1;Ventilator,
                                   Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; X-Ray, 500 MA, Floating
                                   Table-HF, 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
Kars      100%      Kars State     Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 4;
          complete; Hospital       Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1;Defibrillator, 1;ECG, With
          equipment                Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1; Electrosurgical Unit , 1; Microscope, Binocular, 1;
          being                    Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 1; Steriliser, Dry Air , 1; Surgical Lamp,
          installed                Ceiling Mounted , 1; Surgical Set, Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 1;
                                   Ventilator, Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1
                                   minibus
                    Kars Maternity Aspirating Pump, Paediatric, 2; Bilirubinometer, 1; Defibrillator, 1; ECG, With
                    and Child Care Interpreter, 12 ; Channel, 1; Foetal Monitor, 1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Incubator, Infant,
                    Hospital       Transport, 1; Infant Care System With Ventilator, 1; Monitor System, Central Unit,
                                   w/4 Monitors , 1; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 2; Phototerapy Instrument , 2; Resuscitation
                                   System, Mobile, 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care, Paediatric , 1.
Malatya   100%      Malatya State  Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator, 1; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 7;
          complete; Hospital       Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal,1; Defibrillator,1; Delivery Table,1;
          equipment                Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use,1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel, 2;
          being                    Electrosurgical Unit,1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Microscope, Binocular,1; Monitor,
          installed                Bedside, 4; MRI, 1; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 3; Phototerapy Instrument, 1; Steriliser,
                                   Dry Air, 1; Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted, 1; Surgical Set, Delivery, 2; Surgical
                                   Set, Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 1; Vacuum Extractor, 1; Ventilator,
                                   Intensive Care, 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic, 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus.
Mus       100%      Mus State      Anaesthetic Device, Automatic Ventilator , 1; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 5; Delivery
          complete; Hospital       Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12
          equipment                Channel , 1; Electrosurgical Unit , 1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 2;
          being                    Phototerapy Instrument , 1; Surgical Lamp, Ceiling Mounted , 1; Surgical Set,




                                                      - 63 -

        installed                  Delivery, 2; Surgical Set, Obstetrics, 2; Surgical Table, Gynecology, 1; Vacuum
                                   Extractor, 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus.
S.urfa  100%      .Urfa State     Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 2; Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1;
        complete; Hospital         Defibrillator, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1; Microscope, Binocular, 1;
        equipment                  Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 1; Steriliser, Dry Air , 1; Ventilator,
        being                      Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; X-Ray, 500 MA, Floating
        installed                  Table-HF, 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus.
                  .Urfa Maternity Aspirating Pump, Paediatric, 2; Bilirubinometer, 1; Defibrillator, 1; ECG, With
                  and Child Care Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1; Foetal Monitor, 1; Incubator, Infant, 1; Incubator, Infant,
                  Hospital         Transport, 1; Infant Care System With Ventilator, 1; Monitor System, Central Unit,
                                   w/4 Monitors , 1; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 2; Phototerapy Instrument , 2; Resuscitation
                                   System, Mobile, 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care, Paediatric , 1
Siirt   100%      SIIRT State      Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 5; Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1;
        complete; Hospital         Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1;
        equipment                  ECG, With Interpreter, 12 CHannel , 2; Incubator, Infant, 1; Microscope, Binocular,
        being                      1; Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 3; Phototerapy Instrument , 1;
        installed                  Steriliser, Dry Air , 1; Surgical Set, Delivery, 2; Vacuum Extractor, 1; Ventilator,
                                   Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; X-Ray, 500 MA, Floating
                                   Table-HF, 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
Sirnak  100%      irnak State     Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 5; Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1;
        complete; Hospital         Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1;
        equipment                  ECG, With        Interpreter, 12 Channel , 2; Incubator, Infant, 1; Microscope,
        being                      Binocular,1;Monitor,Bedside,4;Nebulizer,Ultrasonic,3;Phototerapy        Instrument,1;
        installed                  Steriliser,Dry Air , 1; Surgical Set, Delivery, 2; Vacuum Extractor, 1; Ventilator,
                                   Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
Tunceli 100%      Tunceli State    Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 5; Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1;
        complete; Hospital         Defibrillator, 1; Delivery Table, 1; Doppler, Blood-Flow Detector, Foetal Use, 1;
        equipment                  ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel , 2; Incubator, Infant, 1; Microscope, Binocular,
        being                      1; Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 3; Phototerapy Instrument, 1;
        installed                  Steriliser, Dry Air,1; Surgical Set, Delivery, 2; Vacuum Extractor, 1; Ventilator,
                                   Intensive Care , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
Van     100%      Van State        Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 2; Centrifuge, Hematocrit, 1; Centrifuge, Universal , 1;
        complete, Hospital         Defibrillator, 1; ECG, With Interpreter, 12 Channel , 1; Microscope, Binocular, 1;
        equipment                  Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer, Ultrasonic, 1; Sterilizer, Dry Air , 1; Ventilator,
        being                      Intensive Care , 1; 1 4*4 vehicle; 1 minibus
        installed
                  Van Maternity    Aspirating Pump, Paediatric,2; Aspirating Pump, Surgical, 2; Bilirubinometer, 1;
                  and Child Care Centrifuge, Hematocrit,1; Centrifuge, Universal, 1; Defibrillator, 2; ECG, With
                  Hospital         Interpreter, 12 Channel, 2; Foetal Monitor, 1; Incubator, Infant,1; Incubator, Infant,
                                   Transport, 1; Infant Care System With Ventilator, 1; Microscope, Binocular, 1;
                                   Monitor System, Central Unit, w/4 Monitors,1; Monitor, Bedside, 4; Nebulizer,
                                   Ultrasonic, 3; Phototherapy Instrument, 2; Resuscitation System, Mobile, 1;
                                   Sterilizer, Dry Air, 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care , 1; Ventilator, Intensive Care,
                                   Paediatric , 1; X-Ray Film Developer, Automatic , 1.




                                                       - 64 -

Additional Annex 10. Trends in IMR and U5M; TFR; vaccination; HHDR; and CPR for
1993-2003.

Source of Data, Methods, Definitions of outcomes and grouping of provinces into regions:
This analysis used published data from the 1993, 1998 and the 2003 Demographic and Health Surveys
(DHS) reports. It is important to caution that these data do not come from surveys designed for the
purpose of evaluating impact of the Second Health Project and so no attribution is suggested. Information
on IMR, U5 Mortality, TFR, Vaccination, home/ hospital delivery, CPR and ANC are used to compare
trends in various outcomes between 1993 and 2003. Nevertheless, this is considered an important exercise
in comparing those regions that were the focus of project activities and those that were not with an implicit
assumption that all other things being equal, those regions comprising of project provinces should have
experienced an improvement in outcomes in 10 years.. For this purpose trends in various outcomes for 5
regions (grouped provinces) of Turkey between 1993 and 2003 were compared. The East (with 22 of 23
original SHP provinces as well as 3/8 of FHP provinces) and North regions are most deprived in the
country; these and others, were compared to the better-off West region.

Definitions of outcome indicators used:
   l Infant Mortality Rate: The probability of dying between birth and the first year of life. Based on
        birth histories of ever married women.
   l Under 5 Mortality Rate: The probability of dying between age 1 and 5. Based on birth histories of
        ever married women.
   l Total Fertility Rate:       The average number of children a woman would have by the end of
        reproductive careers. Based on retrospective reporting of births for women 15-49.
   l Full vaccination: Children who have received BCG, measles and three doses of DPT and polio.
   l Home/ Hospital Delivery Ratio: The ratio of percent of births that occurred at home over those
        that occurred in a hospital. Based on data on births in the last 5 years before the survey date.
   l Contraception Prevalence Rate: Based on responses on current use of a modern or traditional
        method of contraception.
   l Antenatal Care (ANC): ANC received during pregnancy as provided by Doctor, Trained Nurse,
        Midwife, Other or no ANC. Based on data on births in the 1-59 months prior to the survey.

The following is how Demographic and Health Survey grouped Turkey's provinces into 5 regions:

 DHS            Provinces
 Region
West          Aydin, Balikesir, Bursa, Canakkale, Denizli, Edime, Istanbul, Izmir, Kirklareli, Kocaeli,
              Manisa, Sakarya, Tekirdag.
South         Adana, Antalya, Burdur, Gaziantep, Hatay, Isparta, Icel, Mugla
Central       Afyon, Amasya, Ankara, Bilecik, Bolu, Cankin, Corum, Eskisehir, Kayseri, Kirsehir,
              Konya, Kutahya, Nevsehir, Nigde, Tokat, Usak, Yozgat, Aksaray, Karaman, Kinkkale.
North         Artvin, Giresun, Kastamonu, Ordu, Rize, Samsun, Sinop, Trabzon, Zonguldak, Bartin.
East          Adiyaman, Agri, Bingol, Bitlis, Diyarbakir*, Elazig, Erzincan, Erzurum, Gumushane,
              Hakkari, Kars, Malatya, K. Maras, Mardin*, Mus, Siirt, Sivas*, Tunceli, S. Urfa, Van,
              Bayburt, Batman, Sirnak, Ardahan, Igdir.

   l The original 23 SHP provinces were: Adiyaman, Agri, Ardahan, Artvin, Batman, Bayburt,
        Bingol, Bitlis, Elazig, Erzincan, Erzurum, Gumushane, Hakkari, Igdir, K.Maras, Kars, Malatya,
        Mus, Siirt, Sirnak, S. Urfa, Tunceli; Van.



                                                   - 65 -

   l EAST region is wholly made up of FHP and SHP project provinces; it contains 22 of the 23 SHP
         provinces and 3 of the 7 FHP provinces.

   l Additional 5 provinces after 1999 revisions were: Bolu, Istanbul, Kocael (Izmit), Aakarya,
         Yalova.

   l FHP provinces: Diyarbakir, Mardin, Mugla, Sivas, Tokat, Yozgat, Ankara, Istanbul.


Results interpretation:

Table 1 below presents the results of analysis some of which are charted in the figures within this section.
Columns A, B and C show the raw values for various outcomes for 1993; 1998; and 2003. These show
that the situation in 1993 very much support the basic rationale of focusing project activities in the selected
project provinces. All the comparisons are in reference to the West region, a + sign means that an outcome
has a higher value than West does and - means its lower than West.

1. Columns D, E and F show the magnitude of the differences in outcomes in these three years when the
    other regions are compared to the West region. For example, the West-East region difference in IMR
    was 17 in 1993; 29 in 1998 and 19 in 2003. Meaning that in 1998 (column E) for example, there were
    29 more infant deaths per 1000 births in the East when compared to the West region.
2. Column G looks at the change in outcomes between 1993 and 2003 within a region, while column H
    looks at this same difference but in percentage terms. For example, for the East region, there were 19
    fewer infant deaths per 1000 births in 2003 than there were in 1993 (column G). This decline is about
    32% (column H).
3. Column I compares the magnitude of the changes in outcomes for the regions when compared to the
    West region and column J shows the same information but in percents. For example, the IMR of the
    East region dropped from 60 to 41 in the ten year period; this was a difference of 19, which is a 32%
    decline. In the West, the decline from 43 to 22, was a 49% decline. In fact, the number of deaths
    reduced was the same in both West and East, but in terms of percentages, this was larger for the West
    than the East region (column J).

Results
1. DHS data show that IMR has dropped from about 53 per 1000 in 1993 to about 29 per 1000 in 2003;
and the under 5 mortality has dropped from 61 per 1000 in 1993 to about 37 per 1000 in 2003. Target in
SAR was to lower the 23 project provinces' IMR by 40% and U5 mortality by about 23%. After 10 years,
these declines are short of the SAR target.

   l The largest drop in IMR has been experienced by the West, South and Central regions. The North
         and East regions which mostly comprise of the project provinces experienced the smallest
         percentage change in these indicators of child deaths. These declines are short of the SAR target.
   l When compared to the West region of Turkey, the difference in child deaths as measured by IMR
         and U5 mortality does not seem to have narrowed and actually seems to have grown. In 1993, the
         percentage difference in IMR between the West region and the East region was about 17
         percentage points this has grown to 19 in 2003. The same situation is seen in the North region
         when compared to the West. The gap has grown smaller for South and Central regions.

2. TFR dropped only marginally from about 2.7 to about 2.23 children per woman; and contraceptive
prevalence rate has increased from about 63 in 1993 to 71% in 2003. Target in SAR was to lower the 23


                                                    - 66 -

project provinces' TFR by 30% and increase CPR by 30%. After 10 years the increase in CPR for the East
was above the SAR target.

   l The largest drop in TFR was seen in the North, Central and East regions.                                                                      This decline has
                                                  narrowed the gap in TFR between the West region and the other regions though the decrease in this
                                                  gap has been smallest for the East region which still has about 2 children more than the West (i.e.
                                                  in the 10 years women in the East have 0.7 children less than in the West = a rate of decline of
                                                  0.7/10 per year). Decline in the East is short of the SAR target.
   l Contraceptive prevalence rates increased by about 37% for the East region (to reach 58% in 2003)
                                                  compared to 3.8% for the West (to reach 74% from an already high 72% in 1993). However, the
                                                  gap in CPR between the West and the East region remains about 16%.

 Figure 1: Mortality among children declined the least for the poorest provinces; ANC grew fastest for the
 poorest regions; vaccination worsened for all regions.

                                                       90
                                                                      W e s t    South       C e n t r a l    North        E a s t      T u r k e y
                                                       80

                                                       70                                                                                           A N C


                                                       60

                                                       50
      1993-2003                                                                                                                  C P R
                                                       40

                                                       30

               outcomes                                20

                                                       10
                                                             I M R        U 5 M        T F R        Full vac.      H H D R
                       selected                         0
                               in
                                                      -10

                                                      -20
                                 change
                                                      -30

                                                      -40

                                       Percentage     -50

                                                      -60

                                                      -70

                                                      -80




3. The ratio of percentage of deliveries at home (HHDR) compared to those at a health care facility has
dropped from about 0.67 to 0.27 nationally in the ten years. The percentage of women who received ante
natal care also increased from 63% to 81% nationwide. The proportion of children aged fully vaccinated
decreased from 65% to 54%. Target in SAR was to lower the 23 project provinces' HHDR by 10%;
increase immunization rates for tetanus, polio and measles to 95% and increase antenatal and postnatal
contact rates. After 10 years the target for immunization as specified in the SAR fell far short.

   l The largest drop in the proportion of children who have received full vaccination has occurred in
                                                  the South, West and East regions. In addition to this drop in vaccination proportions, the gap in the
                                                  proportion that have been vaccinated has seen little change between West and the East regions,
                                                  though there has been a significant narrowing between the West and the other regions.

   l All regions experienced significant improvements in the proportion of births that are delivered in




                                                                                             - 67 -

                                                                          health care facilities compared to those that are delivered at home. This improvement is strong for
                                                                          all regions, even the West which in 1993 already had a ratio which was well above the Turkey
                                                                          average. Despite major improvements for all regions, the East ratio still remains far below the
                                                                          national average even after a 64% improvement in 10 years.

                                              l The East region experienced the largest change in the proportion of women who received ANC
                                                                          from a low level of 34% in 1993 (compared to 86% in the West region. Despite this impressive
                                                                          improvement, the gap compared to the West region remains 30 percentage points though lower
                                                                          from the 52 percentage point's gap in 1993.


4. All regions of Turkey experienced significant changes in health outcomes. While attribution to Bank
financed project can not be made, it is reasonable to expect that those regions that were beneficiaries of
additional efforts would have seen stronger improvement in 10 years.

Figure 2: Compared to West region, the difference in percentage change over the 10 year period.

                                                                                 8 0

                                                                                 7 0
                                                                                                South          C e n t r a l       North            E a s t
                                                                                 6 0


   between                                                                       5 0

                                               West                              4 0
                                                   to
          changes
                                                                                 3 0

                 points                                                                 I M R       U 5 M                                    H H D R
                                                     compared                    2 0

                                                                                                                                Full vac.
                                                             2003,               1 0
                       percentage                                 and
                                 in                                                0
                                                                     1993                                            T F R                                    C P R    A N C
                                                                                -10

                                   Differences                                  -20

                                                                                -30

                                                                                -40




Compared to West region, percentage improvement in IMR and U5 Mortality was lower in North and East
regions, percentage change in TFR was larger in North and East, vaccination fell nationwide but less so in
the Central, North and East, CPR and ANC improvement was larger in all regions compared to the West
region.




                                                                                                                         - 68 -

Table 1: Differences in Trends for Selected Health Outcomes 1993-2003.
OUTCOME INDICATOR                                                                           Percentage  Difference in Difference in
                                                          Gap compared to West    Change     change     the `93-`03    the `93-`03
                                     (A)   (B)   (C)    (D)       (E)        (F)    (G)        (H)      change (I)    change % (J)
                                     1993  1998  2003   1993     1998      2003    '93-03    `93-`03
1. Infant Mortality Rate.
SAR Target: Lower by 40%
Turkey                               52.6  42.7  29.0     -        -         -      -23.6      44.9           -             -
West                                 42.7  32.8  22.0     -        -         -     -20.7      48.5            -             -
South                                55.4  32.7  29.0   +12.7     -0.1     +7.0     -26.4      47.7         +5.7          -1.1
Central                              57.9  41.3  21.0   +15.2    +8.5       -1.0    -36.9      63.7        +16.2         +14.9
North                                44.2  42.0  34.0   +1.50    +9.2      +12.0    -10.2      23.1         -10.5         -25.7
East                                 60.0  61.5  41.0   +17.3    +28.7     +19.0    -19.0      31.7         -1.7          -17.1
2. Under 5 Mortality Rate.
SAR Target Decrease by 23%
Turkey                               60.9  52.1  37.0     -        -         -      -23.9      39.2           -             -
West                                 48.0  38.3  30.0     -        -         -     -18.0      37.5            -             -
South                                62.8  43.0  30.0   +14.8    +4.7       0.0     -32.8      52.2        +14.8         +14.7
Central                              69.2  49.6  33.0   +21.2    +11.3     +3.0     -36.2      52.3        +18.2         +14.8
North                                49.5  50.0  48.0   +1.50    +12.2     +18.0    -1.5       3.03         -16.5         -34.5
East                                 70.4  75.9  49.0   +22.4    +37.6     +19.0    -21.4      30.4         +3.4          -7.1
3. Total Fertility Rate.
SAR Target Lower by 30%
Turkey                               2.7   2.61  2.23     -        -         -      -0.47      17.4           -             -
West                                 2.0   2.03  1.88     -        -         -     -0.12      6.00            -             -
South                                2.4   2.55  2.30   +0.4     +0.52     +0.42    -0.10      4.17         -0.02         -1.8
Central                              2.4   2.56  1.86   +0.4     +0.53     -0.02    -0.54      22.5         +0.42         +16.5
North                                3.2   2.68  1.94   +1.2     +0.65     +0.06    -1.26      39.4         +1.14         +33.4
East                                 4.4   4.19  3.65   +2.4     +2.16     +1.77    -0.75      17.1         +0.63         +11.1
4. Full vaccination.
SAR Target increase to 95%
Turkey                               64.7  45.7  54.2     -        -         -      -10.5      16.2           -             -
West                                 76.0  50.2  63.0     -        -         -     -13.0      17.1            -             -
South                                81.1  57.3  60.2   +5.1     +7.1       -2.8    -20.9      25.8         +7.9          +8.7
Central                              65.9  51.8  61.0   -10.1    +1.6       -2.0    -4.9       7.40         -8.1          -9.7
North                                63.2  58.9  60.1   -12.8    +8.7       -2.9    -3.1       4.90         -9.9          -12.2
East                                 40.6  22.9  34.8   -35.4    -27.3     -28.2    -5.8       14.3         -7.2          -2.8
5. Home/ Hospital Delivery Ratio.
SAR Target decrease by 10%
Turkey                               0.67  0.37  0.27     -        -         -      -0.4      59.7            -             -
West                                 0.25  0.14  0.09     -        -         -     -0.16      64.0            -             -
 South                               0.59  0.43  0.25   +0.34    +0.29    +0.16    -0.34      57.6         +0.18          -6.4
Central                              0.56  0.19  0.12   +0.31    +0.05    +0.03    -0.44      78.6         +0.28         +14.6
 North                               0.51  0.18  0.16   +0.26    +0.04    +0.07    -0.35      68.6         +0.19          +4.6
 East                                2.31  1.2   0.83   +2.06    +1.06    +0.74    -1.48      64.1         +1.32         +0.07
6. Contraception Prevalence Rate.
SAR Target increase by 30%
Turkey                               62.6  63.9  71.0     -        -         -      +8.4      13.4            -             -
West                                 71.5  70.5  74.2     -        -         -      +2.7       3.8            -             -
 South                               62.8  60.3  70.8   -8.7     -10.2     -3.4     +8.0      12.7          +5.3          +8.9
 Central                             62.7  68.3  74.2   -8.8     -2.2       0.0    +11.5      18.3          +8.8         +14.5
 North                               64.2  67.0  71.5   -7.3     -3.5      -2.7     +7.3      11.4          +4.6          +7.6
 East                                42.3  42.0  57.9   -29.7    -28.5     -16.3   +15.6      36.9         +12.9         +33.1
7. Antenatal Care contact rates.
SAR Target increase to 3.
Turkey                               63.0  68.5  81.4     -        -         -     +18.4      29.2            -             -
West                                 86.3  86.1  91.5     -        -         -      +5.2      6.03            -             -
 South                               74.8  74.6  85.4   -11.5    -11.5     -6.1    +10.6      14.2          +5.4          +8.2
 Central                             59.7  74.2  83.4   -26.6    -11.9     -8.1    +23.7      39.7         +18.5         +33.7
 North                               63.2  67.4  85.2   -23.1    -18.7     -6.3    +22.0      34.8         +16.8         +28.8
 East                                34.2  39.4  61.2   -52.1    -46.7     -30.3   +27.0      78.9         +21.8         +72.9




                                                      - 69 -

Additional Annex 11. Comments received from MOH 8/15/05




                                        - 70 -

- 71 -

