LOAN NUMBER. 3802 TU
Loan Agreement
(Second Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated SEPr6ivi%et     r   1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3802 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated !C76PA( /              , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requetted the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
a letter of agreement dated April 27, 1993 between the Borrower and
the Bank.


﻿-2-
(b)   "MOH" means the Borrower's, Ministry of Health, or any
successor thereto;
(c)   "Project Provinces" means the Borrower's Provinces of
Adiyaman, Agri, Ardahan, Artvin, Batman, Bayburt, Bingol, Bitlis,
Elazig, Erzincan, Erzurum, Gumushane, Hakkari, Igdir, K. Maras,
Kars, Malatya, Mus, Siirt, Sirnak, S.Urfa, Tunceli and Van.
(d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in a freely convertible currency, satisfactory to the
Bank, a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month      period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date   specified  in   Section  2.06  of   this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.


﻿-4-
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interet Period, calculated at the rates
applicable durint such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
MO, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and public health
practices and in accordance with safety, health and environmental
standards satisfactory to the Bank, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.


﻿-5-
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿-6-
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements -of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)   ensure that   such  records  and  accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1998:
(a)   develop and initiate the implementation of programs
similar to the programs referred to under Part A (2) (a) of the
Project, to improve the quality and effectiveness of, and access to,
primary health c&,:e in the Borrower's provinces other than the
Project Provinces; and
(b)   ensure that disposal of medical materials and waste and
protection of X-ray facilities and staff are undertaken at all times
in conformity with the Borrower's applicable regulations and in
accordance with safety, health and environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Ag-eement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury and Foreign Trade
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik Hazine Ve
Disticaret Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek/Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address:              Telext
MALIYE-HAZINE.          821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
821-42689 (ANK-TR)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By      /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
14i         Regional Vice President
\V    Europe and Central Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods                     39,100,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 85%
of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally
(2) Works                     46,100,000        80%
(3) Consultants'              48,300,000        100%
services and
training
(4) Refunding of               1,500,000        Amounts due
Project                                     pursuant to
Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                     of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated               15,000,000
TOTAL               150,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000, may
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after January 4, 1994.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods, works and services not exceeding $250,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) upgrade and expand
the provision of primary health care in the Project Provinces; and
(b) improve health care management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Primary Health Care in the Project Provinces
Carrying out of programs to improve:
(1)   the quality of primary health care through the upgrading and
expansion of health care personnel training;
(2)   the effectiveness of primary health care through: (a) the
expansion of basic health care interventions; (b) the
evaluation of cost effectiveness of such interventions;
(c) the development and implementation of patient referral and
counter-referral system; and (d) the increase of public
education campaigns and participation of non-governmental
organizations to promote community participation in health
care awareness; and
(3)   access to primary health care through the rehabilitation of
existing health facilities, the construction and equipping of
new health facilities and health training centers, and the
establishment of a capacity for the proper operation and
maintenance of health facilities and equipment.
Part B:     Health Care Management
Carrying out of programs to improve:
(1)   the management capabilities of the health care system through
the training of a critical mass of local trainers in concepts
and methodology of modern health services management;
(2)   the organization and management of selected pilot hospitals
through   the  development   and   introduction  of   modern


﻿- 12 -
organizational and management structures and the recruitment
and development of effective hospital management teams;
(3)   the operational control of the health care sector through the
development and introduction of computerized management
information and accounting systems and quality standards for
ensuring patient care and environmental protection; and
(4)   the capacity of the health care sector in monitoring and
evaluating disease patterns and the cost effectiveness of
health care intervention through the carrying out of: (a) a
material burden of disease study; and (b) other specialized
studies to develop strategies for improving and strengthening
further the management and operation of the health care
sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.


﻿- 13 -
,SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 2000
through   February 1, 2011          6,250,000
And on August 1, 2011                     6,250,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                         Premi im
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Vehicles and except as provided in Part C hereof, other goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Bank's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.2
(a) of this Schedule, the Bank's prior approval will be required for
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any subsequent extension
of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall use the relevant
standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifi-
cations thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other international recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$400,000 or more and for works shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more.


﻿- 16 -
3.    Bidders for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more per contract, shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 2.10 of the guidelines.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,100,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.    Goods and technical licenses which the Bank agrees are of a
proprietary nature, the timely supply thereof is critical for
efficient Project execution, or need to be compatible with other
installed equipment, up to aggregate amount equivalent to
$8,000,000, may be procured after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,600,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 17 -
6.    Works which the Bank agrees cannot be grouped in suitable
packages to attract bids, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$10,000,000, may be carried out by force account, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review at prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.4 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to: (i) each of the first two contracts for
goods under each Part of the Project to be procured in accordance
with Part C.1 of this Schedule and estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more; (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $400,000 or more; and (iii) to each contract for
works estimated to cost equivalent of $500,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 18 -
3,    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, of
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
1.    Overall responsibility for the carrying out of the Project
shall be assigned by the Borrower to MOE.
2.    For the purpose of facilitating the efficient carrying out by
MOH of its activities under the Project, the Borrower shall
maintain, with membership, resources and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, the units, teams and committees referred
to in the Annex to this Schedule.
3.    The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the Project shall be
carried out in accordance with the requirements, and other details
set forth in an operations manual (the Project Operations Manual)
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, as the same may be
amended with the agreement of the Bank; (b) employ consultants, with
qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, in
order to assist in the carrying out of the Project, including in the
management of the implementation thereof, the design and con-
struction supervision of the works thereunder and the procurement of
goods, works and services therefor; (c) ensure (i) the adequate
deployment and continuity of primary health care personnel in the
Project Provinces, and (ii) the adequate equipping and supplying
with drugs and other consumables of the primary health care
facilities located in the said Provinces, all in accordance with the
requirements set forth in the Project Operations Manual; and (d)
ensure that the training activities under the Project shall be
carried out in accordance with programs, including time schedules
for the implementation thereof and criteria for the selection of
candidates thereunder, satisfactory to the Bank.
4.    In order to facilitate the carrying out of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of the Agreement
and the requirements set forth in the Project Operations Manual, the
Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and furnish to the Bank: (a) by March 31 of each year, a report
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project as of
December 31 of the preceding year, as measured on the basis of
indicators agreed with the Bank, and setting out the actions
recommended for the efficient carrying out of the Project during the
-~     -~                   -ZU


﻿- 20 -
period following such report; and (b) on or about June 30, 1998, a
report integrating all available data on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date
of said report and setting out the actions recommended for the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof. Thereafter, the Borrower shall take all measures
required on its part to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof in accordance
with the recommendations of the said report and the Bank's comments
thereon.


﻿- 21 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Units, Teams and Committees
The following units, teams and committees are specified for
purposes of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement:
1.    Central Project Coordination Unit assisted by a Provincial
Coordination Team in each of the Project Provinces, to be
responsible for the overall coordination and management of Project
execution.
2.    Project Coordinating Committee, to be responsible for the
provision of policy guidance to ensure the achievement of Project
objectives.
3.    Primary Health Care Training Steering Committee, to be
responsible for the provision of policy guidance to ensure the
achievement of the objectives of the health care personnel training
programs under the Project.
4.    Primary Health Care Technical Committee assisted by Regional
Training Teams and at least one Provincial Training Team in each of
the Project Provinces, to be responsible for ensuring the efficient
carrying out of the program for health care personnel training under
Part A (1) of the Project.
5.    Fellowship Selection Committee, to be responsible for the
development of the criteria and procedures for the selection of
candidates for fellowship training under the Project.
6.     Management Training Committee, to be responsible for the
provision of policy guidance to ensure the achievement of the
objectives of the management training programs under the Project.
7.    Management Information System Steering Committee, to be
responsible for the provision of policy guidance in the development
and introduction of management information systems under Part B (3)
of the Project.
8.    Hospital Management Restructuring Committee, to be responsible
for the implementation of the programs to improve the organization
and management of hospitals under Part A (2) of the Project.


﻿- 22 -
9.    Monitoring Evaluation Committee, to be responsible       for
tracking input-output and development outcome indicators under the
Project.


-   2 3   - 
S C H E D U L E   6 
S p e c i a l   A c c o u n t 
1 .         F o r   t h e   p u r p o s e s   o f   t h i s   S c h e d u l e : 
( a )       t h e   t e r m   " e l i g i b l e   C a t e g o r i e s "   m e a n s   C a t e g o r i e s   ( 1 ) ,   ( 2 ) 
a n d   ( 3 )   s e t   f o r t h   i n   t h e   t a b l e   i n   p a r a g r a p h   1   o f   S c h e d u l e   1   t o   t h i s 
A g r e e m e n t ; 
( b )       t h e   t e r m   " e l i g i b l e   e x p e n d i t u r e s "   m e a n s   e x p e n d i t u r e s   i n 
r e s p e c t   o f   t h e   r e a s o n a b l e   c o s t   o f   g o o d s   a n d   s e r v i c e s   r e q u i r e d   f o r 
t h e   P r o j e c t   a n d   t o   b e   f i n a n c e d   o u t   o f   t h e   p r o c e e d s   o f   t h e   L o a n 
a l l o c a t e d   f r o m   t i m e   t o   t i m e   t o   t h e   e l i g i b l e   C a t e g o r i e s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e 
w i t h   t h e   p r o v i s i o n s   o f   S c h e d u l e   1   t o   t h i s   A g r e e m e n t ;   a n d 
( c )       t h e   t e r m       " A u t h o r i z e d   A l l o c a t i o n "   m e a n s   a n           a m o u n t 
e q u i v a l e n t   t o   $ 6 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0   t o   b e   w i t h d r a w n   f r o m   t h e   L o a n   A c c o u n t   a n d 
d e p o s i t e d   i n   t h e   S p e c i a l   A c c o u n t   p u r s u a n t   t o   p a r a g r a p h   3   ( a )   o f   t h i s 
S c h e d u l e ,   p r o v i d e d ,   h o w e v e r ,   t h a t   u n l e s s   t h e   B a n k   s h a l l   o t h e r w i s e 
a g r e e ,   t h e   A u t h o r i z e d   A l l o c a t i o n   s h a l l   b e   l i m i t e d   t o   a n   a m o u n t 
e q u i v a l e n t   t o   $ 2 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0   u n t i l   t h e   a g g r e g a t e   a m o u n t   o f   w i t h d r a w a l s 
f r o m   t h e   L o a n   A c c o u n t   p l u s   t h e   t o t a l   a m o u n t   o f   a l l   o u t s t a n d i n g 
s p e c i a l   c o m m i t m e n t s   e n t e r e d   i n t o   b y   t h e   B a n k   p u r s u a n t   t o   S e c t i o n 
5 . 0 2   o f   t h e   G e n e r a l   C o n d i t i o n s   s h a l l   b e   e q u a l   t o   o r   e x c e e d   t h e 
e q u i v a l e n t   o f   $ 2 5 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0 . 
2 .         P a y m e n t s   o u t   o f   t h e   S p e c i a l   A c c o u n t   s h a l l   b e   m a d e   e x c l u s i v e l y 
f o r   e l i g i b l e   e x p e n d i t u r e s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   p r o v i s i o n s   o f   t h i s 
S c h e d u l e . 
3 .         A f t e r   t h e   B a n k   h a s   r e c e i v e d   e v i d e n c e   s a t i s f a c t o r y   t o   i t   t h a t 
t h e   S p e c i a l   A c c o u n t   h a s   b e e n   d u l y   o p e n e d ,   w i t h d r a w a l s   o f   t h e 
A u t h o r i z e d   A l l o c a t i o n   a n d   s u b s e q u e n t   w i t h d r a w a l s   t o   r e p l e n i s h   t h e 
S p e c i a l   A c c o u n t   s h a l l   b e   m a d e   a s   f o l l o w s : 
( a )       F o r   w i t h d r a w a l s   o f   t h e   A u t h o r i z e d   A l l o c a t i o n ,   t h e 
B o r r o w e r   s h a l l   f u r n i s h   t o   t h e   B a n k   a   r e q u e s t   o r   r e q u e s t s   f o r   a 
d e p o s i t   o r   d e p o s i t s   w h i c h   d o   n o t   e x c e e d   t h e   a g g r e g a t e   a m o u n t   o f   t h e 
A u t h o r i z e d   A l l o c a t i o n .   O n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   s u c h   - r e q u e s t   o r   r e q u e s t s ,   t h e 
B a n k   s h a l l ,   o n   b e h a l f   o f   t h e   B o r r o w e r ,   w i t h d r a w   f   r o m   t h e   L o a n 
A c c o u n t   a n d   d e p o s i t   i n   t h e   S p e c i a l   A c c o u n t   s u c h   a m o u n t   o r   a m o u n t s   a s 
t h e   B o r r o w e r   s h a l l   h a v e   r e q u e s t e d . 


﻿- 24 -
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidenca.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;


﻿- 25 -
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.


﻿- 26 -
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that tfie foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


