Documnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7078
PROJECT COMPLETION RE-ORT
JORDAN
ARAB POTASH PROJECT
(LOAN 1617-JO)
January 5, 1988
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washingtnn. DC 20413
u S A
00ce of Dwocgeu.C.wSa
Opntum EvakatHm 
January 5, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE 0RESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Jordan: Arab Potash
Project (Loan 1617-JO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Jordan: Arab Potash Project (Loan 1617-JO)" prepared by
the Europe, MiddLe East and North Africa Regional office. Further evaluation
of this project by the Operations EvaLuation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIuL UsE ONLY
JORDAN - ARAB POTASH PROJECT
(LOAN 1617-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pzle No
Preface   ..         ......... *.*..           .       *............***..     *....i
Mission Data          ..........      ... *.....  ... *.... ...   ...***.........    ii
Highlights  ....          . ........             ..             0000*00*     ..** .......    iv
I.    INTRODUfCTION  ..................     .......... ......................... 
II.   PROJECT BACKGROUND   . ...........                                                    1
A.   Project History  ... .................*......                                   I
B.   Project Description  .......................                       a             2
C.   Project Objectives  .   ............ ..... ...  .....*..........                 3
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT  ..............                   .........     4
A.   Achievement of Project Objectives                  .......................       4
B.   Project Scope Changes           ....     .. ...          ........                4
C.   Project Manag.ment  .... .................. .. ........                          5
D.   Use and Performance of Consultants                  ......................       5
E.   Implementation Schedule  ..... .oo...  ..*.  *....  ** ...*.....                 6
F.   Procurement Methods and Procedures  .....                 .................      7
G.   Costs,  Disbursements  and Financing              ......................        8
LV.  OPERATING PERFORMANCE  .....  ........               ............         ......       9
A.   Commissioning  and Start-up  ......   .             .......................      9
B.   Production Build-up  .............           ......  ..  .......... .to         9
C.   Manpower Development  ..          .. ..................... .............    10
D.   Market Development  and Performance  ......................    10
V.    FINANCIAL PERFORtANCE  ... ............. e-                       ....11
A.   Company Performance and Financial Results   ...............                     11
B.   Financial Rate of Return  .......... ... .o.*........                          13
C.  Financial Covenants  et ....  ...........    *  .............*                  13
VI.   ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE  ........ ..... 6..              . . to...         ...  ...     14
A.   Economic Rate of Return  ..... ....*.*.o* *....***......                        14
B.   Economic Benefits  ..................  ...................                     14
C.  OveraLl Justification  ... .... *... .*...... .............    14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofvicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (contd)
Page No.
VII.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND ORGANIZATIONAL GROWTH ........    15
VIII. BANK ROLE ..9...........****9*9**9***.......****.9......             16
A. Overall Bank Performance and Relationship with
Borrower *********9*e***9********999**.**..9*******99*    16
B. Performance in Project Preparation, Formulation and
Implementation  .. ......*..*.... .. *.................       16
C.  Covenants            .............9 9.9.9.9.9.9...*    16
IX.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED             ............................    17
Ao  Overall Assessment .o.o.. ... . . ..ooo.......o.. . . . . 9999o999999999    17
a.  Implementation Schedule and Technical Design 999.....        17
b.  Costs and Financial Position   . ......................     17
B.  Lessons for the Borrower and the Bank          ..................  18
ANNEXES
Attachment 1 - Implementation Schedule.            ......... .... . . ... . ...  A0
Attachment 2 - Capital Cost - Comparison of Actual Cost With
Appraisal Estimates   99*...  9999............ 9.99.        21
Attachment 3 - Project Financing .............. o o o o ..    ....... 0     22
Attachment 4 - APC Sales by Country in 1985 ..............         ........  23
Attachment 5 - Average Sale Prices of Potash FOB Aqaba         ..... . .   24
Attachment 6 - Net Cash Flow Tables - Internal Rate of Return ...          25
Attachment 7 - Comments from the Borrower ......       ..................   27



JORDAN - ARA.B POTASH PROJECT
(LOAN 1617-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
i.       Loan 1617-JO for US$35.0 million was approved by the Board on
September 5, 1978, signed on October 21, 1978 and declared effective on Hay
30, 1979. It was fully disbursed by December 31, 1984. The borrower, the
Arab Potash Compzny (APC), founded to commercially exploit the minerals of
the Dead Sea brines, is a corporate entity under Jordanian law, with a
capital structure involving the Government of Jordan, the Islamic Develop-
ment Bank and various Arab governments and institutions.
ii.      The main objectives of the Loan were to develop a resource-based
extracting and manufacturing industry with promising prospects, diversify
and increase Jordan's sources of exports and enhance regional development
in the Project area.
iii.     After experiencing--and diagnosing--technical constraints to
achieving production targets, modifications for plant debottlenecking/
optimization were initiated by APC and are being completed under a second
project also with Bank financing. The financial difficulties which have
beset the Company and delayed profitability, result essentially from the
recession in the major fertilizer markets and decline in potash prices, and
consequently, shortfall in revenues. However, the optimization investments
now underway in APC will further reduce production costs, which coupled
with the Bank forecast recovery of the potash market will allow the Company
to recover from its difficulties. A second loan approved by the Board on
March 10, 1987. involves a financial rehabilitation plan with additional
capital injection and debt rescheduling to strengthen APC's financial
structure and put the Company on a sound path to profitability.
iv.      Although the Project's physical construction was achieved in
September 1982, Project completion as defined in Section 1.02 (e) of the
Loan Agreement, is deemed to have occurred in 1985, following confirmation
by the Borrower's operations management consultants that the plant has
achieved--and, on permanent basis, can achieve--75Z of design capacity.
Throughout the period from the end of physical construction to Project
completion, the Bank has maintained an intensive supervision effort, work-
ing closely with APC to diagnose and alleviate the constraints on output.
an effort which has culminated in the approval of the Second Arab Potash
Project.
v.       In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
vi.      Following standard procedures, OED sent copies of the draft report
to the Borrower for comments. These comments have been reproduced as
Attachment 7 to the report.



- 1i -
JORDAN - ARAB POTASH PROJECT
(LOAN 1617-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Project Data
(Amounts in US$ Millions)
--------------------…Loan Position…--------------------_
Loan No. 1617-JO  Original   Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid a/  Outstanding
35.0         35.0         0           15.0          20.0
a/ As of Aug. 31, 1987.
----------Cumulative Loan Disbursement--------
(US$ million)
FY79    FY80   FY81   FY82    FY83        FY84
(i)   Planned                    5.3   16.0   27.3   32.2    33.5         35.0
(ii)  Actual                      -    14.2   29.9   34.7    34.8         35.0
(iii) (ii) as % of (i)           0      89      110    108       104       100
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                Actual
Board Approval                                                  09/05/78
Loan Signature                                                  10/21/78
Effectiveness                                 -                 05/30/79
Closing Date                              12/31/84              12/31/84
Date of Physical Completion               06/30/82              OQ/30/82
Time Overrun (%)                             -                  3 months
Start of cull Operations                    1984                     1985
(at 75% capacity)
Total Project Cost (US$ mil.)              428.8                  460.2%
Cost Overrun (%)                                                     7.3%
Financial Rate of Return                     12.4%                  8.9%
Economic Rate cf Return                      12.4%                  8.9%



- iii -
JORDAN - ARAB POTASH PROJECT
Mission Data
No. of    No. of                 Date of
Month, Year    Weeks    Persons   Manweeks  Report
Appraisal                 Nov. 1977         -         5                 Aug. 1978
Supervision 1             Jan. 1981         1         2          2      03/12/81
Supervision 2             Dec. 1981         1         1          1      01/04/82
Supervision 3             Mar. 1982         1         1          1      03/19/82
Supervision 4             Jan. 1983         1         2          2      02/04/83
Supervision 5             Apr. 1984         1         3          3      05/31/84
Supervision 6             Jan. 1985         1         2          2      04/02/85
Supervision 7             Mar. 1986         1         2          2      04/  /86
Completion                June 1986         1         1          0.5    04/  /87
OTHER DATA
Borrower                         Arab Potash Company
Executing Agency                 Arab Potash Company
Fiscal Year of Borrower          January 1 to December 31
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Project Appraisal                              US$1 -  JD 0.33
January 1, 1979 - December 31, 1979            US$1 =  JD 0.32
January 1, 1980 - December 31, 1980            US$1 =  JD 0.31
January 1, 1981 - December 31, 1981            US$1 =  JD 0.34
January 1, 1982 - December 31, 1982            US$1 =  JD 0.35
January 1, 1983 - December 31, 1983            US$1 =  JD 0.37
January 1, 1984 - December 31, 1984            US$1 =  JD 0.40
January 1, 1985 - December 31, 1985            US$1 -  JD 0.37
January 1, 1986 - December 31, 1986            US$1 -  JD 0.34



- iv -
JORDAN - ARAP POTASH PROJECT
(LOAN 1617-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
i.        At the request of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, the World Bank
extended a Loan (1617-JO) of US$35 million to the Arab Potash Company as
part of the financing necessary for a 1.2 million tons per year (tpy)
potash production facility. The plant, located in the southern basin of
the Dead Sea, produces potash by (i) solar evaporation of Sea brines to
obtain carnallite (KCI.MgCI2.6H20); and (ii) hot leach and crystallization
to obtain agricultural grade potash (kCl).
ii.       The manufacturing facility s.arted operations in September 1982,
a three-month delay compared to appraisal. However, the long-term
production schedule slipped by a full year as a result of delayed
accumulation of carnallite fegdstock and consequently build-up in Potash
Production. As of 1984, modifications were necessary in the solar pan and
refinery systems to ensure that design capacity would be achieved. The
modifications already carried cut and under implementation will lead to a
balance of the solar pan and the refinery systems at a capacity of
1,400,000 tpy.
iii.      Total capital cost at Project completion was US$460 million
against appraisal estimates of US$429 million--a 7.23% overrun. Taking
into account the debottlenecking/optimization investments now under
implementation, the Project's revised Internal Rate of Return (IRR) (in
economic and financial terms) is 8.9% (in constant 1977 terms) compared to
the appraisal estimate of 12.4%. The major element of deviation from
Bank's appraisal in terms of benefits, should be attributed to the decline
in potash prices, which fell considerably below projected levels.
iv.       APC has established an excellent marketing record in a short span
of tine. Staff development has made good progress and management positions
are now filled with Jordanian nationals. Approximately 140 foreign
technicians are still employed in the Project with a program of replacement
by local technicians as these achieve satisfactory skill levels.
v.        The one development responsible for the failure of the Project to
meet, so far, the financial expectations, is the collapse of the potash
market at the time the plant came on stream. This however is not expected
to have a lasting effect on project long-term viability, given the recovery
in potash prices - forecast by the Bank to increase by 50% in real terms by
1995--as well as APC's efforts to optimize operacions and further reduce
production costs. The difficulty of accurately predicting developments
that might affect the world market prices of commodities reinforces the
need for adequate safety margins, particularly in designing the financial
structure of the company to withstand unexpected periods of depression.



JORDAUN - ARAB POTASH PROJECT
(LOAN 1617-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Arab Potash Project has been a technically complex
undertaking which required intensive coordination between owner--the Arab
Potash Company--consultants and contractors, and financiers (investors and
lenders). This report (i) describes the main problems that arose in the
nine years between beginning of construction (1978) and achievement of a
level of production close to full capacity (1986), as well as the
difficulties encountered in the collaboration of all parties to the
Project; and (ii) highlights those issues which had an effect on
implementation schedule, Project costs and initial operations. Despite the
difficulties encountered, it was possible to bring the Project to fruition
and, simultaneously, transform an embryonic organization into a fully
staffed and functioning operating company with net assets valued in 1986 at
US$400 million and annual sales of US$80 million.
1.02      The Arab Potash Company submitted its own completion report in
May 1986, which, in addition to the Bank's records, has been used in the
preparation of this Report.
1.03      Potash is produced in relatively few locations, in most of which,
potassium bearing ores are mined and processed. Potassium is, throughout
the world, one of the three main plant nutrients in fertilizers and is thus
d commodity extensively traded. Because of the distances between sources
of supply and consuming countries, transportation costs are an important
element of buyers' total costs and affect the competitive position of
producers. By far the largest source of exports are Canadian mines and
processing plants in Caskatchewan with product exported through Vancouver,
located about 2,000 km from the plants. The FOB Vancouver price has,
therefore, become the reference price for international potash trade. The
Jordanian plant, located only 200 km from the port of Aqaba on the Red Sea,
has an additional advantage in freight costs to several major markets,
primarily in Asia and Oceania. APC's output at 100% capacity utilization
constitutes less than 2% of world production capacity and APC has been able
in a short time to sell its pioduction in about 20 countries without
encountering major marketing problems.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A.   Project History
2.01      In a country poorly endowed with natural resources, the
possibilities of exploiting the large mineral reserves of the Dead Sea,
primarily the vast quantities of potash contained in its brine, attracted
attention already in the 1930s. The recovery of potash by solar
evaporation and processing was initially attempted around 1930 by the



-2-
Palestine Potash Ltd., no longer in existence. Annual production had
reached about 100,000 tons when the facilities were damaged during the
hostilities of 1948, and subsequently abandoned. A few years later, the
Israeli Covernment formed the Dead Sea Works Ltd., which started
small-scale production in the mid-1950s. Major problems in the design and
construction of the dikes enclosing the evaporation pans and in developing
an efficient carnallite harvesting system were eventually overcome.
2.02      On the Jordanian side, the Arab Potash Company (APC) was formed
in 1956. A first feasibility study to explore production possibilities was
-ommissioned in 1960, and recommended construction of a plant with a
acity of 250,000 tpy.  Serious questions arose about the adequacy of the
'dy, leading to a review of its findings by leading engineering firms
i za the USA and the UK. The review recommended construction of a plant
wi:n a capacity of I million tons to be located at the southern end of the
Dead Sea. It pointed out, however, that the design and construction of the
dikes nosed problems which required detailed additional investigations.
Discussions of a financing plan were well advanced when the hostilities of
1967 interrupted further development of the Project.
2.03      In 1974, the Jordanian Government revived the Project and commis-
sioned an update and expansion of the feasibility study, to include: (i)
studies on evaporation rates of Dead Sea brines; (ii) construction of trial
dikes as a basis for decision on design; and (iii) development of suitable
construction methods. Detailed marketing studies were also included in the
scope of the work to be performed.  The feasibility study and associated
field work were carried out in 1976/77 with financial assistance from IDA
(a credit of US$1 million) and USAID (a lodn of US$6 million). A
preliminary feasibility report was submitted in December 1976, and the
Final Report, issued in February 1978, recommended a plant design capacity
of 1.2 million tpy. The Bank was asked by APC and the Jordanian Government
to prepare a summary of the Report's findings for submission to a meeting
of prospective lenders held in Amman in April 1978. In 1978, APC's
shareholders (the Government of Jordan, the majority shareholder (51%),
other Arab governments (16%) and institutions (32%) and private investors
(1%)) authorized a major capital increase to provide adequate equity base
for the Project in its enlarged configuration.
B.   Project Description
2.04      The Project has two major components related to potash produc-
tion--the solar evaporation system and the refinery--and includes several
elements of infrastructure development, principally a township, power and
steam plant, power distribution lines, and water supply for plant and
township. In addition, roads connect the various components of the
Project, with access to the public road running from the town of Kerak to
Safi at the southern end of the Dead Sea and beyond, to Aqaba on the Red
Sea. The evaporation pans occupy almost the entire Dead Sea area south of
the Lisan peninsula. The brine intake is located on the Lisan peninsula,
pumping brine from the northern basin of the Dead Sea into a canal
connecting the intake station with the large salt pan south of the
peninsula. The refinery ie located close to the carnallite pans, the most
southerly part of the evaporation system.



-3-
2.05      The evaporation system includes three categories of pans--salt,
pre-carnallite and carnallite--used successively to increase brine
concentration. The brine intake and pumping stations serve the transfer of
brine from one type of pan to another, as well as the harvesting equipment
which forms an integral part of the evaporation system. The dikes enclose
an area of about 100 square kilometers and total more than 60 km in
length. They were, for the most part, built on soft mud and salt beds
whicr. posed unusual design problems. The dangers of permeability and
instability--which caused problems when the dikes of the Israeli Dead Sea
Works were built--were avoided by the construction of trial dikes with
relatively impermeable cross sections, and the elaboration of techniques
allowing settlement of the construction materials in the initial phase
before dikes are built to their full height. Due to the accumulation of
precipitated salt in the salt pan, dikes have to be raised periodically.
The construction schedule called for the deposition of salt in one of the
carnallite pans before all dikes were completed, which required a temporary
pipeline to supply brine for that pan. The deposition of salt in the
carnallite pans was necessary to form a solid bottom suitable for the
operation of the harvesters. The system of "harvesting" carnallite
deposited in the pans consists of (i) track-propel'led harvesting machines
equipped with cutter-heads that slide on the salt bottoms; (ii) on-board
pumping equipment to mix carnallite with brine to form a slurry; and (iii)
a floating pipeline connected to a fixed on-shore pipeline through which
the slurry is conducted to the refinery.
2.06      The refinery consists of a large number of specialized processing
equipment, piping connecting individual units, and the required fresh
water, power and steam supply, as well as a control system. The design of
the refinery was based on proven processes and existing types of equipment
which had to be custom-built to specifications, taking into account the
characterization of the Dead Sea brine and the conditions under which the
plant would be operating. Separately housed are the screening and
compaction plant, the warehouse and the power and steam station.
2.07      As the site is about 50 km away from the nearest town, it was
necessary to build an entire township with necessary community services,
--located about 20 km from the plant--to accommodate about 2,000 persons.
The substantial water requirements of plant and township, amounting to over
6 million cubic meters per year, are met from groundwater resources in the
area, which are largely replenished by seasonal flow in the streams
adjoining the site. Electric power is partly supplied from the Jordan
national grid, which was extended to serve the plant, and partly by APC's
own steam and power plant,
C.   Project Objectives
2.08      The primary objective of the Project is to increase Jordan's
foreign exchange earnings by exploiting one of the country's few natural
resources. Corollary objectives are the creation of employment and the
development of a remote and eronomically stagnant region.  Prospects were
good for achieving these objectives as potash production based on the
evaporation of brine has considerably lower operating costs--although



- - ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~     4
higher capital investment--than the vast majority of world potash
plants based on mined ore. On balance, this put Jordan in a competitive
position and, assuming proper marketing strategies, promised profitable
operations. These prospects were further enhanced by the plant location at
a reasonable distance (200 kn) from Aqaba port, and, compared to key
competition (Canada) and large exporters of potash, relatively close to
growing major foreign markets. Given Jordan's small output in world potash
trade, there was no fear of substantial markecing problems as such output
could be easily accommodated within projected world demand.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   Achievement of Project Objectives
3.01      The Project's contribution to foreign exchange earnings has
fallen well below the projected magnitude. In 1986, export receipts
reached US$80 million or 50% of appraisal estimates, mainly the result of a
drop in world potash prices, with an initial punctual slippage in capacity
build-up. However, APC's sales are expected to increase grLdually;
positive net profits originally projected for 1985, are now expected to be
reached in 1988.
3,02      The Project's corollary objectives have largely been attained.
About 1.300 jobs have been created and some additional employment is likely
to be generated in the next few years. Infrastructural and social develop-
ment of the region in which APC's plant is located has been dramatically
improved by the presence of a major industrial enterprise where no industry
existed before.
B.   Project Scope Changes
3.03      The scope of the Project was determined not only by the technical
requirements of potash production, but also by the Project location in a
remote, undeveloped region of the country. In addition to the production
facilities--evaporation ponds and refinery--the project entailed major
infrastructure (water, power and roads), as well as housing and ancillary
facilities. An unusually long period of operational build-up was included
in addition to the construction phase. A schedule of three years after
completicn sf construction was foreseen before operations may reach design
capacity.
3.04      In all major respects. the Project scope remained unchanged
throughout the implementation period. Some features were, however, added
as follows:
(i)  a compaction unit was subsequently included in the Project,
following a study approved by the Bank;
(ii)  'part of the community facilities in the township, originalLy
to be provided by government agencies, were eventually
included in the Project;



-5.
(iii) a head office w.'ls built in Amman and its cost included in
the Project; and
(iv)  three other items at a cost of about USS6 million
--modifications to the evaporation system and the refinery,
development costs for the harvesters and a second temporarv
brine pipeline--although treated as additions to the scope,
can arguably be covered under the Project physical
contingencies.
C.   Project Management
3.o5      APC, as owner, was responsible for overall Project management.
During design and construction phases, the Company's staff had little
experience with large-scale construction projects and was far too small to
perform all aspects of project planning/supervision/coordination without
substantial assistance. APC had thus to rely heavily on outside support
for work supervision, analysis and solution of technical and contractual
problems, and planning and integration of activities. That support was
obtained under contracts with several groups of consultants. A large part
of the successful completion of construction must, however, be ascribed to
the drive and business acumen of APC's management and the able support of
APC's core staff throughout the period. APC continues to be well managed
today.
3.06      Day-to-day supervision nf construction activities was the
function of the consulting enginekrs who kept construction records and
submitted periodical reports to APC's management on status of construction
and expenditures, progress of procurement and implementation problems.
Technical problems were reviewed by APC and its technical advisors
and solutions developed and implemented. APC's management took an active
part in the negotiation of all major contracts. These arrangements for
project management and implementation worked well, and made it possible to
complete the mechanical construction of a large and complicated Project
with no delay, while keeping expenditures close to budget.
D.   Use and Performance of Consultants
3.07      In addition to several small contracts for specialized services,
consulting services were providec; under four major contracts summarized
in the following paragraphs.
3.08      In 1977, APC signed an agreement with a U.S. Engineering Company,
tor services required for the design and engineering of Project facilities,
procurement, and management of construction. A U.K. civil engineering firm
provided under a sub-contract with the U.S. engineering company, all
services relating to civil works, including the entire evaporation system
with canal, dikes, brine intake and transfer structures, township and water
supply system.
3.09      A firm from Netherlands provided technical advisory services to
MPC to supplement the work done by APC's engineers. The Firm's technical
advice was sought primarily in connection with technical problems arising



6
during construction. The advisors also assisted in reviewing contested
billings and generally acted as part of APC's technical staff. Long-term
advisors were stationed in Amman at various times and additional services
were provided by the home office as well as by specialized short-term
consultants.
3.10      A major international Audit/Management consulting firm was
retained under a third contract, to design and install an accounting and
financial control system, including financial and cost accounting,
financial planning and internal audit. The firm prepared accounting
manuals and trained APC's financial staff in the use of the system. In
addition, they recommended an organizational structure for the company.
3.11      Finally, as agreed with the Bank, APC retained additional con-
sulting assistance related to Project operation. After a survey of
qualified engineering and operating companies, the same U.S. Engineering
firm, mentioned in para 3.08, was selected to assemble a team of
experts--the Operations Management Team (OMT)--for various parts of the
operations. At its maximum strength, the team included 27 persons who
worked in line positions at the site and trained counterparts assigned by
APC. The OMT was instrumental in the initial operations of the plant and
subsequently in analyzing the various bottlenecks. Four members of the
team continue to assist APC under individual contracts since May 1986 when
the OMT contract expired.
3.12      The relationship between APC and its consultants was generally
good and productive, even though relations between APC and the engineering
firm were for extended periods marred by disputes arising out of different
interpretations of the contract. All disputes were, however, eventually
settled by negotiation between the parties.
E.   Implementation Schedule
3.13      The implementation schedule for the Project, based on the guiding
objective that production should start as early as possible, called for
production increase in a gradual manner, even before carnallite became
available for harvesting at full capacity.  Carnallite was to be harvested
from three separate pans, yet only one pan could be filled each year using
the temporary brine supply pipeline. Production was therefore to begin
when carnallite from only one pan would be available. Waiting, otherwise,
for all three pans to be in operation, would have meant postponing
commercial production and, correspondinglv, foregoing sale revenues.
Preparation of the first carnallite pan for production was therefore
planned to overlap with the completion of the dams and the refinery. Even
with such an intricate scheduling, 4 1/2 years had to be-scheduled from
beginning of construction until production of potash at 25% of capacity,
with 3 1/2 additional years until full production could be reached. The
comparison of actual and estimated implementation schedules is given in
Attachment 1.
3.14      Although the construction schedule was considered tight at
appraisal, and despite marginal delays in the completion of some project
components, the refinery was commissioned, and operations started up, three



months only behind schedule. The evaporation pan system and power plant
were built by the contractual completion dates, as well as the township
which was ready in time to accommodate during part of the construction,
staff, consulting engineers and construction contractors.
3.15      Although enough carnallite had been harvested to start up the
refinery in the fall of 1982, commercial production of potash was delayed
by one year. After salt had been deposited in the first carnallite pan for
one season, the thickness of the resulting salt bottom was found to be
inadequate to support a crawler-propelled harvester. This unexpected
development was the result of brine evaporating at a rate slower than
calculated and observed in the test pans operated continuously since 1976.
One additional season was therefore needed to provide an adequate salt
bottom in the first pan and two seasons had to be scheduled for laying salt
bottoms in the other two pans. Under these circumstances, a second
temporary brine line had to be built to fill two pans simultaneously and
avoid further delays in producing carnallite necessary for annual increases
in potash production.
3.16      The de:elopment of a functional, crawler-propelled harvester had
long been recognized as a potential problem.  A prototype was built,
which, however, proved too heavy to be supported by a salt bottom of a
reasonable thickness. The supplier of the prototype was asked to revise
the design by changing to a floating machine which would exert only limited
pressure on the pan bottom to provide traction for the propulsion
riechanism. The first unit built after a number of modifications proved to
be workable, efficient and reliable following field tests. Four units have
been in operation successfully for the last two years.
F.   Procurement Methods and Procedures
3.17     Procurement Methods.  The major construction contracts, and all
but one contract for main equipment supply, were awarded after
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The exception was the supply of
harvesters, where the contract included--in addition to building of hulls
and purchase of on-board equipment and propulsion gear--engineering based
on a conceptual design, assembly of components on site, field testing, and
training of operators. Assessing t:ie qualifications of potential
contractors under all these angles would have been a difficult and time
consuming task and the contract was, therefore, negotiated after obtaining
proposals from three firms.
3.18      Procurement Procedures.  Specifications were prepared by the
engineering consultants, who evaluated the bids under APC's supervision.
In the case of key items of equipment, APC's technical advisors assisted in
the evaluation. Details were negotiat2d with the selected bidder either by
the engineering consultants, and, for larger contracts by APC with the
consultants' assistance. Local procurement was handled by APC's purchasing
department.
3.19      Distribution of Major Contracts by Country. Major construction
contracts were awarded to specialized firms from (i) the U.K. for Civil
Works; (ii) West Germany for the Power Plant; (iii) Austria for the



erection of the refinery; and (iv) Korea for the Township. The major
equipment contract for the Harvesters was awarded to a specialized firm
from the U.S.A.
G.   Costs, Disbursements and Financing
3.20      Capital Costs.  At the exchange rate of I ID - US$2.85 deemed to
reflect the average exchange rate over the implementation period, the
Project total cost amounts to US$460 million. In comparing, however,
actual costs with estimates (US$429 million) several factors have to be
taken into account including (i) APC's cost accounting method by which
engineering serviceq and interest during construction are prorated over
individual items; (ii) the inclusion in the final cost figures of some
additions to the Project scope (para 3.04); and (iii) the exchange rate
fluctuations during the implementation period. Although these figures show
a relatively small overrun in total costs, the comparison hides, in some
cases substantial differences for individual cost categories, which is
partly due to APC's system of cost accounting. The comparison of actual
and estimated costs are provided in Attachment 2.
3.21      Disbursements.  The record of Bank loan disbursements under the
Arab Potash Project is an excellent one, in which withdrawals under the
loan were somewhat ahead of appraisal estimates, as shown in the following
table:
… -------- Cumulative Loan Disbursement ----------
(US$ million)
FY79     FY80      FY81      FY82      FY83     FY84
Planned                     5.3     16.0      27.3      32.2      33.5     35.0
Actual                      -        14.2     29.9      34.7      34.8     35.0
Actual as % of Planned    0         89        110       108       104      100
3.22      Financing.  In the financing plan drawn at Appraisal, 45% of the
US$428.8 million total Project costs were to be provided as equity, 51% as
debt, and the balance of 4% by internal cash generation. However, given
the shortfall in internal cash generation, and the need to finance
operating losses by additional debt, the actual cost of US$460.6 million
was financed with a debt to equity ratio of 60/40. Although contributions
to equity and loan funding were made substantially in accordance with the
financing plan, there were nonetheless major shortfalls. The Arab Fund did
not provide US$15 million which it was expected to lend, while the Libyan
Government lent only US$8.5 million out of US$50 million initially
pledged. These shortfalls were made up, and additional amounts provided
by: (i) loans from the United Kingdom, Austrian and Iraqi governments;
(ii) deferrals of debt payments due the Jordanian Government (in addition
to the planned deferral of interest payments); and (iii) additional
commercial borrowings. The additional loans were obtained largely through
APC's efforts, supported by the Jordanian Government. Thus in accordance
with its agreements with 'the World Bank and other lenders, the Jordanian
Government provided all funds needed to complete the Project, contributing
the equivalent of US$96.5 million to APC's equity and about US$50 million



-9-
in loans and deferrals of debt payments. The total of these contributions
accounted almost for one-third of all project cost. A comparison of the
financing plan and actual project financing is shown in Attachment 3.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A.   Commissioning and Start-up
4.01      The refinery was scheduled to start up in July 1982.  Carnallite
needed to begin operations was available, and the installation of
electrical and control systems had advanced sufficiently for commissioning
in September 1982 of the plant's various components. Deliveries of potash
began on October 1, 1982, three months after schedule. Commercial
production could not be sustained, however, because carnallite
production--in quantities needed to operate the refinery at the 25%
capacity projected for the first year of production--was not available
until a year later. No abnormal problems were encountered during the
intrinsic start-up operations.
B.   Production Build-up
4.02      Due to the one-year delay in sustained commercial production,
actual operating results are compared to the appraisal projections under
the scenario of a one-year delay in Project implementation. The projected
and actual tonnages produced from 1983 to 1986 are given below:
Production
(metric tons'
Appraisal
Year                      Estimates           Actual
1983                        156,000           279,850
1984                        540,000           486,870
1985                      1,068,000           908,560
1986                      1,200,000         1,105,000
Total               2,964,000          2,780,280
Aggregate production during the first four years of operations thus
represents almost 94% of appraisal estimates.
4.03      To achieve these results, however, it has been necessary to make,
between 1983 and 1986, modifications to the evaporation system and the
refinery. The changes made in the evaporation pans were designed to
compensate for the lower rate of evaporation that had been experimentally
observed, and bring the different types of ponds (salt, pre-carnallite and
carnallite) into better balance. Modifications to improve the performance



- 10 -
of the refinery included substitution, in some parts of the plant of the
monel alloy piping system, which has failed at the APC Plant given the
corrosiveness of the Dead Sea Brine. In addition, less meaningful changes
were made in individual pieces of equipment. Finallv, a third centrifuge
was installed. These changes were made as of 1983 at a total cost of
US$1.9 million.
4.04      It is estimated that a sustainable output level of 1,050,000
tons, equivalent to about 88% of design capacity, can be achieved following
these modifications, although the actual tonnage produced in 1986 amounted
to 1,105,000 tons. The evaporation system is now considered able to
produce carnallite in quantities sufficient for a production of 1.4 million
tons of potash, well over the original design capacity of 1.2 million tpy.
Eliminating the remaining bottlenecks in the refinery would require an
additional investment of about US$18 million for modifications which had
been studied by several groups of consultants and form part of the "SeconA
Arab Potash Project" approved in March 1987, and under which the Bank is
providing US$12 million to APC. Following this set of modifications, APC's
annual output is projected to reach 1.15 million tons in 1987, 1.25 mtpy in
1988, 1.35 mtpy in 1989 and 1.40 mtpy as of 1990.
C.   Manpower Development
4.05      At the start of operations, many of the positions in operation
and maintenance were filled with non-Jordanians, mainly Indian and
Pakistani nationals. The Operations Management Team, wlhich at that time
was at its full strength of 27 members, filled several of the management
positions on site and was largely responsible for the operation and
maintenance of production facilities.
D.   Market Development and Performance
4.06      APC has been able to market its entire production since it began
operations in 1983. This, to a large extent, is due to (i) its
geographical situation relative to growing world markets; (ii) the quality
of its product; and (iii) its marketing drive and efficiency supported by
marketing agreements with three international trading firms concluded well
before production began. Under an agreement with a Japanese firm, the sale
of 70% of APC's production to countries in Asia are guaranteed, while a
firm from the USA guaranteed the sale of 15% of production in North and
South America, and a firm from France undertook to sell the remaining 15%
in Western Europe. As a result of these arrangements, combined with
marketing drive and product quality, marketing has not been a problem for
APC. Given the relatively small size of APC's production, which
constitutes about 2% of world capacity, it is unlikely that APC will
encounter major marketing problems after it has already establishad itself
as a reliable supplier.
4.07      APC's single most important customer has been India, with 227,000
tons sold in 1985 and 350,000 tons in 1986, almost one third of APC's
production. As regards volume of sales, India was followed by France (13%
of production) and Brazil (11% of production). A breakdown of sales in
1985 is given in Attachment 4 and a summary of sales by geographic region
is shown below.



- 11 -
APC Potash Sales by Region - 1985
Region                          Metric Tons Sold
Indian Sub-Continent
and Far East                          560,175               60
South America                            155,150              16
Western Europe                           138,150              14
Middle East and North Africa              44,474               6
Sub-Saharan Africa                        18,350               2
New Zealand                              216700                2
Total              932,999              100
4.08      Prices.  During appraisal, the Bank carefully examined historic
supply, demand and price data for a period of over twenty years. The
analysis suggested that demand would continue to grow and demand/supply
would be in balance by 1985, while in subsequent years prices in real terms
would rise gradually. FOB Vancouver reference prices were projected to
increase (in 1977 constant dollars) from US$65 in 1982 to US$71 in 1985 and
US$79 in 1989. The resulting adjusted FOB Aqaba prices, expressed in
current dollars, were estimated to increase from US$86 in 1982 to US$140 in
1986. Developments in the potash market, however, were much less
favorable, as world-wide consumption actually slowed down considerably as
APC production was coming on stream. In the USA, which accounts for about
25% of world potash consumption, demand dropped almost 30% between 1980/81
and 1982/83 and, despite a subsequent rise, was in 1984/85 still about 10%
below its 1980/81 level. Actual world-wide consumption in 1984/85 was
marginally over 25 million tons (in terms of K20), about 75% of the
projected demand (34 million tons). The expected increase in potash demand
and prices, did not materialize. In current US dollars, FOB Vancouver
prices which reached a peak in 1980, have dropped substantially.Also
expressed in current dollars, FOB Aqaba prices decreased from US$82 in 1982
to US$78 in 1986, about 55% of the price projected for that year.
Year-by-year comparisons are shown in Attachment 5. Future prices, as per
the Bank current projections, are expected to slightly recover in real
terms from present levels. These projections indicate that FOB Vancouver
prices translated into current US dollars, would increase from US$75 in
1988, to US$94 in 0990 and US$120 in 1995.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A.   Company Performance and Financial Results
5.01      Revenues.  Sales revenues in the four years from 1983 to 1986
totalled US$219.1 million, compared to a projected figure of US$350.9
million, a shortfall of about 38%.  Since aggregate production during the
period was only 6% lower than projected, the shortfall is to be attributed
almost in its entirety to depressed sale prices.



- 12 -
5.02      Operating Costs.  Deducting inventory changes from the actual
figures ror purposes of comparison with appraisal projections, total
manufacturing costs, including general and administrative expenses were
reasonably close to projectionis.  Expressed in TD per ton produced, thev
were as follows:
Average Unit Manufacturing Costs
(JD/ton)
Year                  Projected             Actual
1983                     33                    38
1984                     22                    24
1985                     13                    16
1986                     13                    14
The comparison of individual components of cost, however, shows greater
variances. Costs of labor, power and fuel and chemicals were higher than
projected, while those for maintenance, transportation to Aqaba and the
Operations Management contract were below projections. The comparison
between projected and actual charges for depreciation and amortization is
not straighttforward because APC, with the approval of its external
auditors, pro-rated such charges in 1983 and 3984 to the level of capacity
utilization (25% and 43% respectively). Interest costs incurred during the
four years were 58% higher than projected, the result of higher investment
costs, additional borrowings and losses continuing beyond the anticipated
period. Overall, manufacturing costs exceeded projections by a small
percentage (7% in 1986), while financial costs were considerably inflated
as a result primarily of the operating losses.
5.03      Profitability.  At appraisal, net losses were projected for 1983
and 1984, and net profits anticipated as of 1985. Actually, losses were
incurred in all years through 1986, and net profit is not expected before
1988. The difference is accounted for by a shortfall in sale revenues and
a surge in interest costs. With regards to the future, and in conjunction
with the Second Arab Potash Project, a set of conservative projections
carried out by APC and the Bank indicate that before tax profits starting
in 1988 would increase to over JD 12 million in 1990, and JD 20 million in
1995. These projections assume that the modifications under way in the
refinery will be completed in 1987, with production building up to 1.4
million tons by 1990.
5.04      Balance Sheet.  Total assets at the end of 1986 amounted to
JD 135 million, about 6% less than projected, while long-term debt,
amrunted to JD85.8 million, well above projected levels. At the same time,
the accumulated losses had reduced APC's equity by JD 36.3 million from an
initial share capital of JD 63 million. Current assets fell considerably
below projected levels mainly as a result of poor cash generation.
Accounts receivable were lower than projected as they represented only six,
rather than 8 weeks of sales.  Current liabilities grew considerably on
account of installments due and not paid to the GOJ. Only the cash
available as a result of default on Government debt has allowed APC to
maintain acceptable working capital and liquidity positions. To further



-    3
CuLlpensate for the accIMUi3ted losses during the initial operating vears,
APc had to contract (1984) additional medium-term borrowings in the form of
loans and bonds.  The debt/equity ratio, which was to be maintained below
55:45 and had been projected at 36:64 tor 1986, actually exceeded 75/25.
5.05      Tne pdrtial depletion of APC's equity and its untenable debt
burden made it imperative to balance the debt and equity structure through
relief measures proposed and implemented in connection with the Second
Arab Potash Project, and which called for (i) subordination of the debt
owed to the Government together with a rescheduling of repayment over a
seven-year maturity including 3 years of grace; and (ii) a capital increase
of JD 9.5 million equivalent to 15% of APC's initial paid-in capital.
B.   Financial Rate of Return
5.06      Assuiing a conservative price forecast based on the World Bank
commodity price projections, the calculation of the internal rate of return
(IKR) on the total investment - including the modification/optimization
under way - yields an IRR of 8.9% (in 1977 constant terms), against the
appraisal estimate of 12.4%. The decline in the IRR is essentially
attributable to the fall in potash prices. Attachment 6 provides the
details of the calculations.
C.   Financial Covenants
5.07      The following is a listing of the financial covenants and the
stdtus of compliance:
Compliance as of
Substance of Covenant                       end 1986
(i)    Debt,'Equity (D/E) Ratio below 55/45 at and
after completion of the Project                       No
(ii)   Quick Ratio over 0.8:1 at and after
couapletion of the Project                            No
(iii)  Debt Service Coverage (DSC) over 1.5                    No
(iv)   No dividend payments if they would
bring quick ratio below 1.0:1.0                       Yes
(v)   Until Project has been operated for 12
consecutive months, no payments of
dividenas or capital investments
over US$1 million per year without
approval of the Bank                                   Yes
(vi)   Have accounts audited annually by
external auditors acceptable to Bank                   Yes



- 14 -
However, as the ratios (i) to (iii) are more stringent than those commonlv
applied to large industrial projects, it was decided, under the Second Xrab
Potash Project to relax some of the financial covenants and increase the
D/E limit to 6,/40 while reducing the DSC to 1.3.
VI. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A.   Economic Rate of Return
6.01      APC's entire production is exported at prevailing international
market prices. Aside from potential tax adjustments, revenues in financial
and economic terms are therefore identical. Moreover, there are no
significant distortions in the Jordanian economy--except for domestic
energy prices which are higher than international levels, but have been
used, as a precautionary measure, both in the financial and economic
analyses. As a result the economic rate of return is equal to the
financial IRR--before tax--and is calculated at 8.9% in constant 1977
terms.
B.   Economic Benefits
6.02      Increased foreign exchange earnings represent the principal
benefit the Project will bring to the Jordanian economy. Sales revenues of
JD 27.8 million were realized in i986 which have to be netted by the
foreign exchange expenditures, mainly debt service and some indirect
imports. Collateral benefits consist of (i) the creation of around 1,300
additional jobs; and (ii) the contribution to the development of the
Project area which is not readily quantifiable.
C.   Overall Justification
6.03      The Project could be considered a partial success with an
Economic Rate of Return (8.9%) falling short of expectations (12.4%).
Despite technical problems, which have been--or are in the process of
being--resolved, the Project facilities were completed within three months
of a tight construction schedule, at a cost marginally higher than
estimated. The delay of one year in the start of commercial production was
due to factors beyond the control of APC and, by itself, has little effect
on long-term profitability. The institution-building objectives were
largely achieved (Section VII). The economic objectives have, so far,
fallen short of full realization as a result of the dramatic decline in
potash prices. Yet, despite this setback, the outlook remains good for
achieving a large part of the Project financial and economic targets.
Overall, undertaking the Project appears justified, in light of the
scenario of supply/demand and cost structure anticipated at appraisal, but
also in retrospect, although the ex-post IRR is marginal. Potash is one of
the few domestic resources which Jordan can exploit, and, the Project
remains in a position to meet the financial and economic criteria of
.success within a few additional years, taking into account the technical,
organizational and financial measures under the second project.



- 15 -
VII.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFnRt.ANCE AND ORGANIZATIONAL GROWTH
7.o1     UIhen implementation of the Project began with the construction of
the trial dikes and ocher field work associated with the feasibility study,
the entire staff of APC consisted of about twenty professionals and
technicians working at company headquarters in Anman, with a similar number
of workers stationed on site. The professional staff had only limited
technical experience that could be trought to bear on the considerable
tasks faced by APC. In tnese circumstances, the management had to rely on
consultants for much of the organizational, financial and technical work.
by the end of 1986, A2C's statf had grown to a total of 1,285 employees of
whom about 1,0U0 are Jordanian nationals. The remainder of the positions
are filled with non Jordanians (includinig four residual meribers of the
original Operations Management Team). The growth of the organization from
a mere nucleus to a tully manned manufacturing company within a relatively
short span of time was possible despite the difficulty in obtaining (at
that time) qualified candidates in Jordan's limited pool of skilled
workers. Early on, priority was givcn for identification and employment of
Jordanian nationals who were potentially suitable. In the meantime,
positions for which Jordanian candidates could not be found were filled
through the recruitment of foreign technicians and skilled workers.
7.02     That policy called for a comprehensive training program which was
developed with the objective of upgrading skills of plant operators,
craftsmen and maintenance technicians, and training new employees.
On-the-job training has been provided by foreign personnel employed in the
plant, members of the Operations Management Team, skilled workers and
experienced technicians. In addition, APC has arranged for short-term
training both in Jordanian institutions, such as the Royal Scientific
Society ond the Public Administracion Institute, and abroad.
7.03      Tne otganizational structure of the Conipany was originally
designed by a major internationial Auditing/Management consulting firm under
a contract for accounting and management consulting services. Although APC
adopted m.ost features of the consultants' recommendations, a few important
jobs could not be filled early on, but the organizational pattern adopted
proved adequate for the initial stages of the Company's operations. ttore
recently the Company has recruited additional management and professional
staff and iraplemented organizational changes which are expected to result
in less cumbersome administrative procedures and improved supervision of
operations. In summary, APC has completed the major steps in the
development of its organization and the build-up of its staff. With the
organizational strengthening and the gradual improvement of staff
experience, the residual portion of the foreign staff can be soon replaced
by Jordaniani nationals.



1 b -
VIII.  SANK ROLE
A.   Overall Bank Performance and Relationship with Borrower
8.01      Bank staff hlave been closely involved in che Project developnient
and follow-up on implementation, beginning with assistance to APC froim the
feasibility study stage in 1975. The lead advisory role of the Bank was
recognized by APC, the Jordanian Government and other co-lenders. The
Bank, on request of APC and the Government, presented in 1973 its
conclusions on the feasibility study to a meeting of potential financiers.
Bank scaff consulted trequently with APC on solutions for technical and
contractual problems that arose during implementation. The Bank maintained
close contact with co-lenders and initiated agreements for the coordination
of actions. Overall, the Bank played an active role and maintained close
and productive relations with APC, the Jordanian Government, and the
co-tinanciers.
B.   Performance in Project Preparation, Formulation and Implementation
8.02      T,le Bank's contribution, other than its financial assistance to
the Project, can be summarized by its:
(i)   participation in preparing terms of reference for the
feasibility study, lead role in analysing the preliminary
feasibility report for the consortium of lenders, and
securing agreement to increase design capacity to 1.2
million typy;
(ii)   close involvement in thu selection of contractors and
suppliers through the approval of contracts financed by the
Bank and review of main procurement actions in collaboration
with other lenders; and
(iii)   consultation with APC, and where indicated the Jordanian
Governmaent, during regular supervision missions and ad hoc
meetings on organizational, administrative technical and
financial issues.
C.   Covenants
8.U3      The Jordanian Government as shareholder and guarantor, and APC as
Borrower, have both substantially complied with the undertakings of the
Project's legal documents, except for financial covenants which have not
been met given the considerable cash shortfall that APC had co wichstand as
a result of falling potash prices.  Importanitly, the Government supplied,
as promised, such additional financing for the completion of the Project
that could not be obtained from other institutional or commercial sources.
APC largely met all undertakings, including retention of consultants for
various purposes, including operational matters.



- 17 -
IX. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
A.   Overall Assessment
9.01      The salient facts to be highlighted and the main conclusions to
be drawn from the preceding review of the Project are as follows:
(a) Implementation schedule and technical design. Construction
of the evaporation system with over 60 km of dikes was
completed on time despite the difficulties arising from the
remote Project location, absence of main infrastructure,
length of implementation period and need to coordinate the
timing and progress of different components. The Project
infrastructure components including internal road network,
housing, water and power supply, were also completed on
time. The delay in completing the refinery had no effect on
initiating commercial production as carnallite feedstock for
harvesting was not sufficient for sustained production at
the time of refinery start-up.
(b) Costs and financial position
(i)   Construction costs exceeded estimates by a relatively small
margin of 7.3%.
(ii)   The overestimate in the evaporation rate--viewed as the main
miscalculation in the project technical design--made it
necessary to modify the evaporation pond system after
completion of construction. With hindsight, it could be
argued chat the calculations should have allowed for a
higher safety margin, although during Project appraisal the
Bank had sought the opinion of an independent world leading
specialist in the field, who had confirmed the design
calculations.
(iii)   It had been expected that minor modifications to the
refinery would be necessary after some operating experience
had been gained. Although the extent of the modifications
required to reach design capacity was somehow unexpected,
their magnitude (about US$15 million or 3% of total project
cost) can nonetheless be absorbed with no significant effect
on project profitability.
(iv) The one development responsible for the failure of the
Project to meet, so far, the financial expectations, is the
unexpected collapse of the potash market at the time the
plant came on stream. In this respect however, it ought to
be mentioned that in the course of appraisal, considerable
analytical work (including the use of a Monte Carlo 'odel)
was done under sensitivity and risk analyses, with
probabilities attached to possible variations in revenues,



- 13 -
costs and implementation period. Nonetheless, the
possibility of such a wide variation in revenues (collapse
of potash prices) was not captured, the significant drop in
prices being largely the result of developments affecting
agriculture in thie principal importing countries, primarily
the large USA market. However, the immediate impact of
these economic changes is not expected to have a lasting
effect on project long-term viabilitv, given expected (Bank
forecast) recovery in potash prices, as well as APC's
efforts to optimize operations and further reduce overall
production costs. Thus, overall, the decision to proceed
with the construction of a potash plant in Jordan was
justified. The physical and organizational foundations for
a successful project are now in place and have begun to
yield the expected benefits, which would increase in step
with the forecast recovery of the potash market.
(v) The Project's revised internal rate of return, in 1977
constant economic and financial terms, shows a decline from
the appraisal estimate of 12.4% to 8.9%. The collapse in
potash prices is the one cause of the decline in
profitability.
B.   Lessons for the Borrower and the Bank for Similar Projects
9.02       The extraction of minerals from sea brines is possible only in a
few places in the world. Moreover, the variations in site conditions and
brine characteristics are sufficiently great to make each project unique.
Technically, experiences with one project cannot be directly applicable to
other projects. APC is expected to use its operational experience to
improve, and possibly expand its plant. The Bank could be able to apply
its knowledge of the design and operations of the APC plant to other
projects only where site conditions and raw material characteristics are
comparable. More generally, the desirability of double-checking key
assumptions made by designers--as, for example the rate of evaporation in
the case of the APC plant--should be re-iterated.
9.03      As regards the institution-building aspects of the Project, two
factors stand out, namely the presence, during the critical periods of
project implementation, of a vigorous management with cor.siderable business
experience, and the use of technical assistance at appropriate times.
These two ingredients were the key to the creation of APC as a viable
company which has been able within the space of a few years to phase out
the use of consultants and build its own cadre of staff and professional
expertise.
9.04       Finally, this evaluation once more shows the difficulty and
uncertainty of accurately predicting developments that might affect the
world prices of commodities, although the adverse effects on large scale/
capital intensive projects may only be temporary or cyclical.  Therefore in
accepting the risk that br-oad economic developments may upset the project's



- 19 -
financial and economic benefits--particularly when the entity has to
compete in international commodity markets--wider price fluctuations should
be considered and sufficient safety margins should be available to
withstand unexpected periods of depression. In particular, the design of
the rinancial 7tructure of the Company should allow for adequate working
capital and an appropriate mix of equity and debt to provide a cushion for
untoreseen contingencies.
Industry Department
May 1987



- 20 -                                Attachment 1
JORDAN - ARAB POTASH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
197R    1979 _ 98')    195i         i982,    1       _33     _______
- .4                                -______19      __          l
-Evaporati) Dn 1S
-  BonaVn S,lc-
BoCtco   - C-_
- C2                                      _ _   _ _ L __J
-C3$
- Harvesting
- C1                                                             _:-.  
- C2                                                                    -       -
- C3                                                                    -     -_
-.Refiner......  
- Construction             _ _ _  _ _
- Start-up
- Commercial
Production                                                         - _  _ _ _            -
20   Infrastructure
Township                    -    -   - ___ -        _
Power Plant                         _  _ .       - _   _
Water Sugply                    _          _  __
Scheduled
- - - Actual
Industry Departmnent
April 1987



-  21 -                           Attachment 2
JORDAN - ARAB POTASH COMPANY
CAPITAL COST - COMPARISON OF ACTUAL COST WITH
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES
Actual Costs  a/   Appralsal Estimates bi
JD'OOO    5$)UO        JD'OOO        S'00O
Land                                2,035    5,1.
Land Improvement                    1,122     3,2j6
Tocal Land                    3 157    9,"G           1,000       3,030       Land
Dykes                              28,170   80,s86
Brine Transfer System               7,778   22,223
Solar Pan Pipelines                 7,30U   20,877
4 Harvesters and Pipelines          7,389   21,111
Total Solar System             50,644  144,697        34,873      105,664      Solar EvaDnration System
Refinery                           35,661  1011889         22,774      69,005       Refinery
Steam and Power Plant               5,887   16,820
Auxiliaries - Transmission          4,086    11,674
Lines, etc.
Sub Total                      9,973    28,494         7,110       21,542      Steam and Power Supplv
Township                            8,657    24,734         1.341       19,214      Township
Potash Trucks                       L2,4      5,834         1.176        LIU        Potash Trucks
Head Office Building                1,127      3,220
Admin. Building Site                2,066     5,903
Hussein Camp                        1,035     2,957        15,479      46,904       Eng.Services & 1're-oD. Costs
Other Buildings                     3,934    11,240        88,753    268,921        Base Cost Estimates
Roads, Sidewalks                    1,547     4,420         8,889      26,932       Physical Contingencies
18,991      57,542      Price FscaLation
Sub Total                    910    27,740
Other Fixed Assets                  8,892    25,405
(EquLpment, Water,
Furniture, etc.)
Tocal Fixed Assecs                128,735  367,813
Pre-production Costs               20,450    58,429
Total  Fixed Assets & Pre-        149,185  426,242        116,O33     353,395       Installed Cost
production
Working Capital                    11,879    33,940         8,176       24,773      Working Capital
16,713      50,641       Interest during Construction
Total Financing                   161,064  460,182        141,522     428,8u9       Total Financing
-              --
a/ 1USS - JD 0.33
b/ 1USS = JD 0.35
Industry Department
April 1987



- 22 -                       Attachment 3
JORDAN - ARAB POTASH PROJECT
Project Financing
(in US$ million)a/
Financing Plan          Actual Financing
Equity
Government of Jordan                      98.5                      96.5
Arab Mining Company                       48.3                      45.0
Islamic Development Bank                  12.0                      11.4
Arab Governments and
Private Shareholders                    34.4                      31.7
Total Equity                             193.2                     184.6
Debt
IBRD                                      35.0                      31.0
AID                                       38.0                      35.0
Kuwait Fund                               35.0                      31.9
Libyan Government                         50.0                       8.5
Arab Fund                                 15.0                        -
OPEC Fund                                  7.0                       6.2
Commercial Loans                          20.0                      68.6
Deferral of Interest to
Government of Jordan                    18.3                      19.8
UK Government                              -                        17.6
Austrian Government                        -                        33.2
Iraqi Government                           -                        13.1
Jordanian Social Security                  -                         0.5
Paymeats Due GOJ                           -                        38.1
Currency Fluctuations                      -                        12.2
Total Debt                               218.3                     315.7
Internal Cash Generation                    17.3                     (40.1)
Total Financing                            428.8                     460.2
a/   Converted from JD at 0.35 to US$1.00
Industry Department
April 1987



- 23 -                          Attachment 4
JORDAN - ARAB POTASH PROJECT
APC Sales by Country in 1985
Country                                         MT of KCl
India                                             277,275
France                                            120,390
Brazil                                             99,500
Indonesia                                          73,500
South Korea                                        57,750
Venezuela                                          55,650
Malaysia                                           41,500
Japan                                              30,000
Turkey                                             27,9650
Taiwan                                             24,950
China                                              24,250
Bangladesh                                         19,-950
Italy                                              17,760
New Zealand                                        16,700
Ivory Coast and Senegal                            12,850
Sri Lanka                                          11,000
Iraq                                                9,824
Tunisia                                             7,000
Mauritius                                           5
Total                                             932,999
Industry Department
April 1987



- 24 -                         Attachment 5
JORDAN - ARAB POTASH PROJECT
Average Sale Prices of Potash FOB Aqaba
(Actual versus Estimates)
(Current USS per MT of KCI)
Appraisal Estimate            Actual
1982                                  86                    82
1983                                  95                    72
1984                                 105                   82
1985                                 127                    81
1986                                 140                    77
Industry Department
April 1987



- 25 -                                                     Attachment 6
Page 1 of 2
I _
2.  I    I  I  .  .            . . . .
-  X.-
f I -.   -        - - - - - -  - - -.         - -  - - - - 
_.  _
-I*
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
* _    --  xr  s                  C…_         :qr        -       -
_ *    x   -   w .r .S -_-  C 4 _ r ^ s s > r r -  ^--~~~~~~~~~~C    _-
|   . _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 
I  F;  ,,    .,-    S-    r    >f    N-.                    - _ w_  Ur 
J ~      ~       ' > _u 3 . -w   -cS                         
= j _ _ _ ~~~~ _ ~~ _ ~~ _ C --.D  -                                                                  0   _._  



- 26 -                   Attachment 6
Page 2 of 2
JORDAN - ARAB POTASH PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return
(Costs in constant 1977 USS ndillion)
Working Capital
Year      Capital Costs         & Op. Costs          Revenues    Net Cash Flow
1977            10.9                                      -           (10.9)
1978            11.0                                      -           (11.0)
1979            42.2                (1.7)                 -           (40.5)
1980            60.7                  1.0                 -           (59.7)
1981            99.7               (28.1)                 -           (71.6)
1982            37.5                15.0                  -           (52.5)
1983             8.3                24.6               12.5           (20.4)
1984             5.8                30.7               30.7            (5.8)
1985             1.4                40.6               60.7            18.7
1986             7.5                34.1               49.1             7.5
1987            11.3                31.2               55.1            12.6
1988             7.0                30.4               61.8            24.4
1989             1.4                30./               72.0            40.2
1990             4.3                30.5               83.4            48.6
1991             4.6                30.0               86.2            51.6
1992             3.0                29.8               88.1            55.3
1993             5.8                29.7               90.6            55.1
1994             1.3                29.4               92.4            61.7
1995             1.3                29.4               93.1            62.4
1996             1.4                29.4               95.2            64.4
1997             1.4                29.4              101.3            70.5
1998             7.3                29.2               98.6            62.1
1999             1.6                29.2              100.2            69.4
2000             1.7                29.0              101.7            71.0
2001             1.7                30.9              103.2            70.6
2002           (38.6)                (4.8)                -            43.4
IRR m 8.9% in constant 1977 terms.
Industry Department
April 1987



Attachment 7
-27-
"C;,'  J. SI I        3 JW';(0423                                         COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
SEr.ljn-                                                                                      
fEF      IC.PI. MFT
WS123 'J:i.iC 89  ! N  I   ("I.*,              V 1 ) Q', 
221.  2f )2  ;2i  J O
OJUR  RE:F4 A/tjZ1'.7'/T;/'7
WASHIIXN6I1 ON  II.,
AT  144 Mk4  AI.IrXAN)JER  'U   ('I
DT'JXIXON   H':XLY.F
DP!: R~T ] 1JN.'; F\JuI ll L.:f l)l! I:iE HT
s.liJT: i' ROIJECT1 C(OlMV'lETT)    M-'P:'")!0   ON  *JiM):tAM-ARA)   POTAt;H  PHRI.JECT
L(IAN  161.7-.    ).
.; =  ..  ..     .   = -   .. . .,  .l  -'. : . =:-  :: : ::: -.  =1 :1    _ _    :-.1: : = : =,
THANK  YOU  FOR  (R  l.::1Y   :' I    (),1 :NI,98)7  (C,ONt1:RNXNG  rHE. ABlOVE
MENTOINFri sIt,jrFcr,
WE  FO)ND I1HAI  YR  REPORT.X';  CX(Ci.l  EN1  AN)D  xN  THiE  MEANIXiMEr  X WO)UJLIi
LT=KF  1(1  D:RAWJ YR  KINJl AT ll:NrIXN x       tl  rHr  FA(T  THAI' rHE  L.IIYAN  t,GOVT  L'.1AN
TO  A, P(;( WAIS  '10)  tiXl   (ON  lll  ANTND  No(r  ( C) 5) MXl.l XON  I10)) A."  MENTXONFTJ.
IN  YR  REPORTi   Al..'i(O, TH'-- NJMMtFR  OF  0M  ,T   WAS  (32) ,N1  NOT  (G2)  AS
MEN1'IONFrI  IN tHE   kF'()I i4.
TH7IlI: 7         MF.R M   N]) NO(lW  P0' :LN'l S  THAT WXL l I  )Xs,( Ou E ;sa)) wx rm   Y    rl-TAM
MFi.):'3RS  ):iD( X  NO r HI(  . rH    (:(1f: N( VM 5 1 1 'l : ST TN , OV  1.4i  1 8 /
B / (;1OD;. .
A.Y. ENSOUR
MANAJTN[  1.1IRF(;1tJR
ARAI  POTASH  CO..
21t?  #P'lIASH  ,JO
=I 1. 1.2 0'/38
NNNN



