Document of
1,,,  1ts                    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2262-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRIJCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARAB POTASH COMPANY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A POTASH PROJECT
August 21, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1977)
1,000 Fils = 1 Jordanian Dinar (JD)
JD 1.00 = US$3.03
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APC     Arab Potash Company
AGP     Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners
DSW     Dead Sea Works
FOB     Free on Board
GOJ     Government of Jordan
JEC     Jacobs Engineering Company
JII     Jacobs International Inc.
JPR     Jordan Petroleum Refinery
KC1     Potassium chloride (Muriate of Potash)
typ     Metric tons per year
TSO     Technical Services Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JORDAN
THE ARAB POTASH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Arab Potash Company (APC).
Guarantor:           The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Amount:              US$35.0 million.
Terms:               13 years including 6 years of grace at interest rate
of 7.9 percent per annum.
Project
Description:         The Arab Potash project is the largest industrial project
ever undertaken in Jordan and upon its completion would
help diversify the Jordanian economy as well as develop
one oE the country's few natural resources. The project
is aimed at producing 1.2 million tons per year of potash
drawn from the Dead Sea via solar evaporation. The proj-
ect might also produce potash derivatives such as com-
pacted potash and potassium sulphate if the marketing
study to be completed by March, 1979 confirms their finan-
cial viability. The major components of the project
include:
(i) a solar evaporation and brine transfer system to
concentrate the Dead Sea brine and transfer it
between carnallite pans;
(ii) a harvesting system for dredging and transporting
the solids precipitated in the pans;
(iii) a refinery to produce fertilizer grade potash;
(iv) utility facilities consisting of power, tele-
communications, and water supply and sewerage
systems; and
(v) an associated township.
The project will generate substantial benefits to Jordan,
including net foreign exchange earnings of about $1.0
billion (in 1977 dollars) over the project life, creation
of about 700 permanent jobs, and the establishment of a
new industrial growth pole in a remote area of the country.
At full operations in 1985, the project would contribute
about $150 million per year (or 15 percent) to industrial
exports representing about 8 percent of the annual value
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
of expected total exports. There are several risks asso-
ciated with this project. Because of the potash market's
oligopolistic structure, the marketing of Jordanian potash
may encounter some resistance. In addition, there are
technical risks involving evaporation rates, flash floods,
and the harvesting system. Specific actions have been
provided for in the project design and implementation to
minimize substantially these risks. Finally, due to the
large size of the project considerable effort was needed
by APC and Government officials to firm up the project
financing plan and provide effective project management.
To minimize the project's financial risk, the Government
has agreed to guarantee the financing of possible cost
overruns.
Project Costs:                              ----      US$ Million----------
Foreign        Local        Total
Land                                 -            3.0          3.0
Solar Evaporation System           71.3          34.4        105.7
Refinery                           58.8          10.2         69.0
Steam and Power Supply             19.0           2.5         21.5
Township                           12.3           6.9         19.2
Potash Trucks                       3.4           0.2          3.6
Engineering and Management         21.1           0.6         21.7
Start-up & Related Expenses         7.3           4.9         12.2
Pilot Project                       6.6           3.4         10.0
Post Start-up Expenses              2.4           0.6          3.0
Base Costs                      202.2          66.7        268.9
Contingencies:
Physical                         19.6           7.3         26.9
Price                            36.0          21.6         57.6
Total Project Cost                257.8          95.6        353.4
Working Capital                  22.4           2.4         24.8
Interest during Construction   29.8            20.8         50.6
Total Financing Required          310.0         118.8        428.8



- iii-
Financing Plan:                                          US$ million
Equity (of which Government)           193.2 (98.5)
IBRD                                   35.0
USAID Loan                              38.0
Kuwait Fund                             35.0
Libyan Arab Foreign Bank                50.0
Arab Fund                               15.0
OPEC Special Fund Loan                   7.0
Commercial Loans                        20.0
APC (internal cash &
deferred interest to GOJ)            35.6
Total                                 428.8
Estimated
Disbursements:        Bank FY        1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
------------- US $ million -------------
Annual          5.3  10.7  11.3   4.9   1.3   1.0   0.5
Cumulative      5.3  16.0  27.3  32.2  33.5  34.5  35.0
Rate of Return:       12.4 percent.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1922-JO, dated August 11, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ARAB POTASH COMPANY WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A POTASH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
of $35 million equivalent to the Arab Potash Company (APC) with the Guarantee
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to help finance a potash project. The loan
will have a term of 13 years including 6 years of grace with an interest rate
of 7.9 percent per annum. The Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
would charge a guarantee fee of 2.1 percent per annum on the outstanding amount
of the Bank loan, bringing the cost of the loan to APC to 10 percent per
annum. The proposed Bank loan is part of a well coordinated effort by many
aid agencies. The proposed loan would be provided along with loans from the
United States Agency for International Development, the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, the
Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and the OPEC Special Fund all in amounts and terms
as described herein. In addition to the Government which would own 51 per-
cent of APC's equity, equity funds would also be provided by the Arab Mining
Company (25 percent), the Islamic Development Bank (6 percent), and other Arab
states and private shareholders (18 percent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Jordan in July 1978 to update the
report "Country Economic Memorandum on Jordan" (No. 1738-JO, dated January
9, 1978) which was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 19,
1978. Its findings are reflected in the updated data reported herein.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        Jordan is a small country of only 2 million people (East Bank).
Due to limited physical and mineral resources, the structure of output and
employment is service and trade-dominated. An important characteristic of
the economy is its service-oriented role in its regional setting. This is
reflected in Jordan's role as a provider of manpower to neighboring countries
and a regional tourist center, particularly since the disruptions in Lebanon.
Jordan has benefited from its regional setting in terms of foreign exchange
inflows in the form of external grants, workers' remittances, exports and
tourism revenues. However, costs of this role to the economy have been the
outflow of scarce skilled labor and a low domestic savings rate which is
partly also a result of high defense expenditures.



-2-
Recent Developments
4.        During the Three Year Plan (1973-75), GDP grew at about 5 percent
per year. Agriculture stagnated as a result of droughts while the industrial
sector increased its share of GDP, mainly due to increased production and
prices of phosphates and rapid growth in manufacturing output, encouraged by
higher domestic and external demand. Although domestic savings were negative
in the recent past, national savings increased significantly from 22 percent
of GNP in 1972 to 30 percent in 1975. Following the exceptionally high
economic activity in 1976, due both to booming conditions in the Gulf, and
to a smaller extent to the influx of Lebanese refugees and business, economic
growth and development in 1977 returned to a more normal growth trend. Despite
agricultural stagnation (because of the poor rainfall), GDP grew by 9 percent
in real terms in 1977, due mainly to an 8 percent increase in mining and
manufacturing and a 17 percent rate of growth in transportation. Total
investment reached 42 percent of GDP in 1977, compared to 22 percent in 1972.
5.        Despite a significant increase in exports in recent years, increased
investment efforts and a liberal trade policy have led to rapidly rising imports
and a growing resource gap. Nevertheless, the overall balance of payments
position has remained strong. Export earnings increased by 25 percent (in
current prices) in 1977 (mainly due to an increase in phosphate and manufac-
tured good exports, aided by higher prices of fruit and vegetable exports.
Imports in 1977 meanwhile rose by 27 percent in total imports, owing mainly to
an increase in raw material and capital good imports. Workers' remittances
increased in 1977 to $418 million, tourist revenues to $288 million and
external transfers to $507 million, enabling the current account balance to
achieve a surplus of $15 million which was substantially smaller than the 1976
surplus of $83 million. The level of reserves increased substantially to $678
at end-1977 because of a high capital inflow. In early 1977, Jordan success-
fully borrowed about $200 million from commercial markets against the guarantee
of the Central Bank.
6.        Domestic budgetary revenues in 1977 were estimated to have increased
by 32 percent while the growth in domestic current expenditures was restrained
to 29 percent. The increase in domestic revenues was mainly due to a sharp
increase in customs duties. Various other measures were taken to raise domes-
tic revenues, namely: the tax rate on corporate profits was raised; charges
for port services, buses and land sales were raised; and domestic prices for
oil products, water, electricity and cigarettes were increased. Partly
because of the slow down in expenditure growth but mainly because of high
foreign budgetary support (JD 120 million in 1977 compared with JD 41 million
in 1976), the overall budget surplus of some JD 7 million was attained in
1977.
7.        Despite a 33 percent increase in foreign assets in 1977 (compared
with a 17 percent increase in 1976), restraint on credit expansion (both to
the private sector and to the government) helped to constrain the growth in
money supply to 19 percent, a slight decline from the 21 percent increase in



- 3 -
money supply in 1976. The inflationary impact was somewhat mitigated both by
the propensity of Jordanians to hold cash balances as a precautionary measure
and the tendency of commercial banks to hold liquid reserves at higher-than-
required levels. Large amounts of credit were directed to the tertiary
sector. Industrial investment has heretofore relied largely on retained
earnings or direct support from Government, but is becoming increasingly
dependent upon financial resources mobilized by the banking sector. Lending
to industry amounted to 13 percent of the outstanding credit at the end of
1977.
8.        The consumer price index increased by nearly 15 percent per year
during 1973-76. High inflationary pressures resulted from both domestic and
external factors. Although the growth in money supply has been a contributory
factor, some causes of inflation were external, such as the sharp rise in the
prices of imported goods, strong demand for Jordanian goods and services by
neighboring countries, growing inflows of workers' remittances, and the
speculation in real estate which accompanied the influx of refugees and
businesses from Lebanon.
9.        Partly as a result of the migration of Jordanian labor to neighbor-
ing countries and partly as a result of a rapid increase in employment in the
civil service and military, unemployment declined from 14 percent in 1970 to
2.1 percent in 1975. About 250,000 Jordanians were estimated to be working
abroad and about 180,000 were employed by the Government in 1975, compared
to total domestic non-farm employment of 270,000. Labor force participation
rates are low, particularly for women. The Government has been trying to
increase female participation rates by opening up employment opportunities
for women and by expanding child care facilities. It has also given increased
emphasis to education, particularly to vocational training, and has provided
a broad range of social services to attract Jordanian labor. There is an
increasing propensity, in both private and public sectors, to increase the
capital intensity of projects in order to economize on labor.
Medium-term Prospects
10.       The primary development objectives of the current Five-Year Plan
(1976-80) are to diversify the productive structure of the economy, to
increase overall growth, and to improve tax and export revenues in order to
reduce dependence on external assistance and achieve self-reliance in the long
run. This involves inter alia: exploiting phosphates and potash resources
for export; extending irrigation in the Jordan Valley to increase agricultural
production, particularly of high value fruits and vegetables for export where
Jordan enjoys a comparative advantage in the region; promoting production of
export-oriented consumer goods industries; and strengthening infrastructure
in the transport and services sector to serve regional development needs and
earn additional foreign exchange. Since the beginning of Plan implementation
in 1976, serious efforts have been made to follow up and monitor progress.
Social issues are being given increasing attention by the Government, which
is currently in the process of formulating a program of action to assist low
income groups and rural areas.



- 4-
11.       The medium-term prospects for growth are good, with a likely GDP
growth rate of 6-8 percent per year in real terms. Overall investment is
likely to stay at a high level but may decline as a proportion of GDP from
the exceptionally high 35 percent reached in 1976. Jordan's development and
export prospects depend importantly on the implementation of major projects
(phosphate rock mining, potash, phosphatic fertilizer, oil refining and the
Maqarin dam) and on the continued vitality of the private sector. Phosphate
production may rise to 5 million tons per year by the early 1980s. If the
proposed projects are implemented on time and if the marketing is carefully
arranged, exports of potash and phosphatic fertilizer should yield substan-
tial foreign exchange earnings in the early eighties. In industry, priorities
have been well established and the Government encourages industrial develop-
ment. In view of Jordan's stock of entrepreneurial skills and its markets
for medium-scale industrial products available in neighboring countries, the
private sector should continue to show healthy growth. Further improvements
in packaging and marketing abroad, however, are needed for export promotion.
In agriculture, the focus of the Government is correctly on developing irri-
gated agriculture. But increased attention will need to be paid to rainfed
agriculture in terms of correcting the weak institutional and coordinating
machinery, reducing fragmentation of landholdings and, improving research and
extension services.
Development Issues
12.       To achieve gradually the Government's self-sufficiency objectives,
domestic resource mobilization will need to be increased. The Government can
restrain current expenditure growth to some extent. But given the impact of
high wages and salaries in neighboring countries, greater possibilities lie
in increased revenues rather than in controlling expenditures. Tax collection
efforts need to be further increased, and consideration should be given to
reducing the high tax holidays and exemptions of business and individuals.
There is also some scope for increasing taxes on fixed properties and on non-
essential imported consumer goods. Domestic demand management and financial
controls need to be improved, both to reduce inflationary pressures -nd to
improve domestic resource mobilization. Efforts should also be made to issue
a variety of debt instruments to cover financing gaps in the public sector
and to develop a secondary market for these issues. Financial resources
should be channelled increasingly to productive investments through increases
in the capitalization of domestic financial institutions such as the Indus-
trial Development Bank, or through long-term loans to these institutions. The
planned establishment of the capital market is a step in the right direction.
13.       Labor migration to neighboring countries is expected to continue
and is likely to cause shortages of labor in Jordan, particularly skilled
labor. The Government has correctly decided to focus on the supply side of
the problem rather to attempt to restrict the outflow; a 30 percent outflow of
skilled labor is assumed in the education and training plans for the period.
The low participation rates, particularly among women, and the underemployed
labor in the rainfed areas represent potential areas for increasing labor



- 5 -
supplies. The Government is also providing low cost housing, and various
subsidies. However, most of the subsidies are provided with insufficient
selectivity in terms of recipients.
14.       Because of their size, Jordan's prospective investments in several
major projects (phosphate mining, phosphatic fertilizer, potash and Maqarin
Dam) require especially careful resource planning. These investments (exclud-
ing the Maqarin Dam, for which works will not start before 1980) are expected
to amount to about one-thiLrd of total investment during the remainder of the
current Plan period (1978--80). Although these projects will tax Jordan's
limited physical, human, and financial resources, they are net foreign exchange
generating projects exploiting Jordan's rather meager natural resources.
Jordan should explore carefully the impact of implementing these projects on
its external debt servicing capacity, as significant amounts of foreign
exchange will have to be borrowed from various external sources. So far,
Jordan has been successful both in phasing investment so as not to burden its
foreign exchange resources and in obtaining substantial amounts of external
assistance on relatively concessional terms. If the Maqarin Dam is phased in
such a way that major investment takes place towards the early 1980's (as
presently planned in the Five-Year Plan), Jordan could finance these projects
without unreasonably burdening its debt repayment capacity.
External Assistance
15.       External public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 1976
was $383 million ($673 million including undisbursed). Of this total, loans
from government sources amounted to $286 million ($477 million including undis-
bursed) and accounted for 75 percent. Outstanding debt to IDA was $43.7 mil-
lion ($69.4 million including undisbursed). Loan contracted between 1970
and 1975 carried an average interest rate of 2.4 percent, and an average
29 years of maturity, including 6 years of grace. Debt service payments
amounted to $24.7 million in 1976, comprising 4.5 percent of total exports
of goods and non-factor services. External debt outstanding and disbursed
increased to some $600 million at end 1977.
16.       Despite an expected improvement in domestic resource mobilization
(para. 12), Jordan still needs substantial external capital inflows to
finance its development efforts. Judging from past trends in commitments
by donor countries, Jordan may be expected to mobilize annually (apart
from the continued availability of transfers), loan commitments from USA,
Federal Republic of Germany, and UK totalling $75-$90 million at relatively
concessionary terms (2-3 percent interest rate, 20-40 years maturity, with
4-10 years grace). It may also obtain individual loans from Arab multilateral
and bilateral sources. Jordan can absorb more borrowings on commercial terms,
mostly in suppliers' credits. The debt service ratio is expected to reach
9-10 percent in the early eighties, but should remain manageable if the
Government continues to exercise the restraint it has shown in the past.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Jordan has received fifteen IDA credits totalling $83.8 million
(net of cancellations) of which six have been fully disbursed. War and local
disturbances adversely affected the pace of economic activity after 1967, and
Bank Group lending only resumed in mid-1971. Project implementation is gener-
ally satisfactory. As of March, 1978 disbursements amounted to 74 percent
of appraisal estimates and 87 percent of revised estimates. So far IDA
credits have concentrated mainly on the financing of infrastructure projects,
such as education, highways, water supply and sewerage, power and irrigation.
The third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project has been the last project
financed through an IDA credit. With an estimated GNP per capita income of
$560 in 1976 Jordan has reached the upper limits for IDA financing. Further-
more, Jordan has now attained a stage in its economic development where it
can be considered creditworthy for Bank lending. IFC has made two investments
in Jordan consisting of a $244,000 equity participation and a $1.6 million
loan to Jordan Ceramic Industries Limited (JCI) in 1974, and also a $3.1 mil-
lion equity participation in the promotion of a phosphatic fertilizer project
in 1975 including a subsequent $20 million loan in June, 1978 (see para 19).
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as
of August 15, 1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Unlike previous Bank Group assistance to Jordan, future lending
would be directed toward large export oriented projects with high foreign
exchange earning potential (see paras. 23 and 24). In addition, the Bank
Group would assist the Government in implementing its social objectives
enunciated in the Five-Year Plan (1976-80) aimed at improving the income and
living standards of the rural and urban poor.
19.       In line with these overall objectives, the Bank Group has provided
technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding
phosphate rock production, in formulating of a package of development projects
in the Jordan Valley, as well as reviewing a feasibility study underway to
irrigate most of the remaining irrigable lands there. An Engineering credit
in FY1975 to study the feasibility of producing potash from the Dead Sea via
solar evaporation, has helped preparation of the proposed project. In addi-
tion IFC has assisted the Government in preparing a phosphatic fertilizer
project to produce diammonium phosphate (DAP) and triple superphosphate (TSP)
for which an IFC loan of $20 million was approved by the Executive Directors
on June 27, 1978, in addition to IFC's equity participation of $3.1 million in
1975 (see para 17). In support of the Government's social objectives, projects
currently under preparation for lending in the next two to three fiscal years
include proposals for assisting the Municipal and Village Loan Fund which has
primarily a rural clientele, a slum upgrading project, and a rural power dis-
tribution project.
20.       The Bank was Executing Agent for a two-year UNDP Planning Assistance
Project based in the National Planning Council which was completed in December
1975. It was also Executing Agent for a UNDP-financed study of the manufactur-
ing industry and industrial estates in Jordan. The first phase, consisting of
a study of the industrial sector, was completed in December 1975. The second



- 7 -
phase, consisting of studies of specific industries and proposals for the
establishment of industrial estates during the next Plan period was completed
in December 1976. The establishment of industrial zones and supporting
services for light manufacturing would aim at regulating the concentration
of economic activity in the Amman-Zarqa area which is already suffering from
overtaxing of its industrial infrastructure and severe pollution.
21.       At the end of 1977, the Bank Group's share in Jordan's external
public debt was estimated at 7.0 percent, and its share in debt service was
1.2 percent. By 1980 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in debt
service are expected to be about 7.0 percent and 0.5 percent respectively.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND POTASH SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
22.       The industrial sector, comprised of mining manufacturing and con-
struction, is the most dynamic sector in the Jordanian economy. The indus-
trial sector contributed 26 percent of GDP in 1976 compared to 20 percent in
1972 and industrial exports grew during this period from $32.2 million to
$152 million, led by exports of phosphate rock which totalled $58 million
in 1976. The industrial sector, despite its recent rapid growth, is still at
the inception stage and comprises some 6,600 establishments: 15 large indus-
trial enterprises employing 100 persons or more; 580 establishments employing
between 5-99 persons; and some 6,000 small-scale industrial enterprises
employing less than 4 workers. Establishments in the first two groups which
number less than 600 (10 percent) account for 87 percent of the industrial
value added, 94 percent of the fixed assets and 68 percent of total employment
in the sector. Currently, industrial activity is heavily concentrated in the
Amman-Zarqa area. Although the Government has attempted in the last several
years to foster a bette-r geographical distribution of industry, progress
towards attaining this goal has been slow as the availability of basic infra-
structure has remained a constraint.
23.       The Five-Year Plan (1976-80) calls for investment in the industrial
sector of JD 230 million (or $697 million) during the plan period, equivalent
to 30 percent of total P'lan investments. In addition, the Plan calls for a 26
percent annual growth rate, diversification of the industrial base and exports,
wider geographical distribution of new industries and a higher degree of
complementarity and linkage within the sector. To achieve the projected
annual growth rate the (,overnment provides generous incentives to industry
under the Encouragement of Investment Law. Additional incentives are provided
to firms locating outside of the Amman-Zarqa Triangle to encourage a more
balanced distribution ofE industry. Projects approved under this law are
exempted from income and social services tax for six years (nine outside the
Amman-Zarqa area), from customs duties and other import charges on fixed
assets during project implementation and building and land taxes for 5 years.
Projects located outside the Amman-Zarqa area may also receive free tracts of



Government land. Foreign investment is encouraged and foreign capital is
given similar privileges plus freedom to repatriate profits and interest
earned on foreign investment, as well as salaries earned by expatriate staff.
However, the long-term growth of the industrial sector is constrained by the
small size of the domestic market and by the country's limited resource base.
It is because of these constraints that the Government is attaching high
priority to the implementation of large, export-oriented industrial projects
that would utilize the country's three basic natural resources namely, phos-
phate, potash, and limestone. For the same reasons, and due to rapidly
increasing labor costs, as more skilled Jordanians migrate to other Arab
countries, the scope for development of medium- and small-scale labor-
intensive industries is limited at the present time.
24.       Most of the planned investments in the Five-Year Plan are being
directed toward a few large-scale, export-oriented projects such as phosphate
rock mining and phosphatic fertilizer, in addition to the proposed project for
extraction of potash. The proposed potash project would absorb about 30 per-
cent of the Government's investment in the industrial sector between 1978-82.
The emphasis of targeting most of the investment in the industrial sector on
large, capital intensive, export-oriented projects based on indigenous raw
materials seems well placed given the country's limited resource base, small
labor force and internal market. Following their completion, the phosphate
rock and fertilizer projects would bring substantial foreign exchange earnings
estimated at $300 million a year. The proposed potash project will contribute
an additional $150 million to gross export earnings.
The Potash Industry
Background
25.       Potash is one of the three plant nutrients--nitrogen, phosphorus
and potash (n-p-k). Potash products are basically categorized into Potassium
Chloride (KCl, about 60 percent K20 content), Potassium Sulphate (K2S04) and
Potassium Magnesium Sulphate and classified into three main grades - standard,
granular and coarse. About 80 percent of world potash production is of the
standard grade. The coarse and granular grades are usually required for direct
application and carry a substantial price premium. In 1977, about 24 million
tons of potash (in terms of K20) were used as fertilizer (as well as 46 million
tons of nitrogen and 26 million tons of phosphate). An additional one million
tons was used for industrial purposes such as the production of detergents and
soaps, ceramic textiles, dyes and drugs. The main potash producers and their
share of world output are: Canada (26 percent), USSR (29 percent), and the
German Democratic Republic (11 percent). Other producers include the Federal
Republic of Germany (9 percent), the United States (9 percent) and France (7
percent). The West European producers came together in the 1920's to form
the Potash Syndicate, which exerted strong influence on the potash market,
strengthening its oligopolistic structure. However, the influence of the
Syndicate outside the European market has been waning since the early 1960's,
with the emergence of Canada and the USSR as major producers of potash.



- 9 -
World Consumption and Production of Potash
26.       World potash fertilizer consumption increased from 7 million tons in
1956/7 to 24 million tons in 1976/77 or an average growth rate of 6.4 percent.
About 50 percent of all potash fertilizer is consumed in North America and
Western Europe, 40 percent in centrally planned economies of Eastern Europe
and 10 percent in the developing countries. In comparison, for 1976/77, the
consumption of nitrogen fertilizers by developing countries, was estimated at
20 percent. The low utilization of potash in developing countries could
adversely affect long-ternm agricultural production as a rising potash deficit
will eventually limit the efficiency of nitrogen applications. However,
recent data indicate that potash consumption is growing at a faster rate in
developing countries (13.2 percent) than in developed economies (3.8 percent)
or in centrally planned economies (10.4 percent).
27.       In 1976/77 the theoretical (ultimate) world potash production
capacity was 30.4 million tons K20 up from 24.4 tons in 1970/71, implying an
average growth rate of 3.8 percent per annum. However, the design capacity
can be attained only when optimum conditions affecting production are consis-
tently fulfilled for extended periods for all production units at the same
time. The actual effective capacity is, therefore, lower than the design
capacity. The effective capacity in 1976/77 was estimated at 27.5 million
tons distributed as follows--Western Europe 20 percent, North America 35
percent, USSR 30 percent, GDR 11 percent. Total actual world production
of potash rose from 22.6 tons in 1973/74 to 23.8 tons in 1974/75 and then
declined slightly to 23.74 tons in 1975/76 before increasing again to 24.99
million tons in 1976/77.
28.       World potash fertilizer demand is estimated by Bank staff at 23.8
million tons of K20 in 1976/77, implying a surplus of supply over demand.
Potash fertilizer demand is projected to grow to 34.5 million tons in 1984/85
or at an average annual growth rate of 4.8 percent, declining from the 6.4
percent average annual growth rate experienced during the last twenty years.
Even though most of the increased demand during this period will originate
from developed economies (from 11.9 million tons to 15.3 million tons), and
centrally planned economies (from 8.9 million tons to 14.5 million tons),
potash consumption is projected to continue growing at a faster annual rate
of 8.6 percent in developing countries (2.4 million tons to 4.6 million)
compared with 4.2 percent: growth in the developed and centrally planned
economies combined. A detailed country-by-country review of projected demand
and of present and planned new potash production facilities indicates that
the existing surplus in potash supply will disappear over the next 2-3 years.
Thereafter, new production facilities, in addition to those currently firmly
planned or started, will be needed to meet increasing market demand. Much
of the capacity needs during the early 1980's will be met by expansions
and debottlenecking of existing facilities in Canada and by the two large
mines announced in the USSR. But after mid-1980's, a large portion of new
capacity needs would have to be met by new mines. This projected demand/
supply balance in the mid-1980's and the need for new capacity to fill



- 10 -
a growing supply gap thereafter, indicate that the timing of the proposed
project is appropriate.
Potash Prices
29.       Over the last 20 years potash prices have passed through three major
phases. Between 1954-64 during the height of the Potash Syndicate, export
prices averaged $76/KCI FOB Vancouver (all prices given in 1977 prices). Then,
during 1965-69 as Canada and the USSR sought to increase their market share,
potash prices steadily fell, averaging $59/ton during this period, until they
reached a low of $49/ton in 1969. This sharp decline in price prompted the
Saskatchewan Provincial Government, where most of the Canadian potash produc-
tion originates, to prorate output to about 40 percent of capacity, establish
a floor price of $63.2/ton and to impose a large Provincial Tax. These mea-
sures led almost immediately to a sharp increase in the world export price to
$65/ton of KCI. Prices continued to increase steadily until 1973; prices then
rose sharply to $90/ton due to temporary supply shortages only to fall drastic-
ally to $51/ton in 1977, though these latest price fluctuations were not as
severe as in the case of other fertilizer products. The potash industry
usually uses FOB Vancouver prices as the reference prices, even though they
are usually about $10/ton lower than domestic US prices due mainly to freight
difference and about $8-15/ton lower than Northwest European export price.
30.       Future potash prices are likely to be affected by demand/supply
expectations in the short-term and capacity utilization levels in the long-
term. Also, potash prices would also be influenced by the Provincial Tax
situation in Canada. Because of Canada's expected increasing influence in the
potash export markets, and since Canadian producers are expected to remain
the most competitive, future long-term potash prices are likely to be deter-
mined by the economics of a new mine in Saskatchewan. Separate specialized
consultants engaged by APC and by the Bank have estimated the investment cost
of a mine with a capacity of 1.5 million tons of KCl per year to be about $180
per ton of annual capacity excluding working capital and interest during con-
struction and production cost of about $14.50 per ton. Based on this cost
structure of the most economic major new supply sources in the future, the
long-term potash price in 1977 Dollars is projected at $80 per ton KCI FOB
Vancouver. However, this long-term price is expected to be achieved only by
1990 following a gradual increase in price to $61 per ton in 1980, and $71 per
ton in 1985.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The proposed project was first presented by the Government for Bank
Group financing in the mid-1960's and discussions reached an advanced stage
before the 1967 hostilities intervened and stopped further progress. In 1974,
the project was revived by the Government. A pilot Engineering Project costing



- 11 -
$10 million, financed by a $6 million loan from USAID and a $1 million IDA
Engineering Credit (S-19-JO), was begun by the consultants, Jacobs Inter-
national Inc. of the US (JII) in late 1975 to reconfirm the feasibility of
producing potash from Dead Sea via solar evaporation. The pilot project, on
which the proposed project is based, was completed in December 1977. Bank
missions visited Jordan in November 1977 and the consultants' headquarters
in Pasadena, California in January 1978 to appraise the project. The staff
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Jordan - The Arab Potash Project"
(No. 1922-JO) dated August 11, 1978 has been distributed separately. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington between May 15-22, 1978. The Government
was represented in these negotiations by Dr. Hanna Odeh, President of the
National Planning Council and Mr. Nabil Sweis. APC was represented by
Mr. Ali Khasawneh, Chairman and General Manager of APC, and Mr. M. Samawi.
Project Objectives and Description
32.       The proposed project, which is the single largest industrial project
undertaken so far in Jordan, aims at diversifying the industrial base of the
Jordanian economy and developing one of the country's few known natural
resources. The project will be located on a 150 sq. km concession area
belonging to APC in the southern basin of the Dead Sea, some 130 km from
Amman and 200 km from the Aqaba port. The Dead Sea has a salinity of 30
percent compared to about 4 percent for typical sea water, and is estimated
to have over 45 billion tons of dissolved solids including over 2 billion tons
of potash. The shallow depth of the Dead Sea in the project area and the hot
dry weather offer excellent opportunity for recovery of minerals from the Dead
Sea, by solar evaporation at economic cost. The project is designed to exploit
this unique situation to produce 1.2 million tons per year of potash from the
Dead Sea. In a future project, APC intends to extract bromine, magnesium and
other chemicals from the effluents discharged by the project. The project
includes the following main elements:
(a) solar evaporation ponds for the concentration of brine and a
brine transfer system to bring the brine from the Dead Sea
to the evaporation pans as well as effect interpan transfers;
(b)  a carnallite harvesting system for dredging and transporting
carnallite to the refinery;
(c)  a refinery to produce fertilizer grade potash from the
harvested carnallite;
(d) a water supply system, and a steam and power generating
facility; and
(e) an associated township.
Dead Sea brine will be first pumped into a large (40 sq.km) salt pan to
increase its specific gravity from 1.16 to 1.26. This concentrated brine will
then be transferred to two pre-carnallite pans for further concentration to
1.31 specific gravity. Ihis liquid will be pumped to the three carnallite



- 12 -
pans; carnallite will precipitate to the bottom of the pan (carnallite is a
double salt of potassium and magnesium containing about 23 percent potash).
Thereafter, carnallite would be harvested and sent to the refinery for produc-
tion of potash by the hot-leach/crystallization process. The spent liquid,
containing bromine, magnesium and other minerals will be returned to the Dead
Sea through an effluent and flood water channel to be formed by the parallel
Dead Sea Works and APC dike systems. The project is similar to that of the
Dead Sea works located just across the Truce Line on the Israeli side. The
Dead Sea Works facilities partly financed by the Bank (289-IS of July 11,
1961), are now operating successfully, after resolving major dike construction
and carnallice harvesting problems. APC seems justified on its confidence
that its own project is not likely to face these same technical problems due
to extensive design and field tests undertaken as part of the pilot project.
33.        The project would also require port facilities at Aqaba for potash
exports, which would be undertaken by the Government separately from the proj-
ect, as part of an industrial port to be constructed for both the potash and
phosphatic fertilizer projects. These industrial port facilities would be
built at Wadi II about 17 km south of the current port of Aqaba, and would be
owned and operated by the Aqaba Port Authority. During negotiations the Bank
and the Government agreed on a schedule of implementation for potash related
facilities at the Aqaba industrial port. The port facilities are expected to
be completed by December 31, 1981 which is well before commissioning of the
potash plant facilities (Section 2.05(d) of the Guarantee Agreement). The
industrial port's berthing facilities would be capable of accommodating ships
of 20,000-50,000 deadweight tons. The Government has already selected a
qualified international engineering firm (Parsons, Brown, and Newton of the
UK) to undertake final site comparison and selection study, prepare a master
plan and preliminary design, technical, economic and financial analysis and
later to carry out final design, and supervise construction. Total cost of
these facilities is estimated at $33 million. Financing for the industrial
port is being sought from the Saudi Fund for Development ($17.5 million) and
the Islamic Bank (about $15 million). The Aqaba Port Authority would charge
APC a port tariff of $2.15 per ton of potash which is likely to be adequate
to meet all operating costs plus a reasonable return on capital. The Bank has
obtained confirmation from the Government that the charges to be paid by APC
for transporting its product to Aqaba as well as for using the port facilities
shall be determined in accordance with established economic and financial
practices (Section 2.05(g) of the Guarantee Agreement).
34.       Project implementation started in November 1977 and production would
start in mid-1982 with the plant achieving a first year of full production in
1985. Construction of the solar evaporation system, the largest project com-
ponent, by the main civil works contractor is scheduled at the beginning of
1979, with orders for the main civil works and the necessary electrical compo-
nent to be placed in late 1978. Construction of the first stage of the salt
pan dike and of the dikes encompassing the first carnallite pan would start by
March 1979 and is expected to be completed in April 1980. Immediately there-
after this pan would be filled with brine for the laying of the salt bed with



- 13 -
harvesting of the carnallite scheduled for mid-1982. The other two carnallite
pans would be diked during 1980 and 1981. Preparation of technical specifi-
cations of the mechanical components of the refinery started in January 1978
and specifications for the power and steam plants, the harvesters, process
plants and equipment is scheduled for completion by March 1979. About 40
percent of the average power needs of the project would be provided by the
Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA) from the national grid. During negotia-
tions the Bank obtained confirmation from the Government that JEA would
complete all necessary arrangements to provide APC with up to 10 MW of power
by March 1, 1981 (Section 2.05(a) of the Guarantee Agreement). Shakedown
tests of the whole plant are scheduled to begin during the first half of 1982
and plant start-up in mid--1982. Implementation of the township would start
before commencement of major construction activities on the project site
because the township would also be used to house construction workers. The
township contract was awarded in May 1978 and arrangements are currently
underway to complete at least 75 housing units by the end of 1978. Completion
of the other housing units, all township infrastructure facilities and commer-
cial and community centers, is expected by the end of 1979.
Management of APC and Project Execution
35.       The Board of Directors is the highest authority of the Company and
will consist of eleven members: seven members, including the Chairman, have
already been appointed by the Government and three members by the Arab Mining
Company. The remaining member would be appointed by the Islamic Development
Bank after its equity contributions has been subscribed. The Chairman of the
Board of Directors, Mr. Ali Khasawneh, is also the General Manager of the Com-
pany. Mr. Khasawneh is a dynamic executive with extensive business experience
overseas. His appointment as head of APC has been largely responsible for the
speed and efficiency with which the pilot project was executed and the pro-
posed full-scale project prepared. However, APC's organization is in the
early stages of development and up to the end of 1977 the Company was largely
devoted to the execution of the pilot project. APC staff currently totals 49,
including two chemical engineers, two civil engineers, three chemists, twelve
financial and administrative staff, and 21 laborers at the plant site. While
this organization structure was adequate for supervising the implementation of
the pilot project, APC would need to strengthen substantially its organization,
to supervise adequately the implementation of the full-scale project. As it
builds its own organization and staff, APC will be assisted by four groups of
experienced consultants for (a) project management, (b) supervision, (c)
financial planning and control, and (d) operations management, along the lines
described below. Nonetheless agreement has been reached with APC to establish
a plan to strengthen its organization and to carry out the plan on a schedule
of implementation acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.01(b)(iii)) of the Loan
Agreement).
36.       Jacobs International, Inc. (JII), the prime project consultants
already contracted, would provide comprehensive design, engineering, procure-
ment, project management assistance and construction supervision services
(Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement). The contract will be executed by JII
together with its two subcontractors, Sir Alexander Gibb and Partner (AGP) of



- 14 -
UK and Technical Services Office (TSO) of Jordan. JII would also prepare the
final specifications and design criteria for the carnallite harvesting system
as well as for the processing plant. In addition, JII would provide the
necessary data for the solar evaporation system, prepare, issue and evaluate
bLd documents for all major equipment. APC proposes to harvest its carnallite
with a continuous bottom-operated track-driven dredging equipment. Agreement
has been reached with APC to purchase a prototype harvester by September 1,
1978 and conduct field tests in the Dead Sea and abroad to determine by July
1, 1979 the optimum configuration of its harvesting system (Section 3.03 of
the Loan Agreement). AGP would undertake final tests for the dike construc-
tLon and the civil engineering for the entire evaporation system including
pans, dikes, canals and brine intake and transfer. AGP would also be
responsible for the design and procurement of the fresh water supply system
and the township and basic infrastructure services. In order to optimize
the use of surface and groundwater resources in the project area, APC was
asked during negotiations to continue borehole drilling investigations and
monitoring of groundwater resources in the concession area and within 2 km
of the concession to determine better the design and location of water wells.
In addition, APC would be required to monitor underground water levels and
quality during project operations (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement). In
addition the Government has agreed to exchange views with the Bank before
taking measures in water resources management which may affect adversely the
operations of the project, such as expansion of irrigation in the concession
area and its vicinity (Section 2.05(c) of the Guarantee Agreement). JII and
AGP would jointly supervise the entire project execution and would be required
to submit to APC weekly and monthly reports on progress in project implementa-
tion. They will also prepare detailed manuals for start-up operations and
maintenance of the total project facilities. Technical Services Office, a
local engineering company would undertake minor engineering works and recruit
secretarial help and local labor.
37.       Given the magnitude of the task to be carried out by the engineer-
ing consultants, APC has hired an experienced technical advisory firm (King-
Wilkinson of the Netherlands) to provide 2-3 permanent staff and periodically
specialists on a short-term basis to assist APC management in project execution
and supervision as agreed during negotiations (Section 4.01(b)(iv) of the Loan
Agreement). In addition APC has hired, in accordance with the Loan Agreement,
two major international accounting consulting firms (Deloitte, Haskins and
Sells of the UK and SGV Group of the Philippines) to assist in the design and
implementation of a financial control and accounting system (Section 5.01(b)
of the Loan Agreement). The scope of work for the technical advisory firm and
the accounting consultants has been discussed and agreed with the Bank. To
facilitate project execution during plant start-up and the initial years of
potash production, APC agreed during negotiations to enter into an operations
management contract with an experienced engineering or operating firm for a
period of about five years, around two years before the anticipated start-up
or production (Section 4.01 (b)(i)) of the Loan Agreement). The employment of
an operations management firm is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
7.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). At the beginning of the contract period, the
operations management consultants will appoint in consultation with APC, most



- 15 -
of the top-level production management personnel, to develop pre-operating and
start-up plans, and make arrangements for training visits by the local staff
to operating facilities in the U.S. and Europe. At the end of the fifth year
(third year after start-up), the plant will be turned over to the Jordanian
management, and any expatriates remaining would be directly employed by APC.
During those five years, the management and organization of APC will be
developed on a sound basis, while the participation of expatriate staff in
management would be phasied out gradually. APC has already received a satis-
factory proposal from JII to provide the operations management services which
is under active consideration.
Marketing
38.        Practically all of the project output will be exported.  However,
as discussed in para 28, APC would enter the market under reasonably favorable
conditions, provided the currently prevailing excess production capacity is
absorbed by growth in demand by early 1980's as expected.  APC's output will
represent only 1.9 percent of projected total world demand of 37 million tons
in 1985 and less than one-half of the expected annual increase in potash con-
sumption; it should therefore be possible to accommodate such output within
the framework of the projected world demand growth. Notwithstanding the
generally favorable prospects, marketing represents significant risks to the
project. APC will be one of the few potash producers with virtually no home
or tied market, and will be a new entrant in a market which is still dominated
by three main groups of well-established producers. The success of the proj-
ect is therefore dependent on APC marketing efforts prior to the start of plant
operations. APC management is aware of the crucial need for an effective
marketing effort and has outlined a basic marketing strategy.
39.        APC expects to concentrate its marketing efforts in the South Asia,
East Asia, and Pacific Oceania, where it has a comparative location
and freight advantage vis-a-vis Canada and Russia which are expected to be
the principal additional sources of potash supply in the future. In addition,
the countries in the Middle East and Africa also constitute natural, though
relatively small, potential markets. APC has classified the potential markets
into two groups: (i) direct sales by APC staff in countries with a single
purchasing agency (Arab countries, Indian subcontinent, Philippines, Korea,
Japan, Taiwan, New Zealand); and (ii) sales by agents representing APC in coun-
tries with a large number of buyers (Europe, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand).
APC has already contacted many potential consumers and marketers concerning
the proposed project andl has received some encouraging responses. Based on
these contacts APC believes that soon after the project implementation starts
in earnest, the Company will be able to obtain letters from customers stating
their intentions, in principle, to purchase a portion of APC's output. APC
is currently working ouit a detailed marketing strategy, as well as plans to
develop during the next year a marketing department to implement this strategy;
an experienced senior marketing executive will be engaged by October 1, 1978
for this purpose (Section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement). APC would be required
to obtain, by March 31, 1979, letters of intent assuring offtake of at least
50 percent of its output (project profit break-even point is 43 percent) and
adhere to an agreed plan of action on the finalization and subsequent imple-
mentation of its marketing strategy (Section 6.01(e) and Schedule 5 to the



- 16 -
Loan Agreement). Sales to the Indian subcontinent and other markets may
require a special credit sales facility for their financing. Consequently,
during negotiations APC agreed to submit to the Bank by June 30, 1979 a
detailed analysis of its credit needs to finance the sales of its products
and finalize by September 30, 1979 financing arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, necessary to meet these needs (Sections 4.08 and 6.01(i) of the Loan
Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing Plan
40.       The estimated cost of the project including contingencies, working
capital, and interest during construction is $428.8 million of which $310.0
million (or 72 percent) would be in foreign exchange. Base costs in December
1977 prices are estimated at $268.9 million, physical and price contingencies
at $84.5 million, interest during construction at $50.6 million and working
capital at $24.8 million. A 15 percent physical contingency was allowed for
civil works and 10 percent for mechanical works and equipment, both of which
are considered adequate because project parameters were relatively well defined
during the pilot study. Price escalation for foreign exchange is projected at
7.5 percent in 1978 and 1979, and 7.0 percent thereafter, in accordance with
the Bank's judgment. Local price escalation is estimated at 15.5 percent in
1978, 13.0 percent in 1979, 11.0 percent in 1980 and 8.5 percent thereafter due
to high inflation rates expected to prevail in Jordan and other neighboring
countries in the Middle East. The cost per man-year for consultants' services
has been estimated at about $75,000 for foreign consultants and about $29,000
for local consultants.
41.       The project financing plan is as follows:
APC - Financing Plan
(in US$ million)
Sources                               Local      Foreign      Total      Percentage
EQUITY
Government of Jordan                  98.5            -        98.5      23       51
Arab Mining Company                      -         48.3        48.3      11       25
Islamic Development Bank                 -         12.0        12.0       3        6
Arab States and Private
Shareholders                         20.1         14.3        34.4       8      18
Sub-total                          118.6         74.6       193.2     45      100
Internal Cash Generation               0.2         17.1        17.3       4
DEBT
IBRD                                    -          35.0        35.0       8
USAID                                   -          38.0        38.0       9
Kuwait Fund                             -          35.0        35.0       8
Libyan Arab Foreign Bank                -          50.0        50.0      12
Arab Fund                               -          15.0        15.0       3
OPEC Fund                               -           7.0         7.0       2
Commercial Loans                        -          20.0        20.0       5
APC Deferred Interest to GOJ            -          18.3        18.3       4
Sub-Total                             -         218.3       218.3      51
Total Project Financing              118.8        310.0       428.8    100



- 17 -
The Jordanian Government has agreed that the project will be financed in
accordance with a 55:45 debt-equity ratio. Actual debt financing is expected
to amount to only 51 percent due to availability of internally generated funds
amounting to $17.3 million (or 4 percent of total cost). About $23 million of
the Company's equity have already been paid in, including $20 million by the
Government. Part of foreign equity funds would be used to finance the gap
between local costs of the project and available local funds. Since the even-
tual sale of all the shares presently earmarked for Arab States and private
shareholders is not assured, and because additional equity might be needed in
the future in case of cost overruns to maintain APC's 55:45 debt-equity ratio,
the Government agreed during negotiatons to provide APC with funds and other
resources to meet such expenditures (Section 2.03 of the Guarantee Agreement).
During 1984 and 1985 APC is expected to contribute about $17.3 million to the
project financing from internally generated funds. Debt financing totalling
$218 million equivalent would be met by the proposed $35 million World Bank
loan, a $38 million loan from USAID, $35 million equivalent from the Kuwait
Fund, $15 million equivalent from the Arab Fund, $7.0 million equivalent from
the OPEC Special Fund and $50 million equivalent from the Libyan Arab Foreign
Bank. In addition, about: $20 million equivalent would be provided by commer-
cial sources. APC has already been approached by several international banks
and hence the required commercial funds should be readily available. It has
been agreed that arrangements for the commercial funds would be finalized
before December 31, 1979 (Section 6.01(h) of the Loan Agreement).
42.        The proposed World Bank loan would be made directly to APC at an
interest rate of 7.9 percent for 13 years including 6 years of grace; the
Government would charge a guarantee fee of 2.1 percent, bringing the total
cost of the World Bank loan to APC to 10 percent. The USAID loan to be
provided in two tranches would be lent to the Government for 40 years,
including 10 years of grace at an annual interest rate of 2 percent for the
first 10 years and 3 percent thereafter. The onlending terms to APC would be
20 years, including 6 years of grace at 8 percent per annum. APC will carry
the foreign exchange rislk. Loans from the Kuwait Fund, the Arab Fund, the
Libyan Arab Foreign Bank and from the OPEC Special Fund will be lent to the
Government at annual interest rates of between 3.5 to 6 percent with an
average of slightly over 4.5 percent. The onlending terms to APC will be 20
years, including 6 years of grace at 8 percent per annum.
43.        In order to ease the financial burden on APC during the project
implementation and to complete the project financing plan, the guarantee fee
on the World Bank loan and the differential between the 8 percent onlending
rate to APC and the 4.5 percent average interest to be paid by the Government
on the USAID and other bilateral and multilateral funds, estimated at $18.3
million, will not be paid by APC to the Government during project implementa-
tion (1978-83); it will be deferred until 1985 and paid in 10 equal semi-annual
installments thereafter. The signing of the Loan Agreements with USAID and
other bilateral and multilateral agencies is a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed Bank loan (Section 7.01(a) of the Loan Agreement). To ensure
that APC would maintain a prudent capital structure during project implementa-
tion APC agreed during negotiations not to incur additional debt other than
money borrowed for financing the project, if such debt would cause its debt/
equity ratio to rise above 55:45 (Section 5.05(a)(i) of the Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
APC would also be required to maintain a debt/equity ratio not greater than
60:40 until project completion date and not greater than 55:45 thereafter
(Section 5.05(b) of the Loan Agreement).
44.        In the project financial analysis, Bank staff assumed that commer-
cial production would begin in mid-1982 and reach full capacity of 1.2 million
tons of KCI in 1985. A 10 percent discount in price was assumed for the first
three years of production which may be necessary to facilitate APC's efforts
to penetrate the potash market and APC's average freight advantage throughout
its potential markets was estimated at $5 per ton of potassium chloride (KCl),
implying a total netback to APC of $80 per ton KC1 in 1987, $85 in 1990 and
thereafter. Ex-factory production cost was estimated at $13.22 per ton of KCl,
inland transportation at $3.04 per ton and port charges at $2.15 per ton for a
total cost of $18.41 per ton of KC1 which compares favorably with other major
potash producers. On the basis of the above assumptions including the interest
deferment, it is expected that APC's revenues will increase from $11.5 million
in 1982 to $150 million at full capacity in 1985. APC is expected to incur
losses of $12.8 million in 1982 and $19.4 million in 1983 due in part to high
production costs resulting from the extensive use of expatriate staff in plant
operations during this period. However, APC would be able to generate a
positive cash flow in 1983 amounting to $12.9 million because of its large
depreciation requirements. Debt service coverage is projected at 1.7 in 1983,
but would improve rapidly, reaching 2.5 in 1985. In 1986, APC's profit and
cash break-even capacity utilization is estimated at 45 percent and 28 percent
respectively. A one year delay in project implementation would lead to a
serious deterioration in APC's financial position, with cumulative cash
deficit of $15.8 million in 1983 and $37.0 million in 1984.
45.        The financial analysis clearly indicates that APC will face a tight
cash flow situation in the first few years of operation and that it cannot
stand repayment of long term loans before 1985. Consequently an understanding
has been reached among the World Bank and the other co-lending institutions to
provide their loans with appropriate grace periods so that principal repayments
will not start before 1985. APC agreed during negotiations not to make any
dividend payments or investments over $1.0 million prior to 1985 or until 90
percent of rated capacity production is attained for twelve consecutive months
(Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement). In addition, APC would be required not
to incur additional debt if by doing so its debt service coverage ratio would
fall below 1.5 (Section 5.05(a)(ii) of the Loan Agreement). Following project
completion, APC would be required to maintain at all times a quick ratio of
0.8 (Section 5.06(a) of the Loan Agreement). APC would also be required to
limit dividend payments, financial commitment to affiliated companies (if any)
and repayment of debt if such action would cause its ratio of quick assets to
current liabilities to drop below 1.0 to 1 (Section 5.06(b) of the Loan Agree-
ment).
Audit
46.       APC will be required to submit monthly project progress reports
during project implementation and quarterly and annual financial reports
during the life of the proposed loan. As was the case in the Engineering



- 19 -
Credit, APC's accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and sent to the Bank within four months of the end of
APC's fiscal year (Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Procurement for the project will be carried out in accordance with
the guidelines of the lending agencies. The consultants will prepare bid
documents and assist APC in qualifying and selecting contractors. The project
will be divided into three main procurement categories: (i) the township;
(ii) solar evaporation and brine transfer systems; and (iii) the refinery
which, together with other plant facilities, would be required to comply with
acceptable internationally recognized standards to protect the environment and
ecosystem in the project area and its vicinity. (Section 4.06 of the Loan
Agreement). The contract for the township has been awarded after interna-
tional competitive bidding with post-qualifications of contractors. It is a
fixed price contract on a lump sum basis. The civil works contract for the
solar evaporation and brine transfer system will also be procured under ICB
with pre-qualification of contractors. During February, 1978 the civil works
were advertised in a number of international newspapers, technical magazines
and the UN Development Forum, inviting interested contractors and suppliers to
register with the consultants. Bidding documents were issued in June 1978 and
the contract award is scheduled by end-1978. For the process plant i.e. the
harvesting system, refinery and power generating plant, APC's general consul-
tants, JII, will prepare detailed technical specifications for equipment items.
Procurement for both equipment supply and erection will be carried out under
ICB except for a limited amount of small items and proprietary items which
will be carried out after prudent international shopping.
48.       In view of the different procurement practices of the various Co-
lenders to the project, parallel financing on the basis of prior allocation of
packages to different financing sources, appears to be the most desirable form
of financing. The proposed loan would be disbursed against the following:
(a)  100 percent oE the CIF cost of specified machinery and
equipment for the refinery and power plant;
(b) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for engineering
services;
(c) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for technical
advisory services and the financial control and accounting
system;
(d) 50 percent of the foreign expenditures for operations
management services;
(e) 12 percent of the total cost of the main mechanical contract
for the refinery and power plant;



- 20 -
About $5.3 million will be disbursed in FY1979, $10.7 million in FY1980,
$11.3 million in FY1981, $4.9 million in FY1982, $1.3 million in FY1983,
$1.0 million in FY1984 and about $0.5 million in FY1985. Retroactive finan-
cing aggregating to no more than $1.0 million would be allowed for foreign
expenditures incurred after March 31, 1978, against consultant services for
engineering, and technical advisory services and for the financial control
and accounting system.
Project Justification
49.       The financial rate of return of the project in constant 1977 prices
is estimated at 12.4 percent before taxes and 11.0 percent after taxes. The
pre-tax rate of return would increase to 13.9 percent if revenues were
increased by 10 percent and would decline to 10.7 percent if revenues were
to decline by 10 percent. A 10 percent decline in capital cost would increase
pre-tax financial return to 13.6 percent and a 10 percent increase would cause
the pre-tax financial return to decline to 11.4 percent. If the local sub-
sidized price of fuel in Jordan amounting to 25 percent of international
prices were to prevail during the project life, the after tax financial rate
of return would be 12.2 percent.
50.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 12.4 percent in constant
1977 prices. A 10 percent reduction in revenues would lower the economic rate
of return to 10.7 percent and a 10 percent increase in capital costs would
reduce the economic rate of return to 11.4 percent. Extensive sensitivity
analyses indicate that the project's economic return is quite resistant to
changes in costs and revenues.
51.       The project will generate substantial economic benefits to Jordan.
In constant 1977 prices, the project would earn about $1.0 billion net in
foreign exchange over its life (assuming 20 years) and would create some 700
direct permanent jobs and 1,000 direct jobs during construction. After the
project reaches full capacity in 1985, it would boost industrial exports by
about $150 million (or 15 percent) per year in current terms. The project
would contribute over its life over $1.0 billion to the Government budget in
form of dividends, taxes, guarantee fees, royalties and port charges. With
the Government's contribution of $98.5 million in APC equity and infrastruc-
ture investments, assuming the potash port facilities would be financed from
foreign sources, the Government would earn 23 percent DCF return on its total
investment. The project would also help diversify and strengthen Jordan's
industrial base and together with phosphatic fertilizer project would provide
Jordan with the capability of future production of complex (n-p-k) fertilizer
products. Finally, the project would establish a new industrial growth pole
in a remote area in Jordan, thus serving to disperse industry from the Amman-
Zarqa area, which constitutes an important industrial objective of the Gov-
ernment.
Project Risks
52.       The project would face significant financial risks during its first
two years of operation. However, the Bank's financial covenants have been



- 21 -
designed to protect the company's financial position during the initial years
of operations (see para 43). In addition, marketing represents another
potential risk for APC, because of the potash market's oligopolistic structure
which could undermine APC's sales efforts unless they are properly executed.
These business risks have been carefully reviewed by APC and steps taken to
minimize them (see paras. 37 and 39). Possible technical risks include lower
evaporation rates than expected which would lower plant capacity, failure of
the new harvesting system to function properly thereby requiring the use of an
alternative system, and the diversion of water resources from the project area
for other uses. As is the case with the business risks, steps have been taken
to minimize these technical risks (see paras. 36 and 37). Also, the project
could face serious management risks due to its size and complexity unless APC
takes the agreed appropriate measures to strengthen its organization (see
para. 35).
53.       To quantify the possible impact of several risks and uncertainties
associated with the project, a risk (probabilistic) analysis was performed
by assigning probabilities to key project benefits and costs. The analyses
confirmed that the project's viability over the long term is reasonably
assured. There is a 90 percent probability that the pre-tax financial (and
economic) rate of return is between 8 and 15 percent and the probability that
the rate of return will fall below 8 percent is less than 5 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Potash Company Ltd. and
the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan and the Bank, and the draft Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. In addition to the
features of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements which are referred to in the
text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the Bank's loan would be declared
effective only after all the Loan Agreements with the other co-financing
partners have been signed (Section 7.01(a) of the Loan Agreement), APC share
capital increase has been effected (Section 7.01(b) of the Loan Agreement)
and after APC has employed an operations management firm to assist in project
implementation (Section 7.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
August 21,1978
Washington,D.C.



TABLE 3A                                        ANNEX I
JORDAN              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                      Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2) 
---------------                                   JORDAN*                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        97.7                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      14.6                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           SYRIA           TUNISIA        LEBANON *
_5w  -  -   - - --------------_--- ;  _-- --      --_-- -----      --  - - - - - - - -   _ _     
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      180.0      320.0    610.0                450.0*      370.0
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
_ -----_- -_--     _ _---------------    
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             1.7        2.3        2.8                 6.3         5.0         2.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        17.0       24.0      29.0                34.0         30.0       262.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        133.0      165.0     191.0                56.0         67.0       814.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          46.1       47.5       47.6                47.6        44.7        41.0
CRUOE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)           21l1       17.8       14.7                16.2        16.9        12.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)                    36.3/abc 21.9               123.1         125.0        82.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YR$)       48.2        50.7       53.2               53.0         51.6        60.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4        3.5        3.5                 3.5         3.4         1.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                                  2.8        3.1        3.2                 3.3           3
0/.       3:        3.2        ~        3:3                      :6:
URBAN                                                        3 ..  .2 a          5.0         3.0         I 6
URBAN POPULATION (x OF TOTAL)           43.9         ..      42.0                 43.5        40.1 /C    60.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        45.0       47.0 0     47.5 L ^           49.3         46.3 4C    42.6
1s TO 64 YEARS                        51.0       49.5   . 49.1 L_              46.3         50.2 /C    52.4
65 YEARS AND OVER                      4.0        3.5s/      3.4 1_P            4.4          3.5  C      5.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.0        I .0a      1 .  a             1.2          1.0 .       0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                2.3        2. 47ad  2 6                  2.1/a        1.9  c .d   1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            ..         .*                                      112.2        97.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                         ..                             ..        12.0        14.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)           390.0      350.0a   380.0  C             1600.0      1300.  C    570.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)          35.0j      33.0/a    19.0/ ,d             47.8        57.0  /c 17.8  b
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            7.OG2 14.0 a          2. 0Lc              6.4        12.0         5.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D 6Y-
HIGHEST  ss OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        26.0 
HIGHEST 20% or HOUSEHOLOS-              ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        55.0 . .
LOWEST  20% OF  OUSLOS,                 ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..         4.0
LOWEST  408  OF  40USOWL8               ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        11.0
DISTRIWUTION OF LAND OWNE SNIP
% OUEO BY TOP 1 0% OF Dld%M.                          ..        ...                           53.         57.0 
% OWtED BY SMALLEST 0o  OWR                ..        ..          ...                                       1.o I
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              590O.0 iC 2680.0    2550.0               3860.0       5950.0      1430 0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         l6$8.0/0 9 1050.0    1030.OLe            4.500.0       730.0 /   1030:0 /e
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            500.0 LE  960.0    940.0                 1010.0       410.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          90.0       92.0       90.0                            94.0        96.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               57.0       60 0       65 0 Lf                         63.0 7j    70.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSAi         16.0       18.0 /       ..                16. oLb    14.0         27.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..       S.o A        ..                4.1         1 .5 L X    8.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO                                /
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        78.0       73.0  a   83.0 L               89.0       100.0       119.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      25.0       33.0  a   42.0   C             39.0        23.0        40.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0                12.0        13.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT                               3   /      4
(% OF SECONDARY)                       3.0 /e    3.0 /-,f  4 0                  3.3Lc    124 A           2.0 I
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 32.0          ..      62.0 / c.h          40.0           *-        68.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..         ..                  ..         2.7 /       2.1
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                       79.0 /f              53.0/i                 ..        60.0/C      34.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(5 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  17.0         ..         ..                41.7        24.0L/C     98.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     1.0         ..      10.2/i               10.2
CONSUMPTION
_    _ ---- _ _ _ 
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          38.0      160.0      211.0               224.0        77.0       215.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU PoP)            4.0        7.0       10.0                 5.0        13.0        50.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            51.0       72.0      164.0               151.0       155.0       498.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0o.2        0.3          ..                0.2         0.1          2.1
-------------------------  - - _               -----------------------------------------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON RIVERSt



Annex I
NOTES                                    ~~~~Page  2 of  4
UInean oherwise noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between. 1969 and 1971, and for Mont Recen.t fEtionte between
1973 ad1976.
aFor demo graphics and labnr fn Jordan  moet of the figures for 1960 oem  from nbe 1961 cnw   figures for 1970 nod Most Recent Estimate dertie
Mosatly from  the 1971 hboosehold suve  fEmat Rank) which probably onder-represen.t foreing fsmtlisa and reuge .Ppulatino  and IRS per caPita.
birtb sod death rates, and life enpectancien, relate to East end Neat Bank combined.
L.b:le.no  bee been selected as an objctivm  country b...o.s the Jordanian governmet aims to reach- a per tapirs income about equal to the PIreee.t
leve  in Lebanon (which Is over fS$1,000) over the sent ten year. sod because ni. nesd climatic cooditio.. In two countries s-onsmlr
.10RD0N              19610    I   1952-hi;    /b  PIes years and ovr;    /c  1962;    /d   inldn              idwives;    I.  Icoluding UNRIWA sebocin;
If Ins ide only.
1970    IaEas  Bank only;    /b  1966;    /c  Re5istared only;    /d  Ratio of populatico under 15 cod 65 and coon to total
labor force;    Is  1964-66;    /f  Including UNEIWA echools.
MOST RECENfT ESTIMtATE:    Ia  1961-64;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  fee.t Bank
only;    Id  Rot including 60,000 por.ona thought no-find tr..ository employment In  giulu
/.In  oluding ass istant nuse;         ft  1969-71 avrage;    a   Including UNEIWA schools;
Th  Read and wire, 12 years and over, Sample Sur..ey may underestimate illiteracy;    /I  Peroen.toge
of town andvlag.
SYRIA ARAB it-?.    1970    InRatio of population under 15 and 65 and oven to total lobor force;    /b  1964-66;    Ic                   .Inclding 11NRWA -choole.
TUNISIA              1970    I   Due tomgrto   popoleticn growth rate Is loner  thor the rote of natura  inorna.e;    /b  1956-66;    /c  1966;
/d  Ratio of population coder 15 and 65 and over to tal labor force;    /n  Covering 4.5 million b-tctrn   of
privete land,. ecliding i.9 aillico bectrare  in public  -wnenhip, anod 2.1 million hattere  of  cleci e lnd;
/f  Pers.nosl in geverm-nt sevcsonly;    L&  Gcoe--et hospital entablieh.enta only;    lb  1964-66;
/i Registered only; fl Public educa.tion only.
LIEBAiNON1970    Ia  Calculation of GNP per ..pita Is coder reiin                           lb  Emoloding unemploymet;    It  Per-on   diapoasbie inom.-
Beirut and notsairts only;    /d  1966;    Ia  Inolodig mld-tv-  and eseistant nuss                  /f  fnrluding issiWA
schools.
R7, june 27, 1976
DEEINITIONS OP ESOCIAL IREICATORiS
Lund urea (thc_2 letPrlutno mer n-ruin  person - Popolation divided by norhor of pr-ntirirg
Toco1 - Total -onata  reros cepriniog lund area and inland wanarn.                              mole and female grad oats nuse,         -rin-d  or  rerrtifled" 0--, ard
Aonic.-  K-Mo tremr  simt  ofa-rtr ae  need temporarily or poa-                                  oniliarY perenne  with Irrateog  rer.peri-nc.
need y furcee  petoren, noeber & bit.bon hardens or to lie, fallcw.                         Poonlation men hoseiral bed - Population divded by mesber of henpftaI bode
GNP pr c.it. ..ti.te. at .rr..t ..kt pravailable in public ocd privtate  ...nr I1 and apecielired hospital  -ed
GNP' men -n ita fiUS -)    Pprcpt   nlsre  roro    aktpie                                        rhabilittriton c           -tr;    idna  -oreig bonu  and es.btuhliei,etr  for
calcoltod by na" roters. l   mthod as World Reek ArIse (1974-76 bests);                       rontedio1 and prevetive car.
1910; 1970 end 197i doata                                                                   Per.. caite su-l  of calories fM of re rot               -Coputed iron  -enemy
aqiale   f sat food supplies avilable in rntryper rePIta Per day;
porvatt  so  viol  tutintic-                                                               avilable supplies c-prine duanatir preducfti    imprtslaynpre n
.peoctlat   (etd-year-millio)-Mo of Joly firer:  If not ovilabie,  -verga                       chongee In stock; non  -opplIon moolde an.Ima  feed, seede, qoun,t!ce,t cad
ef ro .ed-yea.r as timaree  1960, 1970 and 1976 data.                                        In food pronenetog and lemee  in diatnihotion; requirements were  votmed
by PAl base.d on physiological neede for noocaI activity and heaitlh coneld-
Popu1lation densIt f- pre snars Ion - Mid-yea  .poplation per oqero kilo,neter                   eing envitoemtrl topeanorte-, body weights, age and ... dietribotiero  of
(lii hectaren) efttlur.pepotion,p and aloIng                                                                                              th-fr-hrea .bos ld level.,
Purciatio- density - eon sonor  or o.f aeric  lad -lepu-ed as shov  ten-                       PePr c.o.  sory  f noie fornoo   day)   Proti  cotent of per r..pita
.9ri-ultone1 land only.                                                                       net so-pplyo flond pe'r doy; ont soPply of food is defined as above; reqvlr-
ments for all coutries eatebliohed by USDA0 E-iomt  tee....ch Sorvi.ee
Oitn) nrncinrioo                                                                                 provide for a minisno  alwneof 60 gras of total prteinj pe  day,nd
Crude bi.rth nero Put _thevand n ero-iAn..a 1 live bircha per theunand of                        20 gr-n  cf animal and Pulse Protein, of whtoh 10 grams eheoldbe  ele
oid-yen   popultion; ten-dyea  orith-tic averagee. odieg in '1960 and 1970,                    Pretnin; tboes etandord,aoro loner than thes  of 75 frm   of totlepeti
nodfieyaavrge  oifin17   e  met rene  esiat.ad 23 ir-  of animal proetin .a an ave rage for the world, prepened hy Psi
Crde dch rote pon th-o.nand. aveoonomnaldeatba pen thousand of mid-ya                         In the Third World PedF     ny
poplaton;tevyea  eitbhtr  vrge   nIng in 1960 an  190soM iv-                          Per cuita protein      Del  from animal and melee - Protein nopply  fc foed
year ov-roI esntd  in 191lfr ove  recen.t ontlosate.                                          dcriond from  anmlsed pulses im gram   per day.
Ifan  orliyrt  f/then)_ - .Annua  deaths ef infants ceder on  year of age                    Death rint f/thou) saoa 1-4 - Annual deaths per tboonand tn age gronp 1-4
ipen.I th-nadylive births.                                                                      years, to children in this age groop; suggeted as en indicator uf
Lfeceotnc   tbrh (yin) - Average nuber of years of ltfe remaining at                            ml-tnirten..
birth; cacaily fiv--yrat -vrafe. endio to 1960 , 19 70 end 1975 for dovelop-
tgcntina-"i.                                                                                Eduraticn
ir- aropr-doction retro-uvo-ne nubrh of lve-gh teree ""n   will beer                           AdjusePd enrollment rune. - ensnare school - Enrollment of oIl sf00 ae Pe--
In hcr  e-na  reprodurnivo period if she!epierisece  presen  ago-apec iti                     cectago ofpniury aholeepopulutiem; incldes childr. nnSed 6-1l yearn
motilitY natme;  -noaly fiv-yea  avrgsending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                           hut edjunied fo  different lengths of primary education; for c-tnrio- wIth
Io   evipigconnin tontot':tir-1oad .d.ctien, enrolment may emomed ll niece sun  Pupils are below
Poocurin erwobrare(TI- total - Compound sonual growth rates of mid-year                  or above the offinio1 school age.
popolation rfor 1.950-60, 16-70 sod C1970-75.                                               Adjusted enrei11et noneo - aetordan  school - Imputed an  bhov; occodary
leooto   rot  at  T   - urban-  Coputed Ilh. groonh rate of tmti                                 edr-tion requires on least teen years of approved prle-r  ion          -i- 1c;
po-polati-; difteroot dnfinfirtn    f urban reae nay affect  -ep-beilitzy of                   pro-Idon.. gnral, vvcatienal or tea-b- troining inatructiens for pu,pils
data amn onre.c  12 t1 yerI f age; c-r-poodee..e rore   re generally o-ciudd.
rban ropulto   7  ftet         - Ratio of urban to total populaio; different                 Yearn of echonlion eroided(firrand eeodlvae -oalysao
detintrineofor a  aru    a ffec  coParability o  dat  amon g o..cie.                          sotoing;  t necondary laval,'vonational iearo,tro  nay ho parti.lly-
iAn otrctunerd fear.,ten) - Chiidrne  (0-14 yer),wrkfag-ags (15-64 year),                     Vonplitaly enroldde  io   ecnay      oatea   ernie    nld
aed .rcre   65 yer   n   vr) sa porcorge  ef mid-year popularton                              ehie,idenu   rehrporm    ho   prt   noedo                                  ra
ice ooooooc  raio  -Ratidofpopltinuder 15 end 65 and everto  hes                          deptmaortofdapntaryinottuyone
of anee 15 through 64.                                                                      Adultthitea      f rote  -dy Li.terte   dla  al cjedso-nt)  spr
Ec-coic dcendmccy ratIo  -Ratio of Population under 15 and 65 end ovrt                            org     :frta  aul -popultiont agd.15 years an-d ovo  rit.P
the lohor fence In age group of 15-64 yer...P-t-   .d1y..
Faml  lnin         oeton(uu a-ie,thee)   -               1Cuultion combr of acteptors         Hcnc
of hIrth-rorrrI d-oi-n  undeacpc ofational fomily Planting prnsm                              nnn   o  oo   ubn       vrg  nme   fpmospe   eniurpe
stoc- Ince.Ptio.                                                                               o corc         wlig   nubnaeas                lTng      Poouer   ine-po inate
r'    If    rill                                             -F' .. I d-~~~a pecenag  of all occupied dweligs
;;mnlcycen t                                                                           400000 toI electricityrfT,of alltrdedllingof  -tCeno.n.tianad  du1-lincapwith
loa lbr for-o (thoceand) - Ecounoica11Y actice persons, including seind                     electriit  to-al uetr   sprcn   fttl dwellie0n- --i . Idling urbntadh
fcrc:' ocd1 uvnPloyed hoc e-ciding houseive,atdn,                                              el-. efntin  rot arose. gq..lr  .   ecnto   .c1d1j.,                    b,-
in cnioa coninee  re norcupareble.                                                     gua7wlig1ocoe   oeeticr  5       optda   hv   otn
Lubo furo ivencultre (I -afrclOttruI isbor fot   infring, fErarry,                      duelliogs only.----------  -                     CPtd  .b-C
urn  blo  ed uilig totukea jb, mt ofa jb on a  ive  day,' reandWuoI- or-oe -iv                    Perfo  thou nor) - All types of  fcoior  to -rdio bl-d-Icta
ofsjb,edsokn   ok e-pocideltsprnid nor e..c.ading co                                   to  o.ne. I1 public Per thousan.d of population; eacludeec-      cno  reeir
creS; ny ec h  coParable between  -nutrina doe to differoer definitions                  in c-enrle  and In years when registration of radio eons one I  ef.tfc;
of unemployed and  --ro  of data, e.g., employMent effits  tatiatico, samPle                   data far rcoet Years may not he coMparahj einco neat oc-tnri- uho1iubd
Ir-coo dIiatcihortu-M-Parc...rtge of private Income (herb In iCah and hind)                      lentaPiirpros   ninde                    - mehl rnoa  hePrnes and. niliteary o
rccci-ed by rIohest 5%, rirheot 20%, Poorest 207,, and pontoon 40% of ho-es-                   -ehicle..
Percenage- -  land    .d by   .Itbj.t 10%Poblir,.and private  1eletricity In kilowtt boone per capita, gecereily
Dianibcio oflad onerhIp-  Prrnroes  f bd one  bynosihist  0%b esd  nProdution dens, witbe :r alownc  for lessee in grids hot allow
aed poorest 107. of land owners.                                      ~~~~~~~Iog for imp: onead nperr  of  loriciy
H.lnath and Nutrition                                                                            iniae   rmdmsIcpouto"Iant  mot   fnwplt
Pecuatioperphyscian - Popultion divded by number of pr-tcriD,drodo:ing..inp.Dt                                                                 .P. t.klr.
phycoiaon. qeIlified from a med ical school an onivrsity Inst.



Annex I
Parl  A of 4 pAp.,i
FrCNOMT%' TNI CAIY)11
O)SS NATIONAL lI'ODt1rMT IN 190                                        ANNUIAL RAIIT OF (.ROdrii (%, ,on;t. nt. prcn,)
115$ MIn.      %                        1961 -66           1972 -75           19Th
ONP at Market Prices            1,610       100.0                         7.7                9.0            31.2
Gross Domestic Inveotrnont        416        25.8                         5.9                9.1            36.4
Gross National Snving             498        30.9                         1.3               -0.7            20.5
Current Account Balance            82         5.1
Exports of Goods, NFS             551        34.2                        14.6               18.0            39.7
Lmports of Goods, NFS           1,272        79.0                         6.5               12.6            41.5
OUTPUT, LAB3R FORCE AND
YFDUCTIVITY IN2 1975
Value Added                   Labor Forcel/                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      tT7.                                               US $%
Agriculture                     81.4        9.6                115.0      30.0                    707        32.1
Industry                       212.9       25.2                 38.2      10.0                  5,573       252.9
Services                       549.4       65.1                221.6      58.0                  2,479       112.5
Unallocated                       .          .                   8.0       2.0
Total/Average           843.7     100.0                 382.8    100.0                  2.2o4        100.0
OOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
M .0    _ of GD
Tg    -       aA7- 1975
Current Receipts                   161.0          40.8         51.6
Current Expenditure                144.7          36.7         38.4
Current Surplus                     16.3           4.1         13.1
Capital Expenditures                89.9          22.8         22.3
External Assistance (net)            27.8          7.1           7.3
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1972          1973        1974         1975        1976
llion         outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                     146.4        176.0        216.7       277.7        358.8
Dank credit to Public Sector               16.2         16.9         14.9        24.5         21.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector              47.9         59.3         80.3       115.6        177.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as %,of GDP          7b.6         80.5         78.7        90.6         91.0
General Price Index (1969- 100)           119.5        132.8        158.6       177.6        204.8
Almual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         7.7         11.1         19.4        12.0         15.3
Dank credit to Public Sector               88.4          4.3       -12.0         64.4       -11.8
BDnk credit to Private Sector               6.9         23.8         35.4        43.9         53.3
NOTEs All converdtons to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable



Annex I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAnTAL FWS
MALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975       1976                                                 US $Mln    X
(Millions US $)
Phosphates                           60.0    45.2
Exports of Goods, NFS            254      380       551              Fruits and Nuts                       20.4    15.4
Imports of Goods, NFS            611      942    1,272               Vegetables                            13.9    10.5
Resource Gap (deficit - -)    -356       -562      -720              Cement                          ,      5.9     4.4
All Other Commodities                32.6    24.5
Interest Payments (net)           21       26        25                  Total                            132.8   100.0
Workers' Remittances              75       167      397
Other Factor Payments (net)       -        -         -
Net Transfers                    270       438      381
Balance on Current Account         9        67       82
Direct Foreign Investment          3        21       11             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                  45       83        76                                                         US $ Mln
Amortization                  -16      -24       -16
Subtotal                       29       59        60               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               383.4
Capital Grants                    -        -         -                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                2       58      -159               Total outstanding & Disbursed              1134
Other items n.e.i                -22      -46         5
Increase in Reserves (+)          21      159        -1             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976-
Gross Reserves (end year)        350      492       491
Not Foreign Assets (end year)  360        489       514               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              4.5
Non-Guaranteed P<rivate Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed              4*5
Imports
of which:  Petroleum          11       71       104
RATE OF FXCHANGE
US$1.00                    3.12      3.13     3.01
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
.   not available
. not applicable
September 13, 1977
EMENA CP II-C



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN
as of August 15, 1978
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
----- $ Million ---------
Credit                                              Amount   (less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower          Purpose        IDA          Undisbursed
Six credits fully disbursed                          24.7
285      1972      Hashetmite    Education I          5.4              0.1
Kingdom
of Jordan
386      1973                    Power               10.2               1.4
498      1974                    Irrigation           7.5               3.0
534      1975                    Education II         6.0              5.8
570      1975                    Power II             5.0               1.4
S-19     1975                    Potash               1.0              0.1
639      1975                    Tourism              6.0              5.6
646      1976                    DFC I                4.0               1.9
780      1978                    Water Supply III   14.0              14.0
TOTAL                                       83.8             33.3
of which has been repaid                  0.4
Total now held by IDA /a                    83.4
Total undisbursed                           33.3             33.3
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
$ Million ----
Year        Obligor                  Type of Business         Loan  Equity  Total
1974  Jordan Ceramic Ind. Ltd.       Ceramic Tiles            1.6    0.2    1.8
1975  Jordan Fertilizer Ind. Co.   Phosphatic Fertilizer    -         3.1    3.1
1978  Jordan Fertilizer Ind. Co.   Phosphatic Fertilizer  20.0         -    20.0
Total Commitmenlts                                     21.6    3.3   24.9
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or Cancelled              0.2      -     0.2
Total Commitments now held by IFC                      21.4    3.3   24.7
Total Undisbursed                                     20      2.3   22.3



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 285:  Education Project; US$5.4 Million Credit of February 11, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: July 27, 1972; Closing Date: October 31,
1978.
The project includes construction and equipping of two comprehen-
sive secondary schools, a polytechnic and trade training center, a teacher's
training college for preparatory and secondary schools, and extension of an
agricultural teacher training college and related technical assistance. All
contracts for civil works were awarded to local firms on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding. Contracts were signed in May 1974, and construc-
tion started in early June 1974. Following initial delays, construction is
progressing toward a satisfactory conclusion. Construction of all items are
now complete and preparations are underway to undertake a project completion
mission. Cost overruns in total project costs are expected to amount to
about 60 percent over appraisal estimates and are being met by the Government.
Cr. No. 386:  Power Project; US$10.2 Million Credit of May 24, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: August 21, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
The project is to help the conversion from diesel to steam powered
generation by adding two 33 MW steam generating units and one 12 MW gas tur-
bine, all to be installed at a new power station at Zerka, near Amman and by
providing management consultancy services to assist the Jordan Electricity
Authority in organizing and expanding its power generation and transmission
operations. Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily despite initial
delays. The gas turbine unit was commissioned in May 1975 and two steam
units in August 1977.
Cr. No. 498: Northeast Ghor Irrigation and Rural Development Project; US$7.5
Million Credit of July 25, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August
1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is part of an overall development scheme for the East
Bank of the Jordan Valley, other parts of which will be financed by the KfW,
USAID, and the Kuwait Fund. The project consists of the agricultural devel-
opment of 7,700 ha net, of which 6,660 ha are already under irrigation, and
the provision of rural facilities for domestic water supply, health, educa-
tion, roads, and community development for a population of about 25,000. Even
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
though overall project implementation is one year behind schedule, construc-
tion of the irrigation system by the Korean contractor, Cho Suk, is proceed-
ing satisfactorily. All structures have been completed, most equipment and
materials are on site and pipe laying is slightly ahead of schedule. However,
construction of schools and community centers is slightly behind schedule.
In addition, several grants from USAID for training, applied research and
assistance in management of the farmer's association should improve the Jordan
Valley Authority's efforts to accomplish the agricultural development objec-
tives of the project which have so far been neglected. Cost overruns of about
72 percent in total project: costs are expected and would be met by the Govern-
ment.
Cr. No. 534: Second Education Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of March 12,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is designed to expand vocational and technical education,
to promote quality improvements in secondary education by replacing uneconomic-
ally small, rented school buildings and providing schools with adequate work-
shops, and to support integrated rural development projects in the Jordan
Valley through a pilot scheme of non-formal basic education. The project
includes construction, furniture and equipment for the following institutions:
a Polytechnic at Irbid; a training complex at Aqaba; a Hotel Training School
at Amman; three comprehensive secondary schools; extension of preparatory and
secondary schools (seven Dre-vocational workshops; five science laboratories,
four women's craft centers); and a rural development center. Overall project
implementation is about 18 months behind schedule due to initial delays in
selecting project consultants. However implementation of major project com-
ponents is now proceeding satisfactorily. Bidding documents for construction
of seven new institutions were submitted in July 1978 and construction is
expected to begin in October 1978. Technical assistance being provided by
UNDP and ODM is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 570: Second Power Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project adds 33 megawatts to total generating capacity. It also
includes reconditioning of the diesel-electric power station at Marqa and a
Power Development Study for Southern Jordan. A cost overrun in total project
cost of about 14 percent is expected and implementation of all project com-
ponents is proceeding satisfactorily.  Civil works for the unit are nearly
complete and the unit is scheduled to come on stream in October 1978.
Cr. No. S-19: Potash Engineering Credit; US$1.0 Million of July 7, 1975;
Date of Efifectiveness:  June 22, 1976; Closing Date:
December 3][, 1978.
The credit helped meet part of the cost of a pilot study, esti-
mated at US$10.0 million, for the construction of trial dikes for the produc-
tion of potash from Dead Sea brine via solar evaporation. USAID provided



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
US$6.0 million and the Arab Potash Company (APC), the executing agency, con-
tributed US$3.0 million from equity funds. Construction of the trial dikes
and carnallite pans has been satisfactorily completed.  The consultants
prepared a preliminary feasibility report of the full-scale project in
December 1976, which was reviewed in a meeting of prospective donors in London
in June 1977. The final feasibility report was completed in February 1978.
Implementation of the full scale project has started.
Cr. No. 639:   Tourism Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of August 12, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: July 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project includes the construction of tourist accommodation and
related facilities near the Petra Entrance, and the construction of visitor
facilities and archaeological preservation works in the Petra Basin as well
as the resettlement of about 96 Bedouin families currently living in the
Basin. The Project also provides for visitor facilities, infrastructure,
archaeological preservation works at Jerash, and technical assistance.
Schematic plans and cost estimates for the Petra Entance Facilities, includ-
ing staff housing are under preparation. Procurement of the first lot of
equipment is proceeding on schedule and bids for the Bedouin resettlement
housing are being reviewed by the Association.
Cr. No. 646:   First DFC Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of July 19, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: November 5, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is aimed at meeting part of the foreign exchange require-
ments of the Industrial Development Bank of Jordan (IDB) for financing the
import component of medium scale enterprises. The project would also aims at
meeting part of the cost of IDB's recently instituted program to assist small-
scale enterprises and handicrafts, primarily artisan shops employing no more
than five people and provides for a study of the small-scale industrial and
handicraft subsector. IDB's operations have been expanding under favorable
economic conditions. The progress made by IDB in implementing the Small-
Scale Industry and Handicraft Program is impressive. The study of the small-
scale industry sector has been completed, and further surveys are under
consideration.
Cr. No. 780:   Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$14.0 Million
Credit of May 19, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is part of the on-going 1978-81 program of the Amman
Water and Sewerage Authority, to expand water supply and sewerage services in
Amman, including those areas where the urban poor reside. The project con-
sists of the construction of approximately 207 km of water and 225 km of
sewerage mains, laterals and house connections, a 4,000 m3 reservoir, 15,000
meters and related equipment, and training. The improved sewerage services
resulting from the project would help protect groundwater resources in the
Amman area from pollution.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPP'LEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:              20 months (June 1976-
February 1978)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:              Jacobs International Inc. (JII)
for the Arab Potash Company (APC)
(c) Date of first presentation to
the Bank:                                  1966
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:             January, 1978
(e)  Date of completion oiE negotiations:       May 22, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              November 30, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank assisted in financing the pilot Engineering Project on
which the proposed projecil is based. Other actions to ensure satisfactory
project implementation such as devising a marketing strategy, a plan to
strengthen APC's operational and financial management and technical capab-
ility and preparing a project financing plan and financial arrangements con-
sistent with the project's long implementation schedule and capacity build-up
are part of the proposed lproject (paras. 31, 35, 37, 39, 43, 44).
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  Government to complete the Industrial port potash facilities by
December 31, 1981 (para 33).
(b) APC to purchase a prototype harvester by September 1, 1978 and conduct
field test to determine by July 1, 1979 the optimum configuration of
its harvesting system (para 36).
(c) Government to exchange views with the Bank before taking measures in
water resources management in the concession area and its vicinity
(para 36).
(d) APC to hire an experienced technical advisory firm, to enter into an
operations management contract with an experienced engineering or
operating firm and to hire an international accounting consulting
firm (para 37).
(e)  APC to appoint an experienced senior marketing executive, to obtain
by March 31, 1979 letters of intent assuring an off take of at least



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
50 percent of its output and to adhere to an agreed plan of action on
the finalization and subsequent implementation of its marketing
strategy (para 39).
(f) APC to submit to the Bank by June 30, 1979 detailed analysis of its
credit needs to finance the sales of its product and financing
arrangements to meet these needs (para 39).
(g) APC not to incur additional debt if such debt would cause its debt
equity ratio to rise above 55:45 and to maintain a debt/equity ratio
of 60:40 until project completion and not greater than 55:45 there-
after (para 43).
(h) APC to refrain from paying any dividends, or making investments over
$1.0 million before 1985 or until 90 percent of rated capacity is
attained for twelve consecutive months (para 45).
(i) APC to maintain at all times after project completion a quick ratio of
0.8 and to limit dividends, other financial commitments and debt repay-
ment if such action would cause its quick ratio to drop below below
1.0:1 (para 45).
(j) APC to comply with acceptable international standards to protect the
environment and ecosystem in the project area and its vicinity (para 47).



RRDI 362R
A                                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NM 
N                          ~~~~           ~~.-C                                                                                                                                                                               ----
'7 Moire~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
&7Q99m8
9 ~~~~~~Li     n- 
--                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ARABPOTAH PRJEC
-P-                                                                                                                                  Proposed Loyout of Evaporation Areo ond~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                        777807  ,rC~
CANA,                                                                                                                                         ---T    ruce       lte P.n PC 2~                                                                                                                               7
'7777~          ~~ ~~~~                                                                                                                                                                        I~9 9                       ILeAA                                                                                                                                     V          
7779 7797 777 9997770979C87 097777779T,-                                                                  e.797779777777797779FEYPC9                                                                                                  B     C
99  7  7                                                                    77 7777 7998979 77 777797777 77 777777079 97797798 777 8977777,797999 7798 .779 779~~J~J.~~AI
I   .   .~~~~~~  ~~~  7~~~~  7                                                                                  9777779'~~~~~~~~~~~777'9977977779'7.pC7,7, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8~~~7.~~~~~779779877779777~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~77979977749~~~~~~~~~
7  7 7                                                                 977777797 9977789779977779 79997 777779 77977 7977777 9797y9797799777AR-  R
9709879779779077970799897                                                                                                                                                                779~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 70s             u






IBRD-3078R2
ZAKE            Mukhetht
<,>  { HAIFA        T/!1A:RIAS >    (Under ConStrCliti,onll,
7 /  To taijf,,_ta tho0
CtAus~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~arn ;ho..'z
Tulkarm                                 A lun
~arash
usJ ~~~~~~~~~~uef
JerusalemNn          -                        A'i
(B thlehemn                         0 a a}Xde
}~\ ebron          g X(                              \
ib~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oi
i          HI
!       Tfiorio              t
so~~~~~~~~~~~4
(G)         i           Petraot 
I I                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
)  /                 X        WIJ'rasnen.i
JORDAN
-       Primary roads
S Secondary roads
*    Proposed Township Site
t /   ;  A    -I Hottiyc  8    !                       *   Proposed Potash Retinery
Potash Project Site
Railroad
... Trans-Arabian pipeline
*   Refinery (Oil)
, / bQ                                            W          0_   20 4__              6_0                  Ih  Phosphate deposits
/  International boundaries
/   ;t  {                                     \\      O        10~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 20  30    40
MudowworaO                        MILES
&t, ,_ . _    ,, Mt  ntt,s "n ppe,,wd  th,l     r   e,  tnr  p FEBRUAR Yaf 197r
FEBRUARY I978



