Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6919-RU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
JUNE 5, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Figures are as of end of period)
CURRENCY UNIT = RUBLE (RB)                           RUBLES PER US$
1991                                                 169
1992                                                 415
1993                                               1,247
1994                                               3,550
1995                                               4,640
May 1996                                           5,031
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system is used
ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
CBR        Central Bank of Russia                PHRD        Policy and Human Resource
Development
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
EA         Environmental Assessment              PPU         Project Preparation Unit
EFF        Extended Fund Facility
TA         Technical Assistance
GDP        gross domestic product
GKI        State Property Committee
GOR        Government of Russia                   USAID      United States Agency for
International Development
Inter-     Inter-Agency Commission for
Agency     Socio-Economic Problems of
Commis-   Coal-Producing Regions
sion
IAP        Coal Sector Restructuring
Implementation Assistance Project
IMF        International Monetary Fund
JGF        Japan Grant Facility
MOE        Ministry of Economy
MOF        Ministry of Finance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Russian Federation
Executing Agencies:    Ministries of Economy and Finance of the Russian Federation
Amount:                US$500 million equivalent
Terms:                 Maturity of seventeen years, including five years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for currency pool loans.
Loan Objectives:       The proposed SECAL will help the Government put in place a consistent
policy and institutional framework for the continuous and socially
sustainable restructuring of the coal sector and provide assistance in
implementing the initial steps of the overall restructuring program. The
SECAL will support: (a) a program for the progressive reduction and
eventual elimination of subsidies through (i) the elimination of subsidies for
operating losses and investment, (ii) the redirection of remaining subsidies
towards restructuring and related social programs, and (iii) the
establishment of a transparent mechanism for the allocation and effective
monitoring of subsidies; (b) special Community Support and Employment
Programs in areas where coal-related unemployment is expected to be high;
and (c) the development and initial implementation of measures intended to
commercialize and de-monopolize the coal sector.
Loan Description:      The proposed SECAL will be quick-disbursing and will provide budget and
balance of payments support, linked to the conditionality specified for
tranche release. Disbursements of the Loan will not be linked to any
specific purchases, but will be subject to a standard negative list of
ineligible goods and countries of origin.
Benefits:              The proposed Coal SECAL would support the effective implementation of a
far-reaching restructuring program in one of the most critical sectors of the
Russian economy. The program will promote an increasingly profitable and
competitive coal sector through judicious closure of unprofitable mines,
demonopolization and commercialization of regional coal companies, and
further improvements in operational efficiency over time. This would, in
turn, decrease and eventually eliminate subsidies and the related impact of
the coal sector on the federal budget. In addition to economic benefits, the
restructuring program would promote sustainability of the coal industry
through a participatory approach by key stakeholders and capacity building
in key areas, including improved measures to mitigate social and
environmental impacts in the affected areas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Risks:                 This is a highly risky operation. The major risks involve the ability of the
Government to deliver on policy reforms stemming in part from political
uncertainties and difficulties in maintaining a sustainable program of
stabilization and structural reform. Even without the political uncertainties,
reaching a consensus on the needed reforms and implementing them will be
difficult since the reduction and redirection of subsidies, the closing of
mines and the de-monopolization of the sector threaten major vested
interests and face strong resistance. Moreover, the Government's
institutional capacity to implement the complex social and structural
reforms proposed is undemonstrated.
As a two-tranche, quick-disbursing operation, the proposed Coal SECAL
by itself cannot provide sustained Bank support for the Government's coal
restructuring initiatives over the medium term. The risk that the
restructuring momentum will not be sustained is addressed through
assistance provided under the proposed Coal Sector Restructuring
Implementation Assistance Project, which is longer in duration and will
serve as a vehicle: (i) to assure Government that the Bank intends to remain
engaged in the sector beyond the life of the proposed SECAL; and (ii) to
help strengthen the institutional capacity of the Government to implement
the reforms. Progress on coal sector restructuring over the last 2-3 years,
together with the commitments in the Government's Policy Letter, provide
a reasonable assurance that the reforms will continue if implementation
problems can be addressed.
Disbursement:          The SECAL will be released in two tranches of equal size: the first on
effectiveness (expected in July 1996) and the second on fulfillment of
specific tranche release conditions (expected in the fourth quarter of 1996).
Commitment Fee:        0.75% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Poverty Category:      Poverty-focused, limited to Social Safety Net for redundant coal industry
workers, their families and affected communities.
Rate of Return:        Not applicable
Project ID Number:    RU-PA-38550



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PART I.      INTRODUCTION                                                               1
PART II.     THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT                                                  2
A.    Relations to the Country Assistance Strategy and the Macroeconomic Situation  2
B.    Need for Structural Change                                                 2
C.    Macroeconomic Prospects                                                    2
PART III.    THE COAL SECTOR                                                            3
A.    Coal Sector Profile                                                        3
B.    Distortionary Effects of Subsidies on Coal Industry Performance            4
C.    Adapting to Changing Economic Circumstances                                5
PART IV.    THE GOVERNMENT'S COAL INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM                        6
A.    Government's Strategy                                                      6
B.    Subsidy Phase-Out and Targeting                                            8
C.    Employment Policies                                                       10
D.    Mine Closures                                                             II
E.    Social Safety Net                                                         12
F.    Public Participation and Social Impact Monitoring                         13
G.    Commercialization and Demonopolization                                    13
PART V.      THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN                                                    14
A.    Bank Involvement to Date                                                  14
B.    Rationale for Further Bank Involvement                                    15
C.    World Bank Group and IMF Support                                          15
D.    Loan Features                                                             15
E.    Monitoring Arrangements                                                   19
F.    Poverty Category                                                          20
G.    Environment                                                               20
H.    Proposed Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project      20
PART VI.    BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                         22
PART VII.   RECOMMENDATION                                                             23



Annexes, Schedules and Map:
Annex 1.     Letter of Sector Development Policy                                     25
Annex 2.     Policy Matrix                                                           59
Annex 3.     Status of IMF Operations in Russia                                      64
Annex 4.     Key Economic Indicators                                                 65
Annex 5.     Key Exposure Indicators                                                 69
Annex 6.     Poverty and Social Development Indicators                               70
Annex 7.     Balance of Payments                                                     72
Annex 8.     Public Finance                                                          74
Schedule B.   Russian Federation at a Glance                                         76
Schedule C.   Timetable of Key Processing Events                                     79
Schedule D.  Status of Bank Group Operations in Russia                               80
Map          IBRD 28004
Documents in Project File
1.    Russian Federation - Restructuring the Coal Industry: Putting People First (Bank Report
13187-RU, December 1994)
2.    Basic Trends for Coal Industry Restructuring (Inter-Agency Commission for Socio-Economic
Problems of Coal-Producing Regions, July 1995)
3.    Decree of the President of the Russian Federation of February 9, 1996 No. 168, On Measures
Regarding the Further Improvement of the Structure of the Coal Industry of the Russian
Federation
4.    Government of the Russian Federation Resolution No. 598 of May 17, 1996, On
Confirmation of the Regulation on State Financing of Measures Regarding Coal Industry
Restructuring
This report is based on missions which visited Russia in August and October 1995 and February,
March-April, and May 1996, comprising at various times Messrs./Mmes. David Craig (Senior
Energy Economist, Task Manager and Mission Leader), Costas Michalopoulos, Jonathan Brown,
Friedrich Peloschek, Vadim Voronin, Selina Shum, Gordon Hughes, Qimiao Fan, Lev Freinkman,
Mary Canning, Jeff Procak, Mary Louise Vitelli, Aleksey Proskuryakov, and Ayse Kudat. The UK
KnowHow Fund (David Merrick, Peter Scott, Tom Pedrick, Bruce Weston, and Ian Day) and USAID
(Robert Hall, Patrick Bodnar, and Catherine Cosman) provided consulting services to the Russian
Government in support of SECAL preparation. Peer reviewers were Peter Van der Veen, Laszlo
Lovei, and Louise Fox. Yukon Huang and Jonathan Brown are, respectively, the Director of the
Country Department and Division Chief of the Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division,
responsible for Russia in the Europe and Central Asia region.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Coal Sector
Adjustment Loan (Coal SECAL) to the Russian Federation for the equivalent of US$500 million to
provide financial support for the Government's Coal Sector Restructuring Program. The Loan would be
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of seventeen years, including five years of
grace.
2.    Background. Restructuring the coal sector is a crucial part of the Government's program for
sustaining stabilization of the Russian economy. The coal sector remains one of the largest recipients of
budget subsidies in the country, second only to the agro-industrial complex. Further, a large part of the
subsidies have been used to cover operational losses of regional coal companies and mine investments,
thus hindering competition and financial discipline in the coal sector. The problems inherent in this
subsidy system have been exacerbated by lack of transparency and financial accountability in the subsidy
management system and by the practices of RosUgol, a state-owned enterprise which has exercised a
virtual monopoly over the coal industry, including: (i) until recently, allocation of budget subsidies; (ii)
management of state shares in regional coal companies; (iii) ownership in a broad spectrum of service
industries in the coal sector; and (iv) enforcement of state directives pertaining to mine health and safety
standards.
3.    The Government has placed high priority on restructuring the coal sector. In mid-1993, the
Government created an Inter-Agency Commission for Socio-Economic Problems of Coal-Producing
Regions (the Inter-Agency Commission) for the purpose of advising the Government on coal industry
restructuring.' Since then, under the direction of the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Government has
prepared a large scale restructuring program aimed at transforming the coal industry into a sustainable
and competitive sector of the economy. The principal objectives of the Program are to: (i) reduce the
impact of the coal sector on the federal budget by supporting the decrease, and eventual elimination, of
subsidies; (ii) promote the long term sustainability of the coal sector through establishment of a
competitive, commercial industry; (iii) support a restructuring program to reduce the size of the industry
to increase efficiency; and (iv) cushion the impact of the restructuring on coal miners, their families and
affected communities.
The Inter-Agency Commission includes representatives of: key federal agencies, including the Ministries
of Finance, Economy, Fuels & Power, Labor, and Social Protection, the Federal Employment Service and
the State Property Committee; regional governments in the coal producing areas; the management of the
national coal company, RosUgol; and the two main coal labor unions. The Coal Department of the Ministry
of Economy acts as the secretariat for the Inter-Agency Commission.



II. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
A.    RELATIONS TO THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND THE MACROECONOMIC SITUATION
4.    The most recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the Russian Federation was discussed by
the Board on June 6, 1995; a CAS Progress Report was discussed with the Board on March 28, 1996.
The 1995 CAS recommended a flexible response strategy closely linked to the Government's progress
on macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform. The CAS indicated that, under an Intermediate
Case scenario, the Bank would be prepared to provide assistance to support restructuring of the coal
industry, provided that the Government takes the lead in developing an appropriate program.
5.    Since the last CAS, the Bank has continued to operate under an Intermediate Case scenario, which
remains broadly appropriate in the current environment. This scenario assumes that there will be
continued progress in macroeconomic stabilization, as evidenced by the recent agreement with the IMF
on an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) program. In this situation, the Bank would aim to provide around
US$1.2-1.5 billion annually in investment lending, including a "core" program of relatively
straightforward projects in infrastructure and the social sectors. In addition, the Bank would be willing
to provide up to US$1.5 billion annually in relatively fast-disbursing assistance if substantial progress was
achieved on key structural reforms in specific areas of the economy, such as coal, the social sectors and
agriculture, that are critical to the long-term sustainability of the stabilization process. Over the past year,
the Bank has been working with the Government, both within the framework of the EFF negotiations and
in separate discussions, to develop a consensus on specific programs of structural reforms that would
allow these latter operations to move forward. In the meantime, the Government, with Bank assistance,
has continued to prepare 6-7 priority investment projects as the basis for a sustained program of Bank
support for the Russian economy over the medium term.
B.    NEED FOR STRUCTURAL CHANGE
6.    While the Government has made important progress in reducing the overall budget subsidies for
coal (from 1.04% of GDP in 1993 to 0.45% of GDP in 1995), the current level is still high and
represents a significant burden on the budget and the economy as a whole. Budget subsidies for 1996 are
planned at Rbl0.4 trillion (or equivalent to US$2.2 billion at the current exchange rate) or about 0.36%
of projected GDP. More seriously, a large part of the current subsidies are used to maintain inefficient,
loss-making mines, hindering the downsizing of the sector and the emergence of an efficient core. For
stabilization to be sustainable, the current level of subsidies to the coal sector has to be reduced further.
Also, the remaining subsidies need to be redirected towards restructuring including mine closures,
severance payments and related social programs. The proposed Coal Sector Adjustment Loan is designed
to support the Government's efforts in these reforms and is consistent with the conclusions reached in the
Bank's sector report, Russian Federation - Restructuring the Coal Industry: Putting People First (Bank
Report 13187-RU, December 1994).
C.    MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS
7.    Significant progress has been made by the Russian Government in macroeconomic stabilization
during 1995 and early 1996. The decline in the economy appears to have bottomed out, with GDP
contracting by 4 percent in 1995 on a year-to-year basis as compared to a decline of nearly 13 percent
in 1994. Real income and consumption fell somewhat in 1995, while the decline in investment appears
to have slowed down. The fiscal deficit fell from 10 percent of GDP to 6.8 percent in 1995 and monthly
inflation decelerated from nearly 18 percent in January 1995 to about 4 percent in January 1996. As a
result, Russia met all program targets for its Standby Arrangement with the IMF during 1995. The



-3-
Government reached agreement on a three-year, $10 billion EFF arrangement in February 1996.
Recognizing that the stabilization effort cannot be sustained without appropriate structural policies, e.g.,
on trade and fundamental reforms in many sectors, including coal, the Government with the assistance
of the Bank developed a comprehensive structural reform agenda to accelerate economic transformation
which is reflected in the EFF. Russia has met the performance criteria under the EFF during the first and
second monthly reviews, the latter just finished on June 5, 1996. However, in light of the weak revenue
performance during the pre-electoral period, the Government has resorted to a dramatic compression of
expenditures, particularly social expenditures, investment, and rehabilitation. There is an urgent need to
enhance revenue performance, particularly through improvements in the compliance of tax payments and
arrears. The proposed Coal SECAL will provided an important amount of budgetary support, helping
provide a breathing space for the Government until these additional revenue collection efforts start
yielding the desired results. Provided the various macroeconomic targets and structural benchmarks
developed in coordination with the IMF and the Bank are achieved, a further reduction in inflation and
a resumption of growth in real GDP by 2 percent or more are envisaged during 1996.
III. THE COAL SECTOR
A.    COAL SECTOR PROFILE
8.    Production Volumes. Russia is the world's third-largest producer and consumer of coal, behind
China and the United States, and accounted for 6% of world coal production in 1994. As of 1 January
1995, the Russian coal industry was comprised mainly of 199 active underground mines and 65 active
surface mines affiliated with the state-owned coal monopoly RosUgol. These RosUgol affiliates accounted
for 261.6 million tons out of a total of 271.3 million tons of coal produced in Russia in 1994. By
comparison, the Ukrainian coal industry consists of 244 mines which produced 76 million tons in 1994;
the United States coal industry consists of 2,354 mines which produced 937.4 million tons in 1994. 1995
RosUgol coal production amounted to 250.2 million tons. Coal's contribution to total primary energy
supply in Russia has been falling steadily since the 1960s. However, while coal now accounts for only
about 18% of total energy supply at a national level, it is very important in certain regions. In the Far
East, for example, coal supplies more than half of all primary energy requirements.
9.    Geographic Scope of Production. Significant volumes (in excess of 15 million tons annually) are
produced in seven coal basins covering virtually every region of the country: from the Pechora Basin in
the Komi Republic to the Donetsk Basin (Donbass) in Rostov Oblast; from the Ural coal fields to the
Kuznetsk Basin (Kuzbass) in Kemerovo Oblast (the heart of Russia's coal industry, which produced 93.5
million tons of coal in 1995, or nearly 40% of Russia's coal production for the year); from Eastern
Siberia and Kansk-Achinsk to Yakutia and Primorskiy Krai in the Far East. RosUgol is also involved in
shale production; four shale mines in Leningrad Oblast are affiliates of RosUgol. Coal production
activities in Russia are also carried out by RosTopProm (which owns 17 mines producing approximately
2 million tons annually for local consumption in the Rostov and Kemerovo oblasts), other ministries, and
by oblast-owned, operated, and subsidized companies (OblKemerovoUgol, for example, is expected to
produce 5.5 million tons in 1996).
10.   Workforce. RosUgol's coal industry workforce, which accounts for 1.1 % of the total labor force,
amounted to 819,078 in 1994, compared with 914,331 in 1992. The Ukrainian coal industry employed
925,000 people in 1994, while the United States coal industry reported an average daily workforce of
97,500 employees. The top four employers in 1994 were RostovUgol (84,119), KuznetskUgol (59,422),
ProkopyevskUgol (43,733), and VorkutaUgol (42,588) coal companies.



-4-
11.   Scope of Activites. Data on employment reflect a variety of occupations within the coal industry.
In addition to coal mining, mine building, and coal preparation, the industry owns and operates machine-
building plants, collective farms, construction companies, research and design institutes, power generation
facilities, investment companies, restaurants and cafeterias, and other similar commercial activities.
RosUgol itself manages an equipment leasing operation which is funded by the state. There are also a
number of social services owned and operated by coal companies, most of which have now been
transferred to municipal administrations. These include housing stock, kindergartens, and a number of
sanatoria and vacation resorts which cater to the industry workforce.
12.    Coal Demand and its Repercussions. World coal consumption has been declining consistently
since 1989. In Russia, this decline has been underway since 1987. During the 1980s the coal industry in
Russia failed to adapt to increasing competition from low-cost, environmentally friendly natural gas and
the consequent decrease in demand for coal. Its problems were then compounded during the reforms of
the early 1990s, both by falling demand for all forms of energy and by the removal of very large implicit
subsidies on rail freight. It has been estimated that, if the coal industry takes timely measures to adapt
to changing economic circumstances, nearly two-thirds of existing coal capacity will remain viable and
that as much as one half of the labor force will eventually have to find new jobs. This is, however, a
much smaller contraction than that faced by European coal producing countries during the 1970s and
1980s.
B.    DISTORTIONARY EFFECTS OF SUBSIDIES ON COAL INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE
13.   Subsidies. After the price liberalization of the early 1990s, the coal industry became dependent
on explicit subsidies from the federal budget (para. 6). These coal subsidies have allowed the coal
industry's main customers - power stations and the steel industry - not to pay their coal bills, in the
knowledge that the coal industry will extract the shortfall from the federal budget. Perhaps more
importantly, coal subsidies have included an explicit subsidy for a portion of the coal industry wagebill,
as mandated in a labor accord known as the Tariff Agreement. This has established an implicit belief that
the Government is responsible for paying miners' wages, regardless of economic conditions in the coal
industry and regardless of whether or not the Government has fulfilled its obligations under the Tariff
Agreement. The problems inherent in this subsidy system have been exacerbated by the Government's
entrusting to a national coal monopoly (RosUgol, the former Ministry of the Coal Industry) the
responsibilities of (i) determining how federal subsidies are to be used and (ii) designating which
companies are to be recipients of state support - see below.
14.   Structure of the Coal Industry. Until recently, the coal industry has consisted of state-owned coal
enterprises (individual mines, service companies, etc.), coal associations (i.e., multi-mine groups of
enterprises), and a national coal company (RosUgol). The coal associations and most of the enterprises
have now been converted to joint stock companies. RosUgol remains 100% owned by the state and will
continue to be 100% state-owned for a period of at least three years although it is shortly to be
transformed into a joint stock company to conform with the corporate entity clauses of the Civil Code
which came into force on March 1, 1996. However, the coal associations and enterprises have taken a
first step towards privatization by giving small, non-controlling packages of shares to the labor collective
(management and employees) and to local governments. The state's shares in the coal associations and
the coal enterprises are vested in the State Property Committee (GKI). However, GKI delegates
commercial management of the state's shareholding in the coal associations and enterprises to RosUgol
"in trust". RosUgol therefore appoints the directors of associations and enterprises. The patterns of
ownership and control are varied and complex. In general, production units are more tightly controlled
by RosUgol than by the coal association to which they belong. Subsidies are calculated and allocated by
RosUgol on the basis of individual production units rather than on the basis of coal associations. For this



reason, the coal associations have neither the incentive nor the power to close individual unprofitable
mines within their portfolio.
C.    ADAPTING TO CHANGING ECONOMIC CIRCUMSTANCES
15.    Restructuring Strategy. While there are many aspects of the problem that are specific to Russia
and other transition economies - particularly concerning the social safety net -, the basic remedy has
been the same as in all countries that have faced restructuring of their state-owned coal industries.
Uneconomic mines have to be closed. Workers have to be transferred to other mines or offered some
support while they search for new jobs. Mines that stay in business also need to reduce the size of their
workforce. Mine closures and redundancies need to be managed in a socially responsible manner, so that
the downsizing process remains politically sustainable. Federal subsidies for operations and investment
need to be phased out and remaining subsidies need to be redirected to mine closures and
employment/social programs. And, in parallel, the national monopoly company needs to be restructured
into a series of independent, multi-mine coal companies - probably regionally based - all competing
with each other and with other fuel suppliers.
16.   Initial Response. There has been progress on coal restructuring in three areas. First, the
Government, within the framework of its coal industry restructuring program, began to close non-viable
and unprofitable mines in 1994. In 1994-1995, coal production ceased at 37 mines. A schedule for the
preparation of mine closure proposals and other necessary documents to close 95 loss-making non-viable
mines has been approved. Forty mines have their closure proposals prepared and approved. Closure
proposals for the remaining 55 mines are at various stages of preparation, i.e., being coordinated with
local authorities, labor unions, and state expertise. In 1996, the closure of Halmer-Yu mine in the
Pechora coal basin was completed. Closure activities are now under way at 64 mines and include the
cessation of production, the dismantling of equipment, and the demolition of surface structures. At 34
out of the above-mentioned mines, closure will be completed in 1996-1997, with 22-24,000 employees
being laid off in 1996.
17.    Second, in 1994 and again in 1995, net attrition (departures minus recruitment) in the coal
industry was in the order of at least 10% per annum, in the absence of a major restructuring program.
During the early closure activities, many of the laid off workers have been re-employed in nearby mines.
As the mine closure program expands, the scope for such transfers will diminish. So far, redundancies
from mine closures have been very low compared with the number of voluntary departures from the coal
industry as a whole. Miners are leaving not because of mine closures or severance offers, but because
they are often receiving their wages 3-6 months in arrears.
18.   Third, in the last months of 1995, a substantial portion of the coal industry-owned housing stock
was transferred to municipal governments. Most housing, attached utility networks, and social assets in
the mining settlements historically were administratively attached to the coal mines and financed through
corresponding coal enterprises. More than 2.5 million people, mainly miners and members of the
families, lived in such housing in 1993. It is estimated that by January 1, 1996, the initial stock of the
social assets remaining attached to RosUgol enterprises declined by more than 70%. As regards other
social assets previously operated by the coal companies, anywhere from 9% (sanatoria) to 66%
(kindergartens) of this inventory has been transferred to regional or local governments.2 In both cases,
however, evidence suggests that the maintenance, repair, and operation of divested social assets are
2      19.3% of coal industry dornitories and 21 % of coal industry recreation and sport facilities have been
divested. About 60% of total social costs incurred by coal companies were associated with the housing
stock; kindergartens accounted for a further 25% of social costs.



-6-
underfunded. Sustainable financing for social assets in the coal regions, including those in housing,
health, education, childcare being divested from mines, is an important component of the overall social
protection system for miners and members of their families. Housing and childcare facilities deserve
special attention as they are components of basic social support.
19.    Social Impacts. In the second half of 1995, the Bank undertook a Social Assessment in two coal
basins (Vorkuta and the Kuzbass) likely to be most affected by the mine closures proposed by RosUgol.
The people to be affected by these mine closures feel that: (i) several mine shutdowns reportedly have
been inconsistent with existing laws and regulations in the sense that the workers have not received the
advance notice required by Russian labor legislation; (ii) coal subsidies could have been used to provide
better social protection for those who have lost their jobs; (iii) the coal labor unions have failed to defend
the interests of the workers affected by mine closures; (iv) social services transferred from coal companies
to municipalities have been allowed to deteriorate; (v) non-miners are inadequately protected from the
impact of mine closures by the existing social safety net; (vi) the present institutional arrangements do
not ensure an equitable allocation or reliable distribution of subsidies; (vii) coal company management
is diverting coal subsidies from wages and other social obligations to operating losses and investment;
and (viii) miners are ill-informed about their rights and about the restructuring program and have little
trust in the present system, particularly for allocating and distributing subsidies3.
IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S COAL INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
A.    GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY
20.    The Government of the Russian Federation has prepared a large scale restructuring program
aimed at transforming the coal industry into a sustainable and competitive sector of the economy. The
program is designed to improve coal industry efficiency by creating a non-monopolized organizational
structure which would include strong regional coal companies. In addition to this, the program stipulates
a shift in the focus of coal subsidies from financing wages and uneconomic mines to restructuring of coal
companies in a manner that is clear, transparent and monitorable. Unlike coal industry restructuring
programs in other countries where coal production capacities were reduced by up to 80-90%, the coal
industry in Russia after restructuring is expected to remain one of the largest in the world.
21.    The Government has demonstrated its commitment to coal sector reform over the past few years
through: (a) liberalization of coal prices;4 (b) a significant reduction in the levels of subsidies in real
terms; (c) reduction of RosUgol's role in the allocation and distribution of subsidies; (d) the issuance of
a Presidential Decree which allows organizations other than Rosugol to act as trust managers for the state
shares in regional coal companies; and (e) commencement of downsizing and other measures to increase
efficiency, including cessation of coal production at 37 loss-making mines which have no prospects for
economic viability (see para. 16). In sum, the initial restructuring efforts have begun to pay off; labor
productivity increased by 11 percent in 1995; and following sharp increases in domestic coal prices
toward the end of 1995, the industry as a whole reduced its operating losses significantly in 1995.
3      See "Russia Coal Sector Restructuring Social Assessment", distributed separately to the Board of Directors.
4      In July 1993, the Government took the first major step towards restructuring the coal industry, viz., all
federal administrative controls on coal prices were removed. This first step was not fully effective, since
RosUgol retained the power to influence individual coal prices by directing smaller or larger subsidy flows
to individual coal companies.



22.   Long Term Strategy, 1996-2000. In July 1995, the Inter-Agency Commission (para. 3) issued
a consensus document on Basic Trends for Coal Restructuring (Basic Trends).5 The main elements of
the Government's long term strategy, which are reflected in this document, are:
(i)    Subsidies. Subsidies to loss-making mines will be gradually withdrawn. Alternative
sources of funding will be used to finance maintenance of social assets and to increase
expenditure on social programs that support coal restructuring.
(ii)   Investment. Modernization, rehabilitation and expansion will have to rely more on internal
financing by coal companies, loans, direct private domestic and foreign investment and extra-
budgetary sources, in addition to state support.
(iii)   Mine Closures. At least 90 loss-making mines (overall capacity 60 million tons/year, with
total direct workforce of 83,000 people) will be closed.
(iv)   Workforce Reductions. Closure of loss-making companies and modernization of remaining
mines will result in reduction of the workforce by 100,000 people, or 20% against the 1994
level. Further reduction of the workforce by 175,000 people will take place as non-core
production activities are divested.
(v)    Social Protection. The main goal of social protection of redundant miners is to provide
transitional assistance in parallel with programs to create new, unsubsidized jobs.
(vi)   Change Management. The federal and regional authorities, in cooperation with RosUgol,
RosTopProm and local coal companies, will restructure the system of state support and
management of the coal industry.
(vii)   Commercialization and Demonopolization. The coal industry will consist of a number of
independent, competing coal companies that are self-financed on a long term basis. RosUgol will
be transformed into a joint stock company whose goals reflect the goals of coal sector
restructuring.
23.   Medium Term Goals. In the period since Basic Trends was issued, the Government has prepared
a set of intermediate goals for 1996-97. In particular, coal subsidies were reduced in real terms in 1996
and Government announced its intention to reduce them again in 1997 by at least 15% in real terms.
Government also announced a target of 30% for the share of coal subsidies to be allocated to
downsizing/restructuring in 1996, followed by a substantial increase in this share in 1997. In addition,
Government transferred the responsibility for allocating coal subsidies from RosUgol to the Inter-Agency
Commission and announced monitoring and auditing systems to ensure that coal subsidies are received
and used for their designated purposes. Further, starting in mid-1995, the regions have been submitting
draft Regional Coal Restructuring Programs to the Inter-Agency Commission as a basis for future funding
of restructuring costs and associated social programs. The Inter-Agency Commission has now approved
programs for five of the nine major coal basins. Finally, in February 1996, the President of the Russian
Federation issued a decree that empowers the Government to strengthen the regional coal companies and
5     On July 17, 1995, the First Deputy Prime Minister transmitted the program to the Bank with a request for
a Bank loan to support the program.



-8-
to assign trust management of the state's shareholding in these companies to various trust agents.6 The
Government intends to use these powers during 1996 and 1997 to appoint a number of new trust agents
to manage the restructuring and privatization of selected regional companies.
24.   Government's Short Term Action Program, 1996. In February 1996, the Government wrote to
the Bank stating their intention to move forward on coal restructuring and outlining specific steps for
1996 and 1997. For the immediate future, the Government has a detailed program of actions for the
second half of 1996 and early 1997. This program consists of: (i) targets for reducing coal subsidies and
refocusing remaining subsidies on downsizing/restructuring; (ii) changes in employment policies in the
coal industry to minimize the need for compulsory redundancies; (iii) an acceleration of mine closure
completions - but with increased attention to social safeguards; (iv) a substantial reinforcement of the
social safety net in coal regions - in the form of new community employment and labor mobility
programs and improved delivery of basic social services; (v) new initiatives to promote public
participation in the coal restructuring program and to monitor the social impacts of the program; (vi) a
systematic program to strengthen the independence of regional/local coal companies; and (vii) additional
support for the Inter-Agency Commission to implement the coal restructuring program. This action
program is outlined in more detail below; the concrete measures identified bearing target implementation
dates prior to mid-June 1996 constitute the conditions of Board presentation and first tranche release.
Subsequent measures with later target implementation dates will be conditions of second tranche release
and will also be used as evidence to justify future Bank interventions in the coal sector. The conditions
of Board presentation and of second tranche release are summarized in Annex 2, Policy Matrix.
B.    SUBSIDY PHASE-OUT AND TARGETING
25.   Subsidy Levels, 1996-1997. Phasing out coal subsidies is an essential part of the Government's
macroeconomic stabilization program and strategy for establishing a profitable, market oriented coal
sector. Government has already reduced coal subsidies substantially over the last three years. Government
will continue to reduce coal subsidies in 1996 and 1997 and will eliminate them entirely as soon as they
are no longer needed to support downsizing of the coal industry.
26.   The 1996 budget passed by the Duma provides for support to the coal sector amounting to Rb7.4
trillion. In addition, the Prime Minister has instructed the Government (Protocol No. VCh-P14-lpr of
23 January 1996) to increase the amount of support provided to the sector by Rb3.0 trillion, for a total
of RblO.4 trillion. The Government intends to finance this additional amount of expenditures through
borrowing from abroad so as not to compromise its stabilization objectives. Even this larger total of
Rbl0.4 trillion represents a 9% reduction in real terms compared with 1995.
27.   The Government's original target was to reduce total budget support to the coal sector further in
1997, by at least 15% in real terms compared with 1996. On the basis of the Government's current
commitments (see below), the real reduction in 1997, compared with the 1996 total of RblO.4 trillion,
will be at least 20%.
28.   Subsidy Allocation, 1996. In the second half of 1995 a large proportion of the social assets of
the coal industry - mainly housing, associated heating systems, kindergartens and health clinics - were
nominally transferred from the coal companies to local governments. In principle, the corresponding
subsidy flows were then incorporated into the overall system of federal-regional transfers. In practice,
6     Presidential Decree No. 168, February 9, 1996, "On Measures Regarding the Further Inprovement of the
Structure of the Coal Industry of the Russian Federation ", empowers the Government to move forward with
demonopolization of the coal industry.



- 9 -
when there are revenue shortfalls, this part of the federal budget is very poorly protected against
expenditure cuts. As a result, funding of operating costs of social assets has collapsed in practically all
coal communities except those where the assets have not yet been transferred to local governments. With
the exception of wages, these social assets are the single most important element of the social safety net
in coal communities. Coal restructuring cannot proceed on a sustainable basis unless funding of social
assets is restored to a satisfactory minimum level. For this reason, as an exceptional measure, the
Government has decided to allocate Rbl.6 trillion of coal industry subsidies in the second half of 1996
to regional governments. This allocation will finance local government expenditures on the operation of
social assets divested from the coal industry to local governments and, to a lesser extent, on rehabilitation
and replacement of such assets.
29.   The second priority for the social safety net in coal communities is the social protection
expenditures by coal companies, mainly for pre-redundancy services to workers at mines whose closure
has been announced, severance payments to workers who are made redundant, and free coal for former
workers and/or their dependents. The Government has allocated a minimum of Rb300 billion for these
expenditures in the second half of 1996.
30.   As a third priority the Government has decided to create a series of pilot Community Support and
Employment Programs, initially in five coal basins and to allocate not less than Rb200 billion in total to
these programs in the second half of 1996. Funding for these programs will be transferred directly from
coal subsidies to regional and local governments without passing through the coal industry. These
programs will be managed by local committees (including representatives of local administrations,
employment services, businesses, labor unions and non-government organizations) and will provide
funding to local initiatives designed to improve or repair social and environmental infrastructure, create
new small business and employment opportunities, offer training or re-training and more generally
promote labor mobility for displaced workers (details below).
31.   In order to finance the increased support for the social safety net in the second half of 1996 within
the total subsidy limit of RblO.4 trillion for 1996 as a whole, the Government will find savings in the
subsidy allocations for operating losses and investment. In parallel, the Government has announced new
policies for these two categories of subsidies. From July 1, 1996, subsidies for operating losses will be
available only to coal companies that have limited their recruitment to comply with the new employment
policy (see below). Also, investment projects that were already under construction as of January 1, 1996,
will be grandfathered and will continue to receive grant financing. However, from July 1, 1996, all other
viable investment projects will be funded by loans at positive real interest rates. In this connection,
government direct lending to the coal sector, as well as government guarantees for credits provided to
the sector by foreign export credit agencies, need to be contained so that they do not imperil the
government's creditworthiness and debt service capacity.
32.   In summary, the Government has allocated a total of R2.1 trillion for the social safety net in coal
communities in the second half of 1996, consisting of: (i) Rbl.6 trillion to regional/local governments
for divested social assets; (ii) Rb300 billion for social protection expenditures by coal companies; and (iii)
Rb200 billion to regional/local governments for pilot Community Support and Employment Programs.
This total of R2.1 trillion represents 38% of the projected total subsidy payments in the second half of
1996 (approximately Rb5.6 trillion).
33.   Subsidy Allocation, 1997. The Government's strategy for 1997 is to provide adequate funding
for divested social assets through the overall system of federal-regional transfers and to devote a
correspondingly larger proportion of remaining coal subsidies to restructuring and the industry-specific
social safety net. The Government has set itself two targets for allocation of coal subsidies in 1997:



- 10-
(i)    Not less than one-third of coal subsidies will be allocated to restructuring (ie, physical
costs of mine closures) plus a broadly defined social safety net, consisting of: (a) social protection
expenditures by coal companies (for the same purposes as in 1996), (b) expanded Community
Support and Employment Programs financed through regional and/or local governments, and (c)
disability compensation for disabled workers at closed mines.
(ii)   Production subsidies (i.e., mainly for operating losses and investment) will decline by at
least 40% in real terms in 1997 relative to their projected 1996 level of Rb7.1 trillion. Production
subsidies include all subsidies other than for restructuring and the broadly defined social safety
net (as described above). For monitoring purposes, production subsidies will not include
investment loans to coal companies at positive real interest rates.
34.   In the light of these commitments, total subsidies provided by the Government to the coal sector
for 1997 are estimated at Rb6.4 trillion in 1996 prices, of which Rb4.3 trillion are for production and
Rb2.1 trillion are for restructuring and the associated social safety net. This total does not include
government expenditures in support of already divested social assets or support for investment via loans
at positive real interest rates. The Government, however, has committed itself to provide an adequate
amount of financing for divested social assets in coal communities through federal budget allocations to
regional governments for that purpose. If this financing is maintained at the same level in real terms in
1997 as in 1996 (ie, Rb 1.6 trillion), total government subsidies to the coal sector would be approximately
Rb8.0 trillion. Within this total, Rb3.7 trillion, or 47%, would be committed to restructuring and the
associated social safety net.
35.   Subsidy Mechanism. To ensure that coal companies and other beneficiaries use the subsidies for
the purposes for which they were intended, the Government has changed the mechanism of allocation and
distribution of coal subsidies. As a first step, the Government changed the procedures of channeling
subsidies to the local level. Previously, these were largely channeled through RosUgol. As of January
1996, approximately 90% of coal subsidies are channeled from the Ministry of Finance to the local level
via the Regional Treasury Departments of the Ministry of Finance. The remaining 10% is accounted for
mainly by the Central Reserve Fund, which is used by RosUgol and the Ministry of Fuels & Power for
emergencies and other unforeseen expenditures. A very small proportion, about 0.2%, is channeled
through RosUgol to locations not served by Regional Treasury Departments. These arrangements now
permit Government to identify the causes of delayed delivery of budget funds if and when they arise. As
a second step, at its February 1996 meeting, the Inter-Agency Commission approved new subsidy
management regulations on the basis of which, starting July 1, 1996, the Inter-Agency Commission will
decide on quarterly allocations of coal subsidies between the eleven major categories and between
"leading recipients", i.e., either coal companies or regional governments.
C.    EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
36.   In the early 1990s, net attrition from the coal industry workforce was relatively low. However,
starting in about 1994, employees have been leaving the coal industry at annual rates of up to 30%.
Despite the poor employment prospects in most coal regions, many coal industry employees are finding
alternative occupations outside the coal industry that are sufficiently attractive to justify leaving. At the
same time, annual recruitment has typically been on the order of 15-20% of the workforce. About 30%
of the new recruits are people with no previous employment experience in the coal industry. As a result
of natural attrition, the coal industry workforce has been declining at annual rates of around 10-15%.
37.   Over the next 12-18 months, the most humane and cost-effective way to reduce the size of the
coal industry workforce is to limit recruitment, especially of workers who do not have experience in the



- 11 -
coal industry. In May 1996, the Inter-Agency Commission approved a new employment policy designed
to restrict recruitment in mines that will be closed and use transfers between mines to minimize the need
for compulsory redundancies. From July 1, 1996, a coal company will only receive subsidies for
operating losses if it limits total recruitment in any quarter to less than 1 % of the total number of its
employees. This condition will be embodied in the agreements signed with subsidy recipients. After the
limits on recruitment take effect, the net rate of departures from the coal industry will probably be in the
range 15-20%, initially with a relatively small proportion of compulsory redundancies. The Government
plans to monitor the employment situation in the coal industry closely so that it can adapt its strategy if
and when natural attrition rates decline.
38.   In support of the objective of establishing a viable, independent, market oriented coal industry,
the Government wishes not to be a party to future agreements between coal companies and coal industry
employees. In order for the Government to withdraw, the regulatory and legal basis of collective
bargaining needs to be changed. By the end of 1996, the Government intends to develop proposals for
changes to the collective bargaining process so that future wage agreements are negotiated between
employees and employers (the coal companies) on the basis of the financial capacity of the company and
of the labor legislation in force at the time.
D.    MINE CLOSURES
39.   A key element in Government's coal restructuring strategy is to close mines that have no prospect
of becoming economically viable (para. 15 above). Government's mine closure program started in 1993
and is gathering momentum. However, progress has been slow on completing the closures. Government
is now planning to accelerate the permanent closure of mines that have stopped producing coal.
40.   The Russian Federation has a legal framework that specifies the steps that a coal company must
take before it will be authorized to close a mine. This framework includes the measures required in the
areas of employees' rights and entitlements, health and safety and environmental protection. In February,
1996, the Inter-Agency Commission endorsed "The Basic Principles of Closing Non-Viable and
Unprofitable Mines" in order to codify these procedures. The Commission now plans to expand and
revise these guidelines to ensure that no mine will be closed and no employee made redundant unless
there is an adequate social safety net in place and funded. The Government intends to use the proposed
Bank-supported Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project to support this work.
41.   One of the proposals under consideration is to modify the conditions under which the Inter-
Agency Commission will approve requests for state support for a mine closure. In addition to the usual
technical and financial proposals, requests for funding would include: (i) evidence that the mine has
complied with the new policy on limiting recruitment; (ii) numbers of employees transferring to adjacent
mines; (iii) numbers of employees (if any) to receive severance or early retirement packages - and
arrangements for pre-redundancy counselling; (iv) funding arrangements to maintain a satisfactory level
of social services in affected communities; and (v) satisfactory arrangements for public participation in
the mine closure process.
42.   Another proposal is to modify the purposes for which the Inter-Agency Commission will allow
mine closure subsidies to be used. Under this proposal, state subsidies would be provided for the full cost
of the least-cost way of closing the mine (i.e., rapid closure with no recovery of underground equipment
or materials) plus the associated social and environmental costs. The Government would not provide
subsidies for ongoing coal production at mines once the closure process has started.



- 12-
E.    SOCIAL SAFETY NET
43.   The Government's first priority is to ensure that the existing social safety net is fully funded and
operational. As noted above, the main elements of the existing social safety net for coal communities
would be: (i) timely payment of wages and benefits by coal companies; (ii) adequate funding for
maintenance and operating costs of housing, heating systems, kindergartens and health clinics; (iii) free
coal to employees, former employees and their dependents for cooking and/or heating; (iv) full advance
notice of mine closures (generally six months); (v) limits on recruitment and maximum use of transfers
to minimize the need for compulsory redundancies when mines are closed; and (vi) statutory severance
payments for workers who are made redundant.
44.   Some of the funding for divested social assets in coal communities will be used to finance labor-
intensive activities such as housing maintenance and repairs. While these activities will generate some
transitional employment opportunities, they are unlikely to be sufficient to absorb rising unemployment
in coal communities. In parallel, therefore, the Government plans to expand the social safety net in two
areas related to employment. First, in the workplace, the Federal Employment Services will expand their
coverage to ensure that pre-redundancy counseling is available to all coal industry employees threatened
with redundancy. Second, for everyone in the communities affected by coal restructuring, the Government
plans to introduce new transitional employment and longer term job creation programs.
45.   The transitional employment and longer term job creation programs will be implemented through
an expanded set of Community Support and Employment Programs, initially in five coal basins (Pechora,
Moscow, Kuzbass, Eastern Donbass, and Kizel). Funding will be channeled directly from coal subsidies
to the regional governments in these coal basins. The Government plans to use the proposed Bank-
supported Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project (para.69) to accelerate the design
and implementation of these pilot programs. Specifically these programs will develop:
(i)    Emergency Social Assistance: canteens for the poor and disadvantaged; day care centers;
special programs for the unemployed to get credit and training to set up small enterprises; job
clubs; counselling for disabled and young people leaving school early.
(ii)   Transitional Employment Programs: to provide interim employment for workers for
whom alternative employment cannot be found and whose unemployment and other benefits have
been exhausted, eg, in labor-intensive community projects such as rehabilitating housing, cleaning
up the environment, and repairing public facilities.
(iii)   Local Economic Development Programs: aimed at creating sustainable new jobs through
the development of new enterprises and expanding existing ones, eg, via technical assistance to
small and medium businesses; setting up business incubators; establishing revolving loan funds
and, in certain situations, grant facilities; and restructuring of vocational schools to provide new
training opportunities.
46.   The Community Support and Development Programs will be designed and managed locally. In
cases where employment prospects are poor, for example in Vorkuta, the local authorities may decide
to use the funding to promote labor mobility rather than to create uneconomic jobs in the far north. The
creation of appropriate agencies and committees at local level will take time. In the meantime, the Federal
Employment Services (which has offices and staff in all five targeted coal basins) will participate in the
startup of these Community Support and Employment Programs. The pilot program for Economically
Devastated Areas, which is being developed under the World Bank Employment Services and Social
Protection Project, will provide some guidance for the design of these programs. The administrative



- 13 -
capacity of local offices of the Federal Employment Services will be strengthened in coal regions. The
capacity of local offices of the Ministry of Labor and the Ministry of Social Protection also needs to be
strengthened to ensure that they can deliver the benefits and services available through the other
components of the legal social safety net.
F.    PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND SOCIAL IMPACT MONITORING
47.    The Government will take steps to promote local community participation in coal restructuring
by: (i) providing miners, their families and communities with adequate and timely information about the
content of the coal sector reform program, the reform implementation arrangements, their entitlements
during restructuring and the mechanisms for legal recourse; and (ii) strengthening the capacity of local
institutions, labor organizations, and non-governmental organizations so that miners, their families and
communities can more effectively voice their concerns and promote actions on their behalf.
48.    Social partnership mechanisms of various groups of residents in coal regions whose interests are
directly affected by restructuring of coal industry will be developed by strengthening regional Inter-
Agency Commissions set up in 1994-1995, and by setting up such commissions in coal regions where
they have not yet been established.7 On the local level, oversight committees are to be formed with the
local heads of administrations of mining communities as the head and consisting of representatives of
various affected groups.8 The main objective of the oversight committees will be to determine the
strategy for local development, coordination of the development and implementation of local development
programs, and the social protection for laid-off workers and residents of mining communities. Oversight
committees will determine the guidelines for the disbursement of funds allocated to finance local
development programs.
49.    The Government will also establish mechanisms at the local level to monitor and assess the impact
of restructuring on coal miners, their families and their communities. The main objective of social impact
monitoring is to ensure that the benefits for mine workers affected by restructuring and downsizing of
the coal industry actually reach them. This means that all benefits that accrue to the coal sector employees
under various legal provisions are fully respected; that workers are actually fully informed of their
entitlements and are given notice, as per existing laws and regulations; that mechanisms and opportunities
for recourse are available; and that the local, regional and federal institutions mandated to assisting the
workers and their families and communities actually provide the appropriate services. In cases where the
social impact monitoring system determines that intended benefits and services do not reach the miners,
the Government will examine the constraints and identify the steps needed for their removal.
G.    COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEMONOPOLIZATION
50.    As noted above (para. 22), Basic Trends outlines Government's vision for a commercial and
competitive coal industry, operating within a clear legislative and regulatory framework. As a first step
towards implementing that vision, the President of the Russian Federation signed, on February 9, 1996,
In May-June 1996 the organization of regional Coal Commissions in the Rostov and Tula regions will be
strengthened and improved. Special working groups will be set up under the authority of regional
administrations to ensure trouble-free operation in terms of organizational and technical assistance. Regional
Coal Commissions will be set up in all coal regions before January 1, 1997.
In May-June 1996, local oversight committees will be formed in five pilot mining towns of largest coal-
mining regions. Over the longer term, local oversight committees will be established in about 30 mining
communities.



- 14-
Decree No. 168 on Measures Regarding the Further Improvement of the Structure of the Coal Industry
of the Russian Federation. This decree: (i) transferred the responsibility for allocating coal subsidies from
RosUgol to the Inter-Agency Commission; (ii) instructed the Government to convert RosUgol into a
100% federally-owned joint stock company; and (iii) empowered the State Property Committee (GKI) to
delegate commercial management of the state's shareholding in the coal industry "in trust" to a number
of trust managers.
51.   The Government's approach to demonopolization is the following. First, the power of RosUgol
will be substantially reduced as the Inter-Agency Commission takes over the allocation and distribution
of subsidies. Second, RosUgol's power as the sole trustee for management of Government's shares in coal
companies will be diluted over time as new trustees are appointed. Third, RosUgol's power as the
monopoly supplier of technical assistance and marketing services to coal companies will be reduced over
time - as has been the case in the petroleum sector - as the coal companies not controlled by RosUgol
become free to shop around for these services. Fourth, the Ministry of Fuels & Power will be
strengthened to take over RosUgol's de facto role in governmental and regulatory functions, such as
health, safety, environment and licensing). Fifth, given this agenda, the Government sees no need to
include any restrictions - such as a requirement to divest all commercial subsidiaries by a target date
- in RosUgol's charter when it is incorporated as a 100% federally-owned joint stock company.
52.   The Government is therefore focusing mainly on improving the transparency and financial
accountability of subsidy allocation and utilization and on the selection and appointment of new trust
managers. The Government intends to use the proposed Bank-supported Coal Sector Restructuring
Implementation Assistance Project to accelerate both these activities. The Government's immediate
priority is to strengthen the Inter-Agency Commission to take over the allocation of coal subsidies,
starting July 1996. In parallel, by the end of the year, the Government plans to ensure that new trust
managers control about 25% of the state's shareholding in the coal industry. This is defined as coal
companies that produced in aggregate not less than 65 million tons of coal in 1995.
53.   The Government will set up a program to appoint new trust managers via a competitive bidding
process open to investment funds, banks and other non-coal institutions. In order to reach the 25 % target
for new trust managers by the end of the year, the following steps will be completed over the period June
to October, 1996. First, the Government will approve rules governing the trust management of state
shares in coal companies, including those covering appointment of new trust managers and their
obligations to the federal authorities. Second, the Government will select a number of companies,
generally of the "holding" company structure, and transfer to the charter capital of these companies the
state shares in subsidiary or related companies. Third, the Government will issue to potential bidders for
trust management contracts for the selected companies all of the information required by them for the
preparation of their bids. From about October onwards, the Government will start appointing new trust
managers.
V. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
A.    BANK INVOLVEMENT TO DATE
54.   The Bank's involvement in the coal sector began in 1992 with the First Rehabilitation Loan when
the Government requested that US$50 million be used to finance critical imports for the coal industry.
The Government also asked the Bank to provide advice on coal sector restructuring. The results of this
sector work were published in Russian Federation - Restructuring the Coal Industry: Putting People First
(Bank Report 13187-RU, December 1994).



- 15 -
B.    RATIONALE FOR FURTHER BANK INVOLVEMENT
55.   In response to the Government's request, the Bank has extended its collaborative work through
the preparation of a Coal SECAL to support the program. The rationale for the Bank moving forward
actively at this time is based on the major up-front actions taken over the past two years and the key
policy commitments in the EFF (see paras. 5 and 7) and reaffirmed in the First Deputy Prime Minister
's letter of February 21, 1996. The proposed SECAL will help the Government put in place a consistent
policy and institutional framework for the continuous and socially sustainable restructuring of the sector
and provide assistance in implementing the initial steps of the overall restructuring program of the coal
sector. The SECAL will support:
a program for the progressive reduction and eventual elimination of subsidies through (1)
the elimination of subsidies for operating losses and investment, (2) the redirection of
remaining subsidies towards restructuring and related social programs, and (3) the
establishment of a transparent mechanism for the allocation and effective monitoring of
subsidies;
special Community Support and Employment Programs in areas where coal-related
unemployment is expected to be high;
the development and initial implementation of measures intended to commercialize and
de-monopolize the coal sector.
C.    WORLD BANK GROUP AND IMF SUPPORT
56.   The proposed SECAL is fully consistent with the CAS described above (paras. 4 and 5) and has
been developed in close collaboration with the Government. It is buttressed at the macro level by the
IMF's EFF agreement noted above (paras. 5 and 7), which includes structural measures on coal reform
consistent with the program supported by the proposed SECAL. The principal objectives of the Program
to be supported by the proposed SECAL are to: (i) reduce the impact of the coal sector on the federal
budget by supporting the decrease, and eventual elimination, of subsidies; (ii) promote the long term
sustainability of the coal sector through establishment of a competitive, commercial industry; (iii) support
a restructuring program to reduce the size of the industry to increase efficiency; and (iv) cushion the
impact of the restructuring on coal miners, their families and affected communities. This program will
be supported by a companion Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project (IAP), as
described below (paras. 69-72). The Bank is prepared to consider future operations to support coal
industry restructuring so as to remain engaged in the implementation of reforms as agreed under the
current proposed Coal SECAL.
D.    LOAN FEATURES
57.   The proposed SECAL will be quick-disbursing and will provide balance of payments and budget
support, linked to the conditionality specified for tranche release. The proposed SECAL of US$500
million equivalent would be made to the Russian Federation as represented by the Ministry of Finance.
Disbursements will be made into a Ministry of Finance Deposit Account in the Central Bank of the
Russian Federation (CBR) specially set up for this purpose. The CBR will withdraw the foreign exchange
as and when needed to meet market demand from both the public and private sectors and will reimburse
the MOF at that time with the equivalent local currency at the market exchange rate. The exchange rate
to be applied will be determined by the inter-bank foreign currency auction market.



- 16-
58.   The SECAL will be released in two tranches of equal size: the first on effectiveness (expected
in July 1996) and the second on fulfillment of the specific tranche release conditions outlined below. The
second tranche is expected to be released in the fourth quarter of 1996, pending the outcome of a Review
of third quarter 1996 performance, scheduled for October 1996. Disbursements of the Loan will not be
linked to any specific purchases, but will be subject to a standard negative list of ineligible goods and
countries of origin. Government has indicated that the counterpart funds will be used to provide support
for the coal sector reform program. Upon notification by the Bank of tranche release for each tranche,
proceeds of the loan will be deposited by the Bank into the MOF Deposit Account at the Government's
request. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance
items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative list), the Bank
will require the Government to either (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes,
or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the loan.
59.   This tranche structure will provide urgently needed budget support for 1996. Disbursement of
the second tranche will depend in part on continued progress towards macro-economic stability.
60.   Conditions of Board Presentation. The objectives announced in Basic Trends for Coal
Restructuring have now been largely translated into specific targets, mechanisms and dates. A number
of key actions have been completed prior to Board presentation. These are:
i.    a schedule of state support to the coal industry for the second half of 1996 has been
approved and made public with details by expenditure category and recipient together with the
corresponding implementation schedule for mine closures in the second half of 1996. In the
second half of 1996 the Borrower will transfer:
a.    not less than Rbl.6 trillion to regional governments to finance expenditures on
the development, replacement, rehabilitation, maintenance and operation of social
assets divested from the coal sector to local governments;
b.    not less than Rb200 billion in total to Kemerovo Oblast, the Komi Republic,
Rostov Oblast, Perm Oblast, and Tula Oblast to finance pilot Community Support
and Employment Programs for coal communities within these regions; and
c.     not less than Rb300 billion to coal companies to finance expenditures on social
protection by coal companies for mine workers, former mine workers and their
dependents, viz. severance payments, free coal (or cash payments in lieu of free
coal), and pre-redundancy services to workers at mines whose closure has been
announced.
ii.   the Inter-Agency Commission has confirmed that, with effect from July 1, 1996, state
support funds for investment will be available on a non-repayable basis only for projects where
construction began before January 1, 1996. For all other investment projects in the coal industry,
state support will be available on a repayable basis only (at positive real interest rates, as
specified in the Policy Letter);
iii.   the Inter-Agency Commission has confirmed that, with effect from July 1, 1996, state
support for operating losses will be available only to coal companies that have reduced the
number of vacancies so as to limit total recruitment in any quarter to less than I % of the total
number of employees;



- 17-
iv.   the Government has instructed the Federal Employment Service to establish, by the end
of September 1996, the capability to deliver pre-redundancy services including advance notice
and counselling to all workers in the coal industry threatened with redundancy;
v.    the Inter-Agency Commission has approved and made public a Demonopolization
Programn to conclude, by December 31, 1996, the appointment of new Trust Managers. These
measures will include the issuance, by October 31, 1996, to potential bidders for trust
management contracts all of the information required by them for the preparation of bids. The
companies for which new Trust Managers will be appointed by December 31, 1996 will be
selected so that their aggregate production of coal in 1995 was not less than 65 million tons, i.e.,
approximately 25% of the Russian coal industry.
vi.   the Coal Commission has approved and made public the indicators and arrangements for
social impact monitoring, financial monitoring, and auditing of a set of subsidy recipients.
a.    Social Impact Indicators include:
*     access to severance compensation specified in the Employment Law
availability and accessibility of training, re-training, job placement and
job counselling services
access to adequate level of social services in the course of sector
restructuring
access to heating, housing maintenance and utilities
access to and availability of information on social safety measures prior
to departures from the sector (whether voluntary or not)
*     provision of pre-redundancy counselling at mines announced for closure,
and
adequacy of participation / representation in relevant decisions.
b.    Financial Impact Indicators include agreed data on:
*     Subsidies
*     Output and employment
Revenues and Expenditures
Receivables and Payables, and
Capital expenditure.
c.    Special Purpose Audits will be carried out in accordance with International
Auditing Standards and will determine whether or not:
financial reports and related supporting schedules prepared by the entities
being audited give a true and fair view of the financial situation of
resources and expenditures related to state financing;
financial information is presented in accordance with established or stated
criteria by the Government and by RosUgol;
the use of state financing for each subcategory of subsidies has complied
with the relevant laws, regulations, policies and contractual agreements;
and



- 18 -
the audited entities' internal control systems used in administering state
financing are adequate.
61.   Condidons of Second Tranche Release. Disbursement of the second tranche (US$250 million
equivalent), anticipated before the end of 1996, would be contingent on a review, satisfactory to the
Bank, of: (i) macro-economic performance; (ii) successful implementation of the coal reform program;
and (iii) fulfilment of the specific second tranche release conditions listed below:
i.    During the second half of calendar 1996, the Borrower's actual transfers from the
allocation for state support to the coal sector in the Borrower's 1996 budget (a) to regional
governments for the development, replacement, rehabilitation, maintenance and operation of
social assets divested from the coal sector to local authorities, and (b) to coal companies and local
authorities for social protection, including Community Support and Employment Programs, are
or were being made in accordance with the schedule, agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank
(see para. 60 (i)).
ii.    The Borrower has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Bank that, during the calendar
quarter immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Review, no state support for operating
losses was made available to coal mines which have recruited employees in excess of 1 % of their
respective total number of employees during such period.
iii.   State support to the coal industry for 1997 incorporates and is consistent with the
parameters agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank. State support will be assessed on the basis
of the most recent approvals available at the time of the Second Tranche Release Review.
Depending on whether the particular review takes place in late 1996 or early 1997, the available
approvals may include some or all of the following: (a) the Borrower's proposal for state support
to the coal industry for 1997; (b) the actual approved budget for 1997; (c) the allocation of State
Support to the Coal Industry for 1997 approved by the Inter-Agency Commission; and (d) the
actual quarterly transfers during 1997. The Government will present the information on subsidy
allocations (in the budget and/or in decisions by the Inter-Agency Commission) in sufficient detail
for the Bank to determine whether the Government has met its commitments on coal subsidy
allocations for 1997. The parameters agreed by the Borrower and the Bank are as follows:
a.    the Budget category State Support for the Coal Industry will exclude financing
for transferred social assets and such financing will be included in the overall federal
budget category for financing of social assets transferred to local authorities throughout
Russia;
b .    not less than one-third of State Support for the Coal Industry will be allocated to:
*     physical costs of mine closure,
*     qualifying expenditures on social protection by coal companies,
*     Community Support and Employment Programs for coal communities
financed through regional and/or local authorities, and
disability compensation for disabled workers at closed mines;
c.     State Support for the Coal Industry excluding the items specified in (b.) above
and excluding loans to mining companies at positive real interest rates for production
development investment will decline by at least 40% in real terms in 1997 relative to
1996;



- 19-
d.     Qualifying items for state support for the physical costs of mine closure will be
works required to close mine shafts and workings, to make safe all mine workings, to
demolish surface buildings and structures, to mitigate the environmental impact of mine
closure, and to rehabilitate the environmental damage caused by past mining activities.
e.     Qualifying expenditures on social protection by coal companies will be as defined
above (para 60.(i.)(c.)).
f.     Qualifying expenditures on disability compensation for disabled workers at closed
mines will be lump sum payments to the workers themselves, to social insurance funds,
or to similar agencies either in lieu of or to replace wage income and other regular
benefits for workers at closed mines who are partially disabled as a result of accidental
injury or occupational disease resulting from employment in the coal industry.
iv.    The Borrower has initiated the operation of the regional offices of the Federal
Employment Services, in all regions where mines are being closed, with adequate capacity to
deliver pre-redundancy services free of charge to employees prior to cessation of coal production
for all coal industry employees of mines whose closure has been announced.
v.    The Borrower has established the necessary institutional framework, which includes the
participation of the Federal Employment Services, and has initiated the activities of the
Community Support and Employment Programs, agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank, in
the Kuzbass, Eastern Donbass, Pechora, Moscow region and Kizel coal basins.
vi.    The Borrower has taken all actions required to be taken in accordance with the
Demonopolization Program, agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank (see para. 60.(v.)).
vii.   The Borrower has demonstrated, on the basis of social impact and monitoring reports for
the calendar quarter preceding the Second Tranche Release Review, overall compliance with
social impact indicators, agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank (see para. 60.(vi.)(a.)), and
has made public such reports.
viii.   The Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Bank a financial impact monitoring
report on the financial performance of the regional coal companies in such scope and detail as
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank (see para. 60.(vi.)(b.)).
ix.    The Borrower has submitted to the Bank audits on five coal companies, which are main
(largest) recipients of state support, in such scope and detail as has been agreed upon by the
Borrower and the Bank (see para. 60.(vi.)(c.)).
E.    MONITORING ARRANGEMENTs
62.   Social Impact Monitoing. The Bank has been assured by Government that comprehensive efforts
are envisioned to monitor the social impact of coal sector restructuring (see paras. 60.(vi.)(a.) and
61 .(vii.)).
63.   Financial Monitoning. Difficulties in obtaining prompt and relevant information on the
distribution and use of subsidies to the coal industry have been a major barrier to reforming the subsidy
system over the past 2-3 years. Government is acutely aware of this problem and through the Inter-
Agency Commission has emphasized that, in future, subsidies must be allocated in a manner that



-20-
addresses issues of transparency and accountability. Rosugol has undertaken to provide all relevant
information (para. 60.(i.)) to the Inter-Agency Commission and the Bank.
64.   Special Purpose Audits. Principal recipients of state support identified as receiving substantial
budget subsidies have been identified as candidates for special purpose audits (para. 61.(ix.)) to monitor
the use of public funds. For purposes of the Second Tranche Release Review, planned for the fourth
quarter of 1996, the audits will be based on performance in the first half of 1996.
F.    POVERTY CATEGORY
65.   The proposed SECAL supports government policies that aim to make coal sector restructuring
socially sustainable. This will be accomplished in part by strengthening the existing social safety net to
meet the needs of those most affected by restructuring: redundant coal sector workers and their families
and communities. The social reforms that underpin the proposed SECAL are an integral part of the
Government's program for coal sector restructuring, which includes both support for the maintenance and
operation of essential social assets divested by the coal industry and community support and employment
programs designed to address the particular needs of towns and settlements which are unusually dependent
on the coal industry. The SECAL will be in the category "Program of targeted interventions".
G.    ENVIRONMENT
66.   Environmental Assessment. Environmental issues are potentially important in mine closures. The
Bank undertook an extensive review of the environmental problems of the coal industry in preparing the
1994 sector report. This review concluded that the most serious environmental problems in mining areas
were linked to the burning of coal rather than to mining activities per se. Apart from a small number of
localized issues, the main weaknesses in the environmental performance of mining were the consequence
of poor incentives and bad management that sustained inefficient mining practices encouraged by a focus
on meeting output targets. Thus, reform of incentives and operating procedures combined with the closure
of the most inefficient mines, which tend to cause disproportionate environmental damage, will reduce
the environmental damage caused by the industry.
67.   Specific measures will be required to ensure that mine closures occur in an orderly manner that
takes account of the need to cap operating or disused shafts, to minimize risks associated with the
accumulation of gas in old mine workings, and to deal with any problems following the flooding of old
workings. Design institutes and other organizations have experience in preparing plans and implementing
the appropriate measures, though there is a tendency to opt for over-elaborate schemes which concentrate
too much on the recovery of equipment that cannot be economically justified.
68.   Environmental Rating. The proposed SECAL is not expected to result in any significant negative
environmental impact. The proposed SECAL has been rated "Category B" for Environmental Assessment.
Moreover, under the proposed companion IAP, technical assistance will be provided for managing the
environmental rehabilitation of lands disturbed by past mining operations. The IAP will also provide
assistance to the federal and regional authorities responsible for developing, reviewing, and monitoring
the implementation of mine closure plans. The Appraisal mission reviewed these issues as part of the
discussions on the draft Mine Closure Guidelines.
H.    PROPOSED COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
69.   To meet the challenge of translating its reform agenda into effective actions, the Government has
requested that the Bank finance a Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project (IAP) to



-21 -
support the implementation of: (i) special approaches to respond specifically to the needs of local
communities affected by coal restructuring; and (ii) Government's program for coal sector restructuring
generally.
70.   There is a need for: (i) improvements in management of the restructuring process through
increased participation of stakeholders as well as enhancement in transparency and openness; and (ii)
filling critical skill gaps and capacity building in a number of key areas which are essential to design the
details and implement the restructuring program effectively. The proposed IAP has been designed to
address the above concerns through the provision of necessary implementation assistance identified by
the key stakeholders. In this connection, the Bank has been instrumental in the mobilization of financing
from the international community to help prepare the program, including the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), the UK Know-How Fund and the Policy and Human Resource
Development (PHRD) Japan Grant Facility (JGF).
71.   Sustainability of Coal Sector Restructuring. The IAP would build upon ongoing efforts which
provide support for the implementation of the coal sector restructuring program and assistance to the
affected people and organizations. Based on the results of consultation with key stakeholders, including
social assessment in two coal basins (Pechora and the Kuzbass) affected by the mine closures, the project
would comprise the following main components:
(a) supportfor stakeholders participatory activities, including support for: (i) the Government's
efforts to improve industrial relations and social partnership in the coal sector; (ii) the IAC (both federal
and regional commissions); (iii) trade unions; (iv) local governments and the Association of Mining
Cities; (v) independent coal enterprises and their association; and (vi) public relations to enhance trust
and to create reform constituencies;
(b) socialprograms, including: (i) continuous social assessment and social impact monitoring in
coal mining regions; (ii) provision of consultant services, training and computer equipment for the design
of improvements in social protection of coal industry employees, management of social asset operation
and maintenance as well as design of community support and employment programs in Kuzbass, Eastern
Donbass, Pechora, Moscow and Kizel coal basins; and (iii) implementation of pilot activities of
community support and employment programs in the above five coal basins;
(c) strengthening subsidy management to enhance transparency and financial accountability
through provision of consultant services and computer equipment for improvements in: (i) allocation; (ii)
reporting; (iii) monitoring; and (iv) arrangements for independent audits of recipients of state support in
accordance with international auditing standards;
(d) technical assistance and training for commercialization and demonopolization of coal
conpanies, including provision of consultant services for: (i) the preparation of business plans of coal
companies; (ii) development of a framework for trust management of mining companies, including
preparation of a model agreement; (iii) the bidding process to select the trust managers; (iv) development
of measures aimed at attracting investments in the coal sector; and (v) management and financial training;
(e) technical assistance for environmental management through provision of consultant services
to strengthen the capacity needed for environmental management, including legal and financial aspects,
to remediate the adverse impacts of coal mines included in the restructuring program;



-22-
(f) technical assistancefor mine closure guidelines, including provision of consultant services for
the legal, organizational and informational support for the development of procedures for closure of
unprofitable mines; and
(g) Support to REFORMUGOL, including provision of consultant services and computer and
office equipment to strengthen the capacity of REFORMUGOL (see para. 72).
72.   A Project Preparation Unit (PPU) was established in the Ministry of Economy in October 1995
to prepare the proposed Coal SECAL and, subsequent to its identification in March 1996, the TAP. The
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will build upon the current PPU in terms of staffing and lessons
learned. The PIU, to be entitled "The Foundation For Promotion Of Restructuring The Coal Industry"
(REFORMUGOL) would be established in the form of a non-commercial foundation. The founders would
include the State Property Committee (GKI), Federal Center for Project Finance, and Association of
Mining Cities. The Presidium of the IAC would be the Trustee Council overseeing REFORMUGOL.
Staffing of the PIU is expected to be built up gradually, first with the appointment of the Director
General, Director for subsidy management and a deputy director to coordinate activities under the
proposed Project. In addition, other key managers are expected to be appointed shortly, including two
directors to cover: (a) institutional support for the IAC; and (b) social monitoring and information on
restructuring, respectively. In general, technical assistance and training activities will be carried out by
a partnership of foreign and local consultants, with a view to building up the capacity of local consultants
over time. Pilot activities for community support and employment programs would include contracting
with community based organizations (CBOs) and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) as
implementing agencies, based on an operating procedure acceptable to the Bank. The Project would be
implemented over a three-year period. With a view to minimizing implementation delays, a procurement
consultant is being mobilized by the PIU to assist in key procurement activities under the Project.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
73.   Benefits. The proposed Coal SECAL would support the effective implementation of a far-reaching
restructuring program in one of the most critical sectors of the Russian economy. The program will
promote an increasingly profitable and competitive coal sector through judicious closure of unprofitable
mines, demonopolization and commercialization of regional coal companies, and further improvements
in operational efficiency over time. This would, in turn, decrease and eventually eliminate subsidies and
the related impact of the coal sector on the federal budget. In addition to economic benefits, the
restructuring program would promote sustainability of the coal industry through a participatory approach
by key stakeholders and capacity building in key areas, including improved measures to mitigate social
and environmental impacts in the affected areas.
74.   Risks. This is a highly risky operation. The major risks involve the ability of the Government
to deliver on policy reforms, stemming in part from political uncertainties and difficulties in maintaining
a sustainable program of stabilization and structural reform. Even without the political uncertainties,
reaching a consensus on the needed reforms and implementing them will be difficult since the reduction
and redirection of subsidies, the closing of mines and the de-monopolization of the sector threaten major
vested interests and face strong resistance. Moreover, the Government's institutional capacity to
implement the complex social and structural reforms proposed is undemonstrated.
75.   As a two-tranche, quick-disbursing operation, the proposed Coal SECAL by itself cannot provide
sustained Bank support for the Government's coal restructuring initiatives over the medium term. The
risk that the restructuring momentum will not be sustained is addressed through assistance provided under
the proposed Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project, which is longer in duration



- 23 -
and will serve as a vehicle: (i) to assure Government that the Bank intends to remain engaged in the
sector beyond the life of the proposed SECAL; and (ii) to help strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Government to implement the reforms. Progress on coal sector restructuring over the last 2-3 years,
together with the commitments in the Government's Policy Letter, provide a reasonable assurance that
the reforms will continue if implementation problems can be addressed.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
76.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1996






nPEJCEaATEJIb    AnnexI
rIPABHTEJIbCTBA POCCHRCKOl 4DE,2EPAL1HH
Ir.  OCKBA
t,22 tv maq 1996 r.
1748n-F2
YBa>KaeMbli rocnouHH ByjT4eHCOH,
B COOTBeTCTBsH C Z(OrOBopeHHOCTAMH HaCTOAWL4M HanpaBAsio BaM nHCbMO C
H3JIO)KeHmeeM  nOfJIHTHI4 rlpaBHTejTbCTBa  PoccUiHcxoiU  cDe,epauHI4  B  yrOJInHOr
npOMbllliieHHOCTII.
C yBawKeHmeM,
B.HqepHOMbipxrnH
rpe3areHTy MeKayHapOZxHoro
6aHxa peKOHCTpyKXU   ui pa3BMTIIS
r-Hy LKeHMCy Byji4eHCOHy
r.BaLuHHrTOH, oxpyr KoJIyM6Hs
CIJA



Annex I                                    -26-
Page 2 of 34



Annex I                              -27 -
Page 3 of 34             0 nOnHTHIKe IpaBHTejnbcTBa POCCHiCICOii cIegepauHH
B VroJibHOH npONibiHuJIeHHOCTH
1. IlpaBHTeJibCTBO PoccHHcXoio  'PeaepaumH  HorOTOBsHTio H npHCTylIwIlO K
OCy1leCTBJIeHMIO   KOMniiexca   Mep,   HarpaBIeHHbIX   Ha   npeo6pa3OBaHHe
npOH3BOQCTBeHHOH   H  OpraHH3aUiHOHHOI   CTpyKTyp  yrOJIbHOH   OTTpaCJH 1IA
nOBbiLweHHAl ee 3:)3ceXTHBHoCTH H Ha pemeHme couLHajbHO-3KOHoMHTIecxHx npo6nieM
yrJIez,ao6bIBmaoHx perHoHoB. B pamKax 3TUX mep npexycmorpeHa nepeopKeHTaulsl
BbSlaeeMbIX   6i0z1xeTHbIX  CpeZCTB   C  4HHaHCHPOBaHHA   yrneao6blMH   Ha
(HaHCHpoBaHHe Mep no peCTpYXTYpl3aUHmH YrOIbHOr oTpaCjiH, B TOM Micnie Ha
JIHKBHUaaZi4io y6blTO4HbIX U Herepcne TBHbX 1iiaXT H pa3pe3OB, COLHajibHy1O
3aiL.umTy BbICBo6oicRaeMbix pa6OTHHKOB Ui o6ecnexeHHe peHTa6eJIbHOCTH1 yrJIeeo6biT1H
Ha  OCHOBe  nepcneXTUBHbIX  H  CTa6MJIbHO   pa6OTaiowmx  yr3ieao6blBalonIHx
npe,zripHATHr. HaMeleHo BHe,apeHme HOBOrO MexaHH3Ma pacnpeaejieHt4A CpeaCTB
rocyzLapCTBeHHog   novep)KxH,  o6ecnereBaiowero   6onbLuyio  rfIaCHOCTb   H
OTKpbITOCTb  H  yCHJIeHHe  (OHTpOJIA  CO  CTOpOHbI IlpaBHTeJIbCTBa. Mepbl no
COBepLueHCTBOBaHIIO  opraHH3auHOHHOH  CTPpyCTypbl yrOjibHOH  npOMbilL.-eHHOCTH
npe,uycmaTpHBaEO,T eUeHTpaJIH3aUmio ynpaBieHA u CO3zXaHHe KOHXypeHTHOR Cpeqbl
B yrJObHOR OTpaCnu.
(DaKTH!1eCKH pecTpYXTYpH3alUS1 yrOJIbHO9 rTPOMbIlUiJIeHHOCTH HaBJaIaCb B
1993 roxay. Pa3Mepbi rocyAapCTBeHHoH  nozIAep)KxH  yrOJIbHOA  oTpacJIM  6buHII
CyUJeCTBeHHO coKpaLUeHbl - C 1,04% BaTIOBOFO BHYTpeHHerO ripOZrYKTa (BBHI) B 1993
ro,ay Ao 0,45% BBHl B 1995 rouTy. 4oms cpeaCTB tezkepajTbHoro 6iozKeTa B o6iueM
o6leMe 4HHaHCHPOBaHAS yrOJIbHOH  nTPOMbILLJIeHHOCTH yMeHbIlHllaCb C 77%  B
1993 rolty ,uo 31%  B 1995 rozty. IlpexpaLueHa ao6bfLa yrnI  Ha 37 y6b]TOLHbzX
[uaXTax. qIHcJIeHHOCTb 3aHATbIX Ha npOH3BOZ=CTBe B YFOJIbHO14 rTpOMbiLuIeHHOCTH
coxpaTUTacb C 626 TbICSAM LeJIOBeK B 1993 roay zlo 529 TbICAq 4eJIOBeK B 1995 rozy.
OKoJio 73%  o6ieKTOB COuHaJIbHOR C#epbI B LuaXTepCXHx ropozax H nocemxax
nepezraHbl c 6aniaHca yrjieao6bTBaioLu.x ripeqnpHSTH9 B BeaeHHe MeCTHbIX opraHoB
BTIaCTH. rO,D;OBOi! o6feM qo6biqi yrim CH43HJIC5 c 305,5 MJIH. TOHH B 1993 romy ,o
270 MJIH. TOHH B 1994 roz,y H ,O 263,3 MJIH. TOHH B 1995 ro,Ay.
B OTmIHtIHe OT rlpOrpaMM peCTpyKTypH3aLimH yrOJTbHOUi rTpOMbILLIJIeHHOCTH B
xEpyrmx  CTpaHaX, raLe coxpauieHIe rTpOH3BOZCTBeHHbIX  MOLLHOCTeU  JOCTHrajiO
80-90%, yrOJIbHa npoMbiwiTeHHOCTb PoccHH nocJIe ee pecrpyKTypH3aumm OCTaHeTCA
OAHOU H3 xpynHeiUilX B MHpe, a ee npO,TyKUHA CTaHeT KOHKypeHTOcnOCO6HOH xaK
Ha BHyTpeHHeM, TaK H Ha BHeWIHeM pblHKaX.



AnnexI                               -28-
Page 4 of 34 2.    CTpaTerHS peCTPYKTYPH3aUHH yrOJlbHOHr npOMblw.1eHHOCTH
2.1.   L2o.irocpO4HaH CTpaTeri
B  1993 roay 6bula co3jaHa MeWCBeaOMCTBeHHaA KOMHCCHA rIo COULHaJbHO-
3KOHoMmH,ecKHM    npo6nieMaM    yrnego6bIBmiaolx    perHoHoB    (iaJIee   -
Me>KBeAOMCTBeHHaS  KOMHCCHS), COCTaB  KOTOPO   YTBep)KIeH  nOCTaHOBJIeHHeM
rIpaBHTeJbCTBa  PoccHiCK0oii  DeJAepauIM. IHpeaceUaTeJieM  ROMHCCHH  5BJJIeTCS
HlepBblii 3aMeCTHTeTib rlpeaceaaTejA rlpaBHTeJIbCTBa PoccHiicKoR (DeaepaIw4H. B
COCTaB MeCKBeqOMCTBeHHOR KOMI4CCHH BXOZLHT pyXOBOa24TejuI MHHHCTepCTB H
BegOMCTB,  HeriOCpeRzCTBeHHO  y,4aCTByIOWHX  B  peCTrpYXTYpH3auH    yrOnbHO9
npOMbiUl.IeHHOCTH, rIiaBbi aZa;MHHHcTpau4ir OCHOBHbIX yrJIeqo6bIlaaowiHx perHOHOB,
pYKOBOXjHTejiH YFOJIbHbIX HIpOCOI030B H PYKOBOaU4TeJim npelJnpHSTHR yrOJIbHOH
npOMblIIIJIeHHOCTH.
14 iiofloM 1995 r. HlpexIceaaTeJIeM Me>KBeaOMCTBeHHOR KOMHCCHH YTBepX)KaeHbl
"OCHOBHble HanpaBJIeHHR  pecTpyxTypH3aUHH  yrOJILHO0   npOMbIUiJIeHHOCTH", B
KOTOpblX oTpa)KeHbI OCHOBHbie 33ieMeHTbl qOjTrOCpO0HO9 cTpaTerHH rlpaBHTejibCTBa:
(a)    BbuLeAeHHe 6ioaJKeTHb6X CpeaCTB Ha BO3MelueHe y6blTKOB npOK3BOACTBa
rocTeneHHoe coKpatueHie o6feMoB rocy[apCTBeHHO14 nozFeplcKX4 YrOJIbHOA
npOMbihuJIeHHOCTH      ABjiAeTCS     CyLueCTBeHHOrU      EaCTbIO      nporpaMMbl
MaKpO3KOHOMH,eCKOiK  cTa6uJIH3aUi HapOZHOrO X035liCTBa PoccHH H cipaTerTH
C03zaHHA peHTa6eJIbHOA yrOJTbHOr4 oTpaCjTH, Ete9CTBy1OL1eA B pbIHO0HbIX yCJIOBH4X.
FlpaBHTejTbCTBO  coKpaLuaeT BbijeJieHme 6ioaweTHbIX  CpeaCTB Ha H36HpaTejibHylO
nozriepwKKy LUiaXT, KOTOpbie He B COCTOAHH14 nOKPbIBaTb CBOU rIpO43BOaCTBeHHbie
paCXO,abl 3a cTeT cBo6ogHoro ueHoo6pa3oBaHwiA Ha YOJIbHyIO lpOZYKuLUlIO.
(6)    HHBeCTH[LtH
Mo,xepHH3aUHA,  peKOHCTPYKUMA  H  pacumpeHHe  npOM3BOTCTBa  6yryT
ocyLueCTBJIATbCA 3a c,4eT co6cTBeHHbIx cpeaCTB yroJbHbIX KoMnaHmrW, 3aHMOB, a
TaK)K e 'aCTHbIX OTe,eCTBeHHbIX H UHOCTpaHHbIX KanFlTajioBJIO>KeHHrl. Bbixen5leMbie
Ha 3TH  iJejiM  Cpe,CTBa rOCyZI=pCTBeHHOR  nofZepU;KKH  6yZIyT  cnoco6CTBOBaTb
pa3BepTbIBaHHIo HHBeCTHUHOHHOU aeqTejibHOCT4.



3.
Annex I                              -29-
Page 5 of 34 (B)    JIlHBHUaLauHi  y6blToqHbIx  H  HenepcneICTHBHbIX  yrnieao6biBatoLuHx
npegEnpHHTHH, nepe,aaa HenpOcpHubHbix npernpHIpTHu
By,aeT Ji4KBHiUIpOBaHO He MeHee 90 y6bIToMHbIx ULuaXT H pa3pe3OB CyMMapHOR
MOLIHOCTbiO 60 MHJIIHOHOB TOHH B roa c o6LUeri qiCJieHHOCTbIO 3aHATbIX 83 TbJCAM1H
qejiOBeK. 11o  mepe BblBOJIa  U3  COCTaBa  yrOJTbHO9  oTpaCJIT  Henpo4HJTHbWX
npOH3BOJaCTB rlpOH3oareT gaJIbHeiRwee yMeHbweHHie lHcjTeHHOCTH 3aHsTbIX Ha 175
TbICAM lqeJIOBeK.
(r)    Mepbl B COUHaSjbHOU c4pepe
CMArlIeHHe HeraTHBHbIX CoUHaJThHblX rOCiZeaCTBHi pepCTpyXTypa3aLu   6yZeT
o6ecneqeHo c noMoLILbIO pSuaa mep no no=ep)KKe 3aHATOCTH, ocyLjecTBjiAeMbIX
O,aHOBpeMeHHO C nporpaMMaMH C03aaH1H HOBblX HeaOTHpyembix pa6oqHx MeCT,
BbinJIaTaMH noco6mi H KoMneHCaUHlHr pa6oTHmUaM, BblICBo6o)KaaeMb6M B CBS3H C
pecTpyXTypM3auHe9 yrOJIbHOH npOMbLIilieHHOCTH,  ineHaM MX ceMeu, neHc4oHepaM,
paHee pa6oTaBUIUM  B yrOJIbHorI ripOMbbIJIeHHOCTH, HHBaIiHZamM  H  iiieHam CeMeUi
yMepLuHx  LuaxTepoB. KpoMe  Toro,  6yxreT  3aBeplnleHa  nepe,aaqa  o61,eXToB
CoLUHajibHOUi Cepil B BegeHHe MeCTHbIX opraHOB BjiaCTI. B aaibHeHuieM  6yzeT
npoBe.aeHa pecopMa  CHCTeMbl ynpa1BjieHHA  COLiHajIbHOH  HH#paCTpyX(Typorl H
pe4)opMa OTHOwJeHHR Co6CTBeHHOCTH.
(z)    3aiuuTa oicpywaiouei cpembI
FIpaBhiTeJIbcTBo   C4uTaeT   CBoeu   3a2J;aqeH   cMArqeHHe   Bcex   4)OpM
He6JIaronpH5THoro  B03zei4CTBMA  nH,KBHJauuHH  waXT  Ha oKpy>KaioLUyio  cpezry.
TeXHHieCKHe  n:iaHbl MepOnpH5!THH  no  JIHKBHuauHH  LLaXT  H4 KOHTpOMO  3a
BblbOJTHeHHeM   Tpe60BaH14u,  coxIepxKaagxCq  B  npHpoXooxpaHHbIX  pa3,aeniax
YTBep)KxreHHbIX  nfIaHOB,   pa3pa6aTbIBalOTCA   C   yqacTmem    xOMneTeHTHbIx
npi4pOz0ooXpaHHbIX BeJoMCTB. HaMeqeHo npoBeCTH mccXieaoBaHi4e IpUHOpHTeTOB H
BapmaHTOB  peLueHUis  3xo3IOrH'eCxHX  npo6IieM,  nlopoKeHHbIX  B  lpolJIOM
yrJIeZIo6biBawowuMm npO43BOXJCTBOM, iH pa3pa6oTaTb pexomemaaauuJ nO Co3,aaHHIo
opraHH3auuHOHHo0   H  cHHaHCoBoH  cxeM, a TaK)Ke HopMaTHBHOui  6a3bl  ,M
peCyKJITHBauHH 3eMeYEb, HCnOp'eHHbIX yrneao6blBaiou4M ripOH3BOrCTBOM.
(e)    flpeo6pa3oBaHHe   CuCTeMbi   ynpaBseHHs,   KoMMepLwUaH3aLUHA   H
,aeMoHonoAH3aLuH.q
rpaBHTenbCTBo  ripHlMiiaeT  Mepbl, HanpaBj1eHHble  Ha aeueHTrpaIIH3auHi0
ynpaBjIeHHA1 u  IOPMHPOBaHHe yCjiOBHI  =A C03,aaHHA peHTa6e.JbHbIX YrOJIbHbIX
YCoMnaHIH4 H KOHKypeHTHOH cpejibl B yrjieaO6blBaioLaeR oTpacJIH. ,OjiA cIegepaMbHO4



4.
Annex I                               -30-
Page 6 of 34
COtCTBeHHOCTI-   B   yrOJ7bHOH   npoMb1LUIJIeHHOCTI4   CHM3HTCA   B   pe3yJIbTaTe
npHBaTH3auHm, nocrie Lero yrOJIbHaia  OTpaCJIb 6yaeT COCTOSTb B OCHOBHOM  13
HeCKOJIbKHX He3aBcCl4Mblx, caMo4fHaHcmpyeMbIx, KOHKypMpylOLOux Me>K.Dy co6o0i
yrOJIbHbIX  K(oMnaHIlid.  FocyaapcTBeHHoe   npeanpslTtie   "POCyrOJIb"   6yzaeT
npeo6pa3oBaHo B aKUHOHepHOe o6LueCTBO, ueJIH KOTOporo 6yryT COOTBeTCTBOBaTb
UeJTIM peCTpYKTYpH3auUH yrOJIbHoU ripOMbiluJIeHHOCTH.
2.2. CpexAHecpO4Hbie UeJUH
B COOTBeTCTBHU  C OCHOBHbiMli HarpaBeHMAMH peCTpyKTypH3auHm yrOjTbHO
npoMblwLIIeHHocTH" rlpaBHTeJIbCTBo onpeaeiHJIo  H  npHCTynHjIo K peaHIH3auHm
xomnrieiKca CpeAHeCpO4HbIX MepOnpASTH9.
9 4eBpajiA 1996 r. HIpe3HaeHT POCCU4UCIKOU OejepauHH no,nuican YKa3 Ng 168
"O   mepax  nio  ,aaZ,IbHewUJeMy  COBepLUeHCTBOBaHHIO   CTpYXTypbl  YrOJIbHOH
npoMbilluJIeHHOCTH   PoccUUiCiKoU  COeepauM",  KOTOpblU   gaeT   nOJIHOMOHSH
1HIpaBHTembcTBy no yCJImeHHIO permOHajIbHibX yrOJIbHb1X KoMnaHHHi 1 nepe;xate
rOCy,TmpCTBeHHb[X  naKeTOB  axuWH   yrOJIbHblX  KOMnaHUr   B  JOBepHTeTbHOe
ynpaBJIeHue pa3JIH'HblM  areHTaM, a TaKxKe no npeo6pa3oBaHMno roCyzxapCTBeHHoro
npezinpHATMA "Pocyronbm" B axuwioHepHoe o6LuecTBo C 3axpenJ1eH0em 100% ero
aKLjHh B   ,eaepaAbHoi CO6CTBeHHOCTH CpOKOM Ha T-pH ro,;a.
B PeBpane 1996 rozaa MeIKBeaoMCTBeHHO9 KOMHccme1 6blJIU  paccMoTpeHbl H
yTBepCx1eHb1    nporpaMMbl   CoLXHaJIbHo-3KoHoMImxecKoro    pa3BHTH1    p5Pa
yrrie,ao6blBaiowux   PerU4OHOB   POCCHH   (rle4OPCKOrO   YrOJIbHoro   6acceUHa,
rOLZMOCKOBHoro yroIbHoro 6acceAHa, Ky36acca) H ozro6peH npoeiKT npOrpaMMbI no
BOCTOtIHOMY AL1OH6accy, a TaKXwe ripeaCTaBJIeHbl peKOMeH_jaiU4 no 3aBepujeHHIO B
1996 rojry nOJLrOTOBKH aHaJIorHiXHblx nporpamm zD;i apyrux yrnez(o6blBaboalrx
perHOHOB CTpaHbl.
2.3. KpaTKocpo'Hbie MePbl
BnepBble    B    npaKTHKe   roCyzIapCTBeHHOUi    nOaaeP,KKH    yrOJIbHOll
npoMbIlwleHHOCTI Ha 3aceaaHM11 MemBe,zoMCmeHHOri KOMJ4CCH4 npIlHHT  inaaH-
rpa#1x  pacnpeta;eji       CpeaCTB  rOCyrapCTBeHHOR  noaaepxcXH,  Bbi=JIeMbiX
oTpaCJIM  B nepBOM  no.IyroZuni 1996 roza, c pa36HBxouI  no  nonyytaTe.iM  H
HanpaBJIeHAM uejieBoro  CnOJIb3oBaHHA. AHajiorUixHbiri nfiaH-rpacuHK Ha BTOpOe
noJIyro,uie paccMo-rpeH MeaKBeroMCTBeHHoA KoMHccHeri 20 MaA 1996 roaa.
Ha 3aceaaHMH Me);BeaoMCTBeHHOA KOMUCCUH 26 4eBpaym 1996 roaa oao6peHo
H    nrOCTaHOBJIeHHeM      rpmaBITeubCTBa Ng 598 OT 17 maq 1996 r.    yTBep)KfEeHO



Annex 1                              -31-
Page 7 Of'My[oSeHHe   O   rOCyaapCTBeHHOM    bHHaHCHpOBaHlM    MeponpHSTH9   no
pecTpyxTypH3aulH   yrOJIbHoH   npoMbiwJIeHHOCTH",  onpezjeJuiowee   nop5,1xKo
pacnpe,aejieHuiA  cpeaCTB  rocyaapcTBeHHog  noz.epoKxm  no  nojyy'laTeJlSmM   U
HanpaBJIeHHU1M UeieBOrO HCnOJIb3OBaHMA.
Yxa3aHHbie peLweHHS AIBIOTCS BaX<HbIMM LuaramU Ha nYTH K o6ecneMeHHIo
rJIaCHOCTH  U  OTKpbITOCTU   B  pacnpereneHHH  U   HCnOJTb3oBaHUHU  CpeXCTB
roCyJTapCTBeHHOR   no=ep)KKH   yrOJIbHOi   IpOMbILUJIeHHOCTR   H   ycHJ-ieHHIO
o6inecTBeHHoro U npaBITe(IiCTBeHHoro KOHTPOJIA 3a pacxozoBaHHeM  yKxa3aHHbIX
Cpe,CTBm.
3.    06ibem, CTpyKTypa H MexaHM3Mbi rocyaapCTBeHHoH no=fepWKKI yrO.JbHoui
npoMbiwJ1eHHOCTH
3.1.   06iem rocyXaapcTBeHHo1 nofaepX;KKH
cDe,qepaJibHbili  6io1p*ceT  Ha  1996  ro,  BICIO,4aeT  B  ce6si  cpeacTBa
rOCyJ1apCTBeHHOR  non2aepmucH  yrOJIbHO i npOMbIw.ieHHOCTH  o6WHM   o6bMeMom
7,4 TpIJIJIHOHa py6Jieri. BriocJIeaCTB4H  HIpaBHTeJIbCTBO  npUHHJIO  peLieHle  o6
yBe.J1imeHHH 3TUX paCXOLOB Ha 3,0 TpHJJUOHa py6neg, YTO aoBejio o61wHA o6-beM
paCXOzIOB Ha rocyaapCTBeHHyio no,=epMcKy yrOTIbHOH npOMbBIWJIeHHOCTH ZJO
10,4 TpHJIUHOHa. py6neg. Bo H36e)KaHHe HH4ETThULIOHHbiX nOCjieaCTB4 rTaxoro paaHee
He    nnIiaHUpOBaBIimerocs    yBeJIH'qeHHS    npeanojiaraeTcsA    4HHaHCHPOBaTb
nIOrJHHTeJnbHbie paCxogbl 3a ctieT BHCWHUX 3aHMOB. rPH  3TOM  o6uaq CyMMa
pacxOzROB  B  10,4 rpHMuIoHa  py6rieii 6yaeT  o3Ha4aTb  coKpauLeHHe  o6ieMa
rocy,aapCTBeHHori rio=ep>KKH Ha 9%  B peanJbHOM  H4cqHcYieH4H  no CpaBHeHHIO C
1995 rozoM.
B  1996 rozry npimetiOTCA cUIetyIoLume xaTeropHH pacXOXEOBaHH5I CpeaCTB
rOCy,aapCTBeHHOr rioz1zep>KXH yrOJIb HoU npoMbiwJIeHHoCTIH:
A.        PocyzIapCTBeHHaS    no=ep'Kxa   pecTpyKTypH3auuH    yroJIbHoH
npoMbIIuIeHHOCTH;
B. BpeMeHHaA rocyuapcTBeHHa5 no=epKxia yrnejo6bIBaiowero npOIl3BOACTBa;
B. Ho=epx<xa o6-bexToB COI4HaJIbHOH cq)epbl, nepejaHHbix c 6aRaHca yr-OIbHbIX
npe,inpHAlTHAi B BezreHme MeCTHbIX opraHOB BJIaCTH.
geTanUMpOBaHHoe onlhcaHHe yKa3aHHbIX KaTeropmm cy6CftIHAi npl4BOatHTCA
HH)Ke.



6.
Annex I                              -32-
Page 8 of 34 B  1997 r. xaTeropHm paCxoaoBaHHS  cpeZCTB rocyaapCTBeHHoii rIOXIo=ep)KX
yroJIIHoH  npoMbiLuJIeHHOCTH  OCTaHYTCA TeMH wKe, 4TO H B 1996 r., mcXMoqaA,
OxEHaxO,  KaTeropHio  rOCyaapCTBeHHO0   roI.ep)KXH   nepeaaHHbIx  o6-beXTOB
coLHaJIbHOH c4epbl (,mo6as noIizepiicIa TaKoro poaa noXUle>KXT 41HHaHCHpOBaHHIO
Hepe3 o6wHe TpaHc4epTbl cy6-bexTaM PocciurcKoii (DellepaUHH).
3.2.   PacnpeaenieHie  cpeaCTB   rocyaapcTBeHHoR   no=epwim   yrolbHOfi
npoMbimlJleHHOCTH.
B pamxax o6tueg CyMMbi CpeaCTB rOCyZiapCTBeHHOH no=epWxH, BbiZlejieMbIX B
1996 ro,Uy, Hame,{eHo BHJOH3MeHHTb ee CTPYXTYpY C TeM, MT06bi yBejIH4MTb JoMo
CTaTel paCXOaOB, npeaHa3Ha!IeHHbIX  JTA CrpyKTypHOri nepecrpouxH YrOJIbHO
oTpacJIH  H  wrIA  Colep)KaHHA  H  pa3BHTMA  o6beKToB  CoUHaTibHoij Ccepbl B
yrJIeo6E6bIBaiouwx perHoHax.
B   COOTBeTCTBHH   C  KniaCCmH4KaUmeH,  ripHHITOH   B   "1IO.iO)*eHHH   O
rocyaLapCTBeHHOM 4IiHaHCHpOBaHHH MeponpHASTHir no peCTpyYITypK3aui4m yroJIbHoH
npoMbilIL-ieHHOCTH", B COCTaB pacumpeHHOri KaTeropmH  (A) "rocyaapcTBeHHas
no=epiKXa peCTpYKTYpH3aUmH yrOJIbHOH npoMblIJIeHHOCTH" BXOZEAT:
(1)    TeXHHuecKHe pa6OTbl no JIHKBH.aLUHH y6bIToqHbIx H HenepCnelKTHBHbIX
yrOJIbHbIX LuaXT H pa3pe3oB;
(2)    paCXO,abl Ha coURaJIbHYIO 3awlUTy BbICBo6oKiaeMbix pa6OTHHXOB  U
qJIeHOB HX ceMei, a TaK)Ke neHCHOHepOB H HHBaIiH2oB, paHee pa6oTaBUIHx B
yrOJIbHori npOMbIU1jeHHOCTH (B 3Ty nOaKaTerOpHIO BXOZUST rlpOrpaMMbl MeCTHOrO
pa3BHTHS H o6ecneqeHHA 3aHATOCTH - CM. Pa3zle.I 4.1);
(3)   noco6HA no  HHBaJIHXHOCTH  H  rinpoeccHOHajIbHbIM  3a6ojieBaHHsM
pa6oTHHKaM JIHKBHIRHPOBaHHbIX LiaXT;
(4)    pa6oTbl no  CHOCY  BeTxoro  H  CTpOHTeNjbCTBY  HOBOrO  )KHJIhSI B
LuaxTepcxHx ropojaax H nocenxax;
(5)    xarilHTaJIOBJIo)KeHHM  B TeXHHYeCKOe nepeBoopy)KeHHe H peKOHCTpY1(LIHIO
,ueACTBYIOWHX waXT H pa3pe3OB c ueJIbIO o6ecneqeHHA Hx peHTa6enbHOCTH;
(6)    KariHTaJIOBJIO)KeHMA B CTpOHTeJlbCTBO HOBbIX peHTa6ejTbHbIX YrOJIbHbIX
waXT H pa3pe3OB;
(7)    Hay4HO-TeXHHteCKoe H npoeXTHoe o6ecneqeHHe;



-7
Annex I-33-
Page 9 of 34 (8)    OTqHCIeHHA B UeHTpaJiH3oBaHHblH pe3epBHbIA cOH  AU  UIOKpblITHAS
paCXOX[OB, CBI3aHHbIX  C HeC4aCTHbIMH  CJIyqa3tMH, KaTacTpoamm H  npOMUmH
noAo6HbIMM COFbITHAMM.
B COCTaB pacwmpeHHOiH xaTeropmm (B) "BpeMeHHaA rocyzapcTBeHHa3i
no,aep>Kxa yrJIeao6blBaiowero npOH3BoqcTBa" BXO)ILHT:
(9)    H36HpaTeJTbHas  nozaepcxca  yrJieao6blBaiouLux  npeanpHATMR,  He
CnOCo6HbIX B03MeCTHTb CBOH nlpOM3BO-ICTBeHHbie paCXOrbl 3a cdeT JIOXOTAOB OT
CBo6OX,HbIX pbIHO0HbIX UeH Ha yrOJIbHYIO flpo0JLuIHO  (cy6cHauH  Ha nOKpbITHe
rIpO03BOZLCTBeHHbIX y6biTxOB);
(10)   pacxo,bi rpeCarpHATHsu H  opraHHaui4u yrOJIbHOH npOMblu.TIeHHOCTM H
uIaXTHoro cTpoHTenJIbCTBa no peaJuIH3auu  oTpaciieBbIX TapHuHbix cornaLeHMii;
(I1)   cozxepKaHiie Haxoa SLUHXCS Ha 6aiiaHce npeCrpHASTHMA H opraHH3aUHri
yrOJTbHO9 nlpOMbiluJIeHHOCTH  06obeYTOB CouUHajibHOA CqJepbl, He nepeaaHHbIX  B
BeJIeHHe MeCTHbIX opraHOB BJIaCTH.
B g1onomieHHe K 3TOMy, Ha BTOpYIO rJOJIOBHHY 1996 roz;a 6yzeT BBez(eHa HOBaA
xaTeropU4 (B) "rlozxep*Kxa o61beKTOB COl1Haq16HOA cepw, nepenaaHblx C 6azaHca
yrOJIbHbIX  npez(npHsTHf  B BeaeHHe MeCTHblIX  opraHOB BjiaCTH", BKMOqaioiuaA
Bbirli1aTbl MeCTHbiM aRzMMHHcTpaUH3lM Ha uejiH cMHaHCHPOBaHHS coaep)KaHHA H
pa3BHTMA 06oheXTOB COUJRabHOA C4epbi, nepeqaHHbIX B BegeHHe MeCTHblX opraHOB
B.iaCTH.
20 Maq   1996 roza   MeKBezOMCTBeHHaA  KOMHCCHA   o;Io6pHna   rpaciiHx
pacnpexrejieHHA CpeaCTB rOCyqapCTBeHHOri nozCep>KKH yrojibHoH   oTpaCJI4 Ha BTOpOe
nojiyrou-iue 1996 roaa.
Fpa4K  pacnpeaejieHuH3 CpeaCTB  rocy2apCTBeHHOi no=epwKH  yrOjbHOH
npomMbiLu1eHHOCTH Ha BTOpoe nojiyro,ue 1996 roga rpexycmaTPBaeT Bbi.eJIeHme:
(a) He MeHee 1,6 TrplJ1JHOHa py6nerl cy6,beKTaM (Degepaiux  u1  MHaHCHpoBaHHS HX
PaCXOZ(OB  Ha pa3BHTHe, 3aMeHY B cJiymae Bbi6blTH5A, peMOHT, COtep)KaHH4e H
3KCmijyaTaLuHo  06'beKTOB  CouHaabHog  C4)epbl,  nepeaaHHbix  npearipIH5THuAMH
YFOJIbHO  OTpaCJIH B BeaeHHe MeCTHbIX opraHOB BnaCTH; (6) cyMMapHO He MeHee
200 MHiJIiapaOB py6neu KeMepOBCKOI o6iiacTH, Pecny6inHKe KOMU, POCTOBCKOU
o6.iiacT, HIepMCKO   o6iiaCTH ii TyJIbCKOU o6nacTJ JUIHHaHCHpOBMHIA UX
paCXOAOB Ha fIHJIOTHbie IporpaMMbl MeCTHOrO pa3BHTH4 H o6ecneqeHHl 3aHATOCTH
xJIAI LuaXTepCKiX par4OHOB, paCnOJIO)KeHHbIX Ha TepptTOpHH yia3aHHbIX cy6-beKTOB
ZeaepauHH; (B) He MeHee 300 MHjLiHaPBOB py6nieu YrOJIbHbIM K0MonaHHAM WJIA



8.
Annex I                              -34-
Page 10 q>34aHCMpoBaHHS mx paCXOaOB Ha COUHaabHY1O 3aWHTY pa6oTHMKoB LLaXT, 6bBmuTX
pa60THHKoB ULLaXT H qj1eHOB UX ceMer.
FIpi  pacnpeaeYIeHi-r  6ioeTHbIX  CpeaCTB  rOCyaapCTBeHHOUi  rioAaepKXH
YFOJIbHOI npoMbiluIeHHOCTH (mcxKoqas bHaHCHpOBaHme nepezIaHHblX B BeaeHHe
MeCTHblX opraHOB BjiaCTI o6-beKTOB COUHaJIbHOU c4)epbl) B 1997 rozly 6yAyT YqTeHbl
cnezuywoLuHe noJIo>KeH4A: (a) He MeHee OaHO  TpeTH OT o6Luero o6-beMa cpexcTB
rOCyXapCTBeHHOH noriozep>KKH yroJIbHoH npOMblwiUeHHOCTH 6yaeT HanpaBJIeHo Ha
TeXHHuecKHe pa6oTbi no JIHYBHqauuuHH LuaXT H pa3pe3oB, couzazjbHy1o 3aLUHTy,
BKJIIoqaS HlporpaMMbl MeCTHOrO pa3BITHA H o6ecneqeHHs 3aHSTocTH, H noco6Hs no
HHBaJIMXaHOCTH HeTpyrOCliOC06HbIM  pa6oTHHKaM  JIHKBHZHpOBaHHbIX B HaCTOALuee
BpeMS  wLaxT; (6) o6uHi1 o6fbeM  cpe,aICTB rocyaapCTBeHHoH roz1Ltep>KKH yrOJIbHOu
npoMbILHJIeHHocTH, HCKnOqaAS CTaTbH, nepeCqcjieHHbie BbiiJJe B IYHKTe (a), a TaKm<e
H4cxjiio4aA cpeXICTBa, npeaocTaBeMbie yrOJIbHbIM  xOMnaHHAM  Ha B03BpaTHOH
OCHOBe noa IOJIO)KHTeJIbHyIO peaJIbHyIo CTaBKY ccy,rHoro ripoLIeHTa Ha KanHTaJIbHble
BYioXKeHiA tIl pa3BHTMA npOM3BOICTBa, CH43SATCS B 1997 r. He MeHee qeM Ha 40% B
peaJIbHOM cqHcJineHHM no cpaBHeHHIO C 1996 roaoM.
B npoeKTe DegepanbHoro 6ioixeTa Ha 1997 rog 6yZEyT ripeaycCMOTpeHbl B
IJOCTaTO4HOM  o6teMe  TpaHC4)epTbl cy6-beKTaM  POCCU1UCKOU  cteaepauHH  JU1m
rozwaepxUm o6beKTOB COLUHaJIbHOA CcepbI, nepezaHHblX B BegeHme MeCTHbIX opraHOB
BjiacTH, C y oeTOM  TeMna nepe,AaaH  yKa3aHHbIX  o6-beKTOB, yBem4HqeHHA JOJIH
paCXO)OB, fIOKpblBaeMbIX MeCTHbIMH opraHamH BJIaCTH H noiycaTemMA  CpexZ;cp TB, a
TaK)Ke Heo6xoaHMocTH eaMHoo6pa3Horo noPDxoRa KO BCeM nepeZaHHbIM  o6-bexTaM
COuUHaJHOHi ccepbl.
3.3. Mexafflf3m rocyaapCTBeHHou noaaepKicH
lpH  paccmoTpeHHH  pacnpezaejIeHHs cpe2;CTB rocy,rEapCTBeHHO0  no=ep)KxK
yrOJmbHOU  npOMbILuJIeHHOCT4, Me)KBeZroMcTBeHHaA KOMHCCH5  onpeaeJiHT CnHCOK
rOJIOBHbIX nrioyaaTeJIefi 3THX CpeacTB, B XOTOpbli, llOMHMO PAO "Pocyrojib" H
OTKpbITOrO aKLIHOHePHOrO o6LLueCTBa "PocTonnpoM", 6yryT BK(JOjleHbl He3aBHCHMbie
YrOJIbHbie xoMnaHHH (no mepe HX mopMHpoBaHHA), amMHHHcTpaiumm cy6ibeKToB
(ceaepaUHH H MeCTHbie aaMHHHCT-Lpaum  yrieao6blBaiowuHx perHOHOB  (B  qaCTH,
KacaloLuecA  buHaHcHposaHA  couHaJIbHori  no=epxacH  HaceJIeHsA).  locnie
paCCMOTpeHHS   H   yTBep>KaeHHUR   nnaHa-rpa#wKa   pacripeCejieHHS    CpeaCTB
rocyZIapCTBeHHOri floUepxKKH  no  nonyqaTenim  (c BblJIe:ieHHeM   HanpaBJieHHH
HCnOJIb3OBaHHA) 6yayT  3aKxJOqaTbCS  corJIaweHHl4  o  uejieBoM   HCnOJlb3oBaHliH
6io;gxeTHbIx cpeaZCTB, a TaKi<Ke o6 HHbIX yCJIOBHAX, KOTOpbIM qOJI)KHbI OTBeYaTb
nojiytaTemii cy6ctHzui4, Me)Kay MHHHCTepCTBOM TOrlJIBa H 3HepreTUTKH POCCHUCKOUi



9.
Annex 1                              -35-
Page 11 Q~epauuH u rOJIOBHbIMH nojiy'aTejThmH CpeZCTB rocy,1apCTBeHHoii no0ep)xKH; a
TaK)Ke Me)f(y rOJIOBHblMH nojiy'aTeiJAMH H KOHeqHbIMH no10yqaTeiAMH CpeaCTB
rocyZTapCTBeHHoA  nofzIep>KKH  (iopjzHzecxiiMH   iiHLIaMH,  OTBeIaIoWtfMH   3a
MeponrIPHAsTH   no  peCTpyKTypH3aUHt4, -  VrOJIbHbIMH  IoMnaHHSUlH  H  HHbIMH
opraHH3auHSMH).
HojTy4aTeJI   CpeZICTB   roCyaapCTBeHHOi  rioztaep)KKH   AOJIX<Hbi  6yzyT
riperOCTaBJIATb MeKBeZoMCTBeHHOri KOMUCCHU  cRHaHCOBYIO H 4HYO HH4JOpMaULiO,
KacaioI.ylocR BeI44H61l H HanpaBjieHHH HCnOJib3OBaHH5 cpexcTB rOCyaapCTBeHHOi
noggep)KKH. COCTaB  3TOU  HHcIOpMaUHH  H nePH40ZWqHOCTb ee npeaCTaBjieHH4I
onpezejiAiOTCA B COOTBeTCTBYIOIU1e CpOKH MeKBeaOMCTBeHHOA K0MoCCHeg. Bce
noJIyMaTeJIH 6io,)eTHbIX CpeJCTB no0e)KaT ayUXHTOpCKoH npoBepxe.
Cpe,acTBa  rocygapCTBeHHor  no0aep)KKH4 Ha  0iepeLHHo I KBapTaii 6yzyT
BbUlei5ATbCR  B  3aBHCHMOCTH  OT  HcnOJIHeHHSl  o653aTejicTB   no  LefleBOMy
paCxOQOBaHHIO Cpe,lCTB 3a npegEj1yWHm  xBapTaR B COOTBeTCTBHH C 3aRjnoqeHHbIMH
cornia i eHHSM .
MiuHHHcTepcTBo 4HHaHCOB PoccHIcKoiii Oeepauim  oTBeqaeT 3a pacnpe,xeneHme
cpeacTB   rocy,iapcTBeHHOU   noxepxcxH   yrOJIbHO   npOMbIlujieHHOCTH   qepe3
perUOHaJIbHbie  oTgetfeHlHH   Ka3HaqegcTBa  B  COOTBeTCTBHH  C  YTBep)K2IeHHb1M
Me)KBe,aOMCTBeHHO4   KoMHccHeH    nJIaHoM-rpa#HxoM         pacnpezejieHAs    H
corJIaUIJeHHAMH, 3axjIoIeHHbIMH Mexczy MHHHCTepCTBOM TonJIU4Ba U 3HepreTHKH H
noJIy4aTejAM4 cy6cHai4iu.
4. HnOImuHa B COUHa4aJbHOH cepepe
KpaTKOCpo0Hbie Mepbi rlpaBHTeJIbCTBa B COUHajibHO c4)epe no OTHOweHH1O K
yrOJIbHo9 rIpOMblujieHHOCT4, BKMOqalOT: (a) co014aJIbHY1O 3auLHTY pa6oTHHiXoB
yroJIbHoii  npOMblIeIIHHOCTH    H   )W(HTenJer   yrne,qo6blBaioui4x   perHOHOB;
(6) cotepwcaHme H pa3BHTHe o6-beKTOB COULHabHOU MH#paCTpyKTypbl B uJaXTepCXHx
ropo,aax H noceimax.
4.1. CoHa6nbHa.9 3aWHTa
OcHoBHbie  Meponp0iATHA  B  o6JIaCTH  Co0uaAbHO  3aLUHTbl BKnIOqalOT:
(a) npejaocTasneHr4e couHajibHbIX rapaHT4H, noco6uu H xoMrieHcaLuHH pa6OTHHKaM,
BbICB060oxCJaeMblM B xo,ae pecTpyKTypH3auHH, 4JieHaM  KX ceMeA, neHCHOHepaM  H
MHBaYimXIaM, paHee pa6OTaBWnHM  B YQOJIbHor n1poMbbInJieHHOCTH; (6) Mepbl no
Co0egCTBhIO 3aHATOCTUH  U no1jieHU4HHO  KBaJIm4JKaL4m am  Tpy;xOyCTpOACTBa B



10.
Annex I                              -36-
Page 12 qft44oHax,  raze  nOJ1oX<eHHe  B  cbepe  3aHATOCTH  o6ocTpw[OCb  B  CBS3U  C
pecTpyKTypH3aut4eg.
B  Pocciuu cno>KHiac. cHcTema COuHaJIbHbIX  rapaF.T    uuI  pa6oTHnoKB,
Bb]CBo6o0(,aaeMbiX C npeanpHATHi. IIpaBHTeJIbCTBO o6ecneqUlT cJiezlyIoLLHe Mepbl:
-  BblnJIaTy BbICBo6o)0KaeMbIM pa6oTHrnaM  3aKOHoqaTeJibHO yCTaHOBJieHHbIX
BbIXOXtHblX  noco6uu  H4  xomneHcaulig  B  cooTBeTcTBII   C  pae9CTByIOIiUHM
3axoHoaaTeJTbcTBoM;
-   XOOpZIHaHUHO  JaeATeNJbHOCTH  pa3flHqHbIX  MHHHCTepCTB  H  BezlOMCTB,
y,aCTBY1OWHX B 4bOpMHpOBaHKH,  UHHaHCHpOBaHHH  H peai3aumi  couWajibHbIX
nporpaMM B xo,ze LumpoKoMacLnTa6Horo BbIcBo6oxIeHHSI pa6oTHHYoB.
rlpaBHTe.jbCTBO  CV.HTaeT,  4TO  HaH6o0ee  ryMaHHbIM   H  3IOHOMH'qeCK4
34xeKTHBHbIM  cnoco6oM  coxpalueHMA 14CJIeHHOCTH 3aH5TbIX B oTpaCJIH ABJIAeTC31
orpaHH,qeHHe HaMma, B oco6eHHocTH JIUU, He HMimeowUx Onb!Ta pa6OTbl B yrOJIbHOvi
nIpoMbIwlJIeHHocTH. lIpHu npeRzoCTaBJIeHHH  CpeCaCTB rocyZIapCTBeHHOK  noxiep>KXc1
cJieziyeT npezrycmaTpHBaTb, 4TO npeTeHWZyioume Ha Hee y6bITo'iHbie npenripHSTHR
YrOJIbHO9 npOMbILIJIeHHOCTHi Z[OJDIKHbI o6eCrie4HBaTb OrpaHHieHme iHjila flpHHATbIX
Ha pa6oTy B TeteHi4e mo6oro xBapTaJia ,ao YPOBHA He 6oJIee 1%  OT o6weui
*lHCJieHHOCTH  3aHATbIx.  3To  YCJIOBHe  6yaeT  OrOBOpeHO   B  corJIaLIeHHAX,
3aKmjo'iaeMbIx  Mew.Ay  MHHHCTepcTBOM   TOnrLIHBa  H  3HepreTHR1C  POCCHuCKOil
(eze,epaumH H rOJIOBHbIMH rioHyIaTeJIAMH cpeiCTB rocyaapcTBeHHO9 nozzep)KK, a
Taixwe MeC)ay rOJIOBHbIMH H KOHeYHbIMH rioiTymaTeIiMAH.
BceM   pa6oTHHKaM   LuaXT,  o6bABJIeHHbIX  X  pecHpyKTypJpoBaHlO         H
JIHKBYHzIauHH, 6yqyT oKa3blBaTbcs 6ecnruaTHble KOHCYJI6TaLIHOHHble yCJIyrH. 3TH
yciiyrH  6yaryT  opraHH3OBaHbI cIeXepajibHoH  cJiy)K6OA  3aHSTOCTH  Ha  OCHOBe
COOTBeTCTByIoLUHx aOrOBOPOB C YrOJIbHbTMM ripeanpHSTH5MH C HCnOJib3oBaHmeM
Cpe,aCTB rocyzapCTBeHHo  rioep)KKH YrOJbHOl npOMbiiJIieHHOCTH. Pa6OTHHKaM
yFO,IbHbIX ipeznpHAHTHl4 6yxryT o<a3aHbI XOHCYJIbTaUHOHHbie ycJiyrm no BOripocam
BbICBo6ox<2aeHHi, B TOM m-HcIe: (a) npoueztypaM 3a6narOBpeMeHHoro yBeaomneHliA o6
yBOJIbHeHHH  H  (6) MexaHH3MY  onepaTHBHOrO  COBMeCTHOrO  KOHCYJIbTHPOBaHuH
pa6oTHlcKOB H MeCTHOrO HaceIieHHS.
,ITJIA PYKOBOa4TeJIiei YFOJ-IbHbIX FipezITpuiATu4, a TaKoKe ZtIA pyKOBOuIHTejIeri
np#OCOI03HbIX OpraHH3aUHri B nepiHOJi MmKy HIOHeM H OKTA6peM 1996 roaa BO BCeX
yrOJIbHbIX 6acceuiHax 6yayT opraHH3OBaHbl ceMuHapbi no BoripocaM  ynpaIBfeHlHA



Annex I                              -37-
Page 13 *'AleccaMH  MaCCOBOrO  BbIcBo6oKZeHmS, a TaK>Ke no  Boripocam  COUHzaIbHOU
3aWHTbl BbICBo6o)XIaeMbiX luaXTepOB.
B w4oHe 1996 roza 6yztyT onpeuenIeHbi nopqaoK H U  OpMbl y4aCTHA opraHoB
rOCyXaapCTBeHHOA cJIy)K6bl 3aHAToCTH HaceJITeHH B nporpaMMax COLIH&aIbHO-
3KoHoMHlecKoro pa3BHTH5A yrJIeno6blBaboLuMx perHoHoB. K KOHUY HIOfX 1996 roga
MeCTHbIMH  cIy)K6aMH   3aHATOCTm  6yzryT  pa3pa6oTaHbl  H  npeZiCTaBWieHbI  B
perUOHa         OTbeTleIeHHA Me>KBe,IoMCTBeHHOiI KOMUCCUH nJIaHbl MepOnpH2THH 3THX
cnyxK6 Ha LuaXTax, HaMe'eHHbIX K IHXBMqaLMUH ijim pecTpYKTYp43auLIH B 1996 r. H
1997 r., H cMeTbl 3aTpaT Ha peajiH3aumLo 3THX niiaHoB. Pean43auMs  yh a3aHHbIX
MepOnIPHS4TH HayHeTCIC K KOHLyc CeHTA6pS 1996 roxra.
Bo BTOpOM noJiyroimu 1996 roxia HaHHeTcA npaKT14-IecKa3 pean43aUMA nATH
nl4JIOTHb[X IlporpaMM MeCTHOrO pa3BMTHI H o6ecneqeHHA 3aHSlTocTH B LuaXTepCKHX
6acceriHax, B HaH6oibTHeg CTerieHH 3aTpOHYTblX pecCTpyKTyp3aLi4ei4 (FleMopcKoM  H
l1O0IMOCKOBHOM   YrOJIbHbTX   6acceRHax,  IKy36acce,  BOCTO4HOM   ;JoH6acce  H
KH3eJIOBCKOM 6acceiHe). 14CTOlqHHKaMH 4JHHaHCHpOBaHHA yKa3aHHbiX nporpaMM
CTaHyT Cpez;CTBa, BbizteJIeHHbIe Ha COUHJarbHYIO 3aIUMTy B paMKaX rocy'aapCTBeHHOKr
no=ep)Kxi  YFOJIbHOHi HpoMbIluJIeHHocTH, a TaKoKe pecypCbl MeCTHbIX  4)OHaOB
3aHATOCTH. FOJIOBHbIMH noJIymaTe4TAMH  6ioxKeTHbIX CpeaCTB, H anpaBJIleMbIX  Ha
peaJIH3aumio 3THX npOrpaMM, 6yUyT aRzmMHHCTpauLU cy6'beKTOB ctegepauHH, Ha
TeppHTOP14H KOTOpblX paCnOJIo)KeHbl yKa3aHHbie Bbiule yrJiexo6bIBaioLUQe perHOHbE.
B   Ka,4eCTBe   KOHe4HbIX   noiryqaTeiiek   6yzxyT   BbICTynaTb   opraH43aLIH,
yHlOJIHOMO4eHHb1e Ha TO MeCTHbIMH opraHamM BTIaCTH.
OpraHbl rOCyZapCTBeHHOH CJTy>K6bI 3aHSTOCTH HaCeJieHmq npU4MYT y!.aCTHe B
pa3pa6oTxe H peajIM3auH yxa3aHHbIX nporpaMM MeCTHoro pa3BsTMA M o6ecne,eHHA
3aHATocTM, a TaK)Ke o6ecnelaT CO4)HHaHCIIpOBaHHe 3THX nporpamm H3 CpeXaCTB
MeCTHbIX #OHIOB 3aHATOCTM.
Bo BTOpOU rIOYIOBHHe 1996 ro,qa Ha rWTb rTMJIOTHbIX nporpamm MeCTHOrO
pa3B4THq H o6ecneY4eHHM  3aHATOCTM 6yaeT BbiuejieHO B COBOKXYIHOCTH He meHee
200 MmmmapaOB py6nieg. 3TU cpezrCTBa nocJIy)*aTxiA nozulepfcKH Uejjoro pqwza
npOeKTOB, a HMeHHO: (a) peMOHTa o6beKTOB  COLlHaJIbHOH H npH4po,TooxpaHHO9
uHHpaCTpyKTypbi nyTem  opraHM3auHH  o6iuecTBeHHbIx  pa6OT;  (6) no=epcKcH
maJIoro   6H3Heca;  (B) nepeo6y4eHl4A;  (r) KOHCyJIbTHpOBaHH4   no   BoripocaM
TpyZIOYCTpORCTBa H COae9CTBMq  rpyOyCTpOHCTBy; (a) npOT-HX  HHUHUaTHB  no
CO3,JaHHIO HOBbIX pa6oMHx MeCT Ha nepcneKTHBHblx npeznpMATMAx. FI4IoTHbie
nporpamMbi  BOVtaT   COCTaBHOH   HaCTbIO   B   perlOHa-ibHble   nporpammbl



12.
Annex I                              -38-
Page 14 jfOVipyxTypM3aumi       yrOJIbHOH       npOMbIwnieHHoCTM,        npuHHmaeMbie
MeXKBegOMCTBeHHOrI KOMHCCieH.
Oco6oe BHMmaHHe 6yreT yZeJieHO LuaXTepCKHM  ropozam  H nocenxaM, rae
yrOJIbHbie  npeunpHATH5A  ABJSUOTCS  rpaaoo6pa3yioLuHMH, H  rRe  nocieZCTBHsA
pecTpyKTYpH3auHH oKa3blBaloT cepbe3Hoe BJIHHme Ha BCeX )KHTeJei, a He TOJTbKO Ha
Tex, KTO HenOCpeUCTBeHHO CBS3aH C YrOJIbHOH npoMbIlujieHHOCTbIO.
HapsAZy c npOqHMHM  MeponpHATHS4MH, KOTOpbie nOjiyqaT noaaepXCXy B paMKaX
yxa3aHHbTX nlpOrpaMM, C03,aaeTCA ueiieBOA  OHq "BopKyTa-LjeHrp", OCHOBHbIMH
3a,aaam  KOTOpOrO ABhIAIOTCA HHc1opMauHOHHaS H KOHCYJIbTaUHOHHa5i noriijepwKKa
OTAenbHbIx rpaxmaH H ceMeu, >KeJIaioLlUHX BbEeXaTb H63 paOHOB KpaiiHero CeBepa B
zqpyr4e perHoHbI POCCMH. (I)OH, 6yzieT XOOPaHHHPOBaTb CBOIO .aeATeJTbHOCTb C
3aHHTepeCOBaHHbIMH MUHHCTePCTBaMH H BeaOMCTBaMH (DC3 POCCHH, OMC PoccHU,
(DOHAOM cowAajibHorO CT)aXOBaHUA H zpyrHMm) no Co3J,aHmio euIHHo0  CHCTeMbi
co,aIerCTBHA noHuBM)KHOCT4 pa6oqeg CHJIJI Ha OCHOBe o6MeHa HH4)opMauHeR H
opraHH3auuoHHoro B3aHMO,[eUCTBII C  perHoHaMH nOTeHLuHajibHoro nepeceneHHs.
Ha OCHOBaHHH OrIbITa, rIpHo6peTeHHorO B xoge ocyLueCTBjieHHS nHJIOTHbIX
riporpaMM, lpaBHTejibcTBo pa3pa6oTaeT 6o.iee KpynHoMacWuTa6Hbie llporpammbi
meCTHoro pa3BMTMA H o6ecrieleHHS 3aHSTOCTH zvA xaworo yrojibHoro 6acceuiHa )IL
mx peajiH3aLHH B 1997 roay.
4.2. HIo=epKca COUUHaAEbHOR HHcjpaCTpyKTypbE
HlpaBHTeJIbCTBO B CBOeU nOJIHTHKe HCXOaHT H3 TOrO, LITO PeCTPYKTYPH3aLHSA
yrOJIbHOU npOMbilwieHHOCTH He 90JI)CHa CHU3UTb o6beM  HUH YXYaZUHTb KaYeCTBO
COLuaJIbHbIX ycJIyr, npeZaOCTaBAeMbIX HaceJIeHrnO LuaXTepcKHx ropOOB H4 u nOCeJmOB.
B xogre pecTpyKTypH3aUHH cpeaLcTBa, BbiXeCjieMbi Ha rocy)lapCTBeHHyio nomzepIKfy
yrOJIbHOil  npoMbIwJIeHHOCTH,  6yxiyT  HCnOJIb3OBaTbCS  JUN  4HHaHCHpOBaHHA
cJIie1y2ouHx MeponpHSTH9: 3aBepLueHHe nepeua'14 B BegeHXie MeCTHbix opraHoB
Bj1aCTH o6,beKTOB COUHaJbHOH  c#epbi H )KHJIHLLAHoro 4OHga, HaXOamLWHXCq Ha
6aAaHce yrOjibHbiX npe,rnplsATMr4; o6ecneqeHHe aOCTaTOqHoro UHHaHCHpOBaHHSI VIA
3xcnjyaTauHu  H TeXHHqeCKOrO  o6CJIy>KHBaHHs  o6seKTOB  COUHaHJbHOFo  cbepbi,
nepexraHHbIX B BeZeHHe MeCTHbIX OpraHOB BJIaCT4; CHOC Hun peMOHT BeTXoro KHJIbA.
AiDm  o6ecneqeHHs  Heo6XoJWMoro  IHHaHCHPOBaHHS  o6'beRTOB  COuLaJbHO R
c4epbI B TemeHme BTOporo noJiyroaHA  1996 roxaa IIpaBuTeJIbCTBO  POCCUUCKOU
(Ze,aepaLuH  Bb1JejiHT  1,6 TprnuIJIoHa py6niie  MeCTHblM  opraHaM  BnacTH XIs
cMHaHmCpoBaHHA  pa3BHTHA,  3aMeHbl  B  cjiyMae  Bbi6blTHS,  3K1crIyaTaumm,



13.
Annex I                              -39-
Page 15 t*AHqecioro O6CJJ)KHBaHHSA H peMOHTa o61eXToB coLUIaIbHOR C4lepbi B yrOjTbHbiX
6acceiiHax.
3TH  CpeuCTBa  MOryT  HCnOJIb3oBaTbCq  X-UIA  4HHaHCZpOBaHt5A  BbilnjiaTbl
3apa6OTHoA rnIaTbl pa6oTHHKaM  Co0ULajIbHOU c4epbl, peMOHTa KOMMyHaJIbHbIX
ceTeH,  nOVJOTOBK4  o6IbeKTOB  COULaZbHOH   c41epbl  K  3HMe,  B03MeLLeHHS
3a,oxE0KeHHOCTm no KOMMYHaJIbHb[M ycJryraM, peMOHTa o6ibeKToB 3AaBooxpaHeHuA
H o6pa3oBaHls4, a TaK)Ke 3aKynOK TonJIHBa.
B aBrycTe 1996 roARa MeKBBeaoMcTBeHHaSA KOMHCCHA paccMoTPHT OTqeT 0 xo,Re
nepe,aaYu o6-be](TOB COLkH&UbHO4 4HHpaCTpyKTypbI waXT MeCTHbIM opraHaM BJIaCTH,
XOTOpbIU  6yAeT  nOVJOTOB3ieH  KOMnaHHer  "Pocyrojib"  z  aamMHHHCTPaULIUMH
cy6-beKToB cIeaepauHH, Ha TeppHTOPHH XOTOPbIX pacnOJIO)KeHbl yrjieao6blBa1owLHe
perHoHbl.
5. JIHKBHaaUHR y6blTOMHbIX H HehnepnCeKTHBHbIX waXT H pa3pe3OB
B  1994 rozry rlpaBHTeJIbCTBO HatIaJIo ocyLLeCTBJSITb MepbI no JIHKBi4XuaLlH
y6blTOqHbIX H HenepCnIeKTHBHb1X  waXT H pa3pe3OB B pamiax  nporpaMMbl no
peCrpyKTypH3aumH  oTpacsiz. B 1994-1995 roaax npexpaweHa Ao6fti4a yrA Ha 37
LuaxTax. YTBepAezieH rpa#ix nOarOTOBXK  npe=o>IoeHHHH 0 3i4xBHaauHH YrOjTHbJX
npe,anpHATHu  H Zqpyroi0 Heo6xoiHMog npoeRTHoiu goxcyMeHTaLum1  no JIHRXBHZEUHH
95 y66lToqHbX uI HenepcneTHBHbIX waxT. Pa3pa6oTaHbE H yTBepxA)eHbl TexHHKo-
3KOHOMHyeCKze o6ocHoBaHMs JIHKBHXaauH4 no 40 wLaxTaM. TexHHKo-3xoHoMH4ecKHe
o6ocHoBaHZA JiyKBcmaau[ i OCTaTibHbIX 55 aiLaXT HaXOURTCR Ha pa3JIH'HbIX CTaqZAX
pa3pa6oTKH, T.e. corflaCOBaHHl4 c MeCTHbIMH opraHaml BJIaCTH, npO4bCOIo3aMH, H
opraHaMH rOCyrapCTBeHHOA 3KCnepTH3bl.
B 1996 roUy B IeqOpCKOM yrOflbHoM 6acceuiHe 6bJIa 3aBepweHa pa6oTa no
JIHBZtaiUH LUaXTbl "XaJIbMep-1O" c co6mogeHmeM BCeX Heo6xoazMbIX HH>KeHepHO-
TeXHHm'eCxHX H COUIa.JIbHO-3KoHOMzMeCKHX Tpe6OBaH4H. B HacToALuee BpeMA Ha
64 waxTax BeCIYTC3 TexHHmecKHe pa6oTbl no HX JInKBHXaUiHm, BKJflOHasA norauieHue
Bblpa6oTOK, ,eMOHTa)K o6opyaoBaHMA H COOpyKeHHri Ha nOBepXHOCTH  waXT,
npH,qeM Ha 34 H3 HUX 3TU pa6oTbi 6y)y'T 3aBepLeHbl B 1996-1997 roqax. 3a c'eT
JIHKBHZIUaHH y6blTOHHbrX LHaXT H pa3pe30B B 1996 roxy 6yaeT BbICBo6o)KnaeHo
22-24 TbICA'1HqefOBeX.
PoccH4icKoe 3aKOHo0aTeJIbCTBO  onpe,lejAeT  o6auw4  nOpAaOK JIHKBiiaaU"m
nlpe,aripfAT14    pa3JU4qHOH    opraHH3aL4OHHO-npaBOBOH   4OpMbl.  YtqHTbIBaS
oco6eHHOCTH  yrOJIbHO9  npOMbILuineHHOCTi, MeKBeaoMCTBeHHas  KOM1ICCHA  B



14.
Annex I                              -40-
Page 16  e*pa.ie   1996   roga   oao6pH3ia   "OCHiOBHble  nlpHHUHnlbl  JIHKBUaUHH
HeriepCrieKTHBHbIX H oco6o y6blTO4HbIX waXT H pa3pe3OB , B KOTOpblX o6wUiA
nOp51JJOK J1HKBHXaUHH npeunpHATHM KOHKpeTH311pOBaH IlpHMeHHTeJIbHO K luaXTaM 1
pa3pe3aM.  Yxa3aHHbIi  nfOpSlZLOK  onpeaejmeT   aOnOJIHMTeJibHbie  Mepbi  no
o6ecne'ieeH-0o uejieBoro MCnOJIb3oBaHmS 61oEn*eTHblX cpeqCTB, BblaejiAeMbIX Ha
JYHKBHZaUmio  waXT H pa3pe3oB, rapaHTHH  3aHSTOCTH  H COuHajibHOf4 3aLUHTbl
BbICBo6o>w,aeMbIX wLaXTepOB H nOBbILIeHHsI pOj1H MeCTHbIX opraHOB B3iaCTH B
peaJH3avUHH nporpaMM  COLU1aJIbHO-3KOHOMHUeCKOrO pa3BHTHS  yrneao6blBaboaLHx
perHOHOB.
B  HIOHe  1996  roja  oKOHqaTeJTbHbli  BapHaHT  "OCHOBHbIX  nprtHUHfnOB
JIHKBH,aLauH   HenepcrieKTHBHbIX H oco6o y6blToHHb[x LuaxT H pa3pe3OBs  6yaeT
HarIpaBJIeH Ha YTBepx)CZeHme B Me)KBeaLloMCTBeHHy10 KOMHCCHIO. 3To o6ecnemHT
B03MO)KHOCTb 6oJIee o6-bexTHBHoro  OT6opa   wlaxT  H pa3pe3OB, nozuiecaLUHx
JIHRBH,Z1a,HH, YCHJIeHHA npaBOBOl  OCHOBbI HX JITK aBHRaUHm, BBe,ueHHMi nrIaHa-
rpactHKa 6IouxeTHoro  #HHaHCHpOBaHMA pa6oT  no  JIHKBH,AaUHIH, HCKJMOCeHHS
B03MO)KHOCTH  npHHATMS  pelleHHiH  0  JIHKBH,(aUHH  waXT  6e3  o6ecne'-eHHA
Heo6xo.Moro    cMHHaHCHpOBaHHS    H    oCyiueCTBIeHHS    npe,JIyCMOTpeHHbIX
3aKoHo,laTeJIbCTBoM  mep couIHajibHOi 3alUjHTbl TpYJIUJHXCS, BbICBo6o)fgaeMbIx B
CBA3H c pecTpyKTypH3auj4eiA, EJ1eHOB HX cemeri, a TaKxce pai-ee pa6oTaBulHx B
yroJmbHoE npOMbmIiieHHOCTH neHCHOHepOB 1 MHBaJIMZOB, HCKmOqeHHS B03MO)KHOCTH
nHXBHmaauHH XOTS 6bl O)JHOH uaXTbI HJIH pa3pe3a 6e3 npegBapHTenbHOrO
npe2IoCTaBJIeHHA coOTBeTCTByioWeg 3aLW4Tbl Bbl CBo60ow,aeMblM p a6oTHHXaM.
B Mae-HIoHe 1996 roaa MeCKBeZaOMCTBeHHaA KOMHCCHM pacCMOTpHT, YTBepglHT H
LOBe,,IeT flO CBegeHH5A BceX 3aHTepeCOBaHHbIX opraH3aULH njiaH-rpaJHK
6IozKeTHoro 43HHaHCHpOBaHHS MepOnpHATHi no JIHKI4B LauHH mLaxT H pa3pe3OB Ha
BTOpoe nojiyroizre 1996 rozaa. rlipH 3TOM npHMepHo 70% CpeaCTB 6yzeT HanpaBJieHO
Ha COLIMaJbHYO 3aLUHTY BbICBo6o,KLaeMbLix pa6oTHH]coB, a  pIH6JIH3HTeJIbHo 30% -
Ha BbInOJIHeHHe HH)KeHepHO-TeXHH4eCKHX MepOnpUlIHTiU. YKa3aHHblHi niiaH-rpau4K
nO3BOJIHT 3aBeplUHTb B 1996 rorry TeXHHMeCKlHe pa6oTbl no JIHKBHIau4UH He MeHee
20 waxT.
B Hos6pe-AeKa6pe 1996 rorra B pamxax 4opMMpOBaHllJ npoeKTa pacnpeaeJneHMA
6io,uKeTHbIX cpeaCTB Ha 1997 ron Me)KBeaoMCTBeHHaA xOMHCCcH  YTBepZMT npoeKT
nJiaHa-rpa4Hxa 6ioa0KeTHoro cIiHaHcHpoBaHHs MepOnpHsTIAH no hIHKBHzaLlUl4 [uaXT
H pa3pe3OB Ha 1997 ro,.               -



15.
Annex I                              -41-
Page 17 of 34 6. HHBeCTHIUHH
I1OJIHTHKa flpaBHTeJIbCTBa 3aK.-InOqaeTC3 B TOM, qTO6bi npUICTynHTb K nepexory
Ha xOMMepqeCK4e npfHLHuinbi 4)HHaHCHpOBaHHR HHBecTHUHii B yrOlbHyIO
npoMblwneHHoCTb. B Mae-HIoHe 1996 roTia MeCKBeaoMcTBeHHOA KoMHccieCe  npH
paCCMOTpeHUH  nnaHoB-rpa4HKuoB pacnpeaejieHl4i roCyaapCTBeHHog noDzep>KXH Ha
BTOpoe noiryroza4e 1996 rora 6ygeT 'rPUHATO peuleHHe 0 TOM, qTO 43HHaHCHPOBaHme
KanHTaJIbHOrO CTpOHTeJIbCTBa B yrOJIbHOU npOMbIluJIeHHOCTH 3a CqeT cpeaCTB
rocyzIapCTBeHHoi   nOAaep)KKH  BO  BTOPOM   noJIyroaHm   1996  roma  6yqeT
OCyLueCTBJIAeTCq  Ha 6e3Bo3BpaTHo9  OCHOBe TOJTbKO  no  o6fexTaM, Ha4aThIM
CWpOHTe;jbCTBOM    paHee   I AHBapq   1996 roxia.   BceM    npyri4M   npOeYTaM
Kan]HTaj1OBJ1o)KeHHil B YrOJlbHYIO  OTpaCJTb rOCyaapCTBeHHaA no=epwxa 6ygeT
npe,fOCTaBJISTbCA TOJJbKO  Ha BO3BpaTHOH OCHOBe no nOIO>KH4TeJlbHOHi peaJ1bHoH4
CTaBKe rpoueLHTa H TOJTbKO no, xOMMepqeCxH riepCneKTHBHble HHBeCTHUHOHHbie
npOeKTbl.
B   1997  rozay   IpaBHTejIbCTBO   3aBepLUHT   nepexo,  K   BbLieIeHllO
HHBeCTHUMOHHbIX pecypcoB U3 Cpe.RCTB rOCyaapCTBeHHOR no=epXKRH YrOJIbHOU
npOMbliuJIeHHOCTH  Ha  niiaTHoH, B03BpaTHOR  H  KOHKypCHOA  OCHOBe. AJIA
43HaHCHpOBaHKA CTpOHTenjbCTBa H pa3BHTHS HOBbIX BbICOKopeHTa6eJIbHbIX LlaXT U
pa3pe3OB 6y;XyT npHBJIeKaTbCq KcpeaHTHbie Cpe[CTBa noz0 npaBHTeJbCTBeHHble
rapaHTHH.
B HoA6pe 1996 roga Me)KBeZIoMCTBeHHaSi XOMHCCHA opraHH3yeT npoBeqeHme
xoHxypca HHBeCTHLUOHHbIX npOeKTOB H no ero pe3ynbTaTam npHMeT peineHHe o
pacnpe,1eneHHH Cpe1CTB rOcyaapcTBeHHori noUep)KRH yrO.IbHor0 npOMbIlujieHHOCT4,
Bbi,1ejiAeMbiX Ha HHBeCTHUL4H B 1997 rogxy.
7. KoMMepualanH3aLuHs H AeMoHono0JH3aUHfl
rIpUHHHnbl H  nyTH  pe4OpMHpOBaHHA  CHCTeMbl ynpaBiieHAs  yrOJIbHOUi
rpOMbiUJfleHHOCTbIO onpeaeeneHbl B "OCHOBHblX HanpaBjIeHHAX PeCTPYKTYPW3aUUU4
yroJIbHO9 npoMbIELUJeHHocTH". Ba)KHerlwee 3Ha'eHHe WTiA Hx peaTIH3aUuH  HMeeT
YKca3 HTpe3HZLeHTa PoccHicxoui (CegepauiH OT 9 43eBpans 1996 r. Ng 168 "O mepax no
XLaJTbHegiueMy  COBepLueHCTBOBaHHIO  CTPYKTypbl  yrOJIbHOr4  I1pOMblUJIZeHHOCTh
PoccUiUcxoU (DeaepauHm". Bo HcnoJIHeHHe 3TOrO yxa3a X KOHUY HIOHS 1996 roaa
EIpaBHTeJnbCTBo  npeo6pa3yeT  rocyaapcTBeHHoe  npegnpHATuie  "PocyronI"  B
OTKpblToe axUHOHepHoe o6LueCTBO.
K KOHUY OKTA6ps 1996 r. rlpaBHTenbcTBo:



16.
Annex I                              -42-
Page 18 of 34 *YTBep,IHT   HOpMaTHBHble   roKyMeHTbl,  periiaMeHTHpyIOwme   BOllpOCbl
XIOBepMTejibHOrO  ynpaB.IeHMSi rOCyaapCTBeHHbIMH  naxeTaMH  aKULMH  yrOflbHbEX
KoMnaHMH, B  TOM  qHcjie  KacaWolIUieCS  Ha3Ha1eHMA  HOBbIX  XOBePHTeajbHbIX
YnPaBJIAIOLWHX H HX 06A3aTeiibCTB nepex 4)eaepajbHbIMI4 opraHaMM BJIacTM;
* nepeaacT B YCTaBHbie KanlHTaJIbI 3TMX   OTO6paHHbIX YrOJIbHbIX xOMnaHHI4
rOCyZxapCTBeHHbIe naxeTbl aKUIH CBA3aHHbIX C HHMH aKuUiOHepHbIX xoMnaHHA, xax
3TO  npeaycMoTpeHO  B  Yxa3e  rIpe3HaeHTa  PoccHicxou  cIe[epaumH  Ng 168
OT 9 4JeBpaAS 1996 roaa;
* HanpaBHT nOTeHHLIaHJIbHbIM ymaCTHH1CaM KOHKypca Ha KOHTPaKTbi no
ZIOBep4TeJIbHOMY ynpaBJIeHUiO  OTo6paHHbIMM  xOMnaHHAMH  BCIO  HHcPopMaUHIO,
KOTOpSa MM noTpe6yeTCA Jix nO;IOTOB1H CBOHX npexioweHHM.
Ha  OCHOBe mcnOJIb3OBaHHA  yKa3aHHbIX  MexaHM3MoB  X  XOHUY ,aexa6ps
1996 roga rlpaBHTeJIbCTBO o6ecneMHT, qTO6bl HOBbie  OBepHTeCjbHbie ynpaBnAlotije
KOHTpoJIMpOBaJII  yrOJIbHbie xOMnaHHM, CyMMapHbIH of6em  Ao6bl1M  KOTOPbIX B
1995 r. COCTaBJI-TI  He MeHee 65 MJIH. TOHH yrnA, T.e. npMi6JH431TeJIbHo 25% OT Bcero
o6beMa Ao6bugM yrim B POCCHiiCKOXi (DegepauHM.
He no3zaHee Tpex MeCSALeB nocJIe XOHXYPCHOrO  Bbi6opa XIOBepHTeJIbHbIX
ynpaBJHAIoiuMx rocyJtapCTBeHHbIMM  naxeTaMm axUHH yxa3aHHbIX Bblule yrOJIbHbIX
xOMnaHHR, 41e[epaJibHble opraHbl HCnOiIHHTeJTbHOUi BjiaCTH paCCMOTpIT 6H3Hec-
nIiaHbl, npeXICTaBJIeHHbie HOBbIMH XOBepMTeJIbHbIMM ynpaBiA}IOLUHMM.
K XOHUY rexa6ps 1996 roxaa Me>KBeaoMCTBeHHaA KOMUCCHA onpexIeJTHT Mepbi no
YCKOPeHHIO JaeUeHTPaJIH3aiUH   ynpaBJIeHHA B yrOJIbHOH  npOMbTlujieHHOCTM  Ha
1997 ro, npUMmeHUTeJIbHO K apyrHM geriCTByIOWHM B HaCTOAliee BpeMA yrOflbHbIM
KoMnaHMAM H aKUmOHepHb1M o6weCTBaM.
8. COUUHabHOe napTHepCTBO
rlOJIHTUKa rlpaBHTeJIbCTBa HCXOaHT U3 TOrO, MTO MeXaHU3Mbl COUHaJIbHOrO
napTHepCTBa 31BJIAIOTCS OCHOBOU B3aiMmo0eACTBHA H MHHOpMaLIuOHHOrO  o6MeHa
y,aCTHHKOB peCTpYXTYPH3auHM  yrOJIbHOH HpOMbluiYieHHOCTH.
C03,aBasB    HOpMaTHBHO-npaBOBbie   YCJIOBHA    EI    KOHCTpYKTHBHOrO
B3aHMoreACTB1s4  pa6oToaaTeieie   u  pa6oTH4xoB  B  npouecce  KOJJe]KTHBHbIX
neperoBOpoB,  opraHbi HCnOJIHHTeJIbHOUi  BJIaCT4 BCeX  ypOBHeH  He  JOYKHbi
npUMHHMaTb   HenOCpe,aCTBeHHOrO   yHaCTHA   B   pa3pa6oTKe   U   3axKjO,IeHMM
XOJTJIeKTHBHbIX aOrOBOPOB U corJIaL11eHHA, 'ITO noTpe6yeT M3MeHeHMlH areAcTByioiUe9



Annex I                              -43-
Page 19 o%GVMaTHBHo-npaBOBor4 6a3bl. K KOHUY 1996 roga FIpaBHTeJIbCTBO paccMOTpHT
npe=oKweHMA no H3MeHeHHio nopsAxa pa3pa6oTxH H 3axinoqeHMA xojmeRTHBHbJx
,UOrOBOpOB H cormaweHMRn, He rpe6yioWHx ero npqmoro yqaCTHA H 3aKpenJIAfOI4HX
caMOCTORTeJIbHOCTb pa6OTOaaTeJIeg u pa6oTHwIIoB HA/JIU Hx npeacTaBHTeIIeii npH
3aKJuO4eHHH KoJueKTHBHbIX XOrOBOPOB U COrrIaweHH4, B TOM mmCie, no YpOBHIO H
#Opme oniiaTbl Tpyaa, B 3aBHCHMOCTH OT cHHaHCOBbIX BO3MO)KHOCTeH npealpHASTHH
H B paMKaX aeACTByIOLLerO 3aKOHoaaTejIbCTBa.
Pa3BHTHe MexaHH3MOB COUHaTbHoro napTHepCTBa pa3JIHtHblx rpynn HacexIeHHAi
yrnie[o6biBaioLuHx perHOHOB, qbH  HHTepeCbl HenOCpeICTBeHHO  3arpar4Ba}OTCA
peCTpyKTypH3aUHer4  yrOJIbHOH   OTpaCJIH,   6yXreT   OCyliueCTBJIATbCS   nyTeM
opraHM3auHOHHoro yxpenrieHAs o6pa3oBaHHblX B 1994-1995 rozax perioHHabHbIX
Me,KBegOMCTBeHHbIX KOMHCCHrl H C03,aaHHA TaXHX KOMHCCHU  B yrjiegO6blBaiOwHX
perHoHax, rxte OHM etue He CO3,aaHbl.
Ha  MeCTHOM   YpOBHe  6yzyT  CO3aLaBTbCS   Ha6JnoxaTeJIbHble  COBeTbI,
pyYOBO)lHMbie rJTaBaMH aaMHHHcCTpauUi4  LiaXTepCiKUX  rOPOXOB H BKMJOFqaIOWU4e
rpeaCTaBTeJIeA   pa3JIMYqHb1X   COUHcMbHbIX   rpynn.   OCHOBHOri  3aaageg
Ha6mo,qaTeYILHbIx COBeTOB 6yqeT onpeqejieHHe cTpaTermH MeCTHOFO  pa3BHTHA,
KOOPZLHHaUH5I pa3pa6oTKic u OCyiueCTBj1eHHUA riporpamm MeCTHOrO pa3BHTHSA,
COumaji46HOR  3aLUiTbl BbICBo6oxczaeMbix Tpy,-LqiuHXCA H  )K4TeiieH  WaXTepCKHX
ropozoB H  lnOCenKOB. Ha6juoXaaTeJIbHbie COBeThi 6yxyT onpefelITb OCHOBHbJe
HpHHUHrIbi HCnOJI6b3OBaHSA CpeaCTB, BbIleimeMbiX Ha 42HHaHCHPOBaHHe nporpaMM
MeCTHOrO pa3BHTHI.
B Mae-HIoHe 1996 rowxa B LuaxTepcimx ropo,gax nSTH yrJneao6blBaiou.mx
permOHOB 6yxIyT C03,aaHbl MeCTHbIe Ha6.3To0aTe.IbHbie COBeTbl.
B Mae-PIuoHe 1996 rojga 6yzyrT opraHH3aui4OHHO ylKpeniieHbi perHOHanbHb6e
MeXCBeZJOMCTBeHHble  KOMHCCHU   no   couHaJIbHO-3XOHoMHMqeCKM   npo6neMaM
yrJie,ao6blBaioLuix perHOHOB, CO3,qaHHbie B POCTOBCKOU H Tyibcyoii o6nIacTTAx. qJL
opraHH3aLui4OHHO-TexHHm,ecKoro    o6ecne4eHlSl    UX    aeSTeJIbHOCTM       npH
aaMM4HHCTpaLUHRX 3TUX o6JIaCTeg 6yayT C03XaHbl CneLUHaJIbHbme pa6o0Me rpynnbl.
,ZI,o I AHIBapS 1997 roAa BO Bcex yrJIeuo6bIBaioUHX perHOHaX 6yqyT C03,aaHbl
perHOHaJIbHbie Me)KBeaOMCTBeHHble ROM4CC4H.  IptMepHO  B  30  waXTepCKHX
ropo.zax H noceJIKax 6yayT opraHH3OBaHbI MeCTHbie Ha6mjo,aTeJibHbie COBeTbl.



18.
Annmex                               -44-
Page 20 of 34 EByyT C03Z7aHbl YCJIOBg1u JfS o6ecneqeHHs aKTHBHoro H 3auHTepecosaHHoro
yqaCTHR  LuaXTepOB, 2KHTeXieg maXTepcKHx  ropOZ(OB  H  rYOCeJnCOB  B rIpoUecce
peCTPYKTypH3aUHH yrOJIbHOH npoMbIwJIeHHOCTH. A,JT 3TOrO npeaycMaTpHBaeTcs:
-   o6ecnetriBaTb   pa6oTHHKOB    yrOJIbHbIX   nperinpHATrH,   XUHTeneg
yrnego6blBaioiuix   perzHOHOB   HHropMaagHek   o   nporpammax   u   xo,ae
peCTpYKTYPH3aUHH oTpaCIH, copmax COLU4aJIbHO-npaBOBOH 3awHTbi LHaXTepOB H
1UIeHOB HX ceMer;
- yKperfJISTb  MeCTHbie o6LUeCTBeHHble OPraHH3aUHH  B  HHTepecax  6onee
34eXTHBHOR COU4aJIbHO-ripaBOBOi 3aLUHTbI )KHTeIieg yrneao6blBaioajHx perHOHOB;
- OCy1ueCTBJIA5Tb MOHHTOPHHr peCTPYXTYPpH3auHH yrOJIbHOHI npOMblulJIeHHOCTH H
HH3OPMHPOBaTb mepe3 cpexLcTBa MaccoBOM HH4)opMaauHH )KHTeIieg yrjiezo6blBalolu.Xx
perUOHOB O pe3yJIbTaTaX 3TOrO MOHHTOpHHra.
9. OpraHH3aWLoHHasi norioepKa
;j3iA peaJIM3aLxHH nOJIHTHuH rIpaBHTeJTbCTBa no pecCTpyKTYPH3aUHH yrOJIbHOi
npoMbIWfIeHHOCTH      Heo6xO,IHMO      o6ecne4HTb      peuleHHe      ciie,yioiuHx
BcnoMoraTeJbHbIx 3a,aaq MeC)KBeaOMCTBeHHoro xapaXTepa:
-   yxpeinieHHe   opraHH3aUHoHHo-TexHHiecKoro    H    HH4oppMaUHOHHO-
aHaJMTUYlqecxoro o6ecneqeHsA eSeTeJbHOCTH MeKBeaOMCTBeHHOr4 XOMHCCUH;
-   MOHHTOPHHr   fYHXUHOHHpOBaHHA    MeXaHH3Ma   rocyqapCTBeHHoro
4 HHaHCHpOBaHHA peCTpyxTypH3auHH yrOJIbHOri rpOMbliUiJeHHOCTH H Bblpa6oTKa mep
no ero CoBeplIweHCTBoBaHHIO;
- opraHH3auHS  He3aBHCHMblX ayaHTOPCKHX  npOBepoK IOPHuz4t4eCKHX JIHU -
nojiyMaTeiieri CpeaCTB rOCyzXapCTBeHHOU no=ep)KcH;
- opraHH3aUHS  KoMnHIeKCHOrO  MOHHTOpHHra  CO1HaJbHO-3KOHOMw1eCKOoA
CHTyaUHH  B yrJieao6blBaioLumx perHOHax, HHcOpMHpOBaHHe o6meCTBeHHOCTH,
pa6oTHHKOB yrOJIbHOUi npOMbiwIJIeHHOCTH H )KHTeJIeH yrneao6blBaioJuix perHOHOB o
xo,ae pecTpyXTypH3avuu oTpacJIH.



19.
Annex                                 -45-
Page 21 of 34
C ueimio pelweHHJ yxa3aHHbIX 3agag B Mae-HOHe 1996 roxra 6yxaeT o6pa3oBaH
CneU1ia3IbHbliU mOH,4, geriCTByIOUIH  B COOTBeTCTBHH C 3aCOHOM 0 HeKOMMepiecCKUX
opraHH3amUHX H rpaxaaHCKHM KoXCeKcoM  POCCHUiCKOri cIeaepawuH. (DOHZ  6yaeT
aZCKBaTHO cHHaHCHpOBaTbCS, B TOM YHcUie U3 CpeXeCTB TeXHH'eCKOrO COaeUiCTBHS.
O4HUHajmHbilU nepeBoa nHCbMa Ha aHrim4CKHUi SA3bilK npHiaraecSi.
Yipe,ace,xaTem YipaBHTeJIbCTBa
PoccUUiccoU (CexIepaLUHH
B.MqepHOMblpxniH
20 Masi 1996 roxga



Annex)I                                 -46-
Page 22 of 34



Annex I                             -47-
Page 23 of 34                                              OdIIUHaAbHbWi riepeBOn
LETTER ON COAL SECTOR POLICY
The Russiani Government has prepared and started to implement a set of
measures aimed at transforming production and organizational structures of the coal
industry to improve coal industry efficiency and to resolve social and economic
problems of the coal regions. In the framework of these measures, it is stipulated
that the structure of allocation of budget funds will be shifted from financing coal
production to restructuring measures, including closing unprofitable and non-viable
deep and surface mines, social protection of laid-off workers, and the creation of
profitable coal production based on viable and sustainable coal enterprises. A new
mechanism for the allocation state support will be introduced which will ensure
transparency and government control. Measures to enhance the organizational
structure of the coal industry include the demonopolization of management and
creation of a competitive environment in the coal sector.
Coal restructuring actually commenced in 1993. State support to the industry
has been considerably reduced: from: 1.04%o GDP in 1993 to 0.45% GDP in 1995.
The share of federal budget funds as a proportion of coal industry financing has
been reduced from 77% in 1993 to 31%o in 1995. 37 loss-making mines have stopped
production. The number of coal sector employees was reduced from 626,000 in 1993
to 529,000 in 1995. Approximately 73% of social assets in mining communities have
been transferred from coal associations to municipalities. Annual coal production
decreased from 305.5 million tons in 1993 to 270 million tons in 1994 and to 263.3
million tons in 1995.
Unlike coal industry restructuring programs in other countries where
production capacity was reduced by up to 80-90%o, after restructuring the Russian
coal industry will remain one of the largest in the world, and will become
competitive both domestically and internationally.
2. Coal Restructuring Strategy
2.1. Long Term Strategy.
In 1993, an Inter-Agency Commission for Socio-Economic Problems of
Coal-Producing Regions (the Coal Commission) was created; its members were
approved by the decision of the Russian Government. The Head of the Coal
Commission is the Russian Deputy Prime Minister. The Commission includes
Heads of Ministnrs and Agencies directly involved in coal sector restructuring,
Heads of Regional A^Wridministrations of the key coal-producing regions, union leaders,
and managers of coal enterprises.
On July 14, 1995, the Head of the Coal Commission approved "Basic Trends
for Coal Restructuring" which reflected the main elements of the Government's
long term strategy:



2.
AnnexI                                -48-
Page 2'iyf 34 Budget fund allocation to cover operatinig losses. The gradual phasing-out of
state support to the coal industry is an essential part of Russia's program of macro-
economic stabilization and its strategy to create a profitable market-oriented coal
sector. The Government is reducing the total volume of budget finds allocated to
selective support for mines which can not cover their losses from liberalized prices
for coal (subsidies for operating losses).
(ii)  Investment. Modernization, rehabilitation and expansion will rely on internal
financing by coal companies, loans, and private domestic and foreign investment.
State support funds allocated for this category will facilitate the development of
investment activities.
(iii)  Closing loss-making and non-viable coal enterprises, divestiture of non-core
enterprises. At least 90 loss-making deep and surface mines (overall capacity 60
million tons/year, with a total workforce of 83,000 people) will be closed. As non-
core production activities are divested, further reduction of the workforce by 175,000
workers will take place.
(iv)   Social Sphere. Cushioning the negative social impacts of restructuring will be
accomplished by a set of measures to support employment in parallel with programs
to create new jobs without subsidy, with benefits and compensations to workers
made redundant due to restructuring, their families, pensioners who used to work in
the coal industry, disabled people and families of deceased miners. The transfer of
social assets to municipalities will also be completed. In the longer term, the social
infrastructure management system and ownership will be reformed.
(v)   Environmental Protection. The Government is committed to mitigating any
adverse environmental effects caused by the closure of mines.  The relevant
environmental authorities are involved in the preparation of technical plans for
mine closures and monitor compliance with the environmental requirements of the
approved plans.  A  study will be carried out to examine priorities and options for
addressing the environmental problems caused by past mining activities and to
recommend an institutional and financial framework for the rehabilitation of lands
disturbed by mining.
(vi)   Transformation    of   Management   System,   Commercialization    and
Demonopolization. The Government is taking steps toward the demonopolization of
the management of the industry and promotion of conditions to create profitable
coal companies and competition in the coal sector. Privatization will reduce the
federal share in ownership of the industry and result in a the coal industry consisting
of a number of independent, competing self-financed companies. Rosugol will be
transformed into a joint stock company whose goals reflect the goals will of coal
sector restnictuting.
2.2. Medium Term Goals.
In accordance with the "Basic Trends" documenit, the Government has
identified and commenced implementation of a series of mediull term measures.



3.
Annex I                              -49.-
Page 25 of 34
On February 9, 1996, the President of Russia signed Decree No. 168 "On
Measures to Enhance the Russian Coal Industry Structure" which empowers the
Government to strengthen regional coal companies and to assign trust management
of the State's shareholding in these companies to various trust agents, and to
transform Rosugol into a joint stock company with 100% shares in federal ownership
for 3 years.
In February 1996, the Coal Commission considered and adopted Programs of
Social and Economic Development for a number of coal regions of Russia (Pechora,
Moscow, Kuzbass), and adopted a draft program for Eastern Donbass and presented
recommendations on completing similar programs in other coal regions in 1996.
2.3. Short Term Set of Measures.
For the first time in the history of State support to the coal industry, the Coal
Commission adopted a schedule for the allocation of State support for the 1st half of
1996 by recipient and category. A similar schedule was considered by Coal
Commission on May 20, 1996.
On February 26, 1996, the Coal Commission approved and the Government
adopted a Resolution No. 598 of 17 May 1996 on "State Financing of Coal
Restructuring" which identifies the allocation of subsidies by recipient and category.
The above-mentioned decisions are important steps toward creating
transparency of State support use and enhancement of public and government
control of the use of funds.
3. Amount, Structure, and Mechanisms of State Support to the Coal Industry
3.1. Level of State Support.
The 1996 federal budget provides for state support to the coal sector totaling
7.4 trillion rubles. Subsequently, the Government made a decision to increase the
amount of support provided to the sector by 3.0 trillion rubles, bringing the total
expenditure to 10.4 trillion rubles. In order to avoid an inflationary impact from
this unplanned increase, we intend to finance the additional expenditure by
borrowing from abroad. However, the total expenditure of 10.4 trillion rubles would
represent a 9% reduction in real terms compared to 1995.
The categories of state support for the coal industry in 1996, are
A.   State support for coal restructuring;
B.   Temporary state support for coal production; and
C.   Support to transferred social assets.
The details of these subsidy categories are given below.



4.
Annex I                               -50-
Page 2W Ategories of state support for the coal industry in 1997 will be the same as in
1996, except that support to transferred social assets will be excluded (any such
support to be funded through general transfers to subjects of the Russian
Federation).
3.2. Allocation of State Support.
Within the total state support provided to the sector in 1996, we intend to
change the structure of state support allocation in order to increase the share of
categories allocated to coal sector restructuring and for the maintenance and
operation of social assets in coal regions.
In accordance with the classifications in "State Financing of Coal
Restructuring", the broad category (A) 'State support for coal restructuring' covers:
(1)   physical closure of loss-making and non-viable mines;
(2)   'social protection expenditures', focused on redundant workers and their
families, as well as pensioners retired from the coal industry and disabled former
employees (this sub-category will include Community Support and Employment
Programs--see section 4.1);
(3)   compensation to workers at closed mines who are disable or suffer from
occupational diseases;
(4)   demolition of dilapidated housing, and construction of new housing in mining
communities;
(5)   investment in renovating and improving existing mines in order to make them
profitable;
(6)   investment in the construction of new profitable mines;
(7)   research and design consultancy;
(8)   contributions to the Central Reserve Fund to cover the costs of coping with
accidents, disasters and similar events.
The broad category (B) 'Temporary state support for coal production'
includes:
(9)   selective support to mines which are unable to cover operating costs with
revenues received from coal market prices (subsidies for operating losses);
(10)  expenditures of coal enterprises and mine construction organizations to cover
industry Tariff Agreements;
(11)  support for social assets which have not been transferred to municipalities.



Annex I                                -51-
Page 27 of 34
In addition, for the second half of 1996, a new category will be introduced to
cover (C) 'Support for transferred social assets', covering payments to local
governments for the operation, maintenance and improvement of social assets
transferred to local authorities.
In May 1996, the Coal Commission will adopt a schedule for the allocation
of State support in the second half of 1996.
The Schedule for state support to the coal industry in the second half of 1996
will include allocations of: (i) not less than 1.6 trillion rubles for transfers to subjects
of the Federation to finance their expenditures on the development, replacement,
rehabilitation, maintenance and operation of social assets already divested from the
coal industry to local governments; (ii) not less than 200 billion rubles in total for
transfers to Kemerovo Oblast, the Komi Republic, Rostov Oblast, Perm Oblast and
Tula Oblast to finance their expenditures on pilot Community Support and
Employment Programs for coal communities in these regions; and (iii) not less than
300 billion rubles to coal companies to finance their expenditures on social
protection for mine workers, former mine workers and their dependants.
The draft federal budget for 1997 for the allocation of State Support for the
Coal Industry (to exclude financing for already transferred social assets) will
incorporate the following provisions: (i) not less than one-third of total state support
for the coal industry will be allocated to physical costs of mine closures, social
protection including Community Support and Employment Programs, and disability
compensation for disabled workers at closed mines; and (ii) total state support for
the coal industry, excluding the items listed in (i) above and excluding loans to coal
companies at positive real interest rates, will decline by at least 40%o in real terms in
1997 relative to 1996.
Adequate provision will be made in the 1997 draft Federal Budget for transfers to
subjects of the Russian Federation for support for divested social assets, taking into
account the pace of transfer of such assets, increased cost sharing by local
authorities and beneficiaries, and the need for similar treatment for all divested
social assets.
3.3. Mechanism of State Support.
In considering the allocation of State support, the Coal Commission will
identify the list of primary recipients which, in addition to Rosugol and
Rostopprom, will include independent coal companies (when formed), and regional
and local authorities in coal regions (for social support). After a proposed allocation
of coal subsidies (by category/sub-category and recipient) has been reviewed and
approved by the Coal Commission, agreements will be signed between the Ministry
of Fuel and Energy of Russia and the primary recipients of subsidies, and between
the primary recipients and the final recipients (legal entities responsible for
restructuring measures - coal companies and other organizations) These agreements
will specify the purposes for which allocated subsidies may be spent as well as other
conditions to be met by the entities receiving subsidies.



6.
Annex)I                              -52-
Page 28 of 34
Recipients of state support will be required to provide to the Coal
Commission such financial and otlher information relevant to the level and use of
subsidies. The type of such information and the frequency of reporting will be
determined from time to time by the Coal Commission. All recipients of subsidies
shall be subject to audit.
State support funds will be allocated for each quarter on the basis of fulfilling
commitments for the preceding quarter for targeted utilization of funds according to
the executed agreements.
The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the distribution of State
support via regional treasury departments in compliance with the allocation adopted
by the Coal Commission and the agreements between the Ministry of Fuel and
Energy and the recipients.
4. Social Policies.
The short-term measures of the government in Social Policy include : (a)
social protection of coal industry employees and residents of the coal regions, and
(b) the maintenance and operation of social infrastructure in mining communities.
4.1. Social Protection
The main actions in the field of social protection include: (a) the provision of
social guarantees, benefits and compensation for workers made redundant during
restructuring, members of their families, pensioners and disabled people retired from
the coal industry, and (b) measures to promote employment opportunities and skills
in areas affected by the restructuring of the coal industry.
Russia has a system of social guarantees for people made redundant from
enterprises. The Government will ensure that:
* employees made redundant from mines receive statutory severance payments and
compensation in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Law;
a various ministries and agencies participate in the creation, financing and
implementation  of social programs during  mass layoffs coordinate  their
assistance.
The Government considers that the most humane and cost-effective way to
reduce the size of the coal industry workforce is to limit recruitment, especially of
employees who do not have experience in coal mining. Thus, it will be a condition
of the disbursement of subsidies that any coal company receiving subsidies for
operating losses - sub-category (9) - will reduce the number of vacancies so as to
limit total recruitment in any quarter to less than 1% of the total number of its
employees. This condition will be embodied in the agreements signed between the



7.
Annex                                -53-
Page 29%NAatry of Fuel and Energy and primary recipients of subsidies, and between
primary recipients and final recipients of subsidies.
Employees at mines announced for restructuring or closure will be offered
counseling free of charge. These counseling services will be organized by the Federal
Employment Services, financed by the mine out of funds allocated by the Coal
Commission. Employees will be offered counseling on layoff procedures including:
(a) an agreed procedure for advance notice of redundanicy, and (b) a rapid response
mechanism which uses a joint consultative approach where trained advisors will
work with employees and with the local communities.
Workshops for managers of coal enterprises and unions on the management
of mass layoffs and on the social protection available to redundant miners will be
organized in all coal basins between June and October 1996.
In June 1996 proposals for the procedure and forms of participation of the
FES in the programs of social and economic development of coal-mining regions
will be approved as necessary. By the end of July 1996 local employment services
will prepare and submit to regional Coal Commissions action plans covering the
measures to be undertaken by them at all mines scheduled to close or be
restructured in 1996 and 1997 together with estimates of the budget required to
implement these plans. Implementation of the action plans will commence by the
end of September 1996.
In the second half of 1996 five pilot Community Support and Employment
Programs located in the coal basins affected to the greatest extent by restructuring
(Pechora, Moscow, Kuzbass, Eastern Donbass and Kisel) will be established. These
programs would finance social and transitional employment projects with funds
allocated under sub-category (2) -- social protection expenditures -- of state support
to the coal industry, and the resources of local Employment Funds.  Primary
recipients of budget funds allocated for the implementation of these programs will be
the regional administrations situated in the coal regions mentioned above. Final
recipients will be organizations authorized by local authorities.
The FES will participate in the design and implementation of these
Community Support and Employment Programs and the resources of local
Employment Funds will be used in conjunction with them.
At total of at least 200 billion rubles will be allocated in the second half of
1996 to the five pilot Community Support and Employment. These funds will
support a range of projects, such as (a) the repair of the social and environmental
infrastructure via public works, (b) the creation of small business opportunities, (c)
retraining, (d) job counseling and search, and (e) other initiatives to create new jobs
in viable enterprises. The pilot programs will build on initiatives developed by the
Coal Commission in its Regional Coal RestruLcturing Programs.



8.
Annex I                               -54-
Page 30 of 34Special attention will be given to the needs of communities dominated by
single mine enterprises, where coal restructuring will also have a severe impact on
non-mining families.
Among the activities to be SLipported by these programs will be the
establishment of a center in Vorkuta which would provide information and
counseling to individuals and families wishing to relocated from the Far North to
other regions of Russia. The center will work in cooperation with relevant ministries
and agencies (Federal Employment Service, Russian Migration Service, Social
Insurance Fund etc.) to develop a uniform system of labor mobility assistance based
upon information exchange and interaction with possible recipient regions.
On the basis of the experience gained from these pilot programs the
Government will develop larger Community Support and Employment Programs in
each of the coal basins for implementation in 1997.
4.2 Support for social infrastructure.
The government policy proceeds from the fact that restructuring of coal
industry should not mean the deterioration in volume or quality of social services
provided to people residing in mining communities. In the course of restructuring
the following issues will be addressed with the help of funds allocated from state
support: completing the transfer of social assets and housing owned by coal
companies to municipal authorities; ensuring adequate finance for the operation and
maintenance of social assets transferred to municipal authorities; demolition or
renovation of dilapidated housing.
To ensure that adequate funds are available to support social assets during the
second half of 1996 the Government of the Russian Federation will allocate 1.6
trillion rubles to local authorities for transfers to local authorities to fund the
development, replacement, operation, maintenance and renovation of social assets
in coal basins.
Work to be financed from these resources may include wage payments to
social asset workers, rehabilitation of utility networks, winterization of social assets,
repayment of debts to utilities, repairs to health and education facilities, and the
purchase of fuel.
In August 1996, the Coal Commission will consider a report on progress in
transferring of social assets from mines to local authorities to be prepared jointly by
Rosugol and regional authorities in coal basins.
5. Closure of non-viable and unprofitable mines.
The Government began to close non-viable and unprofitable mines within
the framework of the program on restructuring of coal industry in 1994. In 1994-
1995, coal production ceased at 37 mines. The schedule for preparation of mine
closure proposals and other necessary documents to close 95 loss-making non-viable



Annex I                              -55-
Page 3hX1M  has been approved. Forty mines have their closure proposals prepared and
approved. Closure proposals for the remaining 55 mines are at various stages of
preparation, i.e., being coordinated with local authorities, labor unions, state
expertise.
In 1996, the closure of Halmer-YLI mine in the Pechora coal basin was
completed in full compliance with the relevant technical, social and economic
requirements. Closure activities are now under way at 64 mines and include the
cessation of production, the dismantling of equipment, and the demolition of
surface structures.  At 34 out of the above-mentioned mines. closure will be
completed in 1996-1997, with 22-24,000 employees being laid off in 1996 .
Russian federal legislation provides for standardized closure procedures for
companies with various forms of management. However, in consideration of some
specific features of the coal industry, the Coal Commission endorsed "The Basic
Principles of Closing Non-Viable and Unprofitable Mines" in February 1996 in
which uniform closure procedures for all types of companies, as determined by
federal legislation, is particularized as regards the specific mines. At the same time,
instructions were given to draft a document for Coal Commission approval, the final
version of which should contain additional measures to ensure targeted disbursement
of federal budget funds allocated for mine closures, guarantee employment and
social protection of laid-off workers, and increase the role of local government in
the implementation of social and economic development programs in coal regions.
In June 1996, the final version of "The Basic Principles of Closing Non-
Viable and Unprofitable underground and surface mines" will be submitted for
approval to the Coal Commission. This will allow an opportunity to make the
selection of underground and surface mines for closure more objective, to enhance
the legal basis for their closure, to adopt time scales for financing closure activities
from the federal budget, to eliminate the possibility of making closure decisions
without ensuring the necessary financing and carrying out social protection measures
guaranteed by legislation to workers laid off due to restructuring, as well as to their
family members and veterans and disabled previously employed in coal industry; to
make sure that no underground or surface mine is closed without the prior provision
of appropriate social protection to redundant workers.
In May-June 1996, the Coal Commission will consider, approve and inform
all organizations involved of the schedule of financing mine closures to be allocated
from the federal budget in the second half of 1996. In doing so, approximately 70%
of funds will be earmarked for social protection measures to workers made
redundant and approximately 30% for physical mine closure activities. The above
schedules will result in completion of technical aspects of mine closure at no less
than 20 mines by the end of 1996.
In November-December 1996, the Coal Commission will approve a draft
schedule for the allocation of budget funds for mine closures in 1997, within the
framework of drafting the 1997 budget.



10.
Annex I                              -56-
Page 3k2tiVestment
The Government's policy is to start a transition towards commercial
financing of investment in the coal industry.  In May-June 1996, the Coal
Commission, while developing schedules for the allocation and distribution of state
support for the second half of 1996, will decree that financing of capital
development in the coal industry with state support funds in the second half of 1996
is to be conducted on non-repayable basis only at facilities where construction began
before January 1, 1996.  For all other coal industry investment projects, state
support will be provided only in the form of loans at positive real interest rates and
only for investment projects that are commercially viable.
In 1997, the Government will complete the transition to allocating
investment resources from state support funds for the coal industry on a
commercial, repayable and competitive basis. To finance the construction and
development of new profitable mines, non-state credit funds will be raised with
Government guarantees.
In November 1996, the Coal Commission will conduct an investment projects
tender and then decide on the distribution of state support funds allocated for
investment in the coal industry in 1997 based on the results of the tender.
7. Commercialization and Demonopolization.
The principles and guidelines of reforming the coal industry management
system are set out in "The Basic Trends of the Restructuring". Presidential Decree,
No. 168, February 9, 1996, "On Measures to Improve the Structure of the Russian
coal industry" is of paramount importance for the implementation of the above
principles and guidelines. In compliance with the Decree, by end June 1996 the
Government will convert the state company Rosugol into an open joint-stock
company;
By the end of October 1996 the Govemment will:
* approve rules governing the trust management of state shares in coal companies,
including those covering appointment of new trust managers and their obligations
to the federal authorities:
. transfer to the charter capital of these selected companies the state shares in
related companies, as envisaged in Presidential Decree no. 168;
.  issue to potential bidders for trust management contracts for the selected
companies all of the information required by them for the preparation of their
bids.
Using this mechanism, by the end of December 1996 the Government will
ensure that new trust managers will control coal companies that produced in



11.
Annex I                              -57-
Page 3igr ate not less than 65 million tonnes of coal in 1995, i.e., approximately 25% of
the volume of coal produced in the Russian Federation.
Not later than three months after the competitive selection of trust managers
of state shares in the above-mentionied coal companies the relevant Federal
executive bodies will review the businiess plans submitted by the new trust managers.
As far as other currently operating coal companies and joint-stock companies
are concerned, by end December 1996, the Coal Commission will define measures
to accelerate demonopolization in the coal industry in 1997.
8. Social Partnership
The Government policy proceeds from the fact that social partnership
mechanisms are the basis of interaction and information exchange amongst
participants in the process of restructuring the coal industry.
To foster constructive employer/employee interaction during collective
bargaining, executive authorities at all levels should not take a direct part in the
development and conclusion of collective agreements - which requires the regulatory
and legal basis in effect to be modified. Therefore, by the end of 1996, the
Government will develop proposals on the changes in the procedures regarding
collective agreement drafting and conclusion such as will not require its direct
participation, while providing an independent role for employer and employee
representatives in the conclusion of collective agreements, covering, among other
things, the level and form of wages, depending on the financial capacity of
enterprises and in conformity with legislation in force.
The development of social partnership mechanisms of various groups of
residents in coal regions whose interests are directly affected by restructuring of coal
industry will be carried out by enhancing regional Coal Commissions set up in 1994-
1995, setting up such commissions in coal regions where they have not yet been
established.
On the local level, oversight committees are to be formed with the local heads
of administrations of mining communities as the head and consisting of
representatives of various affected groups. The main objective of the oversight
committees will be to determine the strategy for local development, coordination of
the development and implementation of local development programs, and the social
protection for laid-off workers and residents of mining communities. Oversight
committees will determine the guidelines for the disbursement of funds allocated to
finance local development programs.
In Mlay-June 1996, local oversight committees wi]l be formed in five pilot
mining towins of largest coal-mining regions.



12.
Annex I                               -58-
Page 34 of 34 In May-June 1996 the organization of regional Coal Commissions in the
Rostov and Tula regions will be strengthened and improved. Special working groups
will be set up under the authority of regional administrations to ensure trouble-free
operation in terms of organizational and technical assistance are concerned.
Regional Coal Commissions will be set up in all coal regions before January
1, 1997. In about 30 mining communities local oversight committees will be
established.
Measures will be taken to ensure that miners and residents of mining
communities are interested in actively participating in the process of restructuring of
the coal industry. It is thus envisaged that:
. workers employed by coal companies and residents of coal regions will be
provided with information on programs and the course of restructuring, of
coal industry, forms of legal and social protection of miners and their
family members;
* local public organizations will be strengthened in order to achieve more
effective social and legal protection of coal region residents;
* monitoring of the restructuring of coal industry will be conducted and coal
region residents will be informed about the results of the monitoring
through mass media.
9. Organizational support
In order to pursue the Government's policy on restructuring the coal industry
it is also necessary to ensure resolution of the following second-priority tasks:
o strengthening of organizational, technical, informational and analytical
aspects of the Coal Commission's operation;
monitoring of how the mechanism of state financing of restructuring of coal
industry is working and development of improvements and corrective
measures;
. organization of independent audits of legal entities which are the recipients
of state support funds;
. organization of complex monitoring of social and economic situation in
coal regions, informing the public, coal industry workers and residents of
coal regions on the course and progress of restructuring of coal industry.
In order to resolve the above-mentioned issues, a special fund will be set-up
in May-June 1996, which will operate in accordance with the law on non-profit
organizations and the Russian Civil Code. The fund will be adequately financed,
including from technical assistance funds.
Please find attached an official English translation of this Letter.



RUSSIA - COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (Coal SECAL)
SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT REFORM PROGRAM
OBJECTIVES                ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO                      GOVERNMENT COMMITMENTS                      TIMING   CONDITION
__                                       APPRAISAL                                                                                        OF
A. Amount. Structure, and Mechanisms of State SuDDort to the Coal Industry
Reduce the burden of coal    State support to the coal industry reduced  A schedule of state support to the coal industry for  6196     Board
subsidies on the federal   from 1.04% of GDP in 1993 to 0.45% of   the second half of 1996 has been approved and made                 Presentation
budget and improve its     GDP in 1995. Budget subsidies are planned   public with details by expenditure category and
structure.                 at RblO.4 trillion for 1996 or 0.36% of  recipient for the second half of 1996, including:
projected GDP.
Improve transparency of                                             a. not less than Rbl.6 trillion to regional
allocation of state support to   Government has established arrangements    governments to finance expenditures on the
coal industry.             to channel state support for the coal    development, replacement, rehabilitation,
industry directly to local coal companies  maintenance and operation of social assets divested
and oblast/local governments - 90%       from the coal sector to local governments;
coverage by end 1995.
b. not less than Rb200 billion in total to Kemerovo
Govermnent has issued Resolution No. 598   Oblast, the Komi Republic, Rostov Oblast, Perm
of May 17, 1996, On Confirmation of the    Oblast, and Tula Oblast to fnance pilot Community
Regulation on State Financing of Measures   Support and Employment Programs for coal
Regarding Coal Industry Restructuring,   communities within these regions; and
giving the Inter-Agency Commission
authority to approve state support to coal    c. not less than Rb300 billion to coal companies to
industry and monitor its use.           fmance qualifying expenditures on social protection
by coal companies for mine workers, former mine
workers and their dependants.                                                  l
During the second half of calendar 1996, actual      11/96         Second
transfers from the allocation for state support to the             Tranche
coal sector in the 1996 budget will be consistent with             Release
the schedule of state support to the coal industry for
the second half of calendar 1996.
Wed Jun 5, 1996, 13:59



RUSSIA - COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (Coal SECAL)
OBJECTIVES                ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO                     GOVERNMENT COMMITMENTS                       TIMING       CONDITION
APPRAISAL                                                                                        OF
Government's proposal for state support to the coal  11/96         Second
industry for 1997 to be included in the federal budget             Tranche
and the actual quarterly  transfers during  1997                   Release
incorporate and are consistent with the following
parameters and schedules:
a. the Budget category State Support for the Coal
Industry will exclude financing for transferred social
assets as such financing will be included in the overall
federal budget category which provides for the
financing of social assets transferred to local authorities
throughout Russia;
b. not less than one-third of State Support for the Coal
Industry will be allocated to: (i) physical costs of mine
closure, (ii) qualifying expenditures on social protection
by coal companies, (iii) Community Support and
Employment Programs for coal communities financed
through regional and/or local authorities, and (iv)
disability compensation for disabled workers at closed
mines;
c. State Suppon for the Coal Industry excluding the
items specified in (b.) above and excluding loans to
mining companies at positive real interest rates for
production development investment will decline by at
least 40% in real terms in 1997 relative to 1996.
B. Social Policies
Ensure sustainable delivery    Approximately 72% of coal industry   Adequate financing for divested social assets - see  Continuing
of essential social services.   housing stock (and from 9% to 66% of  Section A above.
other social assets) had been transferred to
regional or local governments at end 1995 -
but without adequate measures to ensure
l___________________________  satisfactory level of service after transfer.
Ensure that employment                                              The Inter-Agency Commission has confirmed that,       6/96          Board
policies minimize the need                                          with effect from July 1, 1996, state support for                  Presentation
for compulsory                                                      operating losses wil be available only to coal
redundancies.                                                       companies that have reduced the number of vacancies
so as to limit total recruitment in any quarter to less
than 1 % of the total number of employees.          o_     _



OBJECTIVES                ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO                      GOVERNMENT COMMITMENTS                       TIMING   CONDITION
APPRAISAL                                                                                         OF
It has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the   11/96         Second
Bank that, during the calendar quarter immediately                  Tranche
preceding the Second Tranche Release Review, no                     Release
state support for operating losses was made available
to coal mines which have recruited employees in
excess of 1 % of their respective total number of
employees during such period.
Strengthen the social safety                                         The Government has instructed the Federal             6/96           Board
net in areas where coal-                                             ERmployment Service to establish, by the end of                    Presentation
related unemployment is                                              September 1996, the capability to deliver pre-
expected to be high.                                                 redundancy services including advance notice and
counselling to all workers in the coal industry
threatened with redundancy.                            _
The Federal Employment Services has initiated the     11/96         Second
operation of regional offices in all regions where mines            Tranche
are being closed, with adequate capacity to deliver pre-            Release
redundancy services free of charge to employees prior
to cessation of coal production for all coal industry
employees of mines whose closure has been announced.
Government has established the necessary institutional  11/96       Second
framework, which includes the participation of the                  Tranche
Federal Employment Services, and has initiated, as                  Release
agreed and incorporated in the Coal Sector
Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project, the
activities of the Community Support and Employment
Programs in the Kuzbass, Eastern Donbass, Pechora,
Moscow region and Kizel coal basins.
Wed Jun 5, 1996, 13:59



OBJECTIVES                 ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO    J                 GOVERNMENT COMMITMENTS                        TIMING   CONDITION
_____                                     APPRAISAL                     _                                                                     OF
C. Closure of Non-Viable and Unprofitable Mines
Close unviable mines in a   A total of 37 mines stopped producing coal   An implementation schedule for mine closures in the  6/96          Board
socially and                in 1994-95. A schedule for preparation of    second half of 1996 - consistent with state support             Presentation
environmentally acceptable    mine closure proposals and other necessary   allocated for this purpose - has been approved and
manner.                     documents to close 95 loss-making non-    made public.
viable mines has been approved. Forty
mines have their closure proposals
prepared and approved. Closure proposals
for the remaining 55 mines are at various
stages of preparation, i.e., being
coordinated with local authorities, labor
unions, state expertise. Permanent closure
has been completed at one mine.
D. Investment
Ensure that new investments                                           The Inter-Agency Commission has confirmed that, with   6/96           Board
are commercially viable.                                              effect from  July 1, 1996, state support funds for                  Presentation
investment wi]l be available on a non-repayable basis
only for projects where construction began before
January 1, 1996. For all other investment projects in
the coal industry, state support will be available only                                  sJ
on a repayable basis at positive real interest rates.
E. Commercialization and Demonooolization
Develop strategy lor        Presidential Decree No. 168 of 9 February    The Inter-Agency Commission has approved and        6/96           Board
commercialization,          1996: (i) transferred coal subsidy allocation   made public a Demonopolization Program to                     Presentation
demonopolization and        responsibility irom RosUgol to the Inter-  conclude, by December 31, 1996, the appointment of
privatization of the coal   Agency Commission; (ii) instructed        new Trust Managers. These measures will include the
industry over the longer-   Government to convert RosUgol into 100%    issuance, by October 31, 1996, to potential bidders
term                        federally owned joint stock company; and  for trust management contracts all of the information
(iii) empowered the State Property        required by them for the preparation of bids. The
Committee to delegate management of state   companies for which new Trust Managers will be
shareholding to trust managers other than  appointed by December 31, 1996 will be selected so
RosUgol.                                 that their aggregate production of coal in 1995 was
not less than 65 million tons, i.e., approximately 25%
of the Russian coal industry.
Government has taken all actions required to be taken  11/96         Second
in accordance with the Demonopolization Program.                     Tranche          CD
Release
Wed Jun 5, 1996, 13:59



OBJECTIVES          |     ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO             |        GOVERNMENT COMMITMENTS                    |  TIMING        CONDITION
APPRAISAL                  __________________J -OF
________________________                        ~~~~~F. Social Partnership
Prepare a socially          Social Assessments completed in Vorkuta  The Inter-Agency Commission has approved and          6/96           Board
sustainable coal           and in the Kuzbass (March 1996).          made public the indicators and arrangements for                   Presentation
restructuring program in                                             social impact monitoring, financial monitoring, and
each regional coal basin.                                            auditing of a set of subsidy recipients.
Regional Inter-Agency Conmmissions       Government has demonstrated, on the basis of social   11/96          Second
created in 1995. Preparation of Regional  impact and monitoring reports for the calendar                     Tranche
Coal Restructuring Programs underway     quarter preceding the Second Tranche Release                        Release
since late 1995.                         Review, overall compliance with agreed social impact
indicators, and has made public such reports.
G. Orjanizational Supoort
Enhance institutional       Inter-Agency Commission for Socio-       Government has prepared and furnished to the Bank a   11/96          Second
capacity in the design and  Economic Problems of Coal-Producing      report on the tinancial performance of the regional                 Tranche
implemenLation of the coal    Regions (Inter-Agency Corrumission)    coal companies.                                                      Release
restructuring program       created mid-1993. Inter-Agency
Commission issued initial proposals (Basic
Trendsfor Coal Restructuring) in July
1995.
Government has requested the Bank to     Government has submitted to the Bank audits on five   11/96          Second
finance a Coal Sector Restructuring      coal companies, which are main (the largest)                        Tranche
hnplementation Assistance Project (IAP) to   recipients of state support.                                     Release
strengthen institutional arrangements for:
(a) participatory activities of relevant
stakeholders; (b) social programs; (c)
strengthening subsidy management; (d)
technical assistance and training for
commercialization and demonopolization of
coal companies; (e) technical assistance for
environmental management; (f) technical
assistance for mine closure guidelines; (g)
support to REFORMUGOL, the non-
commercial foundation charged with
implementation of the IAP.
Wed Jun 5, 1996, 13:59



- 64 -                               Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
Status of IMF Operations in Russia
Russian Federation: Fund Relations
(As of February 29, 1996)
I.     Membership Status:   Joined June 1, 1992; Article XIV
In millions    In percent
II.    General Resources Account:                       of SDRs        of cuota
Quota                                              4,313.0          100.0
Fund holdings of currency                        11,470.97          266.0
Reserve position in Fund                              0.77             --
In millions    Percent of
III.   SDR Degartment:                                  of SDRs       allocation
Holdings                                            279.32             --
In millions    In percent
IV.    Outstanding Purchases and Loans:                 of SDRs        of cuota
Stand-by arrangements                            5,002.10          116.0
Systemic Transformation                          2,156.55           50.0
V.     Financial Arrangements:
Expira-      Amount        Amount
Approval    tion        Approved        Drawn
Date      Date    (SDR million) (SDR million)
Tape
Stand-by               4/11/95   4/10/96    4,313.10          4,313.10
Stand-by               8/05/92   1/04/93        719.00          719.00
VI.    Proiected Oblizations to Fund (In millions of SDRs; based on existing
use of resources and present holdings of SDRs):
Forthcomine
2/29/96    1296      L997   1998   1999     2000
Principal                  --   329.5   359.5  673.9  2,426.1  2,111.6
Changes/Interest           --   228.5   291.8  272.9    212.9    108.2
Total                   --   558.0   651.3  946.8  2,639.0  2,219.8



-65-                                                    Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
Russian Federation - Key Economic Indicators
UnifiedSurvey FY96 projection (November 1995)
Actual                    Estimate             Projected
Indicator                 1990       1991      1992       1993      1994       1995      1996       1997
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                      100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Agriculture'                                15.5      13.8        7.2       8.3       6.4        -          -
Industry'                                  44.3       44.4      47.6       44.0      35.1        -
Services'                                  33.3       38.2      47.4       42.2      50.0        -          -         -
Total Consumption                            68.1      60.6       61.6      65.0       70.9       74.4      75.6       77.6
Gross domestic fixed                         28.7      23.4       18.5      22.5       24.0       22.0      22.0       20.0
investment
Government investment                       7.1        7.1       4.2        4.5       5.7        2.6        4.6       4.9
Private investment                         23.0       29.2      29.1       26.5      21.3       22.4       19.4      17.1
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                              18.9       16.6      55.0      36.2       26.7      22.3       19.0       18.4
Imports (GNFS)                               17.2       13.5      49.9      32.3       24.5      21.7       18.6       18.0
Gross domestic savings                       31.9      39.4       38.4      35.0       29.1      25.6       24.4       22.4
Gross national savings'                      31.7      39.2       33.8      32.5       27.6      24.3       22.8       20.8
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                   1100068    803736      97962    180181    285776      385736    489402    553685
(USS million at current
prices)
Grossnationalproductper                     4,120     3,923      3,108     2,569      2,051     2,150      2,559     3.319
capita (USS, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1993
prices)
Gross domestic product at                 -3.6%     -5.0%    -14.5%      -8.7%    -12.6%      -4.0%       2.5%      4.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                         ..   -13.6%    -17.4%      -9.2%    -12.3%      -2.6%       2.8%      4.5%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1993 prices)
Grossdomesticproductat                    -4.0%     -5.2%    -14.5%      -8.6%    -12.5%      -3.9%       2.7%      4.2%
market prices
Total consumption                                  -30.7%      -2.2%     -2.8%     -4.4%      -0.3%       1.2%      4.2%
Private consumption                           ..  -30.4%          ..         ..    -2.4%          ..        ..      4.7%
(continued)



-66-                                                     Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
Russian Federation - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                     Estimate             Projected
Indicator                  1990      1991       1992      1993       1994       1995       1996      1997
Balance of Payments g/
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)b                           80300      53800     41577      51276      58506      68526     74373      82428
Merchandisc FOB                         80300      53800     41577      44454      51398     60505      65436      72429
Imports (GNFS)b                           74000     46900      42706     47422      54008      68421      74136     81798
Merchandise FOB                         72000      44500     37206      34900      39500     50500      55100      60900
Resource balance                           6300       6900      -1129      3854       4498        105       236        629
Net current transfers                          0         0          0         0          0          0          0         0
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                    4100       6300      -2629      2160        598      -4395      -7766     -8284
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreig direct                   -400      -100        700       386      -1000       2200      2500       2500
investment
Long-term loans (net)                      2000       5500      2600    -10100    -11900        -9100      -3568       -866
Official                                  4695       3816       1845       988        614       -873       1782      1074
Private                                  -2695       1684       755    -11088    -12514        -8227      -5350     -1940
Othcr capital (net, including             -14400    -12300        129     10954       8402      15095      9686       7527
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                        8700        600       -800     -3400       3900      -3800       -852      -877
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                       0.6%      0.9%      -1.2%      2.1%        1.6%      0.0%       0.0%      0.1%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1993 prices)
Merchandise exports                            ..   -34.5%    -14.8%      24.8%      15.6%       6.2%       4.5%      6.9%
(FOB)
Primary
Manufactures                                  ..        ..         ..        ..         ..         ..
Merchandise imports                            ..   -48.2%     -19.8%     -0.3%      11.9%      16.0%       5.6%      8.0%
(CIF)
Public fimance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                               ..        ..      43.2       38.6       35.7       29.7      34.4       36.2
Current expenditures                           ..        ..       57.3      41.8       40.5       33.9      36.0       35.4
(Continuea)



-67-                                                     Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
Russian Federation - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                     Estimate              Projected
Indicator                  1990       1991       1992      1993       1994       1995       1996       1997
Current account surplus (+)                     ..        ..    -14.2         -3.2       -4.8       -4.2       -1.6        0.8
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                            ..         ..        7.7        4.8        5.5        3.1        4.5       4.8
Foreign fnancing                                ..        ..         ..        5.3        1.2        0.6        1. I1
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market                      ..         ..       18.9       13.9       11.5       10.6         -          -
prices) h/
Growth of M2 (%)                                ..        ..    778.2        340.6      191.9       74.0         -          -
Private sector credit growth/                   ..        ..         ..       72.0       31.4        0.8
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1993 =100)
Merchandise export price                     125.8     128.7      116.7      100.0      100.0      110.9
index g/
Merchandiseimportprice                       85.4      101.9      106.3      100.0      101.1      111.5
index g/
Merchandise terms of trade                  147.2      126.3      109.8      100.0       98.9       99.5
index g/
Real exchange rate                          620.1      393.2       48.7      100.0      167.9     224.6
(US$ILCU)Y
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                         5.6%     92.6%      1354%      895%       303%       189%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                                16.6%      129%      1506%      878%       320%       191%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in USS/LCU denotes appreciation.
g/ Excluding transactions with former Soviet republics.
h/ Ratio of M2 to 12 times December GDP.






-69-                                                  Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
Russian Federation - Key Exposure Indicators
Uni,fed Survey FY96 projection (November 1995)
Actual                 Estimate           Projected
Indicator                1990   1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996      1997
Total debt outstanding and            59,817   67,590   78,992   83,888   94,232   106536   116568   127333
disbursed (TDO) (USSm)'
Net disbursements (USSm)"              2,000    5,500    2,213   -9,894   -11956       -200       132    3,134
Total debt service (TDS)               7,800    7,700   14,300   19,700   19,200    18,600    18,803    16,506
(USSm)"d
Debt and debt service indicators
(%/0)
TDO/XGSb                               73.8    124.5    186.0    162.0    159.7    153.9    155.9    153.7
TDO/GDP                                 5.4      8.4     80.6     46.6      33.0      27.6     23.8      23.0
TDSIXGS d                               9.6     14.2     33.7     38.0      32.5      26.9     25.1      19.9
ConcessionalVrDO                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
IBRD exposure indicators ()
IBRD DS/public DS                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1       0.2      0.2       0.5       1.1
Preferred creditor DS/public            0.3      0.6      0.3       1.4      2.6      3.1       7.6      10.7
DS
IBRD DS/XGS                             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.2
Share of lBRD portfolio f/               ..       ..      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.8       1.9      3.1
IFC (US$m)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity /c
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (USSm)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
d. Scheduled debt service payments before debt relief .
e. Scheduled amortization payments before debt relief .
f. Including the present value of guaranties.



-70-                                                     Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Poligy and Spcial 12.velopment Indicators
Kussian F ederation
Most SameregioiAcometgoup              Next
Latest singk year          recent     Ei Trop         wMr.       higher
Unitof                                     esdtimat    & Central     middk-        income
Indicator                                    measure           1970-75       1980485     1989-94         Asia      income         group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                          local curr.                                    20,578
Headcount index                            % of pop.                                         32
Lower poverty line                          local curr.               ..                   10,289
Headcount index                            % of pop.                                          12
GNP per capita                                 USS                                          2,640       2,270         1,670       4,710
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                       local curr.                                        ..
Unskilled rural wages
Rural terms of trade
Consumer price index                        1987=100                              ..
Lower income
Food'
Urban
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social services  % of GDP                 ..                      7.6
Gross enrollment ratios
Primary                                  % school age pop.           ..          104         107           97          104          107
Male                                                                            104         107           97          105
Female                                                                          104         107           97          101
Mortality
Infant mortality                       per thou. live births         ..          21          19           23           36           36
Under 5 mortality                                                   ..           ..          24           31           47           43
Immunization
Measles                                   % age group               ..           ..           ..          ..         77.4         82.9
DPT                                                                  ..          ..           ..          ..         82.0         74.7
Chad malnutrition (under-5)                                          ..           ..           ..
Life expectancy
Total                                        yeam                    ..          69          64           68           67           69
Female advantage                                                    ..         10.2         13.8         9.7          6.4          5.8
Total fertility rate                     births per woman           2.0          2.1          1.4         1.9          2.7          2.8
Maternal mortality rate                per 100,000 live births       ..           68          52
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social security         % of total gov't exp.        ..           ..        21.4
Social security coverage                % econ. active pop.           ..          ..          ..
Access to safe water. total                 % of pop.                 ..          ..           ..          ..           ..         86.2
Urban                                                             ..           ..           ..          ..           ..         94.0
Rural                                                             ..           ..           ..          ..           ..         64.8
Access to health care                                                ..           ..          ..
Population growth rate                 GNP per capita growth rate                         Development diamondb
6+ T (avmgeannal,percnt)              1*      (average annual, percent)Liexpcay
4 -                              1~~~~~~~~0-                                              Life expetancy
45
2  - -   ______-_i_v                 _______      GNP                                Gross
2                               ~~~~~~~~0 per                                                                   primary
capita         \               enrollment
0                                           -5  -
-2-1
1970-75      1980-85     1989-94             1970-75      1980-85      1989-94                Access to safe water
:    Russian Federation                                                                         _   Russian Federation
-    Lower-middle-incoroe                                                                      -    Lower-middle-income
a See the technical notes. p.387. b. The development diamond, based on four key indicators.shows the average level of development in the country
compared with its income group. See the introduction.



-71 -                                                  Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Russian Federation
i.atest smgii ,w     most          ~                        Next
Unit of                                    estimate   & Canotra      middke-      incomeu
Indicator                                    measure            1970-75      1980485     1989-94         Asia      income         group
Resources and Expenditures
HUMAN RESOURCES
Population (mre=1994)                       thousands           134,200      143,858      148,350     487,445    1,096,881      472,807
Age dependency ratio                           ratio               0.47           ..         0.49        0.54         0.63         0.62
Urban                                       % of pop.              66.4         71.9         73.2        65.2         55.9         73.7
Population growth rate                       annual %                 ..0.8                  .0. 1        0.4          1.3           1.7
Urban                                                               ..1.4                   .0.3         1.4          2.7          2.5
Labor force                                 thousands            70,745       76.346      77,048      236.973      488,647      198.841
Agriculture                               % of labor force           17           15           14          24           36           21
Industry                                        '43                               43          42           36           26           27
Female                                          -50                               49          49           45           40           34
Labor participadon rates
Total                                      % of pop.                53           53          52           49           45           42
Female                                                              26           26          25           43           36           29
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                       thou. sq. km       17,075.40    17,075.40    17,075.40    24,354.02    40,594.43    20,668.74
Density                                   pop. per sq. km          7.86         8.42         8.70       19.96        26.66        22.49
Agricultural land                         % of land area              .            ....                              41.05        41.49
Change in agricultural land                  annual %                 ..       -0.23        -1.26        -1.26       -1.38         0.02
Agricultural land under irrigation              %                   1.67        2.66         2.38        6.73        11.40         9.28
Forests and woodland                       thou. sq. km               ...                       .      710.81     5,969.25     7,520.52
Deforestation tnet)                     % change, 1980-90             .            ..
INCOME
Household income
Share of top 20% of households            % of income                .            .38
Share of bottom 40% of households                                    ...20
Share of bottom 20% of households                                    .            .7
EXPENDITURE
Food                                        %ofGDP                    ...                    18.0
Staples                                                              ...2.4
Meat, fish, milk, cheese, eggs                                       ..           .6.0
Cereal imports                          thou, metric tonnes            .           .        3,687      33,202       68,936       43,633
Food aid in cereals                                                   .            .        1,124       4,392        5,771           67
Food production per capita                  1987=100                  .            ....102                                          102
Fertilizer consumption                        kg/ha                   .            .         25.1        41.4         46.3         68.9
Share of agriculture in GDP                 % of GDP                  ..        11.1          6.4        12.7         14.0          8.0
Housing                                     %ofGDP                    .            .4.5                   7.2
Average household size                 persons per household          .            .2.8
Urban                                                                ...2.8
Fixed investment: housing                   % of GDP                  ...5.7                              5.2
Fuel 2ad power                              % of GDP                  .            .0.7                   1.2
Energy consumption per capita             kg of oil equiv.        4,422        6,317       4,038        2,756        1.602        1,618
Households with electricity
Urban                                   % of households              .            ..
Rural
Transport and comsmunication                % of GDP                  ...4.2
Fixed investrnent: trasport equipment                                ..            .          1.9
Total road length                           thou. km                638          783         934            .
INVE.STMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician                     persons                286         222          222         362         3.064
Population per nurse                                                 95           83          93         248
Population per hospital bed                                          81           74          79          136         592          402
Oral rehydyration therapy (under-5)         % of cases               ...                       .            .            .S
Education
Gross enrollment ratios
Secondary                               % of school age pop.         ..97                     88           86          63            59
Female                                                              ..98                     91          90           62
Pupil-teacher ratio: primary             pupils per teacher           ...                      ..                        .25
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary                                        .            ..
Pupils reaching grade 4                    % of cohort                .            ..
Repeater rate: primnary                   % of total enroll           .            .*
Illiteracy                              % of pop. (age 15+)           .            .2                       .            .13
Female                                 % of femn. (age 15+)          ...                      .            .            .I
Newspaper circulation                     per thou. PM,.            842          918         580            ..236                   135
World BanLk Intemational EconomTics Department. April 1996



Annex 7
Russian Federation - Balance of Payments                                                                              Page 1 of 2
(Excluding transactions with forner Soviet republics)
(USS millions at current prices)
Unified Suniv. FY96 projection (November 1995)
Actal                              Estimate                 Projecdon
1990          1991          1992          1993        1994          1995          1996          1997
Total exponls of GNFS'                                                          80300         53800         41577         51276       58506         68526         74373          82428
Merchandise (FOB)                                                           80300         53800         41577         44454       51398         60505         65436         72429
Nonfactor savices                                                               0             0             0          6822        7108          8021          8936          9998
Total Impots of GNFS                                                            74000         46900         42706         47422        54008        68421         74136          81798
Merchandise (FOB)                                                           72000         44500         37206         34900       39500         50500         55100         60900
Noeifactor services                                                          2000          2400          5500         12522        14508         17921        19036         20898
Resource balance                                                                 6300          6900         -1129          3854        4498            105           236           629
Net factor income                                                               -2200         -2200         -4500         -4500        4700          -5300         -8003         -8914
Factor receipts                                                               700           500           900            500         500           700           400           400
Factor payments                                                              2900          2700          5400          5000         5200          6000          8403          9314
Interest (scheduled)                                                      2900          2700          5400          5000        5200          6000          7924          8585
Total interest paid'                                                 2642          3044           357           681         1208          3214          5754          6683
Netadjustments to scheduled interest                                  258           -344         5043          4319         3992          2786          2170          1902
Other factor paymnents                                                       0             0             0             0           0             0           479           729
Net pnvate current transfers                                                        0             0             0             0            0             0             0             0
Current receipts, of which                                                       0            0              0             0           0             0             0             0
Wokers' ramittances                                                         0             0             0             0            0             0             0             0
Current paymfents                                                               0             0              0             0           0             0             0             0
Net official current transfers                                                      0             0             0             0            0             0             0             0
Curernt account balance                                                          4100          4700         -5629          -646         -202         -5195         -7766         -8284
Officid capital grants                                                              0          1600          3000          2806          800           800             0             0
Private uivestment (net)                                                         400           -100           700           386        -1000          2200          2500          2500
Direct foreign investment                                                    400           -100           700           386        -1000         2200          2500          2500
Portfolio investments                                                           0             0             0             0            0             0             0             0
Net LT' borrowing                                                                2000          5500          2600        -10100       -11900         -9100         -3568          -866
DisbursneAen*sb                                                             16978         13393         12600          4936         2278         4927          7811           7555
Repayments (scheduled)                                                       4900          5000          8900         14700        14000         12600         10379          7421
Total principal repaid'                                                 7942          9392           948           1558        2277          3970          3649          2691
Net adjustments to scheduled repayments                                -3042         4392           7952         13142        11723          8630          6730          4730
Net other LT inflows                                                       -10078         -2893         -1100          -336         -178         -1427        -1000          -1000
a. Goods and nonfactor services
b. Historical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country operations division staff.
c. L1r denotes long-tkrm-



Annex 7
Russian Federation - Balance of Payments (continued)                                                                              Page 2 of 2
(Excluding tranauctions with former Soviet republics)
(USS millions at current prices)
Unified Survey FY96 projection
Adual                               Estimaue                  Projecdon
1990          1991           1992          1993         1994           1995          1996           1997
Adjustments to scheduled debt sevice                                               -2784          -4736         12995          17461        15714         11416           8900          6632
Debt scvice no paid                                                            -2784          4736          12995         17461        15714          25148          8900           6632
Reduction in srrus/prepnyents (-)                                                  0             0              0              0           0         -13732              0             0
Other capital flows                                                               -11616          -7564        -12866          -6507        -7313          3679            786           895
Net shmt4n capita                                                                  0             0          -1400          -1300       -1600           3500          1000           1200
Net capital flows n.e.i.'                                                          0           -700         -6200           -900       -8700              0              0             0
Enors and omissuons                                                           -11616          -6864         -5266          -4307        2987            179           -214          -305
Change in nrt intenaional resarves                                                 8700            600          -800          -3400         3900         -3800           -852           -877
(- indcates uxeease tu asets)
Merandman items
Total gross reserve of which                                                                   2813           4531           8875        6475          15675          19227         22903
Total reserves minu gold                                                     1300            16           1953          5816         3416          12616         16168          19844
Gold (at year-cnd London price)                                                 ..         2797           2578          3059         3059           3059          3059           3059
Total gross resaves (in monts' inports G&S4                                         ..            0.7           1.1            2.0          1.3           2.5            2.8           3.0
Exchange rates
Annual average (LCUAJS$f                                                             0.6            1.7         196.0         951.9       2204.8         4559.7        5063.9         52812
At ed year (LCU/USS)                                                                 0.6         100.0          414.5        1247.0       3550.0         4571 8        5400 2         51814
Index real average exchange rate (1993=100)                                        620 1         393.2           48.7         100.0        167.9          224.6         275.5          292.9
Current Account Balance as % GDP                                                      0 4            0.6           -5 7          -0.4         -0.1           -1 3          -1.6           -1 5
d 'rne i ' denotes 'not elsewhere included.'
e. 'G & S' denotes 'goods and services.'
f *LCUI denotes local currency units.I
g The index of the real exchange rate reflects USS/LCU. so an increase is an appreciation at the real exchange rate.



Annex 8
Russian Federation - Public Finance                                                                           Page I of 2
(at current prices and exchange rates)
Unified Survey FY96 projection (November 1995)
Actwal                           Eilimate                Projection
1990         1991          1992         1993        1994          1995         I996          1997
Government budget (billions LCUs) /a
Total cueent revenues                                            ..           ..        8285.8      66126.2    224943.3      522333.1     853263.5    1058719.8
Direct taxes                                                  ..           ..        4272.7      34988.9    113050.3      283437.4     431186.0      518431.0
Indirect taxes                                                ..           ..        2845.9      28643.9    109530.5      223001.1     400958.4      516947.2
On domestic goods and sejvices                                          ..            ..      20199.3     87323.4      189583.1     368740.7      478933.9
On internatioral trade                                            ..                  ..       8444.6     22207.1       33418.0      32217.7       38013.2
Nontax receipts                                              ..            ..       1167.2        2493.4      2362.5      15894.6       21119.1      23341.6
(of which current grants)
Total Curent Expenditures                                       ..            ..      11004.8       71691.1    255478.4     595692.9      891804.2    1034210.6
1nteest on extern debt                                        ..           ..        1058.4       3201.4      8577.3       25534.3      36915.8       40506.5
Interestondomesticdebt                                       ..            ..          78.6       1194.6      7498.4       35154.1      29123.0       32577.9
Transfes to prvate sector                                                               0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
Transfers to other NFPSb                                      ..           ..        3124.6      13774.5     51784.5      132877.3     220141.3      299027.8
Subsudies                                                     ..           ..        4108.9      19151.4     56182.3      121638.3     160882.4      145035.1
Consumption                                                133.9         209.7       2634.3       34369.3    131435.9     280489.0      444741.8     517063.3
Wages and salaries
Olher consunption
Budgetary Savings                                                             ..      -2719.0       -5564.9    -30535.0     -73359.8      -38540.7      24509.2
Capital Revenues                                                              ..         62.3         318.9       748.4       8794.2       12391.4      14620.5
Total Capital Exenditures                                                     ..       1478.3        8261.5     34969.5      54524.0      111329.4     140758.1
Cpital transfers                                                          ..            ..       4296.3     19998.2       20842.3      56886.1       71636.4
Budgeary fixed investment                                                  ..          ..        3965.2     14971.4       33681.8      54443.4       69121.8
Overall balance (- = deficit)                                   ..            ..      -4135.0      -13507.5    -64756.2    -119089.6    .137478.7    -101628.5
Souresof facing(+)                                              ..            ..        4135.0      13507.5     64756.2      119089,6     137478.7      101628.5
OfTicial capital grants                                      ..            ..           ..        2671.0         0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
Net exnal boIrowing                                           ..           ..           ..        6377.6      7276.0      10031.3       27532.4      31259.2
Netdisburseents(cash)                                      ..          ..            ..           ..       7276.0      10031.3       27532.4      31259.2
Adjustments to scheduled principal repayments (-)         ..           ..            ..           ..          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
Adjustnts to scheduled debt sevice(+)                     ..            ..           ..            ..         0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
Net monetary system                                         ..            ..        1023.0       9400.0     60200.0       43132.0          0.0           0.0
Net other domestic borrowing                                ..            ..           ..       -4941.0     -2719.8       65926.3     109946.3       70369.3
a. 'LCU' denotes local curency unit.
b. 'NFPS' denotes nonfmancial public sector.'



Annex 8
Russian Federation - Public Finance (continued)                                                                             Page 2 of 2
(at current prices and exchange rates)
Unified Survey 1FT96 projection
Acuel                              Estnate                   Projecdion
1990          1991          1992          1993         1994          1995           1996          1997
Shares of GDP (%)
Curent revenues                                                                                43.2          38.6         35.7          29.7          34.4           36.2
Current expenditure                                                                            57.3          41.8         40.5          33.9          36.0           35.4
Budgetary savngs                                                                             -14.2          -3.2         -4.8           -4.2          -1.6           0.8
Capital revenues                                                                               0.3           0.2          0.1           0.5            0.5           0.5
Capital expcnditures                                                                           77            48           5.5           3.1            4.5           48
Overall Balance (- = deficit)                                                                -21.5           -7.9       -10.3           -6.8          -5.5          -3.5
Officia capital grants                                                                                    1.6         0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0
Net extemnal boirowing                                                                                    3.7          1.2           06            1.1            1.1
Monetary systen credit                                                                      5.3           5.5          9.6           2.5           0.0           0.0
Other domestic fuiancing                                                                                 -2.9         -0.4           3.7           4.4           2.4
Government Debt (DOD /c at the end of the year, in (billions LCUs, wuless noted))
External debt                                                                                             139,764     430,615
Extena debt(inUSSrullions) c/                                                                    .        112,081      121,300
Debt to monetay system                                                           177          1,200        10,600       70,800       113,932       113,932        113,932
Other domestic debt                                                                                         7,100       22,300
Total government debt                                                                                    157464.4    523715.0
Total govemment debt as percent of GDP                                                                       91.8         83.1
Tax burden indicators (%)                                                                                                                                                                           t
Direct taxs / GDP                                                                              22.3          20.4         17.9          16.1          17.4           17.7
Indirect tax  on donestic G&Sd / GDP                                                                         11.8         13.9          10.8          14.9           16.4
Indirect taxes on donestic G&S l private consumption                                                         26.2         27.7          18.4          25.8           27.3
Taxeson intemationaltrade/ merchandiseiniports                                                               25.4         25.5          145           115            11.8
c. 'DOD' denotes 'debt outstanding and disbursed'
b 'G&S' denotes 'goods and services.'
c. Including debt to official creditors other than Paris Club (Kuwait, South Korea, meniber states of ex-CMEA).



-76-                                                 Schedule B
Russian Federation at a glance                                                           Page I of 2
Europe &  Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              Rusasan   Central middle.
Federation     Asia  Income    Development dlamond,
Populaton mid-1994 (millions)                     148.3       498    1,097
GNP per capita 1994 (US$, Atlas method)           2,320     2.430    1,680               Life expectancy
GNP 1994 (billions USS, atAttas conversion factor)  344.4   1,209    1,843
Average annual growth, 1990-94
Populabon (%)                                       0.0       0.5      1.4
Labor force (%, Russia: 1992-95)                    -0.9       ..      1.6    GNP                               Gross
Most recent esUmate (latest year available since 1989)                        per                           enrollment
capita                       erlmn
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)           32
Urban population (% of total population)             73        64       54
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     65        89       67
lnfant mortality (per 1,000 liv bvrths)              18        19       35
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                ..        ..      78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  0
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  82      97      104
Male                                               ..        97      105                -Russian Federation
Female                                             ..        97      101                   Lower-middle-income group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      1994    1995      Economic ratos-
GDP (billions US$)                            ..     ..    277.1   363.7
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                          .,     28.9    28.0               Openness of economy
Exports of goods & non-factor services/GDP   ..      ..      27.8    24.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..     ..      31.7    30.7
Gross nabonal savings/GOP                     .,     ..      30.1    29.3
Current account balance/GDP                  ..      ..       1.2      1.3
Interest payments/GDP  a)                    ..      ..       1.8      1.7                                 I t
Total debt/GDP                               .,      ..      44.1    33.1      Savings                     Investment
Total debt service/exports  a) b)            ..      ..      26.1    20.1
Present value of debtGDP                     ..
Present value of debtVexports                .,
1975-84 1985-95    1994      1995 199644                    Indebtedness
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  ..      ..  -12.6        4.0      5.1                 -Russian Federation
GNP per capita                               ..  -12.6       -4.3      5.4                   Lower-middle-income gmup
Exports of goods and nfs            ..       ..   11.8        3.6      4.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                1975    1985       1994    1995    [Growth ntes of output and Investmentt%)
Agnculture                                   ..       ..      7.8      9.4    l20 
Industry                                     ..      ..      34.8    33.9       lot
Manufacturing                              ..       ..        ..
Services                                      ..     ..      57.4    56.7  -*
Private consumption                          ..      ..      47.4       ..        .
General government consumption               ..      ..      20.9        .
Imports of goods and non-factor services     ..      ..      25.0    22.0                          -ODI        G F
197544  1985-95      1994    1995
(average annual g90wth)                                                        Growth ntes of export and Imports (%)
Agnculture                                   ..       ..     -9.0        . 
Industry                                     ..      ..    -18.6                25
Manufacturing                              ..
Services                                                     -10.0               o
Private consumpton                           ..
Total consumption                             ..     ..       2.2    -2.8    .2S
Gross domestic investment                     ..     ..    -33.1    -4.5          1
Imports of goods and non-factor services     ..      ..      22.0      7.1
Gross national product                       ..      ..    -12.7    -4.4                           -Exporta  -imports
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indic4tors in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
a) Scheduled payments before debt relief.
b) Exports of goods and services.



-77 -                                                    Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Russian Federation
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1994      1995     Inflation I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         2
Consumer prices                                                 303.2    189.2    1500
Implicit GDP deflator                                           307.6    182.8    1oo0
Government finance                                                                  soo
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                                                  37.7      29 8       o                  _
Current budget balance                                                                       90   o,   92   93   94   95
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -10.0      -4.8                             -GGDPdef. -  CPI
TRADE
1975     1985      1994      1995     Exportandimportlevels(mill US$)
(millions USS)
Total exports (fob)                                            69,600   78,500      -2w0 .
Petroleum, crude and processed                               16,454   18.162    1        T
Natural gas                                                  12,632   13,834      175.000 t
Manufactures                                                                       15         j
Total imports (fob)                                            55,200   60,600      15000_
Food                                           .        ..75,
Fuel and energy                                                                     KM.  .  .  00
Capital goads                                  .        ..25,000
Export price index (1987=100)                   B.o                                              9   91  9 0    3   9
Import prce index (1987= 100)                             ,9
Terms of trade (1987 100)                       ..       ..         ..       ..                             oExports alrmports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1994      1995
(millions USS)                                                                      Curnt account balance to GOP raUo 1%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services                       77,100   89,900     3 -
Imports of goods and non-factor services                       69,400   79,900                   77
Resource balance                                                7,700   10,000
Net factor income                                              -4,300   -5,400
Net current transfers                                            -100      200
Current account balance,                                                           ,
before capital transfers                                      3,300    4,800
Financing items (net)                           .         ..   -7,200      600
Changes in net reserves                                         3,900   -5,400         89   90   91   92   93   94   95
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)             ..       ..    6,475   17,275
Market exchange rate (local/USS)                ..       ..    2,205    4,562
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1993     1994
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1994 (mlil. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed c)                        83,888   94,232
IBRD                                                           367       684                   G    A    C
IDA                                                               0                         8993  es4 4198  0
Total debt service paid                                         2,331    3,661
IBRD                                                             12       38
IDA                                                               0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Capital transfers, net                         ,              2,802      800
Official creditors                            .        .          .        .                                           E
Private creditors                                                                    F  \            /45207
Foreign direct investment                                      386       600       34588
Portfolio equity                                        ,         0     -200
World Bank program
Commitments                                             ,       700      600      A - IBRO                     E - Bilalarsi
Disbursements                                                  371       283      B-IDA    D-Othermultilateral   F-Private
Pnncipal repayments                                               0        0      C-IMF                        G - Short-teml
Net flows                                                       371      283
Interest payments                                                12       38
Net transfers                                                  360       245
Russia Country Operabons Division and Intematonal Economics Department             m:\victoratable\aag\Rus47aag.xIs   5/13/96
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet republics are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.
1995 data are preliminary estimates.
c) Debt owed to the members of ex-CMEA is excluded.






- 79 -                                   Schedule C
Page 1 of 1
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare                 11 months
Project prepared by                   Government with IBRD assistance
First IBRD mission                    July 1995
Departure of appraisal mission        May 1996
Negotiations                          May 1996
Planned date of effectiveness         July 1996
List of relevant PCRs and PPARs       Not applicable



-  80 -                                      Schedule D
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RUSSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS a
(as of June 3, 1996)
US$ Million
Loan     Fiscal                                                                   (Less Cancellations)
No.       Year       Borrower                     Proiect                         Loan    Undisbursed
Two fully disbursed loan                                                         1200.00       0.0
Loans Under Disbursement:
35320    1993      Russia             Employment services and Social Protection    60.00      46.51
35460    1993      Russia             Privatization                                90.00      64.51
36230    1993      Russia             Oil Rehabilitation                          604.77     407.93
37060    1994      Russia             Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance      300.00     248.04
37340    1994      Russia             Financial Institutional Development         200.00     195.00
37560    1994      Russia             Land Reform Implementation Support           80.00      78.49
37570    1994      Russia             Agriculture Reform Implementation Support   240.00     238.69
37630    1994      Russia             Enterprise Restructuring                    200.00     200.00
37680    1994      Russia             Oil Rehabilitation II                       500.00     457.93
38060    1995      Russia             Environment Management                      110.00     106.04
38240    1995      Russia             Management and Finance                       40.00      36.78
38440    1995      Russia             Portfolio Development                        40.00      38.28
38500    1995      Russia             Housing                                     400.00     396.81
38530    1995      Russia             Tax Administration                           16.80      16.45
38720    1995      Russia             Emerg. Oil Spill. Mit                        99.00      37.21
38760**  1995      Russia             Gas Distribution and Energy                 106.50     106.50
38850    1995      Russia             Urban Transport                             329.00     329.00
39610 *  1996      Russia             Standards Development                       24.00       24.00
39900 **  1996     Russia             Bridge Rehabilitation                       350.00     350.00
40090 **  1996     Russia             Community Social Infra                      200.00     200.00
40120 **  1996     Russia             Enterprise Housing Diveestiture             300.00     300.00
40290 **  1996     Russia             Capital Markets                              89.00      89.00
Total                                     4394.30    3974.33
Of Which: Repaid                        0.00
Total Now Held by the Bank                 5570.07
Total Amount Sold                            0.00
Of Which: Repaid                        0.00
Total Undisbursed                                    3974.33
a/  The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
*   Not yet effective.
** Not yet signed.



-81 -                                        Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1996)
FY      FY             Description          Sector           Loan   Equity   Other /a- Total   Undisb
Appr.  Committed
A. Aooroved and Committed (Sinned) Proiects
93     94   International Moscow Bank  Financial Services   15.0    0.0               15.0       12.0
93     94    Polar Lights              Mining & Extraction   60.0    0.0              60.0       0.0
94     94    Framlington Russ. Inv. Fund Financial Services  0.0    8.0                8.0       0.0
95     95    First NIS Regional Fund   Financial Services    0.0    15.0              15.0       4.5
94     95    Russian Telecom Dev. Corp. Infrastructure       0.0    7.5                7.5       0.0
95     95    Nizhniy Newsprint Holding  Timber, Pulp and Paper 30.0   11.0    45.0   86.0       20.2
95     95    National Registry Com     Financial Services    0.0     1.5               1.5       0.6
95     95    Vasyugan Services         Mining & Extraction    9.0    0.0               9.0       0.0
96     96    Alpha Cement Open Jt. Stock Cement & Construction      13.33             13.33      0.0
95     96    Dapsona                   Food & Agribusiness   6.8    0.0                6.8       5.3
95     96    Sector Capital Development  Financial Services  0.0    0.47              0.47       0.13
95     96    Sector Capital Fund       Financial Services    0.0    4.53               4.53      4.22
96     96    Russian Technology Fund    Financial Services   0.0    2.00              2.00        1.50
96     96    Savvinskaya-Seiyo Company Indus & Cons Svcs     7.7    0.00              7.70       7.70
Total gross commitments                            128.5   63.33      45.0  236.83       56.15
Less cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales  19.8    -         -      19.80       -
Total commitments now held                         108.7   63.33      45.0  217.03       56.15
B. Approved Proiects Pending Commitment
CTC Foods                Food & Agribusiness    0.0    7.0              7.0
Volga Fund               Financial Services    0.0   20.0              20.0
ICF/UNEXIM               Financial Services   15.0    0.0              15.0
Svyazinvest              Telecommunications    0.0   50.0              50.0
Total pending commitments                           15.0   77.0               92.0
Total commitments held and pending                 123.7  140.33      45.0  309.03
Total undisbursed commitments held and pending      29.0   10.95      16.2   56.15
/a Participants portion.






MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 28004
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                                                    UNITED SlArES OF AMERICA
COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN                                                                                       -hI                     P--,de'po
COAL, POWER, AND STEEL INDUSTRIES                                                                                  Se            -
-                                                      I7                     MALOR COAL FLOWS GREATER THANMAOCALBSNFRCMUIT
Ir 0nr . IDMILLION TLOFNoS I 1s921G>REArER T-AN PSUPPORT AND EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS           RAILROADS
L  MA.OR COAL MINES                                                                          EET I ADINISTRATIE CENTERS FOR  SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
X   HARD COAL                                 pCOMmUNITY SUPPORT AND EMPLOYMENT   6    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                     4       EeD R H   T
BAROW COAL                                 E PROGAMNSRATIVE CETR  OIVERS 
COALM1- M                                         OTHER FEDERAL ROADS                       ECONOMIC REGION ROUNDARIES                       P IP
UNITED                                                                             B 1  5 e  6ROWN COAL                                                                  -  OBLAST KRA, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
KINGDOM                                                                              HARD COAL                                       -ELEC-ED SECONDARY ROADS                 AUTONOMOUS OBLAST OKRUG OR
SIGNIFICANT PORTS                        REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
A   IRON ORE
g STEEL TOWNS                  1                    LOCAL                            -  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
COAL FIRED POWER RLHNIS WITh NUSAULLEREIOA
92<              CAPACITY OP I30 0MEGAWATTS OR GREATER         9     NATIONAL                                                        E   2 V
NORWAY -
IETHERLANUS                (C           SWEDEN                                 -                                                                                             21 r                                                                              0
GERMANY                                       F I N l A N D  J,f/ AfFdolokSEi                                                                                  rW. TsF I N L A
Sr'   :  - -\ -'                           rojFINLAN   ~ '                                                                                                               Tka                            V                                            /KmsoL;O
RUSSIAN                               ;           ,Dk6Agad
9f oI,o   >ESTONIA                                                                                       R *Khamo
UPOLAND \I  XLEL  .   &5'# ~                                            j 
|  XU  RA                        {NRHSVIO$t       -     -                                                                                                                                                                7t@a ou
TUNGARY           5             / R K E Y                                                                                                                                                                         I                        TVOAIA.
.4J* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~u
B                                                                                   ORA L z                                                                                                                             N 1HTro;rI,
UKA    < O  RAIN E    -D -5IA        '                                         HID                                                                                                                                                                 SL,akhMO NGO         00 40 60    0  IOMIR   Fr
B,                                           SyktAkB,A- cL - ._                                                                                                                                                          Eo  A             JAPAN
@I~~~   flDRfU~~   phQ                 I                                                                        ukg&Fk 
OGTLRWC.                                                          K                                                                              '~tx~ *?    07
A4                                                                                                                                                                       X         Yu",."",~~~~~~VL 47
ZOTWE                       '-L~a-zr                              -                                          4A~RY                     t~,1/~'                     F                          CHINA                   E.4Y-P.k
1:                                                       N.~~~~~~~~ ~                           ~    ~~- 7o1o LMpLA  KpiI   ,d\ -,,
ISLMICER K/7 .Er                                                                                                                                                                                                                C  H____I__N___A
UVEAN   N,   OF IRA                                                                                                   *,~~~K  Z   K5 TA 
'SA'PP    F" R      <ARA EILA                       /                                                                                                              M ONGO               IA                    DE            600YES    HKUI,OMETERS   )  OP
RAG EP jj                                              USREELETAN                                                                      r"AN                                                                                                       /  KOREA









IMAGING
Report No: P-   6919 RU
Type: PR



