                                            Document  of
                                    THE WORLD BANK




                                                                     Report No. 26067




                   PROJECT      PERFORMANCE         ASSESSMENT  REPORT


                                    RUSSIAN    FEDERATION




                          COAL      SECTOR     ADJUSTMENT    LOAN
                                          (Loan No. 4058)


                     SECOND      COAL     SECTOR    ADJUSTMENT   LOAN
                                          (Loan No. 4262)




                                            June4,2003




Country  Evaluation and Regional Relations
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  = Ruble (Rbl)

Average Exchange Rates(RublesperUS$)

                                          Period Average
                          1992    =   0.196            1997    =   5.785
                          1993    =   0.933            1998    =   9.705
                          1994    =   2.205            1999    =   24.62
                          1995    =   4.562            2000    =   28.129
                          1996    =    5.126

Weights and Measures
Metric System

Government Fiscal Year                                    World Bank Fiscal Year
January l-December 31                                     July l-June 30




                                 Abbreviations and Acronyms

                    CAE               CountryAssistanceEvaluation
                    CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
                    CDP               Community Development Programs
                    ECA               EuropeandCentralAsia
                    EA                EnvironmentalAssessment
                    ES                Evaluation Summary
                    GDP               Gross Domestic Product
                    IAC               Inter-Agency Commission
                    IAP               Implementation Assistance Project
                    ICR               Implementation Completion    Report
                    NGO               Non-governmental   Organizations
                    OED               Operations Evaluation Department
                    PPAR              Project PerformanceAssessmentReport
                    SECAL             Sector Adjustment Loan




  Director General, Operations Evaluation                            Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
  Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department                  Mr. Nils Fostvedt
  Senior Manager, Country Evaluation and Regional Relations :        Mr. R. Kyle Peters
  Task Manager                                                       Mr. Gianni Zanini
  PPAR Preparedby                                                    Mr. Richard Bemey, Consultant

   OED Mission: Enhancing           development    effectiveness  through   excellence    and independence    in evaluation.  I

About this Report
      The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination
of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's
lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or
complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or
Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The
projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the implementation                 Completion
Report (a self-evaluation      by the responsible   Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.          The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management                approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank,org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevance    of Objectives:      The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development       priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational     Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy:   The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency;    The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings:         High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Sustainability:    The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       hsfitutional   Development        Impact:  The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,    and predictability of institutional arrangements  and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements.       Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome:     The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Bank Performance:         The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation         through appropriate   supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower    Performance:        The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility       to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation,        and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement
of development      objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.


Contents

Preface ...............................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                               i

                                                                                                                            111
                                                                                                                             ...
Summary .........................................................................................................................

Ratings and Responsibilities ...........................................................................................      V



1.    Background ................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                               1

2.    Bank Assistanceto the Coal Sector..........................................................................             3
         The Bank's SectorAssistanceStrategy..................................................................3
         The Coal SECALs ..................................................................................................   4

3.    Assessmentof Development Effectiveness ..............................................................6
         Relevance...............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                              6
         Achievements.........................................................................................................7
         ShortcomingsandUnresolvedChallenges ..........................................................                     11
         ImplementationIssues..........................................................................................     14
         Outcome,Institutional DevelopmentImpact, andSustainability ........................16

4.    Attribution of the Results .......................................................................................    17

5.    Agenda for Future Assistance ................................................................................         20
         Coal Restructuringin Russia ...............................................................................        20
         GeneralLessons...................................................................................................  20


Tables
      Table 3.1 The RussianCoal Industry: Workforce, Productionand
                     Productivity, 1993-2001 .........................................................................         7
      Table 3.2 FederalSubsidiesto the RussianCoal Sector,1993-2001                                       .....................9
      Table 3.3 Mine Closures...........................................................................................      9
      Table 3.4      Privatization of the RussianCoal Industry ............................................                 10

Boxes
      Box 3.1        Improving TransparencyandAccountability of the Subsidy
                     ManagementSystem......................................................... ...................... 8
      Box 3.2        Explaining the Coal Sector'sSuccessfulPrivatization .....,................... 11

Annexes
      Annex A:       Basic DataSheetfor Coal SECAL I ......................................................23
      Annex B:       Basic Data Sheetfor Coal SECAL II .....................................................25
      Annex C: Key PerformanceIndicators/LogFrame Matrix                                  ....................................27




This report was prepared by Gianni Zanini, Lead Evaluation Officer and TaskManager, OEDCR, drawing
largely on the draft PPAR originally prepared by Richard Bemey in 2001. Mr. Zanini was also responsible
for the work during 2001-02 on the RussiaCountry AssistanceEvaluation. Agnes SantosandRoziah Baba
provided administrative support.


Preface

        This is the ProjectPerformanceAssessmentReport(PPAR) for two policy-based,
quick-disbursingBank loansto theRussianFederation:the Coal Sector Adjustment      Loan
(Coal SECAL 4 $500million; LoanNo. 4058) andthe Second Coal Sector Adjustment
Loan (Coal SECAL II; $800; LoanNo. 4262).

        Coal SECAL I wasapprovedin June 1996,madeeffective in July 1996,and
closedin December1997,asscheduled.It was fully disbursedin two tranches. Coal
SECAL 11wasapprovedanddeclaredeffective in December1997andwas fully disbursed
in seventranches.It closedin December2001after a cumulative extensionof the loan
closing dateof two years. A companiontechnical assistanceloan,the Coal Sector
Restructuring   Implementation Assistance Project (Coal IAP; $25million; Loan No.
4059) was alsoapprovedin June1996,madeeffective in July 1996,andwill closein
December2003after a cumulative extensionof its closing dateof threeyears.

        This PPAR is largelybasedon the preliminary draft PPAR preparedby Richard
Bemey, OED consultant,which underpinnedthe assessmentof Bank assistanceto the
coal sectorsummarizedin OED's Country AssistanceEvaluation (CAE, 2002). It also
takesaccountof the ImplementationCompletion Report(ICR) preparedby the Europe
and CentralAsia (ECA) Regional Office, which detailsthe projects' components,
implementation,andachievementsandwhich containsthe commentsof the Government,
a former governmentofficial responsiblefor coal sectorrestructuring,the Associationof
Mining Cities, andRosugleprof(RussianIndependentCoal Employees' Union). Other
relevantdocumentationincludesthe ICR review by OED andsubsequentcommentsby
the Region,a deskreview by RogerBatstone(OEDST) of the projects' compliancewith
the Bank's safeguardpolicy andsubsequentcommentsby theRegion,the President'sand
Staff Appraisal Reportsfor thethreeprojects,the legal documents,project files, related
economic andsectorwork, various CountryAssistanceStrategy(CAS) documents,
discussionswith Bank staff, andvarious internal andexternalinputsreceivedin the
context of the CAE.

        A CAE andCoal PPAR mission led by Gianni Zanini, andincluding among
othersRichard Bemey (energyconsultant),LawrenceThompson(social protection
consultant),andMarek Dabrowski (generalCAE consultant),visited Russiain February
2001 anddiscussedthe effectivenessof theBank's energyprojects(including thecoal
projects)with governmentofficials, representativesof thecivil society,andotherdonors.
The CAE backgroundevaluationpapersfor the energysectorby RichardBemey andthe
joint CAE backgroundevaluationpaperby Yuri Bobylev, a LeadingResearcherat the
Institute for the Economy in Transition, Moscow, who joined many of the mission
meetings,andby JacekCukrowski, a SeniorEconomist at the Centerfor Social and
Economic Research,Warsaw,providedadditional inputs to this PPAR.

        Copiesof the draft PPAR weresentto the Borrower for comment, No comments
werereceived.


                                              . . .
                                              111



Summary

1.      Against thebackdropof Russia'seconomy-widetransitionto a marketeconomy,
declining demandfor coal, largebudgetarysubsidies,andde facto mine closures,the
objectivesof the Coal SectorAdjustlnentLoan (SECAL I; $500million; approvedin June
1996)andtheSecond Coal Sector Adjustment           Loan (SECAL IZ; $800 million; approved
in December1997)wereto assistRussiain reducingsubsidiesto the coal industry,
improving its structureandmanagement,andaddressingthe social issuesassociatedwith
coal mine closures. Major concernsincludedthe paymentof pastwages,severance
paymentsanddisability benefitsto miners affectedby theclosures;the financingof active
labormarket policies to mitigate the unemploymentproblemsin coal communities; and
the assuranceof adequatefunding for rehabilitation andmaintenanceof the housingand
social assets(e.g.schools,roads,utilities) previously ownedby the coal companies.

2.      Goodresultswere achievedduringboth the preparationandimplementation
periodsof Coal SECALs I and II. Statesubsidiesto the coal industry declinedfrom more
thanonepercentof GDP in 1993to lessthanone-tenthof onepercenttoday. During the
sameperiod,(i) the shareof subsidiesthat went to supportrestructuringof the industry,
asopposedto meetingthe productioncostsof loss-makingmines,increasedfrom a
negligible amountto 100percent;(ii) the coalmonopoly (Rosugol)was dismantledand
replacedby a separationof policy, safety,environmental,subsidymanagement,and
production responsibilities;(iii) privatization of the sectorwas initiated, with the shareof
private companiesin total productionrising from virtually nil in 1993to over 80 percent
of GDP in 2002;(iv) productivity in the sector,following theperiod of decline,almost
doubled;and (v) systemswere developedfor channelingsubsidiesdirectly to
beneficiariesin orderto mitigate thesocial impact of mine closuresandsector
restructuring.

3.      The Bank hada critical role in the consistentandfar-reachingrestructuringof the
Russiancoal industry. But therewerealso someshortcomingsin outcomeandin Bank
andBorrower performance,mainly relatedto inadequateattentionunderthis project to
the issuesof divestedsocial assets,environmentalmitigation, safetyandhealththatmake
up the unfinished reform agenda.Thus, the ESrating of satisfactoryfor outcomeof both
projectsis confirmed, andthe performanceof both theBank andthe Borroweris rated
satisfactoryratherthanhighly satisfactory. The rating of sustainability aslikely for both
projects is also confirmed, andthat for institutional developmentimpact is raisedfrom
substantialto high.

4.      To assurethe economicviability of the new private coal industry andcompletethe
mine closureprogram,it is important that the Governmenttacklethe unfinishedreform
agenda,which may requirea longerperiodthanenvisagedof statesupportfor
environmentalandsocial mitigation efforts. The Bank shouldcontinueits well designed
supportfor reforms in the sector,but with enhancedattentionto the Government's
subsidyallocationsandthe honoringof its commitments.

5.      Generallessonsfrom theseloansthat areapplicableto similarly complex and
politically contentioussectorreform programswith a high social impact include the

                                             IV




importanceof(i) Governmentcommitment andpolitical will; (ii) effective stakeholder
participation; (iii) a strengthenedsafetynet; (iv) adequateattentionto andfunding of the
environmentalaspectsof enterpriseclosures;(v) realistic andflexible implementation
schedules;and(vi) disbursementstied to concreteprogressin agreedreforms.




                                                      GregoryK. Ingram
                                                      Director-General
                                                    OperationsEvaluation

 Ratingsand Responsibilities


 Performance Ratings
                                      ECA Region                              OED
                                           ICR                   EVM/ES                 PPAR

Coal SECAL I
Outcome                                Satisfactory            Satisfactory          Satisfactory
Sustainability                            Likely                  Likely                Likely
Institutional Development Impact          High                  Substantial              High
Borrower Performance                Highly Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory
Bank Performance                    Highly Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory

Coal SECAL II
Outcome                                Satisfactory            Satisfactory          Satisfactory
Sustainability                            Likely                  Likely                Likely
Institutional Development Impact          High                 Substantial               High
Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory      Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory
Bank Performance                   Highly Satisfactory      Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory




 Key Project Responsibilities
           Project              Staff              Appraisal                 Completion

Coal SECAL I             Task Manager          David Craig              Michael Haney
                         Sector Manager        Jonathan Brown           Peter Thomson
                         Country Manager       Michael Carter           Julian F. Schweitzer

Coal SECAL II            Task Manager          Janet Koch               Michael Haney
                         Sector Manager        David Craig              Peter Thomson
                         Country Manager       Michael Carter           Julian F. Schweitzer


1.      Background'

 1.1    At the startof the transition,Russiawas theworld's third largestcoal producer
behindChina andthe United States.* As of 1994,its 199undergroundmines and68
surfacemines, all affiliated with Rosugol,the state-ownedcoalmonopoly, accountedfor
about6 percentof world coal production. As with all primary energysources,
governmentcontrolled coal priceswere substantiallybelow their economically
appropriatelevels. The industry was subsidizedprimarily throughgovernmentgrants
(non-repayable)for new investmentsandmajor maintenance.Coal consumptionbeganto
decline in the late 1980s asmore convenientnaturalgasbeganto replaceit. This decline
acceleratedasthe reformsof the early 199Os,including theelimination of the very large
implicit subsidiesonrail freight, substantiallyincreasedthe price consumershadto pay
for coal. However,in 1994,coal still accountedfor some 18percentof total energy
supply in Russia. In someregionsit was much more important: in the Far Eastit
suppliedmore thanhalf theregion's primary energyneeds.

1.2     The problemsof the sector,asoutlined in the Bank's first RussiaCountry
Economic Memorandum in September1992,were similar to thosepreviously facedby
Britain, Poland, andGermany. Eachhadbeenoperatedby a singlemonopoly with
massivecross-subsidizationbetweenlow- andhigh-costmines. Laborsheddinghadbeen
politically difficult andemploymenthadstayedat unrealistically high levels whenthe
industry shouldhavebeencontractingin the faceof increasingcostsdueto depletionof
themost economically recoverablecoal andof increasingcompetition from oil andgas.
The full scaleof subsidiesto the industryhadbeenconcealedby mandatorypurchasesof
coal by electricity generatorsandartificially low transportcosts. And attemptsto prevent
explicit budgetsubsidiesfrom reachingunsustainablelevelshad simply shiftedthe
balancetowardsoperatingsubsidies,leavingthe industry starvedof investmentfunds.

1.3     With declining demandandincreasingcosts,federalbudgetcoal subsidiesbegan
to increaserapidly in the early 1990s. In 1993coal priceswere liberalized andallowed to
respondto market forces. At the sametime, rail transportsubsidieswere eliminated
putting more pressureon uneconomicmines. Coal subsidiescontinuedto increase,
reachingjust over 1percentof Russia's GDP in 1993and 1994,with a devastatingimpact
on theFederalGovernment'sbudget. Thereafter,the Governmentbeganto reduce
subsidypayments,effectively starvingthe sectorfor funds. Driven by the lossof
markets,the lossof governmentfunding,andfailure of many usersto paytheir bills, the
retrenchmentprocesswas both ad-hocandchaotic. Reinvestmentin repairandrenewal
becamesporadic. Many coal enterprisesstoppedproductionand/orwere unableto pay
wagesfor months at atime, causingimmensesocial distressandpolitical tension. Coal
miners took industrial action,including streetprotestsin regionalcapitalsandin
Moscow. Otherworkerswho could no longerafford to work without wages,simply quit.
Employment in Rosugol's coal workforce fell from 914,000in 1992to 819,100in 1994.


' For asummary of the overall transition challengesandachievementsin Russia,seeOED's Country
AssistanceEvaluation: Gianni Zanini, "Assisting Russia'sTransition: An Unprecedented Challenge,"
Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2002.
' Russiaremains the 6" largestproducer today after China, the U.S., India, Australia, and South Africa.

                                                   2


 1.4     The sectorrestructuringprocessbeganin 1994with the establishmentof mining
enterprisesasjoint stockcompanies. In 1995the Governmentissueda sectorpolicy
papertitled "Basic Trends for Coal Restructuring,"which outlined a new strategyfor
downsizing the industryandtransferringits social assets(housing,heatingandwater
supplies,electricity, healthservices,schools,etc.)to municipal governments3 These
serviceswereoften providedasan integralpart of the mining company'soperation,
althoughmany of them hadbeenneglectedduring the recentperiodof scarcityof funds.
In communities wheremines wereclosing, this transferplacedan additional severe
burdenon municipal budgetsat a time when their tax basewas shrinking.

 1.5    Thirty-sevenmines ceasedproductionin 1994-95 andclosureactivities were
underwayat 64 others. By the endof 1996,coal subsidieshadbeenmore thanhalved as
apercentof GDP but were still largeat aboutUS$2.0billion, largerin fact than the
industry's total wagebill. They were nonethelessinsufficient for many mining
companiesto keeptheir wagepaymentscurrent. Nor werethesesubsidiesbeing usedto
effectively restructureanddownsizethe sector. Instead,nearlyhalf of the fundswere
being allocatedfor "price support,"essentiallypaymentsto mining companiesto cover
operatinglossesandnew investment,oftenin mines that hadno prospectof ever
becomingfinancially viable. By supportinguneconomicmines, the subsidyprogramwas
de factoblocking, ratherthan assisting,the restructuringprocess. But it was doing little
to help the mineworkers:wagesin someregionswerestill threeto six monthsin arrears
andminers wereinitiating seriouslaborstoppages.

1.6     At thetime of the approvalof Coal SECAL I (June1996),it was estimatedthat if
competitive market forceswere allowed to function, a restructured,competitive,
profitable industrywould produceaboutone-thirdlessthancurrentproductionwith about
half the labor force. This was far lessof a retrenchmentthanhadbeenexperiencedin
WesternEurope,whereupwardsof 75percentof the mines hadto be closedas
uneconomicin Germanyandover 90 percentin the U.K. But the problemsassociated
with mine closing werefar more severein Russia,wherethe restructuringwas to be
implementedduring a periodwhen the entireeconomywas contracting,andmany other
industrieswere alsoclosing down.

1.7     The challengefacing the Governmentwas to institute a programto close down a
largenumberof mines anddownsizeothersover areasonableperiod of time andin a
systematicandorderlymanner,so asto minimize the hardshipon displacedminers and
their communities. To do so,the governmentneededto shift the useof federalsubsidies
from underwriting operatingandinvestmentcostsof uneconomicmines to underwriting
activities neededto facilitate the closureof theseuneconomicmines. The challenge
facing the Bank was to help the Governmentestablisha systemthat would meetthese
goals,particularly the goalsof protectingthedisplacedminers andtheir communities.




3 The policy of transfer of socialresourceswasbeing implemented for all industrial enterprises.

                                                      3


2.      Bank Assistance to the Coal Sector

The Bank's Sector Assistance Strategy

2.1     The Governmenthadpressedthe Bank to supportthe coal sectorfrom almost the
beginningof the countrydialogue,andabout$50million from the Bank's first loanto
Russiawas allocatedto the coal sector.4 The Bank undertooka detailedstudy of the coal
sectorin 1993to determinewhat assistanceshouldbe givento the sector. Its draft report
was issuedin November 1993anddiscussedwith the Governmentthe following month.
In early 1994this work was augmentedwith a detailedanalysisof the likely impact of
restructuringin all of Russia'smain coal basins. The report's findings werewidely
distributed anddiscussedwithin theRussianGovernment,andpublishedasa Bank sector
report entitledRestructuringthe Coal Industry; Putting PeopleFirst, (Report13187-RU,
December1994). The Bank in this reporttook theposition thatthe inevitable
employment reduction,with or without mine closures,neededto bemanagedin a socially
responsiblemanner,within the contextof an adequatesocial safetynet. It arguedthat the
processby which employmentreductionwashandledwould be crucial to the acceptance
by mining communities of theoverall restructuringprogram.

2.2     The reportwasusedasthebasisfor a seriesof discussionswith andamongall the
impactedgroupsabouthow the restructuringprocesswas to proceed. The Inter-Agency
Coal Commission that the Governmentformedin 1994to establisha consistentpolicy
towardsthe sectordiscussedwith the Bank the report's analysisandrecommendationsin
May 1994andagain,afterinviting 25 Russianagenciesto submit written commentaries,
in September1994. In mid-l 995, it issueda consensusdocument("Basic Trendsfor
Coal Restructuring"), outlining thebasicelementsof a proposedlong-term strategyto
transform the coal industry into a sustainableandcompetitive sector. This long process
of stakeholderinvolvement led to arevisedRussiancoal sectorrestructuringpolicy,
which was supportedfrom mid-1996 through2001by the two Coal SectorAdjustment
Loans (SECALs) for a total of $1,300million, andthrough2002by acompanion
technical assistanceloan, the Coal SectorRestructuringImplementationAssistance
Project (LAP),for $25 million.5

2.3     The salient featureof this agreedrestructuringpolicy was to shift the focusof the
coal subsidyprogram awayfrom financing wagepaymentsandinvestmentsin
uneconomicmines, andtowardsthe closingof uneconomicmines andthe costsof a
social safetynet programin a clear,transparent,andmonitorablemanner. This safetynet
would include paymentof back wages,severanceanddisability claims, andsocial
counselingandretraining needsof displacedandretiring miners. It was alsointendedto
include investmentsin environmentalremediationandcleanup,repairof social
infrastructure,andreplacementof housingunderminedby previousmining activities.

2.4     All affectedgroupsfelt theyhad somethingto gain from cooperatingwith the
Bank in an industrythat was clearly going to haveto retrench,oneway or another. For
the FederalGovernment,theagreedprogramprovideda socially acceptablepathfor a


4 This was the first Rehabilitation Loan (L3513 approved August 6, 1992).
5 The Bank also extended more recently (in FYOO)a Coal (and Forestry) sectorinvestment guarantee to
encourage private lending to financially viable coal companies.

                                           4


rapid decreasein subsidies.For theminers, therestructuringprogrameliminated the
uncertaintyof working for a mine that wasunableto pay its wagebill, but continuedto
operate,asit providedworkerswith a guaranteethat,if andwhen their mines wereto
close,theywould receivethe benefitsof aredundancypaymentplus full backpay (which
could oftenbe six or more monthssalary),plus somesupportfor finding alternative
employment. For municipal governmentsthat hadbeengiven the responsibility for
maintaining the socialassetsof all productiveenterprises,including thoseof the mining
companies(housing,schools,hospitals,aswell aswater,electricity andtelephone
supply),the programprovided assurancesthatthe FederalGovernmentwould actually
make the agreedinfrastructuresupportpayments. Mining companyassetswere
particularly burdensomeasthe industryretrenchmentandthe mine closings were
eliminating the revenuebasethat hadsupportedthem.

2.5    For theuneconomiccoal companiesthat knew theywould haveto closebecause
they weretoo high costto compete,theprogramofferedassurancesthat the Government
would provide the fundsneededfor physically closing the mine pits anddischargingtheir
responsibilitiesto their employees,in atimely andefficient manner. For the more
efficient mines, it provideda framework underwhich they could privatize their
productiveassets.And by establishinganavenuefor reducingthe clearly unsustainable
total subsidyburdenon theFederalGovernment,it evenallowed themore politically
powerful mining areas(e.g.Rostov) to hopethat their own subsidiescould continue. The
loserswereRosugol,the centralizedmining monopoly, which would no longerhave
authorityover individual mining companies,andtheregional(Oblast) governments,
which had alsobenefitedin thepast from the control of the flow of subsidyfunds. Both
were bypassedin thedesignandimplementationof therestructuringprogram.

The Coal SECALs

2.6    The principal objectivesof SECAL I wereto:

    a  Reducethe impact of the coal sectoron the federalbudgetby supportingthe
       decrease,andeventualelimination, of subsides;
    l  Promotethe long-termsustainabilityof thecoal sectorthroughestablishmentof a
       competitive, commercial industry;

    l   Supporta restructuringprogramto reducethe size of the industry to increase
       efficiency; and

    l  Cushionthe impact of the restructuringon coal miners, their families, andaffected
       communities.

2.7    The specific objectivesfor Coal SECAL 2 wereto support:

    0  Continuedreductionandimproved managementof coal subsidies,aiming at the
       eventualelimination of coal subsidies;
       Developmentof a strengthenedandmoretargetedsocial safetynet for affected
       workers,their families andcommunities;
        Separationof statemanagementfunctions andcommercial activities in the
       industry andimprovementof sectormanagement;and
       Establishmentof a more efficient andsustainableindustry,andpromotion of an
       acceleratedprivatization program.

                                          5


2.8  The key elementsof the 1996reform programsupportedby the Bank with both
loanswere asfollows:

     Subsidy fundswould be redirectedfrom the supportof operatinglossesand
     investmentstowardsrestructuring(employmentreduction,including mine
     closing) andrelatedsocialprograms;
     A transparentmechanismwould be establishedfor the allocation andmonitoring
     of all subsidies;
     New investmentwould rely moreon internal financing anddirect private
     investment;
     At least90 loss-makingmines,with a total direct workforce of 83,000people
     would be closed(increasedto 150in SECAL II);
     Non-coreactivities would be divested,resulting in a reductionin mining
     workforce of anadditional 175,000people;
     Community SupportandEmployment Programsin areaswherecoal-related
     unemploymentis expectedto behigh would be establishedto help provide
     transitional assistanceto createnew, unsubsidizedjobs;
     The industry would be restructuredto eventuallyconsistof independent,
     competingcoal companiesthat would be self-financingon a long-term basis (a
     privatization programwas specifically introducedin SECAL II);
     The Governmentwould transferthe responsibility for allocatingcoal subsides
     from Rosugol (thestate-ownedcoal sectorholding company)to an Inter-Agency
     Commission andannounceda monitoring andauditing systemto ensurethat
     subsidieswould be usedfor the designatedpurposes;and
     Eachcoal regionwasto submit a restructuringprogramto the Inter-AgencyCoal
     Commission.

                                                      6


3.       Assessmentof Development Effectiveness

Relevance

3.1      The focusof the first Coal SectorAdjustment Loan (SECAL I) was limited to the
establishmentof a socially sustainablepolicy andinstitutional framework for
restructuringthe industry. It hada strongpovertyreductionelement. Priority was given
to the designof a socialsafetynet programfor miners who would be losing theirjobs.
Theseindividuals were guaranteedto receiveall thebenefitsto which theywere legally
entitled,including backpay, redundancyallowances,disability payments,counselingand
other servicesto help in finding new employment. This was a major improvement over
previousconditions,wheremany of themost inefficient mines hadreactedto cash
shortagesby simply not paying their workersfor many months,andthenclosing down,
leavingtheir miners andtheir communities stranded.The safetynetprogram also
emphasizedtheneedto provide funding for the maintenanceof social infrastructure
(housing,healthservices,education)that the municipal governmentswerereceiving from
the closing mines. The Governmentwasnot at that time readyto undertakea
commitment to a privatization program,althoughthis was its long term goal. Thus, the
SECAL fosteredthe initial implementationof measuresto commercialize andde-
monopolize thecoal industry.

3.2      SECAL II extendedthe objectivesof SECAL I by strengtheningthe
implementation of thesafetynet programandaddinga substantialmining company
privatization element. The sectorholding companyRosugol,which hadhad substantial
authority to allocatesectorsubsidies,was to be disbanded,andthe individual mining
companieswereto becometotally independent.The mine closureprogramwas
strengthenedby an agreementcovering(i) the minimum numberof mines that would be
closed;(ii) the percentageof the aggregatebudgetaryallocationsthat could beusedfor
"non-essential"expenditures(directmine subsidiesandsectorinvestmentfunds) anda
schedulefor increasingthepercentageof the subsidyfundsthat would beusedfor
"priority" activities, including paymentof wagearrearsandredundancyandretirement
benefits,costsassociatedwith closing mines, andnecessaryrehabilitation of social
infrastructureof closedmines; and(iii) thepercentageof the industrythat would be
privatized overthe following two years.6

3.3      The ultimate sectorgoalwas the elimination of all subsidiesandthe privatization
of all minesthat hadnot beenclosed. The Governmentalsostrengthenedthe social
safetynet programgiving theFederalTreasury,ratherthanthemining companies,the
responsibility for distributing social paymentsdirectly to the approvedrecipients. In all
theseareas,agreedoutcomesweredesignedto be clearly measurable.By focusingloan
conditionalities on aggregateoutcomes,the micro level decisions(e.g.which mines to
close,details of mine closureprograms,what investmentsto support,which mines to
privatize) were left totally to the Government.

3.4      In termsof the Government'sfinancial objective of reducingandeventually
eliminating coal subsidies,its economicobjectiveof redirectingthe existing subsidy


6 Forty-five percent of the industry's output was to come from privatized mines, asmeasuredby 1996
production levels, compared to lessthan 8 percent in 1994.

                                              7


programto make it supportthe restructuringeffort, andits socialjustice objective of
providing a safetynet for the displacedmine workers,theCoal SECALs were highly
relevantto the needsof the sector. However,boththe restructuringprogramandthe
Bank's projectsshortchanged,althoughtheydid not ignore,theneedsfor environmental
assessmentsandremedialmeasures.Thus, overall relevanceis ratedassubstantial.

Achievements

3.5      The programachievedits primary objectives,asat leastthreequartersof the
industryhasbeenrestructuredandmost highly inefficient mines havebeenclosed,while
the structureandoperationof the safetynet systemhasbeenimproved in ways thathave
assuredpaymentof duebenefitsandhavemitigated social tensionswithin the affected
populations. Sincethereis no disagreementamongthe lender,borrower,beneficiaries,
externalobservers,andindependentevaluatorsasto the resultsof the sectorrestructuring
programdescribedin greatdetail in the ECA Region'scompletion report,this PPAR only
summarizesthem.

3.6      The production and employment datain table 3.1 showa profound
transformationof theRussiancoal industryover the last decade.A largepartof the
initial reduction of the sectorworkforce wasdueto the transferof the social assetsto
local municipalities, but significant downsizingof the workforce directly engagedin coal
productionalso took place. Output continuedto declinebetween1993and 1998(by
about20 percent)andthen startedto recover,while laborproductivity improved
significantly afterthe Government'sreform programbeganin 1994to levels higher than
any attainedduring the Soviet period.

Table 3.1.  The Russian Coal Industry:    Workforce, Production  and Productivity,
             1993-2001
          Total Industry  Workforce    of which, coal                         Productivity
                 (at year end;      production  workers  Coal production   (tons/production
                  thousands)            (thousands)          (mln tons)      worker/year)
  1993               877.9                  373.1              294.2               788.5
  1994               819.1                  342.6              260.6               760.7
  1995               730.5                  307.8              250.2               812.9
  1996               630.6                  274.3              254.9               929.3
  1997               519.9                  229.5              244.1             1,063.6
  1998               416.9                  193.3              232.2             1,201.2
  1999               364.4                  190.1              249.4             1,311.9
 2000                340.4                  182.1              257.9             1,416.3
 2001                328.4                  177.5              269.3             1,517.2


3.7      Sector and subsidy management wasradically improved. As a result of
reforms in the earlypost-Sovietera,the line ministry that managedthe sectorwas
disbandedandRosugolwas createdasthe successoragencywith amonopoly over all
fundamentalpolicy, regulatory,andmanagementresponsibilitiesof the sector. In 1993,
with the creationof the Inter-AgencyCommission for Socio-EconomicProblemsin the
Coal-ProducingRegions(IAC), theGovernmentbeganthe long andcomplex processof
separatingthe industry'scommercial functionsfrom governmentalresponsibilities,

                                                    8


 3.8     Beginning in 1996,federalsubsidiesfor social assetsandjob-creation programs
were disburseddirectly to coal regionsinsteadof throughthe coal industry(subsidiesto
coal companiesfor all purposesrangingfrom investmentsto mine closurecontinuedto be
managedby Rosugol). Most of the enterprisesproducingcoal andproviding servicesto
the coal industry wereestablishedasjoint stockcompanies. In late 1997,the
Governmentdecidedto liquidateRosugolandtransferredthe responsibility for theday-
to-daymanagementof the sectorto the Ministry of Fuel andEnergy(later renamed
Ministry of Energy)andfor the managementof statepropertyin the coal sectorto the
Ministry of StateProperty. In responseto chargesof large-scalemisappropriationof the
fundsdisbursedunderCoal SECAL I, the Governmentundertookanaudit which
concludedthat about3 percent(about$60million) of the 1996coal subsidieshadeither
beendisbursedto the wrong recipientsor usedfor thewrong purposes. Partly asa result
of thesefindings, the Governmentwith the help of theBank introducedandsubsequently
continuedto refine new strict controlsover the allocation anduseof statesupportfunds,
so that what hadpreviously beenan opaque"subsidy managementsystem" becamea
transparent,public systemwith important inter-ministerial checks-and-balances,most
significantly throughthe IAC, the Ministry of Finance,andthe latter's FederalTreasury
division.

Box 3.1: Improving      Transparency    and Accountability    of the Subsidy Management      System

 The key features of the successful efforts to introduce transparency and accountability   into the
 subsidy management system included:

     l   the dissolution of the national coal company, Rosugol;

     l   the transfer of all subsidy management functions to appropriate ministries;

     l   the establishment of earmarked Treasury accounts for all subsidy categories and
         recipients;

     l   the classification of subsidies into "priority" and "other," with annual agreed targets;

     l   the setting, on a working level, of the absolute priority of social protection subsidies;

     l   the establishment of mechanisms ensuring that individual entitlements go directly to
         individuals; and

     l   the channeling of federal support for job-creation programs directly to local
         administrations.
 Three special audits were essential to identify shortcomings in the system and to provide the
 Government with the information     it needed to continue to improve the system. Two Coal
 SECAL 2 "social" tranches were directly linked to satisfactory progress in implementing
 improvements to the subsidy management system.

:Source: World Bank.


3.9     As shown in table 3.2,aggregatesubsidies werereducedrapidly. As a percentage
of GDP the2001 level of subsidieswasone-fifteenthof the 1993level andone-seventh
of the 1996level, when SECAL I was approved. It was also lessthanone-tenthof one
percentof currentGDP. Moreover,the composition of subsidieswas changedeveryyear
in favor of supportingthe restructuringandmine-closing process. Subsidiesto support
loss-makingmines were eliminatedentirely by 2002.

                                                        9


Table3.2. FederalSubsidiesto theRussianCoal Sector,1993-2001
                 Total Subsidies              TotalSubsidies             % ofwhich         Coal Subsidies
                   million Rbs                  billion USD                 priority           as % of
                   (nominal)                      (nominal)             subsidies (a)            GDP
  1993                  1,794                        1.76                                        1.05
  1994                  6,237                        2.76                                        1.02
  1995                11,453                         2.51                                        0.72
  1996                10,400                         2.03                                        0.47
  1997                  6,469                        1.12                      29                0.25
  1998                  5,254                        0.61                      53                0.20
  1999                10,000                         0.40                      67                0.22
  2000                  7,970                        0.28                      75                0.12
  2001                  6,295                        0.22                      80                0.07
(a) "Priority subsidies"are defined asthose for: (i) socialprotection (consisting of severance,wage arrears,
free coal, and disability, the last of which was transferred to the Social InsuranceFund beginning in 2001,
i.e. no longer funded through coal subsidies);(ii) physical aspectsofmine closure; (iii) community
development programs Gob-creation etc.); and (iv) safety. This was aconcept introduced by theBank and
included in Coal SECAL 2 conditionality.

3.10      At the endof 2001,mine closure works werebeing carriedout at 183loss-
making mines that hadceasedproductionin theprecedingeight years. At 158of these
mines, a first stageof critical undergroundclosureworks-those associatedwith
substantivecIosureandotherurgentpriorities, suchastemporarymeasuresto prevent
flooding at closedmines-was completedandall personnelwith the exceptionof the
liquidation commissionshadbeenlaid-off andreceivedtheir separationentitlements,
including all arrears.To put theseresultsin perspective,asrecentlyasend-1997the
Governmentbelievedthat it would needto closesome 136mines. Todaythe estimated
total number of mines that will haveto closeis about200. Thesefiguresandthosein
table 3.3 describea mine closureprogramof unparalleledmagnitudein world mining
history. In this regard,Russiahasachievedwith its mine closureprogramwhat no other
country with a mining sectorhasachievedbefore,andhasdoneso in a very condensed
time frame.

Table 3.3. Heavily Loss-makingMines Having ...
                                                                                and completed substantive
                                              ceased production                      closure works
                1993                                    0                                   0
                1994                                   23                                   0
                1995                                   50                                   0
                1996                                   69                                   0
                1997                                  101                                  42
                1998                                  140                                  80
                1999                                  153                                 140
               2000                                   170                                 153
               2001                                   183                                 158


3.11      The achievementsunderthedemonopolization, commercialization, and
privatization component arestriking: startingfrom virtually nil in the early 199Os,
77 percentof the industry's outputwasin private handsby theclosing dateof SECAL II,
that is, by end-2001(seetable 3.4) andit is estimatedthat this sharereachedabout

                                                10


 82 percentby the endof 2002. At the outsetof coal sectorrestructuring,thedominant
 viewpoints regardingprivatization wereskepticismby eventheir most ardentRussian
 proponentsandoutright oppositionon thepart of the influential industrial lobby. As
 recentlyasin 1996underSECAL I, the goal of reforming the industry'sownership
 structurewas still limited to completingthe corporatizationof the industry, establishing
 competitive coal companiescapableof self-financingon a long-termbasis,and
 transformingthemanagementstructureof coal sectorenterprisesusingthe gradualist
 approachof trust management(otherwiseknown asmanagementcontracts).

 Table 3.4. Privatization of the RussianCoal Industry
                                                                        % of year's coal production
                                                                              by private sector"
                                               1993                                under10
                                               1994                                under10
                                               1995                                under10
 CoalSECAL 1                                   1996                                under10
                                               1997                                under10
 CoalSECAL 2                                   1998                                    22
                                               1999                                    28
                                              2000                                    47
                                              2001                                     77
 * Measured asproduction accounted for by companiesthat are private at year's end.

3.12    While it is still too earlyto draw robustconclusionsaboutthe impact of
privatization, the presentownershipstructureof the coal industry indicatesthat
competition is certainly higherthanin most othernaturalresourceindustriesin Russia.
And the steadyincreasein labor productivity andabsenceof telling signsof enterprise
troubleslike wageandotherarrearspoint to a positive impact of privatization on the
economicandfinancial performanceof the coal sector.

3.13    The social safety net component of the coalrestructuringprogramcontributedto
improved benefitsto, andreducedtensionwithin, the affectedpopulations. The absence
sincemid-1998 of anymajor political demonstrations,which miners hadpreviously felt
wereneededto receivefair treatment,hasbeena major achievement,consideringthe
militant history of the workersin this sector. The overall systemof socialprotection
benefitsfor coal workersandtheir families was much improved underthe SECALs,
which includedinnovative institutional reformsthat assuredthat wage,severancepay,
anddisability benefit paymentswere fully paid andreachedtheir intendedbeneficiaries.

3.14    The highly innovative andeffective monitoring systemof the socialimpact of the
entirereform program-introduced during the preparationof Coal SECAL I-was
instrumentalto documentandcorrectproblems in the size andtargetingof wageand
social protectionpayments. For instance,the monitoring carriedout in 1996hadrevealed
the existenceof seriousarrearsin severancepayments,ascompanymanagerspreferredto
channeltheir limited resourcesto reducingwagearrearsto remaining activeminers. In
response,the definition of social protectionwas broadenedunderSECAL II to include
wage arrearsandseverancepaymentsfor redundantor retiring workers. By May 2000,
the social impact monitoring provedthat the Governmenthadcomplied fully with the
indicatorsagreedunderSECAL II for the releaseof the "social" tranche,asover

                                              11


90 percentof redundantminers andentitled recipientsreportedtimely paymentof wage
arrearsandseveranceanddisability benefits.

3.15    Finally, the loans' componentsupportingCommunity DevelopmentPrograms
(CDP) helpedthe provision of pre-redundancyconsultingservicesto, andoccupational
re-trainingof, laid-off workers; small businesssupport(funding for businesscenters,
businessincubators,etc.);temporarypublic works; andjob-creationoutsidethe coal
sector(19,115new,permanentjobs were createdunderthis component,at a costperjob
that comparesfavorablywith similar programsin Russia). In a few cases,the CDP funds
were alsousedto meet a smallpart of the demandfor voluntary relocationassistanceof
non-viablecoal communities.

Box 3.2: Explaining    the Coal Sector's Successful Privatization

Key factorsthatcontributedto thesuccessfulprivatizationof thesectorinclude:
    l  A generalrecognitionof theflawsof thetrustmanagementapproachin theoverallpoor
       institutionalenvironmentof Russiain 1996-98;

    l  Thesteadfastcommitmentby theGovernmentto privatizationof thecoalindustry;

    l  Thedecisionby theGovernmentto begincompetitivedirectprivatizationby offeringfor
       salesomeof thecoalindustry'smostattractiveassets,surfaceminesin Siberia;asthese
       includedtheindustry'slargestproducers,theprivatizationof threecompanieswas
       sufficientto createacriticalmassof privateproducersandto changetheperceptionof
       theindustryandtherole of thestatein it;

    l  Coal'sreputationasanundesirable,troubledindustry,whichprovidedanopportunityfor
       variousgroupswith rootsin thesectorandanunderstandingof its long-termpotentialto
       securecontrolof theassetsofferedfor sale,andhelpedestablishacompetitiveindustryin
       whichno singlegroupdominates;

    l  Theproventrackrecordof theGovernment'sprogramof closureof heavilyloss-making
       minesandsignificantyearlyrealdecreasesin theallocationof subsidiesto thesector,
       whichwerereassuringfactorsto privateinvestorscontemplatingtheacquisitionof long-
       terminterestsin thecoalsector;and

    l  Generally,oppositionto privatizationfromorganizedlaborwasnotanissuein the
       RussiancoalsectoroncetheGovernmenthadclearlydemonstratedits commitmentto
       reducingsubsidiesregardlessof theindustryownershipstructure,andprivateowners
       emergedasbetteremployersthanthepreviouslyState-ownedmines.


Shortcomings and Unresolved Challenges

3.16    Notwithstandingthe successof the reform andrestructuringprogramto date,
someimportant sectorproblemsremain unresolved. The restructuringprogram
downplayedthe environmentalaspects,relied on aninadequateenvironmental
assessment,andlackedan environmentalactionplan. The mine closureplansfor each
individual mine containmany items of a long-termnaturethathaveto datereceived
relatively little financing. According to the ICR, theseremainingliabilities pertain
primarily to: (i) environmentaldamagemitigation works, suchaslandreclamation;
(ii) social infrastructurerepairworks (repairto boilers, gaslines, communications,etc.
that weredamagedin thecourseof the mine closureprocess);and(iii) assistancein
relocation from housingthat hasbeendamagedasa result of mining. Otherserious
environmentalproblems alsoremainunresolved(flooding andpoisoningof groundwater

                                                              12


from seepage),asdo health andsafetyproblemsrelatedto the mine closuresthat were
inadequatelyaddressedin thepast. Becauseof theseremaining liabilities, the legal
liquidation of the 64 closedmines that arelegal entitiesandwheresubstantiveclosure
works havebeencompletedhasnot beenpossible. The Governmenthasinitiated
bankruptcyproceedingsagainstthemines, but thereremainstheproblem of identifying a
successorentity andan alternativesourceof financing for the works of critical
importancein themine closureplansbeforethe courtswill acknowledgeanyclosed
mines aslegally bankrupt,making it possibleto removethem from the nationalregisterof
legal entities.

3.I7       Commentsby the Associationof Mining Cities on thecompletion report for the
projectssupportthe aboveobservations:"The processof mine closurehashad an
adverseimpact on mining cities. The latter includesfrequentsuddenmethaneoutbursts
to the surfacewhich leadsto bums, poisoningandevendeathsof people;in many coal
communities, significant worseningof quality of drinking water; absenceof any
significant progressin land reclamation,etc. The abovecategoryhasreceived
insignificant financing. The environmentalproblemsaffecting residentsof Russiancoal
communities arenow amongthe most critical unresolvedproblemsrelatingto coal
restructuring." Basically, themines havenot yetbeenclosedin anenvironmentallysound
andsafemannera

3.18       The program'ssocial objectiveshavebeenalsoonly partially met. The social
infrastructurethat waspassedto themunicipal governmentswas in anextremelypoor


7  The Region comments that "The          PPAR does not adequately reflect the complexity of the subject and the systems
that exist in Russia to deal with the implementation of these parts of the mine closure plans. The Coal SECALs never
had as a goal the completion of all aspectsof the approved mine closure plans; it was recognized that more time and
financing would be needed than could be made available by the Russian budget during the implementation of the
Bank-supported project. Furthermore, there was a fundamental constraint that argued against the rapid implementation
of the mine closure plans, namely, the realization that the mine closure plans had been inflated by local and regional
authorities at the time of their preparation in the mid-1990s when such processeswere poorly controlled.      The
aggregate financing need for mine closure was significantly over-stated through the inclusion in the mine closure plans
of: (i) items that were illegitimate because they had no relationship to the mine closure process, and (ii) items that were
legitimate but for which the cost estimates were exaggerated. For these reasons the Bank team felt that it would have
been irresponsible in view of the Bank's fiduciary obligations to urge rapid completion of all items in the mine closure
plans. One of the major challenges in the implementation of the mine closure program was to reach consensus on the
need to revise the mine closure plans with the goal of identifying legitimate costs to be financed by the budget; this is a
long, arduous process that began towards the end of the implementation of Coal SECAL 2 and continues today. At the
same time, it is important to stressthat budget financing for social inFrastructure repair and mitigation of environmental
damage at closing mines has been made available every year since the inception of the mine closure program and in
recent years these categories have received the largest share of the budget allocations devoted to the physical aspects of
mine closure." However, OED notes that the ECA Region recognized in mid-2002 that "at the beginning of sector
restructuring,    one of the major challenges . . was to implement a massive program of closure of heavily loss-making
mines in a socially and environmentally     responsible fashion", that many aspectsof a long-term nature of this agenda
"have to date received relatively little financing" and that both projects included a separate environmental management,
technical assistance and training component "to strengthen the capacity needed for environmental management,
including  legal and financial aspects,to mitigate the adverse impacts of coal mines included in the restructuring
program."    As is clear from para. 3.I6 above, OED's criticism is not about the lack of completion of this complex
process, but rather the inadequate early attention to it by both the Bank and the Government.     If these problems had
been adequately scoped out in the Environmental Assessment and if the review of the "illegitimate"      and "exaggerated"
expenses had been carried out at the beginning instead of at the end of implementation of SECAL II, then the
Borrower's understanding of requirements would have been clear, and adequate provisions over a realistic timeframe
could have been made, monitored, and evaluated, with more progress to show after eight years of implementation than
at present.

                                                           13


state,including much of thetemporaryhousingbuilt for minersbarrack-styleduring the
1940sand1950swith plannedlifetimes of 15to 20 years.' Repairs,maintenance,and
reconstructionareneededfor drinking waterfacilities, centralheatingfacilities, the
electric power distribution facilities, roads,andtelephoneexchanges.The activities
neededto correcttheseinfrastructureproblemsandthebasichousingneedsof displaced
miners andtheir communities were supposedto be identified andcostedaspart of the
mine closureplansapprovedandagreedto by the Governmentin themid-l 990s. At that
time, however,when the control over the reform processwasweak, local authorities
senseda goodopportunityto usethemine closureplansasa vehicle to extractadditional
financing from the federalbudget. As a result,theclosureplanscontaineda largenumber
of works that were either(i) legitimate but for which the budgetestimateswere
unjustifiably high, or (ii) illegitimate, asmeasuredby the regulationsthat governthis
process,asthey hadnothing to do with the remediationof damagecausedby mining or
the mine closureprocess.

3.19     Despiteresistanceat many levels for obviousreasons,the Government
commencedin 2001a review of the mine closureplans(with the help of consultants
financedby Coal IAP) to determinethe legitimacy of the many thousandsof individual
work projectsincluded in them. Sucha review hasalreadyresultedin the exclusionof a
significant portion of the financing items thatwereincluded in the original mine closure
plans,which in their presentform areout-of-date(andalsonot a crediblesourceof
information on therelocationassistanceissue). Nevertheless,the fact remainsthat this
review came latein the processandactualexpendituresfor somelegitimate social needs
of the restructuringprogramsuchassocialinfrastructurerepairworks andrelocation
from damagedor substandardhousinghavebeeninadequate(andmuch lower than
allocatedsubsidiesin the federalbudget). Coal SECAL I provedineffective at dealing
with thepressingproblemsof rehabilitation,maintenance,andoperationof divested
social assetsto local governmentsthatwere underseverefiscal andorganizationalstress.
In response,this componentwas de-emphasizedunderCoal SECAL II.

3.20     The coal restructuringprogramhasyet to find a sustainablepolicy solutionfor the
freecoal benefit, althoughits coveragewasbettertargetedduring the implementationof
Coal SECAL II. The 2002budgetprovidesmore funding, but the Government's
commitment to supply freecoal to the families of miners from closedmines hascreateda
long-term, largeunfundedliability, asit is a much heavierburdenthanoriginally
anticipated,particularly in regionswherecoal is becoming scarcebecausemost of the
local mines havebeenclosed. Freecoal,however,is an essentialelementin theminimal
consumptionof mining families in the cold Russianwinters. Without it, or an equivalent
benefit, the social safetynetwill havebeenbroken.

3.21     The coal sectorfacesaIsomuch thesameproblem of inheriteddebtand
inadequatelydevelopedcapital marketsasdo othercapital-intensiveindustriesin Russia.
Almost all mining companies,private andpublic, arefacedwith a seriousdebtoverhang
problem, stemmingprimarily from the non-paymentof variousoff budgettaxes(payroll
taxes,roadtaxes,etc).For closedmines with no sourceof revenueto pay the taxesdue,


* The OED mission in February 2001 toured some extremely substandard homes in the Tula region's mining
communities, where elder residents still lived as they had no other alternatives, given their lower than subsistence
pensions and occasional and limited transfers from migrant relatives.

                                                      14


the heavypenaltieskeepthe closureprocessfrom reachingcompletion. For mines that
continueto operate(both private andpublicly owned),theproblem is far more critical.
The Governmentcould pressits "legitimate" claims at anytime and forcethe enterprise
into bankruptcy,wherethey canbe renationalized,or sold to other,betterconnected
parties. Of evenmore concernfor the long term viability of the industry,no commercial
bankwould be willing to lend moneyto acompanywith sucha weakbalancesheet. In
the last two years,Russiahasmadegreatstridestowardsresolvingthis economy-wide
problem, by requiring thatprogramsof debtrestructuringbe agreedbetweenevery
enterprisethat hasdebtsandthe Tax RevenueMinistry. The operatingcoal companies
areparticipating in theseprograms.

3.22     New investmentis scarceasmost coal enterprisesarealreadycarryingtoo much
debtandin anycaseaviable domesticcapital market is yet to be establishedwith the
ability to provide medium andlong term loansto the sector. The Bank hasestablisheda
guaranteefacility againstnon-commercialrisks to spurnew private investmentin the
industry andthe IFC is looking at what it might do to amelioratethe situation. However,
while someof the companiesarewilling to takeforeign funding, othershavefoundthat
suchborrowing leavesthem with a seriousexchangerisk. Most of their coal is sold
locally andis only marginally relatedto borderprices. A numberof coal companieswith
foreign liabilities were badlyburnedby the 1998financial crisis, when their foreign
denominateddebtsquadrupled(in ruble terms), while the ruble pricesof their output
increasedby lessthan50 percent. It was clearly a mistake not cleaningup their balance
sheetsbeforeprivatizing thesecompanies. Alternative meansof obtaining medium and
long term financing requiredfor new investmentsremainto beidentified.

Implementation Issues

3.23     Internal auditsby the Governmentandthe frequentsocial impact andmonitoring
reportsunderthe SECALs identified somemajor holesin thereform process. Under
SECAL I, the GovernmenthadbeenusingRosugol,the stateownedcoal sectorholding
company,for distributing federalsubsidyfundsto the sector. It was found,however,that
about3 percent of the subsidiesallocatedfor mine closureactivities (closing the mines,
filling in mine-shaftentrances,tearingdown associatedbuildings, maintaining social
infrastructurethat mining companieshadtransferredto themunicipal governments,and
individual paymentsto displacedminers) hadeitherbeendisbursedto the wrong
recipientsor hadbeenusedfor purposesotherthanthoseintended.' It wasbelievedthat
most of thesemissing funds hadbeendivertedto uneconomicinvestmentsin loss-making
coal mines, therebysubvertingthe main objective of theprogram. During preparationfor
SECAL II, substantialchangesweremadein theprogram's institutional support
arrangements,including an agreementthat Rosugol's responsibilitieswould be shifted to
otherorganizationsandthat Rosugolwould be closed.

3.24     In the processof working on SECAL II, theBank alsohelpedthe Government
formulate a new resolutionon StateFinancingMeasuresfor Coal SectorRestructuring


9 A seriesof articlesin the local and international pressclaimed misappropriation of funds disbursed under
the Coal SECAL I, but this wasbased on a misunderstanding of the general budget support nature of untied
proceeds of adjustment loans. As is standardpractice for such operations, the SECALs' funds were not tied
for useas coal sector subsidiesor any other budget expenditures.

                                                     15


(Resolutionof the GovernmentNo. 1523of December1997,subsequentlyrevisedby
No. 1026)that establishedthe categoriesof eligible financing activities andeligible
categoriesof recipientsfor eachcategory. It includedclearly definedcategoriesof
"priority" and"non-priority" subsidysupports. The Bank supportedboththe widening
anddeepeningof the restructuringprocess:widening it to include a largeincreasein the
numberof mines to be closedunderthe programanddeepeningit by addingan agreement
to privatize companiesthatbecameprofitable afterthey hadbeenrestructured.
Implementationof SECAL II was derailedby the financial crisis of August 1998. When
it was renegotiatedandput backon track in early 1999,all the original conditionswere
maintained,but disbursementswerespreadout over six additionaltranchesanda longer
period of time. The programhasrequireda significant increasein supervision,with
missions scheduledon a quarterlybasis.

3.25      The policy dialogueunderSECAL II focusedon Governmentcommitments to
limit andto continueto decreasethe percentageof their subsidypaymentsfor "non-
priority" activities (financing of operatingsubsidiesandmining investments). The agreed
minutes of loannegotiationsincludeda minimum numberof mines that would be closed
anda minimum percentageof the enterprisesthat would be privatized. Thesenumbers
werechosenon the basisof information derivedfrom detailedmine by mine studiesthat
the Ministry of Fuel andEnergyhadcommissioned. Thesearrangementsallowed the
Bank to concentrateundersupervisionon the progressof the overall reform programand
on assuringthat the"priority investments"(thoseusedto supportthe mine closure
program)wereusedfor the agreedpurposes,while the Governmenttook all responsibility
for the day-to-daydecisionsaboutwhat was to be donewith eachmine.

3.26      The Bank paid lessattentionto how thenon-priority subsidyfundswereused,
including the allocationof subsidiesfor investment,aslong asthe aggregatestayedbelow
the agreedlevels. It hadbeenalso agreedthat investmentswere to be for improving the
operationof existing mines,not for the sinking of new mines,andthat they shouldhavea
reasonablyshortimplementationperiod. However,despiteits needs(seebelow) the coal
mining sectorhasneverbeenableto useall the fundsmadeavailable."

3.27      In addition to the quarterlysupervision,SECAL II includeda seriesof special
auditsof the new subsidymanagementsystemandsubsidyflows andsocial impact
monitoring studies,which beganin the summerof 1998. In addition,Bank staff
undertookintensivereviews of the impact of the social investmentprogram(e.g.,during a
six-weekperiod in the summerof 2000). This intensivesupervisioncycle was effective
in helping the Governmentmeet its coal sectorcommitments. All of theseactivities
provided a solid foundationfor fine-tuningthe programduring the courseof the
implementationof SECAL II, for the currentpolicy dialogue,andfor preparatory
activities for possiblefuture supportby theBank for completing necessaryenvironmental,
safety,andsocial protectionactivities. Unfortunately,the changein Governmentin May
2000andthe lack of a Deputy Minister for Coal for manymonths in 2000and2001
delayedthe implementationof actionsthatthe Governmentneededto taketo meetthe

lo In 1998,only Rb469 million out of Rb900 million were used up, in 1999about Rb800 million out of
Rbl,OOOmillion allocated, and in 2000 only Rb132 million out of Rb911 million allocated. The primary
reasonfor the inability of beneficiaries to usemore than 15percent of their allocation in 2000 was the
difficulty in meeting the requirements of the new Budget Code,passedby the Duma in January2000.

                                                     16


goalsof SECAL II andto triggerdisbursementof the last two tranches." SinceSpring
2001,however,the Governmentbroughtthe programback on track, making sufficiently
encouragingprogressto warranta one-yearextensionof the loan closing date(to
December31,2001, with a cumulative extensionof the closing dateof two years)andto
disbursethe final two tranches.

Outcome, Institutional Development Impact, and Sustainability

3.28     The Bank's assistancehasmet its primary goals,more thanfully in the caseof
sectormanagement,structure,production,employment,productivity, subsidiesand
subsidymanagement,andto a significant degreewith respectto the closuresof heavily
loss-makingmines andthe social safetynet. However,the programprovided inadequate
treatmentof the environmentalchallengesandreapedcommensuratelymodest
achievementsin this area. Thus,the overall outcomeof both loansis ratedas
satisfactory.

3.29     The institutional developmentimpact of the reformssupportedby the Coal
SECALs hasbeenhigh, reachingbeyondthe sectoritself. On the nationallevel, the
institutional structureof oversight,management,ownership,consultations,andpolicy-
making in the coal sectorhasbeencompletely andpermanentlytransformed. In
supportingprogramsof federaltransfersto municipalities andlocally-managedjob
creationprograms,the loanshavealsosupportedinstitutional developmentat the
municipal level, which is apriority of the currentcomprehensivemedium-term reform
programby the Government. And the experienceof managingandtracking coal sector
subsidiesprovedvery valuablein the laterdevelopmentof aFederalTreasurysystemand
the Government'sdeparturefrom thepracticeof usingcommercial banksto executethe
budget.

3.30     Despitethe still formidable challenges,the sustainabilityof the achievementsof
the coal sectorreforms is likely. The fundamentalnatureof the sectoralachievementsso
far, including the emergenceof groupswithin andoutsidethe Governmentthat are
stronglycommitted to preservingthem,the improved economy-widepolicy and
institutional frameworkandperformance,andvariousrecentinitiatives by the
Governmentjustify the expectationsthat thereforms will not only be sustainedbut also
deepenedbeyondthe contoursof the original programsupportedby the Bank.




" A $50 million tranche associatedwith the loan's socialconditions, anda $100 million tranche associated
with the loan's privatization conditions. Both tranchesalso required further progressin deciding how to
handle the remaining twenty to thirty heavily loss-makingmines that did not yet have restructuring
programs.

                                                     17


4.      Attribution          of the Results

4.1     As is generallythecasein successfulprojects,the resultscanbe attributedto the
contributions of all the affectedgroups. Of particular importancewere (i) the interestof
the Governmentin reducingsubsidiesandmaintaining thepeacein a highly contentious
industry; (ii) the interestof the municipalities to be assuredthatthe Government
maintainedits commitment to its approvedallocationprogram;and(iii) the interestof the
mining population in receiving their back wagesandmoving forwardwith their lives in
asorderly andcontrolled a manneraswaspossibleduringthis period of retrenchment.

4.2     On the Bank side,the Coal SECALs weredesignedon thebasisof solid economic
andsectoranalyticalwork, intensivepolicy dialoguewith key seniorpolicymakers,and
broadconsultationswith stakeholders.They wisely offeredaparallel companion
technical assistanceproject. And they could rely on a skilled andresponsiveteam,at
both the staff andmanagementlevels. Furthermore,the Bank promotedaneffective
supervisionenvironmentby designingandagreeingwith theGovernmentmonitorable
andquantitativeobjectivesthat formedthe basisfor recurrentdiscussionsaboutproject
progress. The Bank wisely focusedits attentionon theprogram'scritical elements,which
included the numberof mines thatwere to be closed,the resultsof the mine closure
program(numberof mines substantiallyclosed),andthe percentageof the industrythat
hadbeenprivatized. It alsoreachedanagreementon the broadparametersof the
restructuringprogram,includedconditions on theminimum budgetallocation(in
percentageterms)to "priority subsidies"(thosethatmoved the restructuringprogram
forward) andon the maximum allocationthat could go to "non-priority" activities
(primarily operatingsubsidiesandinvestmentfunds). But it left the Governmentto work
out the detailsof how it would achievethesegoals. The Governmentchosethemines to
be closed,the investmentsto supportthemines that remainedopen,t2andthe mines that
were to beprivatized, with the proviso thatthe social safety-netpaymentsthat wereto go
directly to the miners would takepriority, andthatthesepaymentshadto be completed
beforethe mines could be countedassubstantiallyclosed.

4.3     Both SECALs were designedwith anunderstandingthat many modifications
would haveto be madeduring implementationto the agreedcomponents,andespecially
to the social componentof the mine closureprogram. An independentpanelof experts
was establishedto monitor the social impact of therestructuringprogramandidentify the
neededadjustments. In addition,theparallel $25million Coal IAP provided financing for
teamsof local and foreignconsultantsto conductmeetingsandfocusgroupdiscussions
with stakeholders,businesspeopleandNGOs in thethreemajor coal basinsof Kuzbass,
Rostov andTula during the courseof implementing the secondproject. The feedback
from both of thesesourceshasbeencritical in providing assurancesthatthe programwas
meeting its declaredobjectivesof supportingthe affectedpopulationsandin establishing
a framework for decidingwhat refinementsin implementationprocedureswereneeded.

4.4     The choiceof lending instrument(atranchedsectoradjustmentloan) helpedboth
sidesto pay continuousattentionto the critical policy issues. The projectprovided


" Subject only to the stipulation that the investmentswere for improvements in operating mine pits, not for
investments neededto open new mines.

                                            18


generalbudgetarysupport,sotherewasno direct link betweenthe disbursementof Bank
fundsto the Governmentandthe disbursementof the Government'sbudgetaryfundsthat
wereusedto subsidizeactivities in thecoal sector. Nevertheless,the closesupervisionof
therestructuringprogramby theProject ImplementationUnit, a non-profit organization
fundedwith loanproceeds,andby numerousBank missions also led thepublic and
especiallythe subsidyrecipientsto considertheGovernmentfundsasoriginating from,
andcontrolledby, the Bank.

4.5     This perceptionwas effectively andappropriatelyexploitedby the Governmentto
deflectpolitical heat,whenit hadto make politically unpopulardecisionsneededto keep
therestructuringprogramon course,althoughthe Bank nevertried to control the specific
allocation of the Government'ssubsidies. The Bank, however,includeda seriesof
interim programauditsandevaluationsin theproject design,asit wantedto know how
well the subsidyprogramwasmeetingits agreedobjectives. The resultsand
recommendationsof theseauditsprovidedthe factualbasisfor subsequentdiscussions
with the Governmenton adjustmentsto the institutional arrangementsduring theprojects'
implementation. This dynamic processandthe continuousdialoguewith the Government
on all substantiveissues,facilitated by almostquarterlysupervisionmissions,kept the
project on track.

4.6     Where theBank staff did go into greatdetail was in the advicegiven on the
formulation of ResolutionNo. 1523on Public Financefor Coal SectorRestructuring.
This critical implementing regulationdefinedhow the subsidydisbursementsystemwas
to be handledby theTreasuryanddetailedall the categoriesof disbursementandthe
specific activities that would be includedin eachcategory,aswell asthe disbursement
mechanism,andthe accountingandcontrol processto beused. Its languageallowed no
ambiguity, andthe Treasuryfollowed it in spirit aswell asto the letter whendisbursing
subsidies.

4.7     From theRussianside,thecommitment of key seniorpolicy makerswas critical.
The Governmenthadalreadyworked on the designof the restructuringprogramwith the
help from the British Know How Fund andhadalreadymadeconcreteprogressprior to
Bank involvement. It alsoheld extensivestakeholders'consultationson thebasisof a
draftproposalbeforefinalizing its plan. Equally critical wasthe technicalsupport
provided by ReformUgol, the efficient ProjectImplementationUnit. ReformUgol had
four operationalunits, a socialprogramunit, aneconomicprogramunit anda unit for
interactionwith NGOs andthemedia, anda unit thatprovided technical supportfor the
Government'sInteragencyCoal Commission (IAC). It wasresponsiblefor reviewing the
coal subsidymanagementsystem,conductingthe specialauditsthat verified the
expenditureeligibility undereachcategory,andconductingstudiesto monitor the social
aspectsof therestructuringprogram. It was also activein reviewing theproposed
improvementsto the legal andregulatoryactsgoverningthe institutional structureand
operationof the sector.

4.8     It would be difficult to overemphasizethe importanceof the specialaudits. The
first specialaudit, which was a condition of the secondtrancheof SECAL II, focusedon
the eligibility of actualsubsidypayments. It wasbasedon detailedinformation on the use
of budgetresourcesat the companylevel. The systemicweaknessesidentified in this
audit led to thedrafting andissuanceby the Governmentof ResolutionNo. 1523,

                                            19


mentionedabove. The secondspecialaudit was designedto verify the legality,
accountabilityandtransparencyof the subsidyprocess,andto establishwhetherthe
weaknessesidentified during the first audithadbeenrectified. This audit showedthat the
newregulationshadgreatlyimproved the performanceof the subsidyprogram.
ReformUgol alsomonitored the socialimplications of the labor sheddingprocessunder
the restructuringprogram. A result of this studywasto refocusgovernmenteffortson
employmentassistanceprogramsin mining communities. The result of all theseaudits
andstudieswas that federalandregionalauthoritieswereprovidedwith solid, real time
information on which to basetheir sectorpolicy decisions,thus greatlyenhancing
effectivenessof the Bank-Governmentdialogue.

4.9     Reformugol was activein providing assessmentsof the value andappropriate
initial price for the federallyownedsharesof severalof the mines that were subsequently
fully privatized. It alsoimplementedmanagementandfinancial training programsfor
coal enterprises.It reviewedthe substantialclosureprocessof a largenumberof mines,
providing recommendationson ways to reducedelaysin this process,andhasundertaken
environmentalauditsof closing mines in all threecoal regions,which haveled to an
action plan to eliminate the negativeenvironmentalimpact of mine closing and improve
the regulatoryframework for the environmentalprotectionprocess.All of theseactivities
havegreatlyenhancedthe effectivenessof the projects.

4.10    Nevertheless,Bank performancefell shortof meetingthe spirit andthe letter of its
own environmentalsafeguardsthat werevery relevantto theprocessof mine closure.
The SECALs wereclassified as"B" for environmentalassessment(EA) purposes,a
questionabledecisionthat allowed an inadequate,inaccurate,andoveroptimistic annexto
the 1994Bank sectorreportto qualify asan environmentalassessment.Neither the Bank
nor the Governmenthada clear understandingfrom the startof theprojectsthrough
recentyearsasto what constitutednecessaryanddesirableenvironmentalmitigation
measures.Bank staff in latersupervisionreportsmentionedthe importanceof these
issues,but dueto lack of baselineinformation could not determinehow inadequatethe
Government'slimited actionsandsubsidyallocationsfor environmentalmitigation were.
Borrower performancefell shortalso in implementing anumberof socialprotection
componentsthat hadbeenenvisagedandagreeduponwith the Bank at theoutset-
namely, in the areaof divestedsocial assetsandsubstandardhousingin coal mining
communities.

4.11    Basedon theprecedingassessment,this PPAR ratesboth Bank andBorrower
performancein thetwo projectsassatisfactory,ratherthanhighly satisfactoryasin the
ESs. Theseratings areconsistentwith the satisfactoryrating for outcomeof the projects
by both theECA regionandOED.

                                           20


5.      Agenda for Future Assistance

Coal Restructuring in Russia

5.1     Sinceend-2001,the coal industryhasentereda critical juncture with production
subsidiesfor loss-makingmines eliminated andthe emergenceof anumber of profitable
mining companiesmost of which havebeen,or areplanning to be,privatized andoperate
in a competitive environment. The sectorcanprosperif a resolutionof the debtoverhang
andof term financing problemsis found.

5.2     However,thereis a strongneedfor continuing sectorsupportby the Government
focusedon the social infrastructureneedsof themunicipalities severelyaffectedby mine
closures,elimination of environmentalhazardsthat directly affect local communities,
provision of housingfor thosewho live in unsafebuilding previously ownedby mining
companies,andjob creatingactivities.

5.3     The Government'scoal reform programwas effectively paralyzedbetween
August 2000,when the inter-ministerial Coal Committee was disbandedandthe Deputy
Minister for Coal was dismissedwithout replacement,andmid-2001. Sincelate 2001,
however,the reform programhasbeenbroughtback on track andthe Bank is considering
apossiblefollow-up operationto the SECALs, this time focusedon addressingthe
negativeenvironmental,safety,andhealthconsequencesof mine closures(with a Coal
Social andEnvironmental Mitigation Facility). Theseproblems alongwith thoserelated
to the financing for new investmentwill requirecareful considerationand strongpolitical
resolve.

5.4     The Bank's currentinsistenceon continuedsectorreform asa condition for future
financial supportis appropriate.The Bank shouldcontinueto requireclear andagreed
quantitativeguidepostsfor major goals,astheymake supervisionmuch more objective
andeffective. However,closerattentionwill haveto be paid to issuesrelatedto the
governmentfunding neededto meetits obligationsunderthe individual mine closure
programs. There is still a needto look carefully at the details of the programs.Individual
investmentactivities needto be consistentwith the sectorrestructuringobjectives.To
achievethis consistency,investmentguidelinesneedto haveclearly definedquantitative
economicefficiency criteria to ensurethat investmentfundsareeffectively used. In the
absenceof thesecriteria the decisionmaking processlosesits transparency,allowing
purely political considerationsto takeprecedence.

General Lessons

5.5     The experienceof coal sectorrestructuringin Russiapoints to a few important
lessonsof generalapplicability in the caseof complex andpolitically contentiousreform
programswith a high social impact:

    l   Governmentcommitment andpolitical will areindispensable. External financing
        in supportof coal restructuringin Russiaprovided apowerful incentive to staythe
        course,but the decisivefactor in securingsuccesswas the fundamental
        commitment of the Government.

                                       21


l Effective stakeholderparticipationcan greatlyenhancerobustnessof the
  achievementsandlessenthe implementationandinformation burdensof the
  Governmentandthe Bank. A particularstrengthof the designand
  implementationof both Coal SECALs wasthe constantattentionto and
  involvement of the variousrestructuringstakeholders,beginningwith the
  analytical sectorwork by the Bank andthe Government'ssectorpolicy statement
  in the yearsprecedingthe operations.

l A strengthenedsafetynet helpsgreatlyin gaining acceptanceof enterprise
  closuresamongworkers andtheir communities, evenin difficult andpolarized
  situations.

l Adequateattentionandfunding shouldbe devotedup front to the environmental
  aspectsof enterpriseclosures(especiallyin the caseof mines) to minimize the
  problem of largeresidualliabilities that may hold up the liquidation of enterprises
  that havealreadyceasedoperations.

l Finally, implementation schedulesshouldbe realistic andflexible, while
  disbursementsshouldbe tailored to concreteprogressin agreedreforms. The
  Coal SECAL II wasunderimplementation for four yearsinsteadof the originally
  plannedtwo years,with most of theprogressrecordedin the lasttwo years.
  Moreover, the 1999restructuringof theloan's original floating tranchesinto
  smaller, more manageabletrancheswas instrumentalin facilitating
  implementation of the agreedrestructuringactions.


                                                 23                                     Annex   A


 BasicDataSheet


 COALSECTOR ADJUSTMENTLOAN 1 (LOAN 405%RU)

Key Project Data (amounts in US.$million)
                                                     Actual or current         Actual as % of2
                              Appraisal estimate         estimate             appraisal estimate
Total project costs                500.0                  500.0                      100
Loan amount                        500.0                  500.0                      100
Cofmancing                             0                      0
Cancellation                           0                      0



Cumulative     Estimated   and Actual Disbursements  (amounts in iJS$ million)
                                                                FY96                 Total
Appraisal estimate(US$m)                                        500.0                500.0
Actual (US$m)                                                   500.0                500.0
Actual as% of appraisal                                         100%                 100%
Date of final disbursement: December 24, 1996



Project Dates
                                                            Original                Actual
Project Concept Document                                 0310411996
Appraisal                                                03101/1996
Approval                                                 0612711996            0612711996
Effectiveness                                                                  0710211996
Closing date                                             1213111997             1213111997



Staff Inputs   (staff weeks)
                                                    Revised                     Actual
            StaKeof project cycle               Weeks        US%          Weeks        US$(`000)
IdentificationPreparation                                                             522,406.85
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                                                           325,064.21
ICR
Total                                                                                847,471.06

Annex A (continued)                             24


Mission Data
                                                                              Performance   Ratit@
 Stage of        Date      No. of                                         Development   Implementation
  Project    (month/year)  Persons              Specialty                  Objective        Progress
   Cycle
Preparation 07118l1995        5    Manager (1); TaskManager (1); Social
                                    Sector(1); SocialiEnviromnental(1);
                                        Subsidies,Fed. Budget (1)
            10/02/1995               Manager (1); Task Manager (1);
                                            SocialSector(2);
                                    SociaVEnvironmental(2); Subsidies,
                                              Fed. Budget (1)
              02108/1996              Manager (1); Task Manager (1)
              03/l 8/1996           Task Manager (1); SocialSector (3);
                                    Social/Environmental (2); Subsidies,
                                              Fed. Budget (3)
Appraisal/    05/01/1996            Task Manager (1); SocialSector (3);
Negotiation                         Social/Environmental (2); Subsidies,
                                              Fed. Budget (3)
Supervision   07103/l 996          Implementation (1); Task Manager (1);         S              S
                                    Comm. Support (1); Social Sector(1)
                                       NGO Assessment(1); Social/
                                    Environmental (1); Subsidies,Fed.
                                    Budget (1); Communication with the
                                              Government (1)
              09/20/1996           Implementation (1); Task Manager (1);                        S
                                    Comm. Support (1); Social Sector(1)
                                       NGO Assessment(1); Social/
                                    Environmental (1); Subsidies,Fed.
                                                Budget (1)
              02109l1997           Implementation (1); Task Manager (1);                        S
                                    Comm. Support (1); Social Sector(1)
                                       NGO Assessment(1); Social/
                                    Environmental (1); Subsidies,Fed.
                                                Budget (1)
               0312011997          Implementation (1); Task Manager (1);
                                    Comm. Support (1); Social Sector(1)
                                    Social/Environmental (1); Subsidies,
                                              Fed. Budget (1)
               0610811997          Implementation (1); Task Manager (1);
                                    Comm. Support (1); Social Sector(1)
                                    Socia!/Environmenta! (1); Subsidies,
                                              Fed. Budget (1)
ICR            04/2612002                      Team Leader
         a PerformanceRating
         S = Satisfactory
         U = Unsatisfactory

Other Project Data
           Loan   Title                    Purpose               Year of Approval          Status
Precedina Overations
  Coal SectorRestructuring IAP                                          1996               Closed
Followina Ouerations
  Coal SECAL 2                                                          1997               Closed

                                                25                                  Annex B


BasicDataSheet

COALSECTORADJUSTMENTLOAN 4262-RU)        2 (LOAN

Key Project Data (amounts in US million)
                                                   Actual or current       Actual as % of
                             Appraisal estimate        estimate          appraisal estimate
Total project costs                 800.0              800.0                     100
Loan amount                         800.0               800.0                    100
Cofmancing                              0                   0
Cancellation                            0                   0



CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements(amounts in US million)
                                         FY98     FY99        FYOO       FYOI         FY02
Appraisal estimate (US$m)                400      800         800        800          800
Actual (USSm)                            400      400         650        650          800
Actual as% of appraisal                  100%     50 %        81 %      81 %         100%
Date of final disbursement: December 27,200l



ProjectDates
                                                          Original              Actual
Project Concept Document                             09/15/1997
Appraisal                                            1l/10/1997
Approval                                             12/1811997              12/18/1997
Effectiveness                                                                 12/19/1997
Closing date                                          12/31/1999             12131/2001



Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                                     Actual
                  Stage of project cycle                   Weeks              fJs$(looo)
Identification/Preparation                                                  269,088.49
AppraisaLNegotiation
Supervision                                                                1,173,307.92
ICR
Total                                                                      1,442,396.41

Annex     B (continued)                           26


Mission Data
                                                                                 Performance Rating"
  Stage of          Date     No. of                                           Development Implementation
Project Cycle (month/year) Persons                 Specialty                   Objective      Progress
Identification/ 0610811997       7  Implementation (1); Task Manager (1);
Preparation                         Comm. Support (1); Social Sector,(2);
                                      Social/Environmental (1); Subsidies,
                                                 Fed. Budget (1)
                09122/1991       6  Implementation (1); Task Manager (1);
                                           Social Sector,(2); Social/
                                      Environmental (1); Subsidies,Fed.
                                                   Budget (1)
Appraisal/      1l/21/1997       7  Implementation (1); Task Manager (1);
Negotiation                         Comm. Support (1); Social Sector,(2);
                                      Social/Environmental(1); Subsidies,
                                                 Fed. Budget (1)
Supervision     0713l/1998       I     Program Team Leader (1); Client             S             U
                                     Relations (1); Subsidies,Fed. Budget
                                    (1); Social, Economic (1); Privatization
                                           (1); Social, Subsidies(2)
                1211711998       7     ProgramTeam Leader (1); Client              S             U
                                      Relations (1); Social,Subsidies(1);
                                         Social (1); Privatization (1);
                                    Environmental (1); Implementation (1)
                07/31/1999       5  Team Leader (1); Client Relations (1);         S             S
                                        Social (1); Implementation (1);
                                                Privatization (1)
                0312312000       5  Team Leader ( 1); Client Relations (1);        S             S
                                          Social(1); Privatization (1);
                                              Implementation (1)
                1l/l l/2000      5  Team Leader (1); Client Relations (1);         S             U
                                         Social(1); Implementation (1);
                                              Implementation (1)
                0211512001       3        Program Team Leader (1);                 S             S
                                          Government Relations (1);
                                              Implementation (1)
                04/30/2001       4     Program Team Leader (1) ; Client            S             S
                                        Relations (1) ; Privatization (1) ;
                                              Implementation (1)
                1l/05/2001       5  SectorManager (1) ; Team Leader (1) ;          S             S
                                    Client Relations (1) ; Privatization (1) ;
                                                   Social (1)
 ICR            04126/2002       1               Team Leader                     N/A             1
         a Performance
         S= Satisfactory
         U = Unsatisfactory

Other Project Data
                        Loan Title                          Purpose           Year of Approval    Status
 Preceding Operations
   Coal SectorRestructuring IAP                                                    1996           Closed
   Coal SECAL I                                                                    1996           Closed
 Followinn ODerations
   Coal and Forestry SectorInvestment Guarantee

                                                                                       Key Performance                       Indicators/Log                 Frame          Matrix

Coal SECAL                  1 (Effective            July - December                 1996)
    Tranche:                      General      Restructuring      /         Subsidy    Management            System    and   Subsidy      Levels                        Social    Safe*     Net    (social  proiection            Demonopolization/
                                  Sector     Management                                                                                                                 and   social    assets)                                   Commercialization/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Privatization/Regulatory
                                                                                                                                                                    -                                                             Reform
    1st Tranche                                                             Govt   has approved        and    made    public    schedule    of state   support          Govt   has instructed        Federal                        L4C   has approved      and   made
    (Effectiveness)/                                                        for  1996H2      - MET                                                                      Employment         Service    to establish                public    a schedule     for
    Board      ($250m)                                                                                                                                                  capacity    to deliver     pre-redundancy                 demonopolization          and
                                                                            IAC   has clarified     rules    of use of investment         subsidles    as               consultations       by end-September         1996         commercialization         of industry
                                                                            agreed   - MET                                                                              - MET                                                      in keeping    with   agreed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  parameters      - MET
                                                                            IAC   has confirmed        that   beginning      1996H2,      state  support   for          1AC    has approved        and   made   public
                                                                            operating     losses   available     only  to companies        having    limited            the indicators      and arrangements         for
                                                                            new   recruitment      to less than      1% of workforce        -- ME1                      social  impact      monitoring,     as agreed    -
                                                                                                                                                                        MET
                                                                            L4C   has approved        and made       public   the indicators      and
                                                                            amangements        for  financial     monitoring      and auditing,      as agreed
                                                                            ~ MET
   2nd    tranche                 Govt     has established                  Govt's   proposals      for   1997   subsidies     consistent     with  agreed              1996   subsidy      disbursements       for social        Govt    to appoint    trust  managers
    (%250m)                       institutional     framework      for      parameters      - MET                                                                       assets  and    social   protection    in                  by end-1996       - WAIVED
                                  local    development                                                                                                                  accordance       with   agreed    schedule    -                                                         2
                                  programs       (LDPs)     and             Govt   has demonstrated          that  no operating       loss subsidles     have           WAIVED
                                  initiated    LDP    activities   ~-       been   disbursed      to coal   mines    having     recruited    employees      in
                                  WAIVED                                    excess   of   1% of total     workforce      - SUBSTANTIALLY                MET             Govt   has initiated      operation    of
                                                                                                                                                                        regional    offices    of Federal
                                                                            Govt   has delivered       to Bank     financial    impact     monitoring                   Employment         Service    in areas of mine
                                                                            report  for company         recipients    of subsidies      in keeping     with             closure   - MET
                                                                            agreed   parameters       - SUBSTANTIALLY                 MET
                                                                                                                                                                        Completion       of social    impact
                                                                            Govt   has delivered       to Bank     audits   on five    coal  companies       that       monitoring       demonstrating       compliance
                                                                            are main     recipients    of state    support   in keeping      with   agreed              with   agreed    indicators     - WAIVED
                                                                            parameters      - SUBSTANTIALLY                 MET
Source:      World      Bank.
Note    on conditions        waived     under     Coal   SECAL      I: a waiver   of the condition        does   not  mean     that  no actions     were   completed     under    the condition.        On the contrary,     in most   cases    considerable     steps  were
completed       but   timing  constraints      made    completion     by the Government         impossible      before    the loan    closing    date.   The   large number     of waivers       is a function    of a discrepancy     between     the short    period  of
effectiveness       of the operation      (less  than  six months)     and  the objectively      longer    time   frames    required     to complete     certain   actions.    As conditions        of the approval     of the release    of the second      tranche   under
Coal    SECAL       I, the World     Bank's     Board    of Executive    Directors    required     that a progress      report   on outstanding        conditions   be presented       to the Board       in 1997,   and  stipulated   that   no further    loans   would
be made      to the sector    until   all existing   commitments       had   been  met;    these   conditions      were   complied      with   before   the presentation      to the Board      of Coal     SECAL     2

Coal SECAL               2 (Effective          December               1997-December                     2001)                                                                                                                                                           a+
                                                                                                                                                                                       Social     Safety
                                                                                                              Subsidy      Management                                                  Net   (social            DemonopoIization/                                       E

                                                                                                              System      and   Subsidy               Mine    Closure                  protection       and     Commercialization/                                      z
 Tranche:                           General      Restructuring        /Sector     Management                   Levels                                 Program                          social    assets)        PrivatizationlRegrtlatory            Reform             0


 1st Tranche                       Govt's      Letter   on Coal     Sector    Policy     to Bank     -        Govt     Resolution      issued         Minister    of Fuel    and       Presidential             Acting     Minister    of State     Property    has
 (Effectiveness)       I           MET                                                                        to revise    subsidy     mgmt           Energy    has written      to    Decree      and          written    to the Bank      setting   out   the
 Board     ($400171)                                                                                          system     - MET                        Bank    setting    out  the      Govt    Resolution       Govt's     proposed     coal   sector
                                    Issuance     of   Presidential     Decree    and Govt                                                             Govt's   mine     closure        to transfer              privatization      for  1998    and early     1999
                                    Resolution       to restructure     industry     - MET                    MinFin      Instruction                 program     for   I998   -       responsibility           -MET
                                                                                                              Letter    on using                      MET                              for disability
                                    Dep    Minister     of Fuel    and Energy       for coal    sector        earmarked       accounts     for                                         payments       to        Acting     Minister     of State    Property    has
                                   restructuring       appointed      - MET                                   disbursement         of coal            Mine    Closure                  Social     Insurance     written     to the  Bank    setting   out   the
                                                                                                              subsidies     beginning                 Guidelines      approved         Fund     issued   -      Govt's     intentions    on the use of the
                                    Shareholders       meeting      to vote   on    liquidation      of        1998    issued   -MET                  by IAC    - MET                  MET                      "golden      share"   in privatization      of
                                    Rosugol      and appoint       Liq.  Comm.       - MET                                                                                                                      coal   companies       - MET
                                                                                                               Minister    of Fuel    and                                              Tripartite
                                    Formal     announcement          of Kosugol       liquidation              Energy     has written     to                                           Agreement        for     Minister      of Fuel   and   Energy    has
                                    published      -- MET                                                      Bank    setting   out   the                                             1997     Federal-        written     to Bank    with   assurances      that
                                                                                                              Govt's     proposed                                                      Regional                 he intends      to take   all legally   available
                                    Ministerial      Orders     issued   to create    two    closure          allocation     of state                                                  transfers     for        measures       to enable    Vostsibugol      to be
                                   agencies      in Min     Fuel   and   Energy     (physical      and        support     for 1998     - MET                                           divested      social     included      in 1998    privatization
                                    social   aspects);     agency     charters    submitted       for                                                                                  assets    in             program      - MET
                                    registration;     and   directors    appointed        - MET               Consultants       mobilized      to                                      Kemerovo
                                                                                                              assist    in development                                                 oblast    has been       Notification       of results   of 55%     of
                                                                                                              and     implementation       of                                          signed     - MET         shares    in Kuzbassrazrezugol          and
                                                                                                              subsidy     mgmt      system    -                                                                 Yuehnyi       Kuzbass     (previously
                                                                                                               MET                                                                                              announced)        - MET

Restructured       Coal    SECAL    2*:

 Presentation       to Board        Govt    has written      to Bank     confirming        overall             At least   minimum                     Minister     of Fuel   and       MinFin       has         Govt    Resolutions       have   been   issued    to
 of  restructured       loan        objectives     of Letter     on Coal     Sector     Policy    and          cumulative      amounts      of        Energy    has written      to    completed        and     unreserve       Federal   shares    and to sell
 (negotiated     February           attaching     Govt's     coal   sector   privatization                     priority   subsidies     have          Bank    confirming               submitted       to       Federal     shares   in coal    companies      in
 1999;    conditions     met  by    program      for   1999    - MET                                           been    disbursed     in               substantive      completion      Bank     dralt   audit    I999   program      - MET
 July    1999)                                                                                                 accordance      with    agreed         of closure     at 80 mines,      reports     of 1998
                                    Min    Fuel   and   Energy      has conveyed        to Bank                targets   - MET                        verified   by independent        Federal-                 Consultants       have    been   mobilized      to
                                    environmental         action    plan   based    on the findings                                                   consultant,     and              Regional                 carry   out review      of legislative     and
                                    of environmental          audit   of closed     mines    - MET                                                    conveying      mine              transfers     for        regulatory      framework       - ME'1
                                                                                                                                                      closure   program       for      social    assets
                                    IAC    has endorsed        and   made    public     the Govt's                                                    1999-2001        including       divested      in
                                    coal   reform     program      supported     by amended          loan                                             46 mines      to be closed       Kemerovo
                                    (including      mine    closure    program,      subsidy                                                          in 1999    - MET                 oblast       MET
                                    allocation     and   privatization       program)      - MET
 *   After   the initial  tranche, all tranches      were   "floating"     by design.       They     are presented     here  in the order     of their actual  disbursement.

                                                                                                                                                      Social    Safe@
                                                                                         Subsidy     Management                                       Net   (social         Demonopolization/
                                                                                         System     and   Subsidy         Mine   Closure              protection     and    Commercialization/
Tranche:                     General     Restructuring    /Sector     Management         Levels                           Program                     social   assets)      Privcrrizatiorc/Re~ulalory           Reform


2nd    Tranehe    (1st       Satisfactory    progress   in coal  reform    program  as   Disbursement       of coal       Substantive
Social;    $50171)           outlined    in Letter   on Coal Sector    Policy   - MET    subsidies    in line with        completion    of closure
                                                                                         agreed    targets  - MET         works   at I6 mines    -
                                                                                                                          MET

3rd   Tranche     (2nd       Satisfactory    progress   in coal  reform    program  as   Disbursement       of coal       Substantive                 Completion      of
Social;    $50m)             outlined    in Letter   on Coal Sector    Policy   - MET    subsidies    in line with        completion    of closure    social   impact
                                                                                         agreed    targets  - MET         works   at 26 mines    -    monitoring
                                                                                                                          MET                         demonstrating
                                                                                         Sattsfactory     progress  in                                compliance
                                                                                         implementing                                                 with   agreed
                                                                                         improvements        to                                       indicators    -
                                                                                         subsidy    management                                        MET
                                                                                         system    required    on basis
                                                                                         of special    audit  of
                                                                                         system    - MET

4th  Tranche      (3rd       Satisfactory    progress   in coal  reform    program  as   Disbursement       of coal       Substantive
Social;    $50m)             outlined    in Letter   on Coal Sector    Policy   - MET    subsidies    in line with        completion    of closure                                                                               s:
                                                                                         agreed    targets  -- MET        works   at 36 mines    -
                                                                                                                          MET

5th  Tranche      (1st       Satisfactory    progress   in coal  reform    program  as
Privatization;    $1 OOm)    outlined    in Letter   on Coal Sector    Policy   - MET

6th  Tranche      (2nd       Satisfactory    progress   in coal  reform    program  as                                                                                      Completion        of privatization     of
Privatization;    SlOOm)     outlined    in Letter   on Coal Sector    Policy   - MET                                                                                       companies        accounting      for 45%    of
                                                                                                                                                                            base    year (I 996)     production     and
                             Government       has completed    liquidation     of                                                                                           announcement          of additional     10%   for
                             Kosugol     - MEI                                                                                                                              sale   - MET      AND     EXCEEDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;P
                                                                                                                                                                            Govt    has provided       IO Bank    actton
                                                                                                                                                                            plan   for privatization       of remainder    of    z

                                                                                                                                                                            industry     - MET                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                            Govt    has completed        review   of             3
                                                                                                                                                                            existing    legislative     and regulatory
                                                                                                                                                                            framework        and prepared       an action        s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 g.
                                                                                                                                                                            plan   to address     the shortcomings
                                                                                                                                                                            identified      in the review     -                  Fi
                                                                                                                                                                            SUBSTANTIALLY                MET                     &

                                                                                                                                                       Social    Safety
                                                                                           Subsidjp     Management                                     Net                                                         >
                                                                                                                                                             (social         Demonopolization/
                                                                                           System      and   Subsidy       Mine   Closure              protection     and    CommerciaIization/                    E
   Tranche:                 General     Restructuring     /Sector     Management           Levels                          Program                     social   assets)      Privatization/Re~ulatory    Reform    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n
   7th Tranche   (4th       Satisfactory    progress    in coal  reform    program    as   Disbursement         of coal    Substantive                 Completion      of
   Social; $50m)            outlined    in Letter   on Coal  Sector    Policy   - MET      subsidies     in line with      completion    of closure    social   impact                                             3
                                                                                           agreed     targets   - MET      works   at 46 mines    -    monitoring                                                  s
                                                                                                                           MET   AND                   demonstrating                                               2.
                                                                                           Completion        of 2nd        EXCEEDED                    compliance                                                  2
                                                                                           phase    of audit    of                                     with   agreed
                                                                                           subsidy     management                                      indicators    -
                                                                                           system     demonstrating                                    MET
                                                                                           satisfactory      results -
                                                                                           MET




Alice  Galenson
O:\FIN\GAL,ENSONWARs\PPAR         Russla   Coal    Secals  Report    to GOK    4-2.doc
April  3,2003  I:52  PM



