                                                                                               51437

      RUSSIAN FEDERATION: COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOANS*

I.     Abstract

The Russian coal sector was in need of reforms after beginning its transition from a
planned economy in 1991. In 1996 and 2000, the World Bank provided two Sector
Adjustment Loans, or SECALs, for socially sustainable restructuring of the Russian
coal sector.

During this restructuring, some major reforms took place, including a change in
institutional roles that ensured an improvement in accountability mechanisms in the
coal sector, which ensured better social protection for all workers. The workers,
including disabled miners, became aware of their entitlements and could voice their
opinions through their local groups, which did not exist earlier. Wage payments were
made on time, and the workers started to receive the entirety of their monthly salaries
in cash.

Safety conditions for workers also improved. Inefficient mines ceased to operate, and
restructuring was aimed at ensuring employment for the laid-off workers in other
sectors. However, this approach could not fully address the aftermath of layoffs and
terminations in the coal industry.


II.    Background

Following the end of more than seven decades of Soviet rule, major reforms started
taking place in various sectors of the new Russian economy in the 1990s. The coal
sector was one of the most severely affected areas of the economy. Besides
mismanagement during the socialist period, a drop in global demand for coal in the
early 1990s contributed to the problems of this sector.

The coal sector's government subsidies were second only to those for the agricultural
sector, and amounted to more than 1 percent of Russia's GDP in 1993. However,
these subsidies failed to improve the output of the mines. The sector had various
inefficiencies and deteriorating safety conditions. The system for wage distribution
was weak. On average, payments were delayed by 8­16 months and were often in the
form of commodities such as shoes, glass, sugar, and coal itself. Municipalities had
limited capacity, and no systems in place, to transfer resources related to the coal
sector. Information flows between the government and coal sector management, and
between the mines and power companies, was not clear.

In order to support the country's coal restructuring program, the World Bank provided
two Coal Sector Adjustment Loans. Coal SECAL I worth US$500 million was
granted in 1996, followed by Coal SECAL II worth US$800 million in 2000. The coal
SECALs aimed at a socially sustainable restructuring of the sector, including the
provision of a social safety net system for redundant workers.



*
 This case study was prepared by a team comprising Prof. Deepti Bhatnagar and Animesh Rathore at the Indian
Institute of Management (Ahmedabad) and Magüi Moreno Torres and Parameeta Kanungo at the World Bank
(Washington DC).


                                                                                                              1
                   Empowerment Case Studies: Russian Federation--Coal Sector Adjustment Loans


As part of the reform process, information was collected on the availability of
resources such as wages, pension, and insurance to workers, including disabled
miners, so that the laid-off workers could shape their livelihood strategies.
Evaluations of social impacts and financial audits were put in place to monitor the
delivery of funds to the intended recipients, and to ensure awareness of their rights. In
addition to the delivery of financial benefits, community development and
employment programs were initiated in areas with high coal-related unemployment.
These programs were intended for a successful transition of laid-off workers from the
coal sector to other sectors of the economy. They provided occupational retraining,
small business support, temporary public works, and subsidized loans to support
economic activities in other sectors.

The coal sector reform included significant accountability mechanisms, such as
process mapping and stakeholder mapping, greater information sharing and
transparency, mechanisms providing consultation with and participation by
stakeholders, checks and balances between ministries for budget allocation and
enforcement of rules, and financial auditing and accountability processes. Process
mapping by the World Bank involved tracing flows of funds and information in three
key areas:

   1. flows of money for the delivery of social protection programs;
   2. flows of policies and decisionmaking regarding the closure of mines; and
   3. flows of information among government ministries and officials, and between
      the government and the public.

III. Impact/Results

Outcomes of the Coal Sector Reforms

   ·   Subsidies to the coal sector decreased from US$2.76 billion in 1994 to
       US$0.28 billion in 2000. The decrease in subsidies helped improve the
       delivery of social protection and community development. In the year 2000,
       31 percent of the coal subsidy was directed to social protection.
   ·   The delivery of social protection services improved significantly, as all
       workers laid off from closed or open mines received their benefits directly, in
       full, and on time (verified through multiple sources in government at 100
       percent, and through social impact monitoring at 96­98 percent). All disabled
       workers from closed mines received their benefits in their entirety and on
       time.
   ·   Coal worker salaries and work conditions also improved. For instance,
       monthly salaries are now paid entirely in cash and have reached 30,000 rubles
       in Siberia, as compared with earlier payments, which were made 8­16 months
       late and often in the form of a commodity. Safety conditions for the miners
       have also improved.

Organizational Outcomes

   ·   There was a notable change in the roles of existing organizations. The
       Treasury, for instance, was made the central agency in the new system for
       ensuring accountability, delivering benefits, and managing subsidies. The
       Social Insurance Fund (SIF) agreed to deliver benefits to disabled miners


                                                                                           2
                  Empowerment Case Studies: Russian Federation--Coal Sector Adjustment Loans


       initially through funds from the Ministry of Energy and later from the fees
       collected from coal mines. Benefits were delivered in full and on time,
       establishing a credible operating pattern.
   ·   Mechanisms were created for intragovernmental participation. An Interagency
       Coal Commission was created for discussions and decisionmaking among
       different stakeholders in the government. An interministerial group was also
       formed to ensure prompt and suitable actions by various stakeholders for
       timely results.

Institutional Outcomes

   ·   The new rules across government agencies establish clear links between
       allocations and outcomes. For instance, the new budgets clearly identify the
       categories and recipients of subsidies, in addition to delivery and
       accountability mechanisms. This transparency has helped to avoid
       misunderstandings and delays.
   ·   Initially, local municipalities opposed the new accountability mechanisms for
       local development funds, but later they found these mechanisms helpful in
       protecting local officials from being pressured by other stakeholders.

IV. Key Elements of Empowerment

Accountability

Internal accountability was strengthened because several ministries, as well as the
World Bank, checked budget allocations, and because rules for internal processes,
oversight mechanisms, and financial auditing were put in place. Floating loan
tranches provided flexibility to address unexpected issues and brought the coal sector
to the attention of key government officials several times a year.

Mapping the flows of money allocated for social protection from the top to the
intended recipients revealed that coal companies and mine managers had sufficient
budgets, but with little accountability for delivering funds to recipients.

Mapping the policy flows disclosed the gaps between policy intention and reality. For
instance, government policy indicated that 300 billion rubles (US$9,900 million) were
to be spent on social protection in 1996. However, less than 35 percent of miners
actually received their allocated funds. Furthermore, although only 8 mines were
designated to close, about 60 mines closed illegally. The mapping between policy
statements and policy outcomes revealed the ignorance of miners about the closure of
mines and their entitlements. Furthermore, there were no procedures in place to
inform miners of their rights.


Information

Mapping the information flows showed that low-level government officials often kept
information from high-ranking officials, and that ministries usually failed to share
information with each other. For example, the Ministry of Finance classified most
information as "national secrets." To address these problems in information flows,
neutral mechanisms for gathering and analyzing information from multiple sources


                                                                                          3
                   Empowerment Case Studies: Russian Federation--Coal Sector Adjustment Loans


were established, the information was cross-tabulated to find areas of agreement and
disagreement, and mechanisms for timely delivery of information at monthly and
quarterly intervals were established.

Stakeholder mapping was also important because stakeholders provided critical
information on processes, and recommended mechanisms for institutional
interventions. For example, stakeholder mapping at the local level showed that
accountability and transparency were doubtful without budgeting and accounting
procedures. In response, mechanisms were established to direct all payments through
the Treasury in order to restrict local governments. The reform included government
provisions to provide miners, their families, and their communities with adequate and
timely information about the reform program, its implementation, their entitlements,
and mechanisms for legal recourse during restructuring.


Inclusion/Participation

Participatory processes were created for better accountability at regional, local, and
community levels:

   ·   The regional Interagency Coal commissions set up in 1994­95 were
       strengthened, and commissions were established in new coal regions. These
       steps developed social partnership mechanisms that included residents' groups
       in the coal regions.
   ·   Oversight committees, including local administrators and representatives of
       various affected groups, were formed to plan, coordinate, and implement a
       local strategy for development; determine social protection for laid-off
       workers and residents of mining communities; and create guidelines for the
       allocation of funds for local programs.
   ·   Workers, communities, and unions were also included in the process as
       stakeholders. For instance, two labor unions were granted US$400,000 each to
       promote workers' awareness of their rights and their participation in
       monitoring programs.
   ·   Social impact monitoring was conducted at the local level to track and assess
       the delivery of benefits and the impact of coal sector reforms on miners, their
       families, and their communities. Federal government and bank officials
       regularly visited the field and met with workers directly.

Local Organizational Capacity

In this whole process, the workers could put forth their problems and demands for
social protection to higher authorities through groups or unions. Workers,
communities, and unions emerged as stakeholders in the process, and two labor
unions received contracts to promote workers' awareness of their rights and to engage
in monitoring programs.

Oversight committees, including the local heads of administrations and
representatives of various affected groups, were formed to plan, coordinate, and
implement a local strategy for development, to determine the specifics of social
protection for laid-off workers and residents of mining communities, and to define
criteria for disbursement of funds for local programs. An association of mayors of


                                                                                           4
                       Empowerment Case Studies: Russian Federation--Coal Sector Adjustment Loans


mining cities was also established at the local level for ongoing discussions on the
impacts of reform and ways of enhancing local capacity.


V.       Issues and Lessons

Challenges

     ·    The high level of instability in top government positions between 1996 and
          2000 hindered reforms, and this may have contributed to a lack of interagency
          collaboration and low trust in government by citizens. During this period,
          Russia had five prime ministers, seven deputy prime ministers (who were also
          the formal convenors of the Interagency Coal Commission), six ministers of
          energy, and four leaders of the coal agency. Information flows within the
          government were constrained, because top officials had little access to
          information that seemed to be held by lower-ranking officials. Trust in the
          government, particularly in the coal sector, was notably low. According to a
          survey of mining households in 1995, 20 percent of households did not trust
          any organization to distribute money or assistance. Only 5 percent trusted
          RosUgol, the firm that enjoyed a monopoly in the Russian coal sector before
          reforms, less than 3 percent trusted regional coal companies, 3 percent trusted
          regional government, and 8 percent trusted trade unions. It thus became
          essential to develop systems and processes within the government focusing on
          reform goals. For lasting impact, empowering initiatives need to strengthen
          systems and processes and reduce dependence on top management.
     ·    The dearth of investigative journalism made it difficult to independently
          access and validate information on the allocation and use of resources and
          funds by the authorities.1
     ·    Growth in the coal sector is quite apparent, but it has not affected related
          sectors. The lack of reforms in the banking sector, the lack of clarity in private
          sector development, and the lack of a clear government policy on oil, gas, and
          coal are hindering further growth opportunities.
     ·    In terms of physical and social infrastructure, there are federal, regional, and
          local stakeholders who would prefer to continue subsidies for as many decades
          as possible. There is a risk that local governments could agree on ambitious
          plans of development to be funded by regional governments, without local
          prioritization or a realistic chance of any project being finished. The
          participation of entrenched interests at the local level could result in a
          consensus for lobbying the central government for resources, which would be
          counterproductive for the country at large and other stakeholders who are truly
          in need. Thus, there is a need for a clear government strategy that limits the
          extent of federal government obligations in relation to the coal sector and puts
          in place a system to ensure that the needs of the people adversely affected by
          reforms receive priority.
     ·    New jobs and the creation of self-employment opportunities could not fully
          palliate high unemployment caused by massive layoffs.2

1
  Ashraf Ghani, Russia: Coal Sector Reform (Washington D.C.: World Bank, 2001). This is a case study of the
Russia Coal SECAL II, 1996­2001 by the World Bank's Social Policy Unit.
2
  Marina Kolosnitsyna and Irena Topinska, Russia: Bank Assistance for Social Protection (Washington D.C.:
World Bank, 2002), page 10.


                                                                                                              5
                  Empowerment Case Studies: Russian Federation--Coal Sector Adjustment Loans


Key Factors for Success

Mechanisms for ongoing consultation were established. A major lesson is that,
whenever rules are altered, one round of consultation is insufficient, since it is
difficult to anticipate (1) the full impact of the rules on the stakeholders and
ministries, and (2) the impact of the stakeholders and ministries on the rules. For
instance, municipalities initially resisted the accountability mechanisms imposed on
them regarding local development funds, but many of them liked the new mechanism
since it protected them from being pressured by other stakeholders. Likewise, other
stakeholders initially viewed the Treasury with suspicion, but they soon developed an
understanding that it provided a useful and replicable mechanism for subsidy
management. Iterative rounds of consultation and discussions helped different
stakeholders understand one another better.

   ·   Institutional change and the participation of existing stakeholders showed that
       creating new organizations is not always necessary. The roles of
       organizations--such as the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance--were
       redefined, and they were involved in policy formulation and implementation.
   ·   Constant interaction by the World Bank with officials working at various
       levels and in different functions was necessary to understand and modify the
       processes, thereby ensuring social protection for miners.
   ·   Involving stakeholders other than local governments can enhance
       transparency.
   ·   Informing miners of their rights and entitlements through consultations offered
       an effective mechanism of accountability, which proved vital in empowering
       the mining community.

Outlook

   ·   Checks and balances among government ministries are now in place for the
       enforcement of rules. Mechanisms are also in place to secure the participation
       of government agencies in reform and decisionmaking processes.
   ·   As the new government's rules and resolutions are translated into
       corresponding action, and they continue to provide long-term solutions for the
       coal sector, they can make a lasting positive impact on the credibility of the
       state by satisfying citizens' expectations.
   ·   The new accountability mechanisms introduced in government for the coal
       sector reforms have set an example for reforms in other sectors of the Russian
       economy, such as electricity, gas, and railways.

VI. Further Information: References and World Wide Web Resources

Ghani, Ashraf. 2001. Russia Coal Sector Reforms. Russia Coal SECAL II 1996­2001.
   Case study, Social Policy Unit, Social Development, World Bank.

Kolosnitsyna, Marina, and Irena Topinska. 2002. "Russia: Bank Assistance for Social
    Protection." The World Bank, p. 10.

Government of the United Kingdom, Department for International Development.
   Reforming the Russian Coal Sector: Reducing Vulnerability through Social



                                                                                          6
                  Empowerment Case Studies: Russian Federation--Coal Sector Adjustment Loans


    Protection. Negotiating Social Sustainability. URL:
    <http://www.dfid.gov.uk/Pubs/files/wssd_neg_coal_russia>.

Platts. "Russia's coal sector restructuring." URL:
     <http://www.platts.com/features/cleancoal/russiacs.shtml>.

World Bank. 1996. "Russian Federation Coal Sector Adjustment Loan." DevNews
   Media Center. URL:
   <http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/NEWS/0,,contentMDK:20026
   985~menuPK:34471~pagePK:40651~piPK:40653~theSitePK:4607,00.html>.

------. "Social Accountability Mechanisms in Programmatic and Structural
    Adjustment Loans." URL:
    <http://www.worldbank.org/poverty/empowerment/toolsprac/tool05.pdf>.

------. 1997. "World Bank Announces Loans To Aid Russian Economic Reform."
    Press Release, Washington, December. URL:
    <http://members.aol.com/inewsedit/i121997u.html>.




                                                                                          7
