Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4012 UNI
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Sustainable Management of Mineral Resources Project) 
between 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 24, 2005 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4012 UNI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 24, 2005, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF 
NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement: 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, 
or coercive”.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of Project 
implementation, directly suffer economic and social loss to: (i) right, title, or interest in 
any shelter, house, or land (including premises and agricultural and grazing land); or 
(ii) any fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently, or 
Page  3
-
2
-
access to such asset; or (iii) source of income, means of livelihood, including business, 
occupation, and w
ork, place of residence, or habitat, and “Affected Person” means any of 
the “Affected Persons”; 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means an enterprise or individual engaged in artisanal and 
small-scale mining activities, or otherwise interested in such activities, and who is 
deemed eligible, in terms of criteria specified in the Project Implementation Plan (as 
hereinafter defined), to be the beneficiary of a Grant (as hereinafter defined) under the 
Project; 
(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) - (7) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means a report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning on January 1 
in any one calendar year and ending on December 31 in the same calendar year; 
(g) 
“Ministry of Solid Minerals Development” or “MSMD” means the 
Borrower’s Ministry in charge of mining; 
(h) 
“Process Framework” means the framework, dated September 30, 2004, 
prepared by the Borrower and agreed with the Association
 
in respect of protected areas or 
areas to be designated as such by the Borrower, in the event that land acquisition or use 
under the Project may lead to either physical or economic displacement of people, or 
their loss, denial, or restriction of access to economic resources, and therefore ultimately 
to resettlement; 
(i) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
November 11, 2004, covering the initial 18-month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18-month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(j) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual 
containing details of the financial and accounting procedures, procurement arrangements, 
social monitoring and mitigation arrangements, and other organizational and 
administrative arrangements, as well as a plan for Project implementation, as shall have 
been agreed with the Association for purposes of Project implementation, as the same 
may be amended from time to time in consultation with the Association, and such term 
includes any annexes thereto; 
(l) 
“Project Management Unit” or “PMU” means the unit referred to in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Project Preparation Advances” means the two (2) project preparation 
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to: (i) the letter agreement 
signed on behalf of the Association on April 1, 2004, and on behalf of the Borrower 
on April 19, 2004; and (ii) the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association 
on July 26, 2004, and on behalf of the Borrower on September 16, 2004; 
(n) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(o) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means a plan that outlines the 
procedures, including related compensation measures, to be applied in the event of the 
physical displacement of persons affected by activities to be implemented under the 
Project; 
(p) 
“Resettlement Fund” means the fund instituted to cover potential 
expenditures to be incurred by a triggering of the Process Framework and / or the 
Resettlement Policy Framework (as hereinafter defined); 
(q) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework, dated 
July 31, 2004, prepared by the Borrower and agreed with the Association, which sets out 
principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, and compensation, as 
well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said framework, 
as said framework may be revised by the Borrower from time to time with the agreement of 
the Association; 
(r) 
“Sector Environmental and Social Assessment” or “SESA” means the 
environmental and social assessment report, dated September 30, 2004, prepared by the 
Borrower and agreed with the Association, setting out details of measures appropriate or 
required to manage potential environmental and social risks and mitigate adverse impacts 
associated with the Project, together with adequate institutional, monitoring, and reporting 
Page  5
-
4
-
arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on 
compliance with, the SESA;  
(s) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(t) 
“Subproject” means any activity under the Project in respect of which a 
Subproject Grant (as hereinafter defined) has been, or may be, provided; 
(u) 
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made, or to be made, out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to finance a Subproject; and 
(v) 
“Subproject Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in  
Part B.1 (g) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the concurrence of the Association, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental thereto. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 80,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made under a Subproject Grant to meet the 
reasonable cost of eligible expenditures relating to a Subproject, and in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1, commencing May 1, 2015 and ending November 1, 2039.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2024 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Page  7
-
6
-
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of 
five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall, through 
MSMD, carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate technical, administrative, and financial practices, and with due regard to 
Page  8
-
7
-
environmental and ecological considerations, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, 
through MSMD, carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
For purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
MSMD, allocate proceeds of the Credit not exceeding the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to Category (5) of the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to be 
used to finance Subproject Grants under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association, and which shall include the terms and conditions set forth 
in Part B.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services
 
required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) The Borrower shall, through MSMD, update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, through MSMD: 
(a) 
open and maintain, in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Association 
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against seizure, set-off, and attachment, an advance account in the currency of 
the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as the Project Account), to be operated and 
maintained by the PMU, into which it shall deposit from time to time its counterpart 
contribution to the cost of the Project; 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account an initial advance in accordance with 
Section A.3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and thereafter replenish the Project 
Account on a quarterly basis, with an amount required to replenish the Borrower’s 
contribution for expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the 
proceeds of the Credit; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used only 
for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred in the execution of the 
Project which are not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 3.04. (a) No later than one (1) year from the Effective Date, the Borrower 
shall, through MSMD, establish a committee comprising representatives of the 
Association and of the Borrower and independent experts acceptable to the Association 
and with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, for purposes of assessing 
Project implementation with regard to the performance indicators set out in Part A of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
No later than one (1) year from the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association, a report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report with regard to the performance indicators 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
No later than three (3) months thereafter or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the Borrower shall, with the committee referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, review the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and th
e
Association’s views on the matter.  
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, through MSMD: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through MSMD, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources, and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MSMD: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the first Project Preparation Advance was 
made, audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall, through MSMD: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
Page  11
-
10
-
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts, and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Part D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through 
MSMD, prepare and furnish to the Association an FMR, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than  
60 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter.  
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE V
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Project Coordinator referred to in Part A.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement has been duly recruited with qualifications, experience, and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, and in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(b) 
the PIM, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, has been 
adopted.
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Federal Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Federal Ministry of Finance 
 
Ahmadu Bello Way, Central Area 
 
PMB 14, Garki 
 Abuja, 
Nigeria 
 
Cable address: 
 
Facsimile:  
FEDMINFIN  
(234-9) 
234-3609 
 Abuja 
 
For the Association: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS   
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
13
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Abuja, Federal Capital Territory, Federal Republic of Nigeria, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
By  
 
 
      /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
 
/s/ Hafez M.H. Ghanem 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category, and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
12,270,000 
90% of local 
 
expenditures 
and
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures  
(2) 
Goods 
7,210,000 
100% of local 
 
 
expenditures (ex-factory 
 
cost) and 90% of local 
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services, 
34,080,000 
90 
 including 
audits 
(4) Training, 
workshops, 
3,400,000 
100 
 
and study tours 
(5) 
Subproject Grants 
6,670,000 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed 
(6) Resettlement 
Fund 
1,340,000 
100 
(7) Operating 
costs 
7,070,000 
85 
(8) 
Refunding of 
1,200,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
 Advances 
 
this 
Agreement 
Page  16
-
15
-
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(9) Unallocated 
6,860,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 80,100,000 
 
 
 
======== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “works” includes: (i) the carrying out of airborne geophysical 
surveys; and (ii) the production of geological and geo-chemical maps, under Parts C.2 (a) 
and (b), respectively, of the Project; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works, or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works, or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(d) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by 
the PMU on account of Project implementation, management, and monitoring, including 
office space rental and utilities, office supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle 
operation, maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance costs, travel 
and supervision costs, and advertising costs, but excluding salaries, honoraria, and fees of 
the Borrower’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures: 
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after December 1, 2004; 
(b) 
in respect of Categories (1) - (7) of the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule, 
unless the Borrower has, through MSMD: (i) to finance its contribution for expenditures 
under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit, opened in 
Page  17
-
16
-
NGN, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, a Project Account, under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure, and attachment; (ii) deposited into the Project Account an amount equivalent 
to $500,000; (iii) established a financial management system, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and (iv) a firm has been appointed, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of conducting the audit referred to 
in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;  
(c) 
in respect of Category (5) of the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule, unless 
the Subproject Grant thereunder has been provided in accordance with the procedures and 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement and the PIM; and 
(d) 
in respect of Categories (5) or (6) of the table in Part A.1 of this 
Schedule, unless the respective implementation manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted by the Borrower.
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works costing less 
than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (b) goods costing less than $250,000 equivalent 
per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract; (d) services of consulting firms costing less than $200,000 per contract; 
(e) training not subject to contract; (f) Subproject Grants; (g) Resettlement Fund; and 
(h) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may, through MSMD, request withdrawals from the Credit 
Account to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other 
information as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before 
any withdrawal has been made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall, through 
MSMD, submit to the Association only a statement with the projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six (6)-month period following the date of 
such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may, through MSMD, open and maintain in Dollars a special 
deposit account in a commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure, and attachment. 
Page  18
-
17
-
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, through MSMD,
 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment 
was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
Page  19
-
18
-
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six (6)-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding 
amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, through MSMD,
 
upon notice to the Association, 
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b), or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $7,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $4,000,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, 
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 24,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall, 
through MSMD, furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, through 
MSMD, furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall, through MSMD, furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into 
the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
Page  21
-
20
-
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six (6)-
month period following the date of such reports
.
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the implementation of a 
strategy designed to: (i) improve governance and technical capacity in the solid minerals 
sector to enable the sustainable management of mineral resources; and (ii) establish a 
basis for poverty reduction and rural economic renewal in selected areas of the territory 
of the Borrower via the development of non-farm income-generating opportunities 
through artisanal and small-scale mining and via diversification away from oil sources of 
income. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
A. 
Economic Development and Livelihood Diversification in Artisanal and Small-
Scale Mining Areas
1. 
Elaboration of small-scale mining and gender issues in mining through baseline 
studies covering sites representative of different organizational, socio-cultural, political-
economic, community and livelihood situations in the country, that will be used to 
enhance the design and implementation of pilot projects, of delivery systems for 
knowledge transfer and capacity building at the local level, and of other support services 
targeting miners and mining-affected communities.  
2. 
Improvement of technical, environmental, and social conditions of small-scale 
mining operations through community-driven pilot projects that will promote socially and 
environmentally responsible mining practices, and demonstrate the benefits of 
organization and formalization to artisanal and small-scale miners. 
3. 
Strengthening of Jos School of Mines to become a regional and national pole of 
excellence for in-the-field training of small-scale miners and entrepreneurs and to support 
on a pilot basis the extension of training and educational support services to the main 
areas of small-scale mining activity. 
4. 
Facilitation of sales of mining products by artisanal and small-scale miners, 
supervision of mining sector activities, and environmental management, through 
establishment of federal-level small-scale mining unit with satellite field offices close to 
exploitation sites in pilot regions. 
Page  24
-
23
-
5. 
Improvement of access to credit and financing in mining sector, particularly for 
medium- and small-scale mining, through: 
(a) 
provision of technical assistance to mining entrepreneurs for preparation 
of business plans, support to Project implementation, and advisory and technical services 
to small-scale miners; 
(b) 
provision of technical assistance to intermediary financial institutions to 
assess risk in lending to mining and in expansion of micro-financing services to sector; 
(c) 
promotion of acquisition of productive assets by artisanal and small-scale 
miners through establishment of matching grant fund; and 
(d) 
provision of technical assistance to communities for preparation of 
community development plans and financing, through matching grant mechanisms, of 
small-scale social and physical infrastructure projects to be prepared, operated, and 
maintained by communities. 
6. 
(a) 
assessment of functional capacity of private sector associations, and 
provision of technical assistance for institutional strengthening of such associations; 
(b) 
support to state and local government institutions for collaboration in 
mining sector, including training in relation to mining sector and for development of state 
mineral resource inventories; and 
(c) 
creation of HIV/AIDS awareness in mining sector, including through 
information, education, and communication campaign. 
7. 
Development of mining for specific commodities, such as barite, bentonite, and 
gypsum, with particular focus on import substitution and sector development.
 
B. 
Strengthening Governance and Transparency in Mining
1. 
Consolidation of legal and regulatory mining framework through publication of 
new mining law and regulations and review of existing fiscal framework for mining 
sector. 
2. 
Institutional capacity building, including establishment of internet network, 
carrying out of office renovation, and purchase of equipment, for key MSMD units, 
Page  25
-
24
-
namely Geological Survey of Nigeria Agency, Mineral Economics and Promotion 
Department, and Mines Department. 
3. 
Design and implementation of training program, including on-the-job training, 
workshops, basic and specialized training courses to be provided by both public and 
private institutions, short-term internships, overseas training courses, and participation in 
international conferences and seminars, to enhance human resource capacity and improve 
mineral resource governance. 
4. 
Establishment of reliable and transparent interactive minerals registry 
management system - the Mining Cadastre - as a separate and autonomous agency in 
accordance with international best practice, for promotion of investments in sector. 
5. 
Establishment of environmental and social management system for sector, 
including preparation of environmental regulations and guidelines, establishment of 
environmental unit at MSMD, carrying out of inventory of abandoned mining sites, and 
implementation of action program for rehabilitation of abandoned mining sites. 
C. 
Private Sector Development
1. 
Provision of assistance, including carrying out of restructuring plans and 
environmental audits and establishment of plan to mitigate social cost of restructuring, 
including of possible closure of operations, to restructuring of Nigerian Coal Corporation 
and Nigerian Mining Corporation. 
2. 
Provision of basic and reliable geo-scientific information to GSNA to facilitate 
private sector promotion and socio-economic development planning in mining sector, 
including: 
(a) 
carrying out of airborne geophysical surveys in key areas where 
geological mapping is planned, purchase and installation of specialized software, and 
carrying out of training in collection and processing of airborne data; and 
(b) 
production of geological thematic maps, establishment of mineral 
resource inventories, carrying out of environmental management data collection in key 
parts of Borrower’s territory, and provision of training in modern field and desk 
techniques and up-to-date geological concepts. 
3. 
Development of solid minerals information system to collect, digitize, and store 
relevant geo-scientific data to be disseminated by MSMD to general public. 
Page  26
-
25
-
D. 
Project Coordination and Management
Provision of equipment and advisory services to PMU for Project coordination, 
management, monitoring, and evaluation.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. All 
goods, 
works
,
and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement 
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and 
with the provisions of this Schedule. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less 
than $250,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Shopping. 
Page  28
-
27
-
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet 
the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method. 
4. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works, and services required for 
Part C.1 of the Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the PIP. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7, and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; (b) each contract 
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (c) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more; and (d) each contract for services of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Project Oversight and Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MSMD, maintain, throughout Project 
implementation, the
 
PMU, in form and substance and with resources and functions 
satisfactory to the Association and with staff with qualifications, experience, and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, and which shall be responsible for day-to-day 
execution of the Project, including financial management and procurement activities, 
consolidation of annual work programs and budgets, preparation and production of 
annual progress reports and financial statements, and monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through MSMD, take steps to ensure that: 
(a) 
the PMU shall be headed by a Project coordinator, who shall be assisted 
by a deputy Project coordinator, a project accountant, an assistant project accountant, a 
procurement specialist, an internal auditor, a community development officer, and other 
suitably qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers;  
(b) 
the positions of Project coordinator, deputy Project coordinator, project 
accountant, assistant project accountant, procurement specialist, internal auditor, and a 
community development officer referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be kept filled at 
all times by persons having qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, 
and shall not be replaced without the Association’s prior approval; and 
(c) 
The Borrower shall, through MSMD, carry out the Project in accordance 
with procedures set out in the PIM, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the 
opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
B. Subprojects
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Subprojects
1. 
Further to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
to Category (5) of the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be subject to the 
following additional terms and conditions: 
Page  30
-
29
-
(a) 
the amount so allocated shall be used exclusively to provide Subproject 
Grants to finance Subprojects, in accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set 
forth in the PIM; 
 
(b) 
no Subproject Grant shall be made to finance a Subproject unless the 
Subproject is: (i) designed to provide equipment, training, or support services for the 
benefit of enterprises and associations of individuals engaged, or otherwise interested, in 
artisanal and small-scale mining, or to meet the business needs of such enterprises and 
individuals; and (ii) to fund social and physical infrastructure for, or opportunities for the 
diversification of livelihoods of, communities; 
 
(c) 
every Subproject proposal shall be classified according to environmental 
impact category, and subjected as necessary to environmental impact analysis, to ensure 
that: (i) it is fully consistent with environmental appraisal criteria set out in the PIM, SESA, 
PF, RPF, and any RAP; and (ii) where appropriate, mitigation measures designed to 
minimize adverse effects of the proposed Subproject are identified and incorporated in the 
Subproject design; 
 
(d) 
Subproject Grants shall be provided for the benefit of eligible 
Beneficiaries and according to a cost-sharing formula which shall be acceptable to the 
Association and specified in the PIM; provided, however, that:  
(i) 
the proceeds of a Subproject Grant shall not be used to finance 
taxes or duties levied on or in respect of eligible expenditures 
relating to a Subproject, or any part thereof;  
(ii) 
the amount of each Grant shall be not more than $50,000 
equivalent; and 
(iii) 
the Beneficiary’s contribution to the cost of any Subproject, in 
cash and / or kind, shall be not less than 50% of the total cost of 
the Subproject in respect of physical infrastructure, and not less 
than 10% in respect of social infrastructure;  
 
(e) 
the first ten (10) Subprojects to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be subject to the prior review and approval of the Association; 
 
(f) 
goods, works, and services required for the purposes of financing 
Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with procedures referred to in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, and set forth in the PIM; and 
Page  31
-
30
-
(g) 
for purposes of each Subproject Grant, a Subproject Grant Agreement 
shall be concluded with the Beneficiary in the form of the model provided in the PIM, 
setting forth the respective obligations of the parties thereunder, including details of 
disbursement sch
edules and procurement procedures, the amount of the Beneficiary’s 
contribution to the cost of the Subproject, and the additional terms and conditions specified 
below. 
2. 
Terms and Conditions of Grant Agreements
Each Subproject Grant Agreement shall include the following terms and 
conditions: 
(a) 
The Beneficiary shall be required to carry out and operate the Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency, and in accordance with sound technical, administrative, 
and financial practices, and with due regard to appropriate environmental and public 
health considerations, including those set out in the PIM, SESA, PF, RPF, and any RAP. 
(b) 
The Beneficiary shall have the obligation to ensure at all times that: (a) 
goods, works, and consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (b) 
such goods, works, and consultants' services shall be used exclusively for implementing the 
Subproject, and achieving the objectives of the Project; and (c) upon completion of the 
Subproject, such Subproject shall be operated and maintained in accordance with the 
operation and maintenance plan agreed upon with the Beneficiary. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall have the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with 
representatives of the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, 
and services included in the Subproject, the operation thereof and any relevant records and 
documents, and obtain any report in connection therewith, of such scope and detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request. 
(d) 
Any enterprise that is a Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other satisfactory provision for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate environmental and public 
health practices. 
(e) 
The Borrower shall have the right to obtain all such information as the 
Borrower and Association shall reasonably request relating to the administration, 
operations, and financial condition of each Beneficiary, and the benefits derived from the 
Subproject. 
Page  32
-
31
-
(f) 
The right of any Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Credit, or 
any part thereof, shall be promptly suspended upon failure by such Beneficiary to 
perform any of its respective obligations under the Subproject Grant Agreement. 
C. Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MSMD, take steps to: 
(a) 
comply with and implement the SESA, in accordance with the guidelines, 
timetable, and other specifications set forth in the SESA; and 
 
(b) 
submit regular reports to the Association on compliance with the SESA, 
giving details of measures taken in furtherance of the SESA, conditions, if any, which 
interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of the SESA, and remedial 
measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through MSMD, ensure that the Project is implemented in 
accordance with the provisions of the SESA, PF, RPF, and any RAP, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive, or permit to be 
amended or waived, any provision of the aforementioned if such amendment or waiver 
may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect Project 
implementation. 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that RAPs are prepared, as needed, in accordance with 
the SESA, PF, and RPF, and submitted to the Association for its approval, prior to 
implementation of such plans. 
D. 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MSMD, furnish to the Association as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than October 1 of each year, the annual work plan and 
budget for each subsequent Project Year, of such scope and detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, except for the annual work plan and budget for Project 
Year 1, which shall be furnished no later than 30 days after the Effective Date. 
Page  33
-
32
-
Annual Reviews
2. 
The Borrower shall, through MSMD: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 1 of each year, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by September 1 or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Midterm Review
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MSMD: 
 
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Association, no later than November 30, 2007, 
a
mid-term review to assess the status of Project implementation, as measured against the 
performance indicators referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  Such review shall 
include an assessment of the following: (i) overall progress in Project implementation; 
(ii) results of monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) annual work plans and budgets; 
and (iv) progress on procurement and disbursement; and make adjustments to the Project 
and reallocate funds to improve performance, if needed; 
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Association, three (3) months before such 
review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, needed to undertake 
the review, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of the said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
Page  34
-
33
-
(c) 
review, jointly with the Association, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views 
on the matter. 
Page  35
-
34
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the performance 
indicators set forth below: 
A. Project 
Year 
1
1. Industrial 
minerals 
 
(a) 
At least 30% of the active population in each Subproject area is 
organized into cooperatives or associations, operating in accordance with the respective 
Subproject objective and following sustainable mining and environmental management 
practices.  (If less than 10% of the active population in each Subproject area is organized 
into cooperatives or associations, the pilot project shall be considered a failure); 
 
(b) 
Increase in reported production of base commodity of at least 20% 
compared with the situation before commencement of Subproject.  (If no increase in 
reported production is observed, the Subproject shall be considered a failure); and 
 
(c) 
Establishment and effectiveness of MSMD field support units, as 
measured by local stakeholders surveys.  (The pilot project shall be considered successful 
if the respective MSMD field support unit is operational and deemed effective by 
surveyed stakeholders.  If no field support unit is established, the pilot project shall be 
considered a failure.  Midterm Review: If the field support unit is established and 
functioning, but not considered effective by stakeholders, the pilot project shall be 
considered a failure.) 
2. 
Gold and gemstones 
 
(a) 
At least 50 buyers and the same number of sellers use the exchange 
facility repeatedly during Project Year 1.  (If less than 10 buyers and 10 sellers use the 
exchange facility repeatedly, the pilot project shall be considered a failure.); and 
 
(b) 
Increase in reported production of precious commodities of at least 20% 
as compared to the situation before the start up of the pilot project.  (If no increase in 
reported production is observed, the pilot project shall be considered a failure). 
Page  36
-
35
-
B. 
Midterm Review and Project Completion
1. 
Increase in annual solid minerals production in the sector (Midterm 
Review: $12 million; Project Completion: $100 million).   
2. 
New private investment in the mining sector since Effective Date (Midterm 
Review: $12 million; Project Completion: $100 million). 
3. 
Adoption into law of new mining law and regulations, including environmental 
regulations for sector, by Midterm Review. 
4. 
Establishment and effective operation of Mining Cadastre: Backlog of pending 
applications cleared by Midterm Review, and number of new mining titles issued in a 
transparent and efficient manner, as evidenced by compliance with procedures and 
timelines set out in new mining law and regulations (Midterm Review: 1,000; Project 
Completion: 5,000).
 
5. 
Number of artisanal mining associations established and operating in accordance 
with the law (Midterm Review: 85; Project Completion: 200). 
6. 
Volume of formal employment created during the life of the Project (Midterm 
Review: 50,000; Project Completion: 200,000). 
7. 
Number of mining operators benefiting from financing and business development 
assistance and number of mining communities or associations receiving Subproject 
Grants under the Project (Midterm Review: 25% of artisanal mining associations and 
formal artisanal miners; Project Completion: 50% of artisanal mining associations and 
formal artisanal miners). 
8. 
Increase in per capita income in pilot project areas, as measured by village 
income surveys which shall set the baseline (Midterm Review: 10%; Project 
Completion: 50%). 
9. 
Area covered by new geological maps, as percentage of total area of the 
Borrower’s territory (Midterm Review: 50%; Project Completion: 100%). 
10. 
Sustainable environmental practices functional in artisanal and small-scale 
mining communities, as measured by environmental impact assessments in all pilot areas 
(Midterm Review: 50%; Project Completion: 100%).
Page  37
-
36
-
