CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 334 IND
Project Agreement
(Second Electricity Distribution Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 334 IND
Project Agreement
(Second Electricity Distribution Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,        dated    September     29,      1972,    between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA (hereinafter called
PLN).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that PLN agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS PLN, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PLN shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound public utility, administrative, financial and engineering
practices.
Section 2.02. PLN shall employ engineering and management consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the


﻿4
Association, to carry out the engineering and to assist PLN in supervising the
construction of the works included in Part A of the Project and to assist PLN
in management, planning, cost reduction, staff training and operating the training
unit as described in Part B of the Project.
Section 2.03. PLN shall cause all works included in Part A of the Project
to be constructed either by contractors acceptable to the Association, employed
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, or pursuant to other
arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than spare parts and components needed for replacement on
equipment and services of consultants) required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, and
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) PLN undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by PLN to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, PLN shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) PLN shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) PLN: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, witheut limitation upon
the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association


﻿5
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PLN
Section 3.01. PLN shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with sound engineering, administrative, financial and public utility practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers. To that end, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, PLN shall promptly after receipt by PLN
furnish to the Association the recommendations of its management consultants,
review with the Association such recommendations without delay, and implement
such recommendations as shall have been agreed between the Association and PLN
to be appropriate, provided that such implementation shall be initiated within three
months after such agreement shall have been reached.
Section 3.02. (a) PLN shall maintain its existence and right to carry on
operations, and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
interests in land and other properties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct
of its business.
(b)   PLN   shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, facilities,
equipment and other property, and promptly as required make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and public utility
practices.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PLN shall not sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, which shall
be required for the efficient operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. PLN shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions, including self-insurance, satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound practice.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PLN shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. PLN shall, for the first time for its fiscal year 1973: (i) have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; (iii) furnish to the Association together with said report
an opinion satisfactory to the Association showing that all amounts owed to PLN
for services provided by PLN to any department or agency of the Borrower during
such fiscal year have been fully paid in cash; and (iv) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of PLN
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) PLN undertakes to effectively introduce before
January 1, 1973, or such later date as the Association shall agree, such tariffs
as the Association and PLN shall agree to be appropriate.
(b)   On the basis of the recommendations emanating from PLN's presently
ongoing tariff study, the Association and PLN shall inter alia agree on an appropriate
earnings test for PLN.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PLN shall take from
time to time all steps (including but not limited to adjustments in its tariffs) which
shall be necessary to provide revenues from PLN's operations at least sufficient:
(i)         to cover (1) all operating expenses of PLN, including
administration and overhead expenses, maintenance and
depreciation, (2) taxes, if any, and (3) interest on, and,
to the extent it exceeds depreciation, amortization of,
debt; and
(ii)        to   finance  a  reasonable  portion   of PLN's capital
expenditures.


﻿7
(d)   PLN shall submit its proposed tariff revisions promptly to the Borrower
for such administrative approvals as shall be required under the Governing Laws.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and PLN shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and PLN shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of PLN and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and PLN shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. PLN shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of PLN and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of PLN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify PLN of this event.


﻿8
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation of an amount of the Credit or
suspension of the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For PLN:
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
Kantor Pusat
Djl. Adityawannan
Blok MI No. 135
Kebajoran Baru
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
PLNPST
Djakarta


﻿9
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of PLN may be taken or executed by its President Director or such other person
or persons as PLN shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. PLN shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of PLN, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by PLN pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. Shoaib
Vice President
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
By /s/ Admono Surjo
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    With respect to equipment, materials and supplies described in Categories I
through III set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement, identical or similar items to be procured shall be grouped
together to the extent practicable for the purposes of inviting bids, and such
grouping of items shall be subject to the approval of the Association.
2.    With respect to any contract for such equipment, materials and supplies
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, PLN shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, PLN shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said consultants,
and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform PLN and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for such equipment, materials and supplies,
PLN shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to


﻿11
the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement,
promptly inform PLN and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for such equipment, materials and supplies,
bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with the following
rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid  submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. landed price of such goods;
(ii)       the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in
(i) above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)      inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
5.    Pursuant to paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, it is agreed that the procurement
of spare parts and components needed for replacement on equipment utilized in
or procured for the Project may be made without resort to international competitive
bidding. In lieu thereof, the following procedure shall apply: quotations for the


﻿12
supply of such items shall be requested from more than one competing supplier,
where possible. Lists of such items to be procured, indicating the quotations
received and the proposed suppliers thereof, shall be sent to the Association
periodically for its approval. A conformed copy of each purchase agreement relating
to such procurement shall be sent to the Association promptly after its execution
and prior to the date of the first application for withdrawal of proceeds of the
Credit in respect thereof.


