CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 334 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Electricity Distribution Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 334 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Electricity Distribution Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1972, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) By a development credit agreement (Electricity Distribution
Project) dated October 29, 1969 the Association has made a credit to the Borrower
for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in financing part of the presently ongoing
five-year expansion program of the Borrower's national power company, Perusahaan
Umum Listrik Negara (hereinafter called PLN);
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   The Project will be carried out by PLN with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PLN the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and PLN;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6,02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective


﻿4
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and PLN of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement; and
(b)   "Governing Laws" means Government Act no. 19, 1960, Government
Decree no. 19, 1965, Presidential Decree no. 17, 1967, Law no. 9, 1969,
Government Regulation no. 11, 1969 and any other legal provisions at any time
governing the organization and operations of PLN, as any of them may be amended
or supplemented from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1982 and ending February 15, 2022 each installment to
and including the installment payable on February 15, 1992 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
PLN to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all
the obligations therein set forth, including the establishment and maintenance of
tariffs and charges as specified in Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement, shall
take and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable PLN to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
To that end, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover
the budgeted expenditures estimated by PLN to be made for the Project during
each month shall be available to PLN not later than the fifteenth day of such
month.
(b)   The funds referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, including the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be made available to PLN in the form of equity
contributions.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all action to ensure at all times that
amounts owed to PLN for services provided by it to any department or agency
of the Borrower be promptly paid when due, and, to that end, the Borrower shall
ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover such amounts owed to PLN shall be
available to each department or agency not later than the fifteenth day of the
month during which such amounts shall be payable.


﻿6
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the position of President
Director of PLN shall at all times be filled by a qualified and experienced person
and, before an appointment is made to any such position, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the name, qualifications and experience of the person considered
for appointment to such position and afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the qualifications and
experience of such person.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by PLN of its obligations under the Project Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial condition of PLN and, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of PLN and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service


﻿7
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by PLN of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿8
(a)   a default shall occur in the performance by PLN of any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of PLN or for the suspension of its operations, without having
obtained the prior concurrence of the Association;
(c)   the  Borrower  shall have   suspended, terminated, repealed  or
substantially amended any of the Governing Laws or any provision thereof, without
having obtained the prior concurrence of the Association; and
(d)   PLN shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PLN or by others whereby
any of the property of PLN shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the execution and
delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of PLN have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, PLN, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of PLN in
accordance with its terms.


﻿9
Section 7.03. The date November 20, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Ali Wardhana
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. Shoaib
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.   Transformers,                   12,600,000         100% of foreign
switchgear and                                    expenditures and
meters                                            95% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory
II.  Towers, poles,                  11,000,000         100% of foreign
insulators, conduc-                               expenditures and
tors and underground                              95% of local ex-
cable                                             penditures ex-
factory
III.  Miscellaneous power-            3,900,000         100% of foreign
system equipment,                                 expenditures
materials and sup-
plies
IV.   Consulting services             2,900,000         100% of foreign
for engineering and                               expenditures
voltage change-over
training
V.   Management consult-              3,600,000         100% of foreign
ing services                                      expenditures
VI.   Unallocated                     6,000,000
TOTAL         40,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and


﻿12
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to the extent that the amount represented by the
percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above in
respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   any expenditures under Categories 1, II and III until the Association
shall have been furnished with an opinion satisfactory to the Association of an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association showing that all amounts owed
to PLN for services provided by PLN to any department or agency of the Borrower
during the period from April 1, 1971 through the end of PLN's current fiscal
year have been fully paid in cash.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set


﻿13
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents part of PLN's ongoing five-year expansion program
which consists of the following:
Part A.      The rehabilitation and expansion of the electricity distribution system
of the City of Djakarta and environs, including:
(i)          strengthening of the high-voltage transmission system around the
city;
(ii)         installation of primary and secondary distribution cable and lines
and associated circuits, poles, meters, switchgear and street
lighting;
(iii)       rehabilitation of existing and construction of new distribution
sub-stations;
(iv)         establishment of a standard voltage of 220/380 volts for the
secondary distribution system;
(v)          associated engineering services; and
(vi)        installation of equipment for monitoring generating station
output and of pilot cables for the regional load dispatch center.
Part B.      Technical Assistance
1.    Extensive management and training services for PLN including:
(a)   a training program    for PLN   personnel covering accounting,
thermal and hydroelectric power plant operation, inventory
practices and administrative procedures;
(b)   an extensive study of operating costs, particularly the costs of
fuel, labor and maintenance, and the formulation of
recommendations for the reduction of such costs;
(c)   the planning of regular training policies and programs; and


﻿15
(d)   direct advisory assistance on organization, general management,
system planning, finance and accounting.
2.    Technical assistance in the operation of PLN's training unit serving
the voltage change-over scheme.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


