Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3572 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 6 , 2001
CREDIT NUMBER  3572 VN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 2001, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower expects to receive from the United Kingdom, through its 
Department for International Development (DFID), a grant (the DFID Grant) in an 
aggregate principal amount of seven million five hundred thousand Great Britain Pounds  
(GBP 7,500,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DFID by an Exchange 
of Letters (the DFID Agreement) providing therein for: (a) an amount of one million 
three hundred and seventy five thousand Great Britain Pounds (GBP 1,375,000) out of 
the proceeds of the DFID Grant to be provided directly by DFID to the Borrower to 
assist in financing part of Part E of the Project; and (b)  an amount of six million 
Great Britain Pounds (GBP 6,000,000) to be provided to the Borrower on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Association as Administrator of those grant funds received from DFID (the DFID Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement); and  
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of any 
Sub-project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title, or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural 
and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence 
or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; and "Affected Person" means 
any of the Affected Persons.
(b)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
"CEMMA" means the Borrower’s Committee on Ethnic Minorities and 
Mountainous Areas, and any successor thereto. 
(d)
"Central Project Management Unit" and "CPMU" mean the unit established 
within the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development of the Ministry of Planning 
and Investment by Decision No. 346 QD/BKH dated July 6, 2001, to manage the overall 
implementation of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A (2) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(e)
"Central Project Steering Committee" means the committee to be 
established by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A (1)(a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement to provide overall guidance in the implementation of the 
Project.
(f)
"Commune Development Board" means the unit to be established in each 
Project Commune in accordance with the provisions of paragraph B (5) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, responsible for developing, through consultation with village leaders 
and beneficiary groups within the commune, the Commune Development Plan, and for 
entering into sub-project agreements, on behalf of the commune, with the respective 
PPMU or DPMU, as the case may be, for the implementation of sub-projects selected from 
said Commune Development Plan.
(g)
"Commune Development Plan" means a multi-year plan of development 
Page  3
priorities established by each Project Commune from proposals submitted by villagers 
and screened by the respective Commune Development Board, and from which specific 
investment sub-projects would be selected for financing under Parts A, B and C of the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of paragraph B (6) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(h)
"Commune People’s Committee" means the local government at the commune 
level.
(i)
"DFID" means the Department for International Development of the United 
Kingdom, and any successor thereto.
(j)
"District People’s Committee" means the local government at the district 
level.
(k)
"District Project Management Unit" and "DPMU" mean the unit established 
within the Planning Section of the District People’s Committee of each Project 
District to manage the overall implementation of the Project within said District, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph A (3) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
the following Decisions Nos. 1153/QD-CT, 1154/QD-CT, 1155/QD-CT, 1156/QD-CT, in 
respect of the Project Districts in Bac Giang; 177/QD-UB,176/QD-UB,122/QD-UB, 
159/QD-UB, 124/QD-UB, 121/QD-UB, 246/QD-UB, 126/QD-UB, 868/QD-UB,  and 1005/QD-UB, in 
respect of the Project Districts in Hoa Binh; 1523/QD-CT, 1525/QD-CT, 1520/QD-CT, 
1518/QD-CT, 1517/QD-CT, 1524/QD-CT, 1519/QD-CT 1522/QD-CT, 1526/QD-CT, and 231/QD-UB 
in respect of the Project Districts in Lao Cai; 2903/QD-UB in respect of the Project 
Districts in Phu Tho; 1924/QD-UB, 1928/QD-UB,1930/QD-UB, 1926/QD-UB,1925/QD-UB, 
1929/QD-UB, and 1927/QD-UB in respect of the Project Districts in Son La; 312/QD-UB, 
381/QD-UB, 284/QD-UB, 69/2001/QD-UB, 221/QD-UB, 3481/QD-UB, and 169/2000/QD-UB in 
respect of the Project Districts in Yen Bai.
(l)
"EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan dated June 2001, adopted by 
the Borrower through its Ministry of Planning and Investment’s Decision No 487 QD/BKH 
of September 6, 2001, and referred to in paragraph B (9) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the 
Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Association.
(m)
"MOLISA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social 
Affairs, and any successor thereto.
(n)
"MPI" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Investment, and any 
successor thereto.
(o)
"MARD" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Development, and any successor thereto.
(p)
"Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Project Affected Persons" means the policy framework dated December 2000, adopted by 
the Borrower through the Prime Minister’s Decision No. 806/CP-QHQT and the Vice 
Minister of MPI’s Decision No. 487 QD/BKH, dated respectively September 5, 2001 and 
September 6, 2001, as said policy framework may be amended from time to time with the 
prior concurrence of the Association.
(q)
"Project Communes" means, collectively, communes within the Project 
Provinces selected from the lists of poor communes established by CEMMA and/or MOLISA 
in accordance with the Borrower’s programs of hunger eradication and poverty 
alleviation; and "Project Commune" means any of the Project Communes.
(r)
"Project Districts" means, collectively, those districts within each 
Project Province which have within their respective jurisdiction one or more Project 
Communes; and "Project District" means any of the Project Districts.
(s)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual to be adopted by the 
Borrower for the implementation of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph B (4) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from 
Page  4
time to time with the prior concurrence of the Association.
(t)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
(u) 
"Project Provinces" means, collectively, the provinces of Bac Giang, Hoa 
Binh, Lao Cai, Phu Tho, Son La and Yen Bai in the northern mountain region of Vietnam; 
and "Project Province" means any of such Provinces.
(v)
"Provincial People’s Committee" means the local government at the 
provincial level.
(w)
"Provincial Project Management Unit" and "PPMU" mean the unit  
established by each Project Province within the Department of Planning and Investment 
of the relevant Provincial People’s Committee, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph A (3) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and pursuant to Decisions Nos 
1628/QD-CT in respect of Bac Giang, 407/QD-UB in respect of Hoa Binh, 247/QD-UB in 
respect of Lao Cai, 2905/QD-UB in respect of Phu Tho, 1923/QD-UB in respect of Son La, 
and 432/QD-UB in respect of Yen Bai, to manage the overall implementation of said 
Province’s Respective Part of the Project.
(x)
"Provincial Project Steering Committee" means each of the committees 
established by each Project Province in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A 
(1)(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and pursuant to Decisions Nos 1618/QD-CT in 
respect of Bac Giang, 1312/QD-UB in respect of Hoa Binh, 280/2001/QD-UB in respect of 
Lao Cai, 2901/QD-UB in respect of Phu Tho, 01/1999/QD-UB in respect of Son La, and 
431/QD-UB in respect of Yen Bai, to provide overall guidance in the implementation of 
said Province’s Respective Part of the Project.
(y)
"Respective Part of the Project" means, for: (i) each Project Province, 
the activities to be carried out under the Project within said Project Province, its 
Project Districts and Project Communes; and (ii) each Project District, the activities 
to be carried out under the Project within said Project District and its Project 
Communes.
(z)
"Second Generation Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and "Second Generation Special Account" means any 
of said Accounts.
(aa )
"Special Accounts" means, collectively, the Bac Giang PPMU Special 
Account, the Hoa Binh PPMU Special Account, the Lao Cai PPMU Special Account, the Phu 
Tho PPMU Special Account, the Son La PPMU Special Account, the Yen Bai PPMU Special 
Account, and the CPMU Special Account, all referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this 
Agreement; and "Special Account" means any of said  Special Accounts.
(bb)
"Strategy and Action Plan for Ethnic Groups" means the plan dated 
November 2000, adopted by the Borrower through the Prime Minister’s decision No. 
806/CP-QHQT and the Vice Minister of MPI’s decision No. 487 QD/BKH, dated respectively 
September 5, 2001 and September 6, 2001, as said strategy and action plan may be 
amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Association.
(cc)
"Sub-project" means a specific investment project for the construction of 
small-scale infrastructure within a Project Commune or a village therein, or a Project 
District, or a specific program of activities within a Project Commune or a village 
therein, or a Project District, to increase agricultural productivity or to improve 
the access to drinking water or to improve the access to and use of basic education 
and health services for the population thereof, under Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project, utilizing the proceeds of the Credit.
(dd)
"Subproject Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between a 
Commune Development Board and the respective District Project Management Unit, or 
Provincial Project Management Unit, as the case may be, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph B (6) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  5
(ee)
"Vietnamese Dong" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty seven million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR87,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars:
(i)
a special deposit account for the purposes of Bac Giang’s 
Respective Part of the Project (the Bac Giang PPMU Special 
Account);
(ii)
a special deposit account for the purposes of Hoa Binh’s 
Respective Part of the Project (the Hoa Binh PPMU Special 
Account);
(iii)
a special deposit account for the purposes of Lao Cai’s Respective 
Part of the Project (the Lao Cai PPMU Special Account);
(iv)
a special deposit account for the purposes of Phu Tho’s Respective 
Part of the Project (the Phu Tho PPMU Special Account);
(v)
a special deposit account for the purposes of Son La’s Respective 
Part of the Project (the Son La PPMU Special Account); 
(vi)
a special deposit account for the purposes of Yen Bai’s Respective 
Part of the Project (the Yen Bai PPMU Special Account); and
(vii)
a special deposit account for the purposes of Part E.1 of the 
Project (the CPMU Special Account);
each in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower may, for purposes of each Project District’s Respective Part 
of the Project, open and maintain in Vietnamese Dong a second generation special 
account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Second Generation Special Accounts ("SGSAs") shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and additional 
procedures that shall have been approved by the Association.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
Page  6
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2012 and ending July 15, 2041. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2021 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  7
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices and sound 
environmental, health and social standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts and the Second 
Generation Special Accounts, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  8
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the  statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of  its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 2002, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Borrower’s decision establishing the Commune Development Boards of 
the Project Communes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed so as 
to affect materially and adversely the capacity of the Project Communes to participate 
in the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions herein set forth, and to 
enter into sub-project agreements with the respective Provincial Project Management 
Units, or District Project Management Units, as the case may be; and
(b)
Subject to paragraph (c) below: 
(i) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DFID 
Page  9
Grant or any other grant or loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor; or
(ii) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(c)
Paragraph (b) of this Section 5.01 shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely the event specified in paragraph (b) 
(ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (c) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has taken all necessary action to enable the Commune 
Development Boards to have the legal powers to participate in the Project in 
accordance with the terms and conditions herein set forth, and to enter into 
sub-project agreements with the respective Provincial Project Management Units, or 
District Project Management Units, as the case may be; 
(b)
the DFID Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c)
 the Central Project Steering Committee has been established in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (A)(1)(a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower has adopted a project implementation manual satisfactory to 
the Association, including therein a capacity building plan and a financial management 
manual, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(e)
the training of the accounting staff within the CPMU and PPMUs on a 
computerized system for the strengthening of the financial management system of the 
Project, has been completed in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
(f)
the Borrower has established a computerized financial management system 
satisfactory to the Association;
(g)
each Project Province has submitted an implementation plan for the 
Borrower’s Fiscal Year 2002 under its Respective Part of the Project to the Central 
Project Management Unit and obtained its approval for said plan; and
(h)
the Central Project Management Unit has engaged the services of an 
Page  10
independent agency under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to 
monitor the participatory process and evaluate the impacts of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 12 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
the Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Project Affected Persons and the Strategy and Action Plan for Ethnic Groups have been 
duly authorized by the Borrower’s Prime Minister and Minister or Vice Minister MPI, 
and are legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms; 
and
(b)
the Commune Development Boards have the legal powers to participate in 
the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions herein set forth, and to enter 
into sub-project agreements with the respective Provincial Project Management Units, 
or District Project Management Units, as the case may be.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
VIETBANK
412248
(844)825-0612
Hanoi
NHTWVT
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or         
Washington D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
(1-202) 477-6391
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam as of the day and year first above written.
Page  11
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By /s/ Le Duc Thuy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works for
95%
(a)  Bac Giang’s Respective 
Part of the Project
   8,700,000
(b)  Hoa Binh’s Respective
Part of the Project
   8,700,000
(c) Lao Cai’s Respective
Part of the Project
  15,670,000
(d)  Phu Tho’s Respective 
Part of the Project
   8,700,000
(e)  Son La’s Respective
Part of the Project
   9,870,000
(f)  Yen Bai’s Respective
Part of the Project
   9,870,000
(2)
Goods (other than 
management
100% of foreign
information system,
expenditures
including computers
100% of local,
and related software,
expenditures
media equipment and 
(ex-factory cost)
products, equipment for
and 75% of local
cadre schools, four-wheel     
expenditures 
drive vehicles for the Project            for other items
Districts and CPMU) for:
procured locally
(a)  Bac Giang’s Respective             
Part of the Project         975,000
(b)  Hoa Binh’s Respective               
Part of the Project         975,000
(c)  Lao Cai’s Respective
Part of the Project
  1,750,000
Page  12
(d)  Phu Tho’s Respective                
Part of the Project
    975,000
(e)  Son La’s Respective
Part of the Project       1,100,000
(f)  Yen Bai’s Respective
Part of the Project       1,100,000
(g)  Part E of the Project  240,000
(3)
Consultants’Services
(other than
100%
services of management
trainers at the provincial
cadre schools; 
media and computer
consultants; 
all services for monitoring 
and evaluation except
on matters related 
to the environment,
resettlement and 
ethnic minorities) for:
(a)  Bac Giang’s Respective                 
Part of the Project
   570,000
(b)  Hoa Binh’s Respective
Part of the Project
   770,000
(c)  Lao Cai’s Respective
Part of the Project
 1,670,000
(d)  Phu Tho’s Respective                     
Part of the Project
   770,000
(e)  Son La’s Respective                      
Part of the Project
   815,000
(f)   Yen Bai’s Respective                    
Part of the Project
   815,000
(g)  Part E of the       1,000,000
Project
(4)
Training for:
100%
(a)  Bac Giang’s Respective              
Part of the Project
(other than
      under Part E of the
Project)                  515,000
(b)  Hoa Binh’s Respective               
Part of the Project
(other than
under Part E of the
Project)                  515,000
(c)  Lao Cai’s Respective                 
Part of the Project
(other than
under Part E of the
Project)                  515,000
(d)  Phu Tho’s Respective                 
Part of the Project
(other than
under Part E of the
Project)                 515,000
Page  13
(e)  Son La’s Respective                   
Part of the Project 
(other than
under Part E of the
Project)                 515,000
(f)   Yen Bai’s Respective                  
Part of the Project 
(other than under Part
E of the Project         515,000          
(g)  Part E of the 
Project                  120,000
(5)
Incremental Operating Costs
(a)  Bac Giang’s Respective 
Part of the Project
 425,000
75%
(b)  Hoa Binh’s Respective
Part of the Project
 425,000
75%
(c)  Lao Cai’s Respective
Part of the Project
 770,000
75%
(d)  Phu Tho’s Respective 
Part of the Project
 425,000
75%
(e)  Son La’s Respective
Part of the Project
 480,000
75%
(f)  Yen Bai’s Respective
Part of the Project
 480,000
75%
(g)   Part E of the 
Project
             240,000          75%
(h)  Audit of Project 
accounts
 95,000
100%
(6)
Unallocated           6,315,000
TOTAL
   87,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
"Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower for the audit of project accounts, the implementation of the processes of 
community consultation, selected participatory rural assessments and participatory 
monitoring, and for the program of community information, education and communication, 
and other reasonable expenditures incurred by the CPMU, PPMUs and DPMUs for staff 
travel and field allowances, office supplies and operating costs (which expenditures 
would not have been incurred absent the Project), excluding salaries and 
administrative related costs of the technical assistance to CPMU financed by the DFID 
Grant.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments for expenditures under Category (1) for any sub-project, 
except for village sub-projects under Part D of the Project, until a sub-project 
agreement in respect of such sub-project has been entered into between the respective 
Commune Development Board and District Project Management Unit, or Provincial Project 
Page  14
Management Unit, as the case may be.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$75,000 equivalent each; (c) services provided by (i) consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, and (ii) individuals under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (d) training; and (e) Incremental Operating 
Costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to raise the productive 
capacity, and improve the food security and standard of living of the rural population 
of selected poorer communes in the Project Provinces, by (i) strengthening their 
capacity to plan and implement poverty reduction projects, and (ii) providing, and 
enabling them to use, small-scale infrastructure and basic social services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rural Roads and Markets
In each Project Province, carrying out of a program to improve the rural 
transport and markets networks through:
1.
the construction and upgrading of: (a) district-to-commune roads; (b) 
commune-to-village and village-to-village roads and paths; and (c) bridges, spillways 
and culverts; and 
2.
the construction and upgrading of rural markets.
Part B:
Irrigation, Water Supply and Agriculture Support
In each Project Province, carrying out of a program to increase agricultural 
productivity and improve access to drinking water through:
1.
the construction, upgrading and repair of micro-irrigation systems;
2.
the construction and upgrading of village and household water supply schemes;
3.
the provision of applied demonstrations, training and extension services to 
farmers for the improvement and management of annual and perennial food and cash 
crops, animal husbandry, aquaculture and small agro-processing; and
4.
an on-site research program on the priority needs of upland agriculture.
Part C:
Basic Education and Health
In each Project Province, carrying out of a program to improve access to and use 
of basic education and health services through:
1.
(a) construction, renovation and upgrading of commune and village classrooms and 
kindergartens, basic accommodations for teachers and, in more remote areas, 
semi-boarding facilities for students; (b) upgrading of qualifications and provision 
of re-training of primary school teachers, in particular teachers from ethnic minority 
groups; (c) provision of basic furniture, equipment and teaching aids for commune and 
village classrooms; (d) carrying out of measures to improve school attendance of 
children from the poorest households and girls from ethnic minorities; and (e) 
promotion of attendance by women of literacy classes; and
Page  15
2.
(a) construction and upgrading of commune health stations and village health 
clinics; (b) provision of training and re-training of commune and village health 
workers; (c) provision of basic equipment and medicine supply for commune health 
stations; (d) undertaking of a program of communication and information activities on 
relevant health topics for the population of the communes; and (e) provision of 
training for health cadres in participatory processes, management of resources and 
supervision. 
Part D:
Commune Development Budget
In each Project Province, establishment of a program of small grants to communes 
to support their respective development budget to fund eligible small-scale investment 
sub-projects at the village level. 
Part E:
Implementation Support
Carrying out a program of institutional development at:
1.
the central level, and
2.
the provincial, district and commune levels; through 
the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to: (a) strengthen the 
management capacity of project management units and local institutions at the 
respective levels, and foster institution and capacity building of the concerned local 
institutions; (b) support community consultation and decentralized community-based 
planning and management; (c) support a program of community level information, 
education and communication; and (d) monitor and evaluate project implementation and 
impacts.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for procurement of vehicles shall be 
Page  16
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods including office equipment, medical bags, school furniture and 
motorcycles estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,600,000 equivalent may be procured; and (b) works, 
estimated to cost less than $ 200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $5,500,000 equivalent, except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 
3, 4 and 5 of this Part C, shall be procured, under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $48,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting
(a) Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible 
with existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature and costing $2,100,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, and (b) works located in remote areas, estimated 
to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $11,000,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Works for the construction of water supply systems and village roads which are 
labor-intensive, and agricultural demonstrations, estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,600,000 
equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
6.
Force Account
Works in remote areas, which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines, and costing $4,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  17
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $75,000 or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more; (ii) the first three contracts for works to be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph C (5) of this Section I; and (iii) for 
each Project Province, each year, the first contracts for works procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Paragraphs C (3), (4) and (5), and the first contracts for 
goods procured in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs C (1) and (2);  the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
In respect of contracts referred to in clauses (ii) and (iii) of 
sub-paragraph (a) above procured in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs (C) 
(2), (3) and (4), the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures 
or the execution of any contract for procurement of small works, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping or procurement of small works procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  18
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for engineering design estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for agricultural on-site demonstrations under Part B.3 of the Project, 
audit of project accounts, and for training, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for supervision of works, training of farmers, village health workers 
and teachers, and agricultural research, may, with the Association's prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for community consultation and participatory rural assessment to 
develop village sub-projects and commune development plans, for construction 
supervision of works procured under paragraphs C(4) and C(5) of Section I of this 
Schedule, and other tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  19
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
1.
To ensure consistency and coordination among all Project components the Borrower 
shall, throughout the period of implementation of the Project:
(a)
 maintain the Central Project Steering Committee with membership 
acceptable to the Association, to provide overall guidance in the implementation of 
the Project; and
(b)
cause each Project Province to maintain its respective steering 
committee, with membership acceptable to the Association, to provide overall guidance 
in the implementation of the relevant Provinces’ Respective Part of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, 
maintain the Central Project Management Unit within the Department of Agriculture and 
Rural Development of MPI, managed and staffed with qualified personnel in sufficient 
number, including a chief accountant, an internal auditor, an environment coordinator, 
a project monitoring and evaluation officer, a procurement specialist, and a training 
coordinator, all under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
provided with adequate resources; said Unit to be responsible for overall management 
and coordination of the Project, and monitoring and evaluation of its impacts.
3.
The Borrower shall cause each Project Province and each Project District to 
maintain throughout the period of implementation of the Project, its respective 
Provincial Project Management Unit and District Project Management Unit, managed and 
staffed with qualified personnel, in sufficient number, including accounting staff and 
internal auditors, monitoring and evaluation officers, training and information 
coordinators, environment and procurement officers, and necessary technical 
specialists, all under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
provided with adequate resources.  The PPMUs and DPMUs shall be responsible for 
assisting the Project Communes in their assessment and prioritization of their needs, 
the development of their respective commune development plans, and the carrying out of 
procurement activities necessary for their respective sub-projects. The DPMUs shall be 
further responsible for carrying out the assessment of social services needs, and 
developing and implementing training activities in health, education and agricultural 
extension, at the district level.
B.
Implementation
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
for purposes of implementation of the Project, prepare a project 
implementation manual satisfactory to the Association, which shall provide, inter alia 
for: 
(i)
(A) procedures for conducting community assessments; (B) 
guidelines for the development of commune development plans, 
including processes of obtaining approval at the village and 
commune levels, and at the district and provincial levels, and 
process of review by an external panel; (C) eligibility criteria 
for investment sub-projects, including the targeting of more 
vulnerable and disadvantaged groups within the Project Communes, 
and the assumption of responsibility for operation and 
maintenance; (D) guidelines and criteria for the operation of the 
Commune Development Budget and the approval by the commune 
development boards of village sub-projects to be supported under 
the Commune Development Budget; (E) measures required under the 
Strategy and Action Plan for Ethnic Groups and the Policy 
Framework for Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Page  20
Project Affected Persons; (F) measures required under the 
Environmental Management Plan, including the environmental 
screening procedures and criteria; (G) procurement procedures; and 
(H) monitoring requirements and processes, including monitoring by 
the beneficiaries, and reporting;
(ii)
a capacity building plan satisfactory to the Association, 
including: (A) a strategy and action plan to develop and 
strengthen the management capacity of the Project Communes, and at 
the central, provincial and district levels, and (B) mechanisms 
and processes for planning and managing policies and services in 
support of the poor in the remote upland areas; and
(iii)
a financial management manual satisfactory to the Association, 
setting forth, inter alia, fund flow arrangements, financial 
management, accounting, reporting and internal control mechanisms 
and procedures, including the management, control and auditing of 
Special Accounts and Second Generation Special Accounts; and  
(b)
put into effect said project implementation manual, including the 
capacity building plan and the financial management manual, and shall not amend, 
abrogate or waive any provision of said project implementation manual without the 
prior concurrence of the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that each Project Commune establish a commune 
development board with membership satisfactory to the Association, including 
representatives from the Commune people’s committee and people’s council, mass 
associations, village leaders, and beneficiary groups, to: (a) undertake a community 
assessment in order to (i) solicit and screen proposals on development priorities and 
sub-projects from the population of the Commune, and (ii) prepare the commune 
development plan, and seek approval therefor from the respective Provincial Project 
Management Unit, or District Project Management Unit, as the case may be; (b) annually 
undertake a participatory review process to define the annual implementation program 
under the commune development plan; (c) on behalf of the Commune enter into 
sub-project agreements with the respective District Project Management Unit or 
Provincial Project Management Unit, as the case may be, for the implementation of the 
commune sub-projects; and (d) manage the grant made to the Commune under the Commune 
Development Budget through the review, approval and supervision of selected 
sub-projects proposed and implemented by the villages within the Commune.
6.
 For each eligible sub-project within a Commune Development Plan, the Borrower 
shall cause the respective Commune Development Board to enter into a sub-project 
agreement with the respective District Project Management Unit, or Provincial Project 
Management Unit, as the case may be, satisfactory to the Association, to record the 
mutual rights and obligations of the Commune Development Board on behalf of the 
respective Commune, and the respective DPMU, or PPMU, as the case may be, in regard to 
the execution of the sub-project, including the detailed design, engagement of 
contractors, contribution by beneficiaries and arrangement for the operation and 
maintenance of the sub-project after its completion.
7.
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 6.01(g) of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall: (a) prepare and, by December 31 of each year commencing in 2002 
furnish to the Association for its review an annual work plan, including proposed 
budget therefor based on the commune development plans submitted by the Project 
Communes; and (b) thereafter implement, or cause to be implemented, said annual work 
plan taking into consideration the Association’s comments thereon. 
8.
The Borrower:
(a)
shall implement, or cause to be implemented, the Strategy and Action Plan 
for Ethnic Groups in a manner satisfactory to the Association, to: (i) provide full 
consultation with, and informed participation of, ethnic minority groups within the 
Project Communes in the formulation of the Commune Development Plan and the 
implementation thereof; and (ii) ensure that the selection and design of investment 
sub-projects as well as the provision of social services adequately address the needs, 
cultural practices and preferences of such groups; and
Page  21
(b)
shall not amend, waive or modify the provisions of said Strategy and 
Action Plan without the prior concurrence of the Association and the Project Communes.
9.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the Environment Management Plan in a manner designed to ensure 
that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices and 
standards; and
(b)
in respect of sub-projects under Part A.1 of the Project in particular, 
cause the relevant Project District or Project Province, as the case may be, to: (i) 
carry out an environmental screening and, if necessary on the basis of such screening, 
carry out a full environmental impact assessment, in accordance with the guidelines of 
the Project Implementation Manual; and thereafter (ii) incorporate adequate mitigation 
measures into the relevant sub-project. 
10.
In respect of any proposed investment sub-projects which would give rise to 
Affected Persons, the Borrower shall ensure that the PPMU of the relevant Project 
Province, in coordination with the relevant Project District or Project Commune: (a) 
follow the principles, guidelines and procedures set forth in the Policy Framework for 
Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons; (b) prepare 
a resettlement action plan satisfactory to the Association; and (c) carry out such 
resettlement action plan as so approved, prior to the commencement of any works under 
such investment sub-project.
Monitoring and Reporting
11.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory 
to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
12.
For purposes of paragraph 11 above, the Borrower shall, inter alia, appoint an 
independent agency under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to carry 
out the process monitoring, including the quality of community participation, quality 
and effect of training, and impact of micro-irrigation systems. 
13.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about March 31 and September 30 of each year, 
commencing on September 31, 2002 a semi-annual report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 11 above, on the 
progress achieved carrying out the Project during the calendar semester preceding the 
date of said report (or in the case of the last such report furnished for each 
calendar year, during the preceding two calendar semesters) and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such calendar 
semester; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about March 31, 2004, a mid-term report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph 11 above, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report, and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the remainder of the project period; and 
(c)
promptly review with the Association, each such report referred to in 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
Page  22
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), 
(3)(a), (4)(a) and (5)(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement in respect of Bac Giang’s Respective Part of the Project; (ii) Categories 
(1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(b), (4)(b) and (5)(b) set forth in said table in respect of Hoa 
Binh’s Respective Part of the Project; (iii) Categories (1)(c), (2)(c), (3)(c), (4)(c) 
and (5)(c) set forth in said table in respect of Lao Cai’s Respective Part of the 
Project; (iv) Categories (1)(d), (2)(d), (3)(d), (4)(d) and (5)(d) set forth in said 
table in respect of Phu Tho’s Respective Part of the Project; (v) Categories (1)(e), 
(2)(e), (3)(e), (4)(e) and (5)(e) set forth in said table in respect of Son La’s 
Respective Part of the Project; (vi) Categories (1)(f), (2)(f), (3)(f), (4)(f) and 
(5)(f) set forth in said table in respect of Yen Bai’s Respective Part of the Project; 
and (vii) Categories (2)(g), (3)(g), (4)(g), (5)(g) and 5(h) in respect of Part E of 
the Project;  
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Bac Giang, Hoa Binh, Lao Cai, Phu 
Tho, Son La, Yen Bai’s Respective Parts of the Project and for Part E of the Project, 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to:
(i)
$900,000 in respect of the Bac Giang PPMU Special Account;
(ii)
$900,000 in respect of the Hoa Binh PPMU Special Account; 
(iii)
$900,000 in respect of the Lao Cai PPMU Special Account; 
(iv)
$900,000 in respect of the Phu Tho PPMU Special Account; 
(v)
$900,000 in respect of the Son La PPMU Special Account; 
(vi)
$900,000 in respect of the Yen Bai PPMU Special Account; and 
(vii)
$400,000 in respect of the CPMU Special Account;
in each case to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the respective 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made either (i) for 
eligible expenditures, or (ii) into the SGSAs of the Project Districts within the 
respective Project Province, for payments of eligible expenditures, in accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
Page  23
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account and/or the SGSAs of the Project Districts of the 
respective Project Province for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts and the 
SGSAs;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Respective Part of the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Respective Part of the Project 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the respective Special Account and/or the SGSAs of the Project Districts of the 
respective Project Province as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any  Special Account or SGSA: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
Page  24
or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account, or the respective SGSA, where 
relevant, (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account or SGSA will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts or the 
SGSAs.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Condition.
