Page  1
January 4, 2001
Mr. Le Duc Thuy
Governor
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
RE: Japan Social Development Fund Grant for a Pilot Project 
For Poverty Reduction in Six Communes in Northern Mountain 
Provinces of Vietnam -- Grant Number TF 026559
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the 
Japan Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million 
three hundred ninety-five thousand United States Dollars ($1,395,000) (the Grant) to 
the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance with the project described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement (the Project) and on the terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex.  
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to 
contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrew Steer
Country Director, Vietnam
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By /s/ Le Duc Thuy 
Governor for Vietnam in the Bank
Date:
June 27, 2001
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Description of the Project
1.1.
The objectives of the Project are, through the implementation, on a pilot basis 
in six selected poor communes of Northern Mountains Provinces in Vietnam, of a 
multi-sectoral community-based poverty reduction program, to: (i) support capacity 
building, (ii) field-test alternative means of community participation in project 
design, implementation and monitoring, and (iii) further develop mechanisms to target 
the most vulnerable population of the communes and measures for increase participation 
of ethnic minorities in all aspects of the project.  The Project is associated with a 
Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction Project which is proposed to be supported by the 
Page  2
Association.
1.2.
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the 
following activities (Activities):
Part A:  Community Development Methods, Plans and Management, estimated to cost 
$202,500, and consisting of:
(a)
Providing training to project staff and local officials at various levels 
in community development methods and in designing community development plans;
(b)
Assisting the pilot communes in completing community development plans 
and in reviewing and adjusting such plans through a participatory planning method;
(c)
Developing guidelines to target beneficiaries, providing training to 
commune leaders in the application of such guidelines, and monitoring the targeting of 
intended beneficiaries;
(d)
Developing methods and criteria for evaluating beneficiary participation 
in the design, selection and implementation of project activities, providing training 
to project staff and local officials in the use of such methods and criteria, and 
monitoring and evaluating beneficiary participation. 
Part B:  Food Security and Cash Income Generation, estimated to cost $142,000, and 
consisting of:
(a)
Providing demonstrations and training on new or improved crops, 
agricultural technologies, animal husbandry, and forest management;
(b)
Reviewing and revising implementation guidelines and providing training 
to local officials at the commune and district levels in such guidelines.
Part C:  Household Water Supply, estimated to cost $142,000, and consisting of:
(a)
Reviewing and refining proposed designs for community water supply to 
ensure technical quality and responsiveness to conditions in the villages, community 
needs, customs and habits particularly those of ethnic minorities;
(b)
Constructing household water supply systems;
(c)
Providing training in the management of water supply systems.
Part D:  Microirrigation, estimated to cost $256,500, and consisting of:
(a)
Reviewing and refining proposed designs for microirrigation systems to 
ensure technical quality and responsiveness to conditions in the villages, community 
needs, customs and habits, particularly those of ethnic minorities;
(b)
Constructing micro-irrigation systems;
(c)
Providing training in the management and maintenance of micro-irrigation 
systems.
Part E:  Education and Health, estimated to cost $159,000, and consisting of:
(a)
Providing training for primary school teachers, village and commune 
health workers, including providing teaching materials, medical supplies and first aid 
kits;
(b)
Reviewing designs for village schools and health clinics to ensure 
Page  3
appropriateness and cost effectiveness;
(c)
Constructing and equipping village schools and medical clinics;
(d)
Revising implementation guidelines for this component from the experience 
learned.
Part F:  Community Grant Program, estimated to cost $178,500, and consisting of:
(a)
Providing training in the operation of a community grant fund, including 
in the development of community-specific menus of eligible proposals and operating 
procedures;
(b)
Operating the community grant fund in the pilot communes, revising the 
implementation procedures for this component on the basis of the lessons learned, and 
providing demonstrations and training to non-pilot communes.
Part G:  Participatory Monitoring and Assessment, estimated to cost $314,500, and 
consisting of:
(a)
Implementing various participatory monitoring and evaluation tools, 
assessing their effectiveness in ensuring the participation of the most disadvantaged 
population within the communes, including ethnic minorities, and developing guidelines 
in the application of such tools;
(b)
Providing training to non-pilot communes and districts in the use of the 
recommended participatory monitoring procedures;
(c)
Implementing the recommended participatory monitoring systems to communes 
under the proposed Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction Project.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project  with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Project and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to 
time exchange views with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the 
Project; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the 
territory of Vietnam for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the 
foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA 
promptly upon completion of the Project a report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to IDA, on the results and impact of the Project.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods,, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of  Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
Page  4
4.2.
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Project:
Amount of the    % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Category
 (in Dollars) to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
   865,000
100%
services
(2)
Goods
    20,000
80%
(3)
Works
   510,000
100%
TOTAL
 1,395,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; 
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or works and services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, works if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by 
a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 
2002 or such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date); and 
(c)
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to 
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in IDA’s 
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Governor or a Deputy Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam or such 
other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by 
such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal 
applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her 
signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting 
evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Project. IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the 
Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
than $10,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts with consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (d) consultants’ services under 
contracts with individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such 
terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial 
Page  5
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to 
this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; 
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient,  or any other 
entity to which International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) has made 
a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with IBRD, or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been 
suspended. 
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Project. 
Attachment I 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Page  6
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Goods up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Works in communes without road access and estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works in communes with road access, estimated to cost less than $50,000 per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $220,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Community Participation
To provide as much employment opportunity as possible to the poor communes 
within the Project area and to increase the utilization of the know-how of the ethnic 
minority population, works estimated to cost up to an aggregate of $190,000 
equivalent, may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first three contracts for works in each of the six 
selected communes, irrespective of costs, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph C (2) procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs B 
(2) or (3) of this Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under the procedures for 
procurement of small works, the Recipient shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
Page  7
contracting or small works procurement procedures, the Recipient 
shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services in the provision of training, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $175,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for any of the Activities under Parts A and G, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000 equivalent, may, with IDA's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $490,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
Page  8
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the 
eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
Page  9
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such 
outstanding amount.
