Page  1
June 9, 2000
Mr. Le Duc Thuy
Governor, State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Tai Tho Street
Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Re: Japanese Grant for the Northern Mountains Poverty 
Reduction Project
Grant Number TF026247
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association 
(IDA) to indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided 
by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred five 
thousand United States Dollars (US$405,000) (the Grant) to the Socialist 
Republic of Vietnam (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming 
its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the 
Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the 
Recipient, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this 
Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement 
countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the 
date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrew Steer
Country Director, Vietnam
East Asia and the Pacific Region
AGREED:
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By /s/ Duong Thu Huong
Deputy Governor 
Date:
November 14, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the 
Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction Project, which has as its main 
objective the improvement of farm production and overall well being of poor 
villagers in the Recipient’s northern mountain areas through improvements to 
physical infrastructure and social services (the Project).  The activities 
(the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
development of implementation procedures for a proposed 
community fund, including a menu of activities and institutional and 
Page  2
financial arrangements, and design of a training program for commune and 
village leaders, mass organizations and district and provincial project 
management office staff in the principles and operational procedures of the 
fund, which is estimated to cost US$93,500 equivalent;
(b)
review completed village and commune assessments, provide 
assistance to selected villages and communes in assessment development and 
provide guidance and assistance to communes in the preparation and 
finalization of community development plans, which is estimated to cost 
US$171,000 equivalent; and
(c)
assist the Recipient’s Ministry of Planning and Investment in 
the development of (i) project organizational and implementation 
arrangements; (ii) financial management and accounting system; (iii) simple 
and practical monitoring and evaluation and feedback system; and (iv) 
in-service training and institutional development activities, which is 
estimated to cost US$140,500 equivalent.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence 
and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information 
covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA 
shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take 
all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam for purposes related to the Grant.  Without 
limitation to the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, 
prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact 
of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to 
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or 
installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a 
freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall 
ensure that any facilities relevant to the Activities are at all times 
operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and that 
any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA 
on its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of 
this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
   % of
   Allocated in United States
Expenditures
Items
     Dollars
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
   405,000
100%
Page  3
services
TOTAL
   405,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “foreign expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Socialist 
Republic of Vietnam for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and the term 
“local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures, provided, however, that if the currency of the Socialist 
Republic of Vietnam is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter 
Agreement by IDA, except that withdrawals, in an amount not exceeding 
$40,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after June 1, 2000; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes 
levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) or for 
goods produced in or services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after March 
31, 2001 or such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the 
Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, except in special 
circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected 
date of IDA approval of financing for the Project.  However, withdrawals may 
be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the 
Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by IDA 
within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of 
the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; 
and
(c)
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any 
of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to 
finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the 
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to 
another item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant 
Account, it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of 
such amount in the form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: 
(a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Governor or any Deputy Governor 
of the State Bank of Vietnam or such other person as he or she shall have 
authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of 
the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each 
withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting 
evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and 
that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only 
to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) 
Page  4
services of consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and 
(b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 
equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency 
of the Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the 
Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the 
Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be 
necessary, for the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value 
of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably 
determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may 
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account (the 
Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and 
financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records 
and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s representatives 
to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that 
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of 
the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of 
the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has 
failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the 
right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a 
loan with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
Page  5
agreement with IDA shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any 
time after the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 
6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, 
satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the effective date hereof, to 
carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, at any time after 
consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in 
financing the Project.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection 
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by IDA in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 
3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under paragraphs 1.1 (b) and (c) of the Annex estimated to 
cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under paragraph 1.1 (b) and (c) of the Annex estimated to 
cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities 
shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  
Page  6
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 
2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, but less than 
the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$100,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Page  7
Recipient shall furnish to IDA the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible items, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to 
IDA such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within 
the period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA 
pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 
6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so 
request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount.
Page  8
