                                               102224




                Socialist Republic of Vietnam

Vietnam Second Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
        Vietnam Danang Sustainable City Development Project
       Vietnam Mekong Delta Region Urban Upgrading Project

                                       Redacted Report


                                                 Official Use Only

                                                  December 2015
                                Statement of Use and Limitations

This Report was prepared by the World Bank Group (the WBG) Integrity Vice Presidency (INT).
It provides the findings of an INT administrative inquiry (the Investigation) into allegations of
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, and/or coercive practices, as defined by the WBG for purposes of
its own policies, rules and procedures (the WBG’s Framework regarding Anti-corruption), in
relation to the WBG-supported activities. The purpose of the Investigation was to allow the WBG
to determine if the WBG’s Framework regarding Anti-corruption has been violated.

This Report is being shared to ensure that its recipients are aware of the results of the INT
Investigation. However, in view of the specific and limited purpose of the Investigation underlying
this Report, this Report should not be used as the sole basis for initiating any administrative,
criminal, or civil proceedings. Moreover, this Report should not be cited or otherwise referred to
in the course of any investigation, in any investigation reports, or in any administrative, civil, or
criminal proceedings.

This Report is provided without prejudice to the privileges and immunities conferred on the
institutions comprising the WBG and their officers and employees by their respective constituent
documents and any other applicable sources of law. The WBG reserves the right to invoke its
privileges and immunities, including at any time during the course of an investigation or a
subsequent judicial, administrative or other proceeding pursued in connection with this matter.
The WBG’s privileges and immunities cannot be waived without the prior express written
authorization of the WBG.
                                                                               Official Use Only




                                     Executive Summary

This report provides the findings of an administrative inquiry by the World Bank Group Integrity
Vice Presidency (INT) into allegations of misconduct in relation to several contracts financed
under the Second Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction Project, the Danang Sustainable City
Development Project, and the Mekong Delta Region Urban Upgrading Project in the Socialist
Republic of Vietnam.

Evidence indicates that Company A misrepresented the professional experience of one of the
individuals included in its technical proposals in connection with the above-mentioned three
projects.

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Company A, which
extends to any legal entity that Company A directly or indirectly controls.




                                               1
                                                                                            Official Use Only


Background

The Second Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction Project (the NMPRP2)

The NMPRP2 aimed to enhance the living standards of the project beneficiaries by improving their
access to productive infrastructure, enhancing the productive and institutional capacity of local
governments and communities, and promoting market linkages and business innovations.
NMPRP2 was financed by the International Development Association (IDA).1

The Danang Sustainable City Development Project (the Danang Project)

The Danang Project aims to expand the access of city residents to improved drainage, wastewater
collection and treatment services, the arterial road network, and public transport in selected areas
of Da Nang City. The Danang Project is financed by IDA.

The Mekong Delta Region Urban Upgrading Project (the Mekong Project)

The Mekong Project aims to improve infrastructure services in low income areas in the project
cities located in the Mekong Delta Region. The Mekong Project is financed by IDA.

The above-mentioned three Projects are collectively referred to as “the Projects” in this Report.

The Vietnamese government agencies responsible for managing the Projects issued Requests for
Proposals for three separate consulting services contracts, one under each of the three Projects.
Company A submitted a technical proposal for each of the three contracts (collectively, the
Contracts). Company A’s technical proposals for the Contracts proposed one individual (the
Employee) for certain positions for the Contracts. The Employee’s signed Curriculum Vitae (CV)
was enclosed in each of Company A’s technical proposals.

After submission of its proposals, Company A was recommended to be awarded the contract under
NMPRP2 (the NMPRP2 Contract), based in part on the information submitted regarding the
Employee. Company A also was awarded, and signed, the contracts under the Danang and
Mekong Projects with the relevant local Vietnamese government offices. The Employee was listed
as key personnel in both contracts.

Allegations

The Project Management Unit for NMPRP2 (the PMU) received a complaint, alleging that the
Employee’s CV submitted by Company A with its technical proposal contained false information.
In response, the PMU requested documents from Company A in relation to a number of items in
the Employee’s CV. Company A sent a written response with supporting documents to the PMU.

The PMU informed the World Bank that the explanation and documents received from Company
A did not sufficiently support the accuracy of material contained in the Employee’s CV. The PMU

1
  IDA is one of the five institutions comprising the World Bank Group. The International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) and IDA constitute the World Bank. IDA and the World Bank are used interchangeably
throughout this Report.

                                                       2
                                                                                 Official Use Only


reduced the scores assigned to the Employee in its Final Evaluation Report for the NMPRP2
Contract. As a result, Company A was not awarded the NMPRP2 Contract. Subsequently, the
World Bank Group Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) was informed of this matter.

Methodology

INT reviewed the PMU’s findings and relevant Project documents, and obtained documents and
statements from Company A and the Employee.

Findings

Evidence indicates that Company A and the Employee misrepresented the Employee’s
professional experience in Company A’s technical proposals for the Contracts.

Evidence indicates that, for all three Contracts, Company A submitted a version of the Employee’s
CV which misrepresented the Employee’s professional experience. Evidence also indicates that
Company A and the Employee jointly prepared these CVs. Evidence indicates that the three CVs
contained identical, similar, or contradictory statements misrepresenting eleven material elements
of the Employee’s purported experience. Nine of those eleven misrepresentations involved
purported experience on other World Bank-financed projects.

Follow Up Action by the World Bank

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Company A, which
extends to any legal entity that Company A directly or indirectly controls.




                                                3
