Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3331 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/20/2008 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Jordan 
Project ID: P102487 
Project Name: Jordan Higher Education Reform for Knowledge Economy 
Task Team Leader: Ghassan N. Alkhoja 
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 9, 2008 
Estimated Board Date: September 16, 2008 
Managing Unit: MNSHD 
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment and 
Maintenance Loan 
Sector: Tertiary education (100%) 
Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
25.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
15.00
15.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The propose
d
HERfKE project supports the Government’s sector program and integrates the 
implementation of policy reforms into its design.  The proposed project development objective is 
to support the development of a higher education system that is financially sustainable, with 
incentives to improve the equity, quality and relevance of tertiary education in Jordan.  The 
project will support policy reforms that will:  (i) improve the Government’s capacity to diversify 
and improve financing mechanisms to universities as a means to create incentives to promote a 
culture of quality and innovation in universities; and (ii) strengthen the management and efficacy 
of the sector by aligning the roles, missions and responsibilities of various governance bodies to 
the new strategy objectives.  In terms of expected results, the project would increase the 
efficiency of public higher education institutions; diversify the resource base of state universities 
and link government financing mechanisms to quality incentives.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The proposed project components are as follows:  
 
Component 1 - Sustainable Financing would: (i) establish a standardized and transparent 
allocation mechanism of the government block grants; (ii) strengthen the competitive financing 
Page  2
mechanism to develop programs for universities and community colleges; (iii) build the capacity 
of the R&D fund; and (iv) identify successful elements in the student aid system that can be 
further strengthened and expanded, and support the creation of new grant and loan programs 
where necessary.  
 
Component 2 - Accreditation and Quality Assurance would:  (i) strengthen the accreditation 
and quality assurance system for both public and private universities; (ii) establish links between 
the government and labor market information systems; and (iii) enhance testing and analysis of 
learning outcomes.  
 
Component 3 - Strengthening Sector Management would:  (i) clarify roles and responsibilities 
of higher education governance bodies (HEC, MoHESR, BOT, and HEAQAC) for the purpose 
of streamlining decision-making and enhancing monitoring of sector performance; (ii) develop 
capacity in HEC for medium-term sector planning, policy making, and evidence-based decision-
making; (iii) implement academic and administrative management information systems; and (iv) 
improve university capacity for budgeting, planning, financial, and human resource management, 
as well as building senior management capacity at the university level for strategic planning.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Amman, Jordan   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Not applicable   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Samia Al-Duaij (MNSSD) 
Mr Gregorio Bettiza (MNSSD) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
Page  3
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  04/30/2008 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
Not applicable   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Ghassan N. Alkhoja 
02/19/2008 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Hocine Chalal 
02/19/2008 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Adriana Jaramillo 
02/19/2008 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
