Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  02/05/2009 
Report No.:  AC4157
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Jordan 
Project ID:  P102487 
Project Name:  Jordan Higher Education Reform for Knowledge Economy 
Task Team Leader:  Ghassan N. Alkhoja 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 14, 
2009 
Estimated Board Date: May 19, 2009 
Managing Unit:  MNSHD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Tertiary education (100%) 
Theme:  Education for the knowledge economy (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
25.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
67.00
67.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project aims to support the development of a higher education system that is 
financially sustainable, with incentives to improve the equity, quality, relevance for 
tertiary education students.  The project will support policy reforms that will:  (i) improve 
the Government’s capacity to diversify and improve financing mechanisms to universities 
as a means to create incentives to promote a culture of quality and innovation in 
universities; (ii) modernize the governance and management efficacy of the sector by 
aligning the roles, missions and responsibilities of various governance bodies to the new 
strategy objectives; and (iii) strengthen quality assurance and accreditation mechanisms.  
In terms of expected results, the project would increase the efficiency of public higher 
education institutions; diversify the resource base of state universities, link government 
financing to national priorities to improve program relevance and strengthen 
accountability mechanisms.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component 1: Improve the Financial Sustainability, Efficiency and Effectiveness of Post-
secondary Education.  The objective of this component will be to build the capacity of the 
MHESR to introduce new funding mechanisms to promote transparency, innovation and 
Page  2
effective resource management.  This component would aim to improve the link between 
increased levels of public resources allocated to higher education and build university and 
community college capacity for strategic planning, budgeting, financial, and human 
resource management.  
 
Component 2: Modernize Governance, Accountability and Management Systems.   This 
component aims to strengthen the management performance and accountability of the 
overall sector by strengthening the transparency and quality of decision making.  The 
Government intends to create a standing sub-committee of the Cabinet to ensure 
coordination of decision-making related to total enrollment and total money transfer to 
universities, and to expedite the review process of proposed reform-related legislation.  
 
Component 3: Strengthen Quality Assurance and Accreditation Mechanisms.  This 
component aims to improve the employability of men and women graduates of university 
and community college programs, and to help enhance the international competitiveness 
of higher education institutions in Jordan. The government intends to make the HEAC an 
autonomous agency focusing on improving the quality of higher education at public and 
private universities and community colleges.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Not Applicable   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Not Applicable   
 
Page  3
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Not Applicable   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not Applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Not Applicable   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Not Applicable   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  4
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Ghassan N. Alkhoja 
02/05/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Mourad Ezzine 
02/05/2009 
Comments:  MNSRE transferred the project to HD after the PCN review meeting which took place 
on December 20, 2007. 
