Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCiAL USE ONLY
Repwt Ne. 5629
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 665-MAU)
May 3, 1985
.
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of  |
their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authsrizaion.



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CR. 665-MAU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  . .......................................                       i
Basic Data Sheet .........  ............                                ii
Highlights ....................                           .....         iv
I. OBJECTIVES AND CONTENT.                                               1
II.   UNDERTAKINGS AND THEIR FULFILLMENT.                                2
III.  PROJECT RESULTS AND BENEFITS       ............     .........      2
Economic Policy.. ..   2
Parapublic Sector ...... ...                   ....            3
Project Monitoring .       .........      .......              3
Planning .......................                               3
IV.   CONCLUSION ....................... ............ ...                5
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CR. 665-NAU)
PREFACE
Credit 665-MAU for the First Technical Assistance Project was
approved in November 1976 and closed after a year's extension in June 1982.
The Project Completion Report was prepared by the Western Africa
Regional Office of the Bank and is based on a review of files and docu-
ments, interviews with IDA and Borrower staff, and a field visit to
Nouakchott in October 1983. The draft report was sent to the borrower for
comments; however, none were received.
The credit has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.
.



*                                ~~~~~~~~~- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CR. 665-MAW)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal             Actual or
Item                    Expectation         Current Estinate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)         3.38                   3.38
Underrun or Overrun (Z)                                        0X
Credit Amount (US$ million)              2.70                   2.70
Disbursed                               -                     2.70
Cancelled                               _                     0.00
Repaid 1/                                _                    0.00
Outstanding 1/                          -                     2.70
Date Physical Components
Completed                             12/80                   6/82
Proportion Completed by
Above Date (Z)                          67                     100
Proportion of time Underrun or
Overrun (%)                             -                     37.5
Economic Rate of Return (Z)               NA                     NA
Financial Performance                     NA                     NA
Institutional Performance                GOOD                   GOOD
1/ As of June 30, 1984.
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                        Actual or
Item                  Plan          Revisions      Est. Actual
*            First Mention in Files or           --             -              9/24/75
Timetable
Government Application             --             --              9/75
Negotiations                       --             --             10/8/76
Board Approval                    6/76            --            11/30/76
Credit Agreement Date              --                            12/9/76
Credit Agreement Amended                          -              1/11/78
Effectiveness Date               3/9/77           --             4/8/77
Closing Date                     6/30/81          --             6/30/82



- iii -
Borrower                            Islamic Republic of Nauritania
Executing Agency                    Ministry of Planning
Fiscal Year of Borrower             January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Project Name              Second Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number                     Cr. 1292-MAU
Amount (US$ million)              4.6 (SDR 4.1 million)
Credit Agreement Date             10/20/82
MISSION DATA
Month,    No. of    No. of                    Date of
Item            Year      Weeks    Persons    Manweeks        Report
Identification       11/75       0.6        1           0.6       12/9/75
Preparation            1/76      1.0        3           3.2        2/3176
Appraisal             3/76                  3                     9/27/76
Supervision I        12176       1.0        1           1.2      12/28/76
Supervision II        7/77       1.0        2           2.0       8/16/77
Supervision III       4/78       0.6        1           0.6       5/25/78
Supervision IV        10/78      1.0        1           1.0       1/19/79
Supervision V         2/79       1.0        1           1.0       5/29/80
Supervision VI      8-9180       2.0        1           2.0      10/10/80
Supervision VII     6-7181       2.0        2           4.0        8/4/81
Completion           10/83       3.0        1           3.0
COUNTRY EXCEANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)          Ouguiya (UM)
Year:
Appraisal Year Average               Exchange Rate: US$ - UM 45
Intervening Year Average                             US$ - UK 45
Completion Year Average                              US$ - UK 47



*                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~iv-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CR. 665-MAU)
HIGHLIGHTS
The First Technical Assistance Project was designed to respond to
the need of the Mauritanian Government to strengthen longer term macro-
economic management and to assist in the review and implementation of the
Third Five Year Plan (1976-1980).  Specifically, it aimed at supporting the
Planning Ministry, which after a major Government reorganization in 1975 to
improve macro-economic management, was made the focal point in the overall
planning effort, policy formulation, sectoral programming and project
implementation. The project was appraised in 1976, the Credit (US$2.7
million) made effective in 1977 and closed in 1982 following a one year
extension. Disbursements were generally in line with appraisal estimates.
At project inception, exogenous factors such as the escalation of
the Saharan conflict and a substantial drop in budgetary support from Arab
donors created acute short-term economic and public finance problems which
required immediate attention. As a consequence, a change in the initial
objectives of the project became necessary in order to concentrate the
assistance on the macro-economic framework for the 1978 Financial and
Economic Rehabilitation Program, the design of essential austerity programs
and their implementation (paras. 6-7). Instead of preparing new projects
for implementation under the Third Five Year Plan, the project's Technical
Assistance Team helped review the economic and financial viability of on-
going and planned investment projects. Moreover, as a spin-off from the
review of the  financial problems faced by the Treasury, the project's team
with the assistance of short term consultants carried out a major evalua-
tion of public agencies and parapublic enterprises (paras. 8-9) which
became the basis for the Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehab-
ilitation project scheduled to be presented to the Board of Executive
Directors in FY85.  Assistance was also provided to help the Government
reorient industrial policy towards labor-intensive small scale enterprises
and revise the Investment Code, which led to a small and medium scale
enterprise component under another IDA Credit (MAU-88 of 1979).  Finally,
the project's team contributed to the development of the Fourth Five Year
e           Plan (1981-1985) which resulted in better country priorities than in
previous plans (para. 11) and helped form a group of competent high level
officials in the Planning Ministry capable of applying sound project
evaluation techniques.
The project showed some weaknesses in that the project's team
appeared unable to prevent the start up of a few large uneconomic projects
(para. 11). This was unavoidable due to political pressures, both
internally and in foreign aid. It also failed to expand training beyond
those who were closely associated with the project's team because of



limited time of the consultants and lack of Mauritanian officials with
sufficient academic background suitable for such training (paras. 13-15).
Moreover, it appeared difficult to replace timely some consultants with
specific economic expertise, which delayed necessary macro-economic advice
during the latter part of the project period. Although several of these
shortcomings had been foreseen at appraisal as possible risks it was
difficult to avoid them because of the troubled times in which the project
was implemented. Training of Mauritanian officials is now being
strengthened under the follow-up Technical Assistance Project (MAU-1292)
(para. 16).
In conclusion, while the project could not achieve all its
initial objectives due to the adverse circumstances under which it was
carried out it did contribute substantially to improving Mauritania's
public finance and investment performance.



I. Objectives and Content
1.       Although the Government of gauritania (GOX) and the Bank had
frequently exchanged views on the desirability and the possibility of Bank
financing for a technical assistance project for planning, it wasn't until
September 1975, during the Bank's annual meeting in Washington, that GOM
formally requested the Bank to consider financing such a project and to
initiate preparation as speedily as possible.  By that time, a major
reorganization of the Government, focussed on improving the country's economic
management, had taken place. Seven super-ministers had been appointed; each
supervised the work of several ministries. The Ministry of Planning had
become part of the complex of ministries supervised by the new super-minister
of National Economy, who also supervised the !iinistries of Finance, Commerce,
Transport and Tourism, Industry and Vines and Fisheries.
2.       In this reorganization, the Planning Ministry was expected to become
the central agency which would integrate overall planning and policy
formulation, along with preparation and financing of sectoral programs and
related projects. The Planning Ministry was to work in close collaboration
with other departments and agencies. Although it appeared likely that this
ambitious reorganization would overtax the availability of national managerial
talent, it nonetheless reflected awareness on the part of Mauritanian leaders
that economic management was to be seriously reconsidered. This awareness,
and the coordinating role recognized for the Planning agency, essentially
prompted the Bank to respond favorably to Mauritania's request.
3.       At the same time, the Government embarked on the ambitious investment
plan reflected in the Third Five Year-Draft Development Plan (1976-1980),
which was still being finalized. During the Plan period, the amount of
investment was to average 50% of GDP (over $200 million per year at 1975
prices). Although large concessional foreign inflows, mostly from OPEC
countries, had been made available to Mauritania, these inflows seemed
unlikely to cover the entire cost of planned investments. Two large
industrial projects (oil and sugar refineries) were already being hastily
implemented before start of the Plan; not only were these projects unviable,
but they were financed on very hard terms (loans from commercial banks and
suppliers' credits). Three additional projects (copper refinery, textile mill
and iron ore pelletization plant) of similar scope and magnitude were also
contemplated for the Plan period. This situation worried several Mauritanian
economic managers, an assessment that was entirely shared by the Bank, and led
to a Government request for assistance in investment planning.
4.       The Technical Assistance Project was prepared during early 1976 and
approved by the Board by November 1976. The project's major objective was to
alleviate the critical shortage of experienced economists and sectoral
advisors in Mauritania. The project provided financing for a team of
expatriates to assist the Government in (i) overall economic planning and
policy formulation; (ii) preparation and implementation of sectoral programs
and specific projects; (iii) economic, financial and technical analysis; and
(iv) on-the-job training for Mauritanians. To accomplish these tasks, the
Technical Assistance credit provided funds for five internationally recruited
professionals:  one macroeconomist/team leader, one general economist, and one
adviser each in the fields of (a) industry, (b) transportation and



-2-
telecommunication infrastructure, and (c) agriculture. In addition, the
Credit provided sufficient funds for approximately 10 man-years of foreign
study for Mauritanian nationals and about 48 man-months of consultant services
in connection with specific sectoral programs. Funds were also included for
the construction of office space, and the purchase of office cars and
equipment.
II. Undertakings and their Fulfillment
5.        Government counterpart fund financing for the project was provided
in the early stages in the amounts agreed. On the other hand, the Government
was unable to recruit during the life of the Project the 10 young Mauritanians
with Master's degrees in Economics as stipulated in the Credit agreement. The
main reason for the Government's failure Government to attract these young
diploma holders to public service was that parapublic enterprises offered more
attractive working conditions to the very few fully trained Mauritanian
economists. This lack of highly trained counterpart staff somewhat weakened
the training aspect of the Project (see paras. 13-16). Also, the budget for
scholarships for existing staff was heavily underutilized because no staff
could be spared for longer periods. The general economist was never appointed
because the mix of competence of the four experts recruited was giving
sufficient coverage; the related budget was spent on the other permanent
assignments. Except for a severe underestimation of required office
equipment, the Credit's disbursements were more or less in line with the
initial estimates.
III. Project Results and Benefits
6.       The environment in which the Project was implemented was very
different from the situation that existed during preparation. Escalation of
the Sahara conflict in 1977-78, coupled with a sharp reduction in budgetary
support from Arab countries, destroyed the country's political stability and
caused acute short-term economic and public finance problems which needed
urgent solutions. In response to this situation, the project team shifted its
emphasis from long-term investment programming and project work to
macroeconomic work. In a later phase, and as an outflow of the macroeconomic
work, the team concentrated on the problems in the parastatal sector.
i
Economic P3licy
7.       In early 1978, after the FY78 budget presentation, the Project staff
report concluded that the Treasury would soon be unable to meet its payment
obligations. This report convinced the authorities of the need for economic
and financial rehabilitation and also prompted them to ask the Bank to help
draft a plan for this purpose. In response, the Bank sent two staff
economists to Iouakchott snd a Rehabilitation Plan was approved by the
authorities before the mission's departure. The Government asked the Project
team to monitor and comment upon the implementation of the Rehabilitation
Plan. Within this framework the team produced, in April 1979, a report that
was instrumental to the Government launching a policy of strict austerity
which significantly reduced the budget deficit.



-3-
Parapublic Sector
8.       The pressing financial problems of the Treasury led the Project team
to suspect that similar problems might be encountered by public sector
enterprises. In mid-1978, assisted by short-term consultants hired under the
project, the Government launched a comprehensive review of the situation as
well as prospects for 20 major public agencies and parapublic enterprises.
The Project team acted as Secretariat for the Committee responsible for this
task. The report was issued by end-1978 and the Government endorsed its main
recommendations.  At this point, the Project staff recommended that the
Government ask the Bank for an IDA project in this field. However, not enough
high-level decision-makers were yet sensitized to the magnitude of the
problems.  In mid-1979, the Government decided to aim for rehabilitation plans
for each enterprise. In the first phase, work started on nine enterprises.
The rehabilitation plans were limited to solving the most immediate problems
which hindered normal functioning of these enterprises. The main results
immediately derived from this work were tariff increases to aimed at improving
the financial situation. During the same period, the Government also created
an interministerial committee to formulate a global policy for the parastatal
sector. The conclusions reached by the Committee were endorsed by the Bank
and adopted by the Government at the end of 1983. Thanks to this preparatory
work, the Association is now in an advanced stage with the preparation of a
proposed parapublic sector rehabilitation project ($32.9 million) whose target
is implementation of the new policies in two major parapublic enterprises (the
Nouakchott port authority and SETELEC, the public utilities company). The
parapublic project will also provide for institution building to assure the
application of this rehabilitation approach to other public enterprises that
are viable and cannot be transferred to the private sector.
9.       Since many public sector enterprises managed whole sectors of the
economy, the enterprise study allowed a de facto review of sectoral policies
(e.g., prices, investments, institutional environment). Investment proposals
were carefully reviewed, some rejected, some amended. These sectoral policies
will continue to be monitored within the framework of the proposed parapublic
enterprises project. In the industrial sector, the Project was instrumental
in bringing about significant changes in the Investment Code, a condition of
effectiveness of another IDA project (MAU-888), whose purpose was to set up a
Development Bank in Mauritania.
Project Monitoring
10.      There was no centralized and systematic project monitoring; project
follow-up relied mostly on supervision by the donors. Towards the end of the
Project, all ongoing projects were manually recorded and filed. Initially,
the Second Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1292-MAU) followed up this work
and started to computerize the monitoring system, but in the absence of
permanent Project staff during the interval between the two projects, this
task shifted to a French TA team that was put in place in 1983.
Planning
11.      The project contributed to the Fourth Five-Year Plan through
participation in the preparatory work and heavy involvement in the final
write-up. The sector strategy developed in this Plan can be considered as a



-4-                                                    4
major contribution to the direction of present economic decisions in this
field. The investment program adopted under this Plan, although still too
large and uneven in quality, corresponds better to the country priorities than
in previous plans. But, at that time, the Mauritanian decision makers
attached little value to economic criteria and the Project staff could not
halt all politically inspired projects with low or negative rates of return.
The team succeeded, however, in builiing in the Ministry of Planning a core
group of high civil servants that is now actively promoting sound project
evaluation techniques, and is trying to implant these techniques in the
technical ministries.  Recently, in response to the current debt crisis and
related donor's impatience, the Government has changed its attitude on the use
of economic criteria. It removed unprofitable projects from the list of new
undertakings and asked the Bank to endorse this program in a donors"
conference that it hopes to organize. Under these improved conditions, our
follow-up technical assistance project will continue the project-related work.
12.      The Third Five-year Plan was also weak on the macroeconomic side and
paid insufficient attention to the impact of the proposed investment program
on the main macroeconomic variables. Due to the sudden illness of the project
leader/macroeconomist and the impossibility of quickly replacing his
macroeconomic competence, the te-m was unable to give the Government strong
macro-support at this stage, a type of assistance that is still very necessary
and is being resumed under the ongoing follow-up project.
13.      Expectations at the time of project appraisal that ten Mauritanians,
who studied economics at the Master's level in Canada on UNDP fellowships,
would join the Ministry of Planning on their return did not materialize. Only
three of them did so. Two of these Mauritanians currently head, respectively,
the Directorates of Studies and Programming and Projects; the others entered
the parapublic and banking sectors, attracted by the greater advantages
offered there. The Project teanm worked very closely and successfully with
these three counterparts, since they had the same educational standing as the
members of the team. Although Iauritanians were recruited, their academic
background was limited. The resulting educational gap made a true transfer of
expertise difficult, while Government was unwilling to release them for
complementary studies.
14.      Four of the graduates, joined by a professional already in service
with the Ministry of Planning, came to the Bank in June-July 1977 for                         a
intensive instruction in the classic project cycle (identification,
preparation, appraisal and evaluation), problems associated with balance of
payments and external public debt, problems associated with development in
such sectors as stockraising and agro-industry, and the macro-economic impact
of projects on national development plans. The training they received focused
on Mauritanian cases (the Livestock Development Project, the Gorgol Basin
development scheme and the Guelbs Project).
15.      Finally, the Project financed two three-month training courses, for
two staff members of the Ministry:
- the first, an assistant administrator in the Directorate of
Projects, studied project evaluation with IDEP in Dakar;



.                                              - 5-
- the second, a geograpt-y teacher Eeconded to the Directorate of
Studies and Programming, attended a training session on in'egrated rural
development organized by as entity cal'ed "Cooperation et Amenagement," an
economic interest group formeda by the Ministry of Cooperation and Agriculture
and a number of consulting firms.
16.      This formal trainiag has been very luseffl to the extent that it
helped to build the decisionmakers of tomorrow. In the short-term, however,
the newly acquired skills did not sufficiently translate into improvement of
the Ministry's performance because the number of people trained did not reach
the critical mass which would have permitted a change ir. the work
environment. This assessment has led the Second Technical Assistance Project
to adopt an integrated training program which combines four elements:
(a) C-overnment or top management commitment;
(b) training of working teams rather than of individuals by an
integrated training team rather than by individual lecturers;
(c) transfer of experience based on knowledge and skills to
contribute to the organization and management of the development process; and
(d) continuing support and systems development for a variety of
activities.
IV. Conclusion
17.      Since the project's main objective was to alleviate the critical
shortage of experienced economists and sectoral advisors, it is difficult to
compare the achievsments of the Project team with the initial goals. The team
was well integrated in the Ministry of Planning and adapted its work program
to the most urgent needs. In this approach, the Project team initially
emphasized the work of pressing macroeconomic and financial issues and later
shifted the focus on the development and implementation of a rehabilitation
plan for the parapublic sector which resulted in highly productive policy
changes and practical measures to prevent breakdown of essential services.
The team could not prevent the start of some large uneconomical projects
because in the existing environment of highly politicized foreign aid, the
economic reasoning of the Project team was not always accepted. Also, in the
second part of the project period, macroeconomic advice was weak because the
r        Bank could not find a replacement in time (with the particular competence
needed when project leader/economist suddenly fell ill). Both types of risks
were foreseen during appraisal, but could not be avoided. The progress with
the build-up of local staff was slow, but given the nature of the problem, the
scarcity of experienced local staff could not be remedied over the life of the
project. Efforts will be intensified under the follow-up project.
18.      Given the good use Government made of the Technical Assistance funds,
the project can be called successful and fully justifies the ongoing follow-up
project.



