FILE COPY                              Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Iou  11Report No. P-1916a-MAU
J4 DE REtLWISE1     0 I?Ej?RT  UESK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF XAURITA&.1,,
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 16, 1976
West Africa Regional Office
This document has a resicted distributon and may be used by reciplets ony In the perfarmae of
their offichl duties. Its content may not otherwise be discled without World Bank antborbmdon,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =     Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00           =     UM 45
UM 1              =     US$0.22
UM I million      =     US$22,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)            =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =     0.62 mile (ml)
1 squire kilometer
(km )                =     0.386 square mile (sq ml)
1 kilogram (kg)        =     2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =     2.204 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)            =     0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
EEC       -    European Economic Communities
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED       -    Fonds Europeen de Developpement
KFAED     -    Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MIFERMA   -    Mines de Fer de Mauritanie
SOMIMA    -    Societe Miniere de Mauritanie
SONADER   -    Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for the equivalent
of US$2.7 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Technical Assistance
Project.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Current Economic Situation and Prospects of
Mauritania" (243-MAU) was distributed to the Executtve Directors on May 9,
1974. A mission visited Mauritania in December 1975 at the invitation of the
Government to comment on a draft Five-Year Plan then under preparation; its
findings are included in this report. Country Data appear in Annex I.
Background
3.        Mauritania is an extreme case of a dual economy with little inter-
action between the modern sectors (mining, fish processing Lndustry, public
administration) and the traditional sectors (livestock, agriculture and
traditional fishing). Productivity levels in these two sectors are widely
divergent: about 75 percent of the population is active in the traditional
sectors but contributes less than a quarter of gross domestic product at fac-
tor cost. Most of the country is desert; the bulk of the rural populatlon
is located in the South along the northern bank of the Senegal River, where
soil and rainfall conditions permit agricultural and pastoral activity.
Elsewhere, economic activity centers around Nouakchott, the capital, and
Nouadhibou, an effectively isolated port serving the mining activities in
the North and containing some fish processing plants.
4.        The country is endowed with some natural resources, most notably
large iron ore and copper deposits, fertile land along the Senegal River
Valley, and exploitable fLshing grounds in territorial waters all along its
Atlantic Coast (now extended with the annexation of part of former Spanish
Sahara). However, development of these resources is retarded by the great
distances separating the centers of economic activity and the accompanying
prohibitive costs of transport, by the harsh Sahelian climate with low and
irregular rainfall even in the South, and perhaps most Importantly, by the
lack of skilled manpower at all levels--adult literacy and school enrollments
are among the lowest Ln the world.
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloeed without World Bank authorization.



5.        Mauritania's main political and economic links have traditionally
been with France and the French speaking African countries south of the
Sahara; recently however, it has established close relations with some of its
North African neighbors as well as with other Arab countries, particularly
members of OPEC. In June 1972, it asked for revision of the 1961 Cooperation
Treaty with France in the economic, monetary, technical, cultural, and
military fields, and a new agreement was reached in February 1973, except,
however, for monetary affairs. As a result, Mauritania left the West African
Monetary Union and the franc zone and established its own central bank and
introduced its own currency, the ouguiya, in June 1973, with financial
support from Arab OPEC countries. However, it still wishes to keep and
develop economic ties with all its West African neighbors and is a member
of OMVS (Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal) with Senegal
and Mali.
6.        In 1976, after Spain relinquished its control over the Spanish
Sahara, Mauritania and Morocco divided the administration of the territory
between them, with that part south of the 24th parallel to be administered
by Mauritania. The population of the Mauritanian part is estimated at only
about 30,000; even so, the extension of Mauritanian administration into this
territory is straining the Government's already limited domestic resources,
both financial and human; this strain is compounded by political unrest and
occasional violence. Except for rich coastal fishing grounds, and discount-
ing minerals yet to be located, the resources of Mauritania's part of the
former Spanish Sahara are limited. In its Third Development Plan (1976-1980)
Mauritania has included a special allocation of $22 million (2.5 percent of
total planned investment) for the territory.
Past Developments
7.        Between 1960 and 1968, the Mauritanian economy grew at 10-11 percent
annually in real terms, mainly due to a rapid expansion of the mining sector.
From 1969 to 1973, overall economic growth slowed down to 3 to 4 percent per
year as mining production increased only slowly while the rural sector was
struck by the Sahelian drought. As a result of this drought, the rural
output decreased by one-third and, despite improved weather in the following
years, was in 1975 still below its 1970 level. Output in the industrial and
services sectors was not affected by the decline in agricultural production.
It continued to expand, albeit more slowly than before, through an enlarged
capacity of the existing iron ore mine, a new copper mine, and an expansion
of government services. The abysmal conditions in the rural areas between
1970 and 1974 led to a concentration of population around the urban centers;
the modern sector was unable to absorb significant numbers of these migrants,
and they were obliged to find work in the low productivity informal sector or
remain unemployed.
8.        The balance of payments showed small current account deficits
from 1970 to 1973 and a large deficit in 1974 due, among other factors, to
substantial imports of food and other supplies for drought relief. Because of



- 3 -
financing associated with drought relief and of important balance of payments
support and project aid from OPEC countries, capital inflows in 1973 and
1974 outstripped the deficit on current account, leading to a build-up of
foreign exchange reserves. In 1975, the balance of payments deteriorated,
mainly due to the impact of lower world copper prices and lower production
of iron ore due to slackening demand.
9.        Around the end of 1974 the two foreign-controlled mining companies
(MIFERMA iron ore, SOMIMA copper) were nationalized. In the case of MIFERMA,
this reflected domestic pressures for greater Mauritanian control over the ex-
ploitation of national mineral resources as well as concern that a large share
of the proceeds was being diverted abroad at the expense of the country's de-
velopment. Takeover did not jeopardize Mauritania's good relations with the
former private shareholders who provide substantial technical assistance to
the mine and continue to purchase a large share of its production. Even
though debt service on the funds borrowed abroad to acquire the company will
be substantial, this transaction will in the long run have a beneficial impact
on public savings as well as on the balance-of-payments. In the case of
SOMIMA, the government took over after the private sponsor had already decided
to close down the mine because of mounting technical and financial problems.
The importance of the former MIFERMA mining operations to Mauritania's econo-
my is evidenced by the fact that they generated some 80 percent of Mauritania's
foreign exchange earnings and financed nearly two-thirds of the country's
total investments including substantial reinvestments in the mine itself.
10.       In the early 1970s public savings (after debt amortization) averaged
about 4-5 percent of current budget revenues, financing some 20 percent of
the public investment programs with the balance financed by foreign aid.. In
1975, following a slight decline in budgetary revenues (due to lower mining
revenues) and a sharp increase in current expenditures, reflecting worldwide
inflation, the current budget surplus was substantially reduced; Government
was only able to supplement the inflows of fresh foreign capital destined to
finance public investments by drawing down its reserves.
Strategy and Prospects
11.       The Government's economic policy in the first decade after indepen-
dence focused on the development of urban and transport infrastructure in an
effort to equip Mauritania with a modern capital and the facilities needed
to run the country and decrease the dependence of Mauritania on Senegal for
the transport of goods into and out of the country. Thus, about 80 percent
of public investments between 1963 and 1972 were absorbed by projects in the
transport and urban sectors. Even though public investments increased consi-
derably during this period, averaging some US$15 million p.a. in 1970-74 or
6 percent of GDP, investments outside infrastructure have remained small
because of the limited capacity of government services to identify, prepare,
and execute under difficult conditions projects in such key sectors as agri-
culture, livestock and education.



-4-
12.       In spite of these difficulties the Government's future strategy,
as reflected in the Third Plan (1976-80), will accord increasing priority
to developing the country's natural resources in livestock, agriculture,
and fisheries. Indeed, the number of projects already under consideration
in the rural sector indicates that a larger share of public investments
would be devoted to this sector than in the past. The development of irri-
gated agriculture in particular is expected to play an important role in
ensuring that the consequences of a recurrence of the recent drought would
not be so drastic.
13.       Future growth in the modern sector is also essential to improve
the public finance situation and provide a substantial part of the revenues
needed to finance investment and recurrent expenditures for the development
of the rural sector. However, while new iron ore investments are planned,
mining alone cannot provide employment for more than a very small fraction
of Mauritania's active population and its indirect effects on the rest of
the economy will continue to remain limited. Similarly, establishment of
manufacturing industries cannot raise the standard of living for the mass of
the tMauritanian population, as high production and transport costs, limited
skilled manpower, and small local markets severely limit possibilities.
14.       Even assuming normal rainfall conditions, growth in real terms
in the rural sector will probably not exceed an estimated 2-3 percent per
annum for the rest of the decade. Therefore, the standard of living on a per
capita basis in the rural sector cannot be expected to reach its 1968 level
again before the early 1980s as the reconstitution of the national herd will
be a slow process and the effects of the investments planned in the agricul-
tural sector will only be felt after a substantial lag. Growth in the modern
sector during the same period could reach about 5 percent, with iron ore
mining and fish processing the two main motors of economic growth. As a
result, economic growth for the country as a whole could be about 4 percent
per annum until 1980 or 2 percentage points more than population growth.
Balance of Payments Prospects and the Need for Aid
15.       At this juncture prospects for the current account of the balance
of payments appear particularly uncertain. While--contrary to many African
countries--the outlook for Mauritania's export prices is reasonably favorable,
the pace at which it can increase the volume of both exports (minerals, beef,
and fish) and import substitutes (food crops) is severely constrained by
physical factors as well as cost considerations. In this respect, Mauritania,
like most other small African countries, is particularly vulnerable to imported
inflation.
16.       On the other hand, prospects for a high inflow of foreign capital
are good. Mauritania has raised substantial amounts of foreign capital assis-
tance over the past few years--$160 million in 1973 and 1974 alone of which
about half was for drought relief and balance of payments support. Govern-
ment's Third Plan (1976-80), which comprises a list of projects totaling some
$900 million in 1975 dollars, reflects the expectation that these generous
flows will continue; indeed, Government claims to have nearly $250 million
already committed for projects to be implemented during the Third Plan period
(of this, about $100 million is committed to the Nouakchott-Nema road project).



-5-
About two-thirds of the large inflows of 1973 and 1974 were provided by Arab
OPEC countries, and the bulk of the anticipated commitments for the Third
Plan period are from the same source.
17.       The size of the public investment program is in large part attribu-
table to the inclusion of major investments in such capital intensive sectors
as mining, mineral processing and basic transport infrastructure. In addi-
tion, however, the government plans to spend nearly one-third of total plan
outlays for the rural sector and social infrastructure (mainly education),
sectors which are particularly demanding in terms of project identification
and preparation. Thus, whether Mauritania will be able to absorb the pro-
posed amounts of foreign aid discussed above over the next five years will
depend to a large extent on Government's ability to improve the preparation
and implementation of the projects for which it is destined. In any case,
the availability of local financing is expected to remain severely limited.
Even assuming continuing of tight budgetary policies, the increases in
current expenditures necessitated by the acquisition of part of the former
Spanish Sahara coupled with sharply increased debt service obligations
resulting from the MIFERMA compensation package and other new borrowing will
preclude Government's contributing more than 10-15 percent to the financing
of its public investment program.
18.       Actual debt service obligations during and beyond the Third Plan
period will, of course, be determined largely by the amount of foreign borrowing
and its terms. As mentioned before, Mauritania has an urgent need to step up
public investments substantially. To start with, a considerable amount of
investments will be needed just to prevent mining production from falling; to
achieve some real growth considerable additional investments will be necessary.
Considering the country's general poverty, its strong reliance on a single
export product, and the long gestation period of many of the most important
projects included in the Plan, Mauritania can only afford the necessary amount
of borrowing if most of the foreign capital becomes available at concessionary
terms; otherwise debt service would almost certainly exceed 10 percent of
export earnings by 1980 and increase rapidly thereafter.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
19.       The Bank Group has participated or is now participating in the
financing of ten operations in Mauritania. Total lending amounts to US$118.3
million. The first operation was a Bank loan of US$66.0 million for the
MIFERMA iron ore mining operation in 1960. Eight others are IDA credits
totalling US$32.3 million. Four of these operations are in the transportation
sector: US$6.7 million in FY66 for the construction of the Nouakchott-Rosso
road; US$3.0 million in FY69 for a four-year road improvement and maintenance
program; US$3 million in FY75 for another six-year follow-up to the first
maintenance program; and US$8 million in FY76 for the enlargement of the
Nouadhibou Port. Three operations are in the rural sector: US$4.2 million
for livestock development in FY72; US$2.5 million for a drought relief fund
project in FY73; and US$1.1 million for the Gorgol irrigation engineering
project in FY74. One operation is in the education sector amounting to



-6-
US$3.8 million in FY74. In 1968, IFC made a loan to and an equity investment
in SOMIMA, a copper mining company, which totalled US$20 million; this IFC
participation and the accompanying loan were paid back when the Government
nationalized SOMIMA in 1974. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of September iu, 1976, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Implementation of these projects has often been retarded because
of cumbersome Government administrative procedures. The combination of
administrative delays and those due simply to the exceptionally difficult
conditions prevailing in Mauritania (very unfavorable climate, huge dis-
tances separating the few population centers, inadequate or nonexistent
transport network, and a general lack of trained manpower) has led, in a
period of high inflation and adverse changes in exchange rates, to cost
overruns on nearly all of the projects financed in the period from FY69
to FY75. The scope of many of these projects has, of necessity, had to be
reduced accordingly to stay within the financial envelope provided.
21.       Government is acutely aware of the problems it is encountering
in project execution. The proposed technical assistance project described
in this report is an important part of Government's program to overcome
these problems; by strengthening Government's project preparation capacity
and by providing for monitoring of project execution on a more systematic
basis, the proposed project will help Government anticipate problems in
project implementation and take steps to deal with them before they occur.
To preclude recurrence of the cost overruns recently experienced, Govern-
ment has on occasion called for bids before finalizing the financing plan
of projects with substantial civil works components or other special fea-
tures lending uncertainty to initial cost estimates; thus, the final financ-
ing plan for the FY76 Nouadhibou Port project was based on actual bids. To
circumvent some of its own administrative procedures and to help reduce the
high cost of civil works through increased domestic capacity on force account,
Government has recently set up a new autonomous public company, SONADER, to
implement rural development projects, particularly those involving irriga-
tion. SONADER is as yet untested and will need considerable assistance,
material and human, before it will be able to carry out its assigned tasks.
In August 1976 Government asked the Bank Group to provide technical assis-
tance to SONADER; we are preparing a project.
22.       In 1970-72, the Bank Group was the third largest donor (providing
about 18 percent of Mauritania's external capital assistance) behind France
(21 percent) and the European Communities (19 percent). Given the rapidly
growing external financial assistance available to Mauritania, the role
of the Bank Group is likely to change somewhat over the coming years, with
increased emphasis on technical assistance and on a possible role as catalyst
for cofinancing arrangements, both with traditional donors and with Arab OPEC
countries.



-7-
PART III: THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR PLANNING
23.       Mauritania has been committed to some form of central development
planning since the early 1960s with varying degrees of success. Knowledge of
the country and its people is defLcient so that essential facts and data
are lacking. Plans have tended to be overly ambitious given the limited
absorptive capacity of the country, particularly in rural areas where the
harsh natural environment, lack of trained manpower, and inadequate infra-
structure make identifLcatLon, preparation and execution of projects diffi-
cult. Modern sector development, mainly mining, has shown the greatest prog-
ress and has been mainly developed by foreign interests. The country has
also lacked an effect[ve central lnstitution capable of framing development
options and formulating development programs and coordinating their execu-
tion despite several changes in the organizatLon and control of the Plan-
ning Ministry over the years. There has been a notable lack of coordination
between medium term investment programs and the annual Government budget
exercise thus making it difficult to bring available financial resources
to bear on high priority Investment.
24.       MaurLtanLa's first plan as an independent country (1963-1967) had
the principal objectives of (1) reducing dependence on foreign financing and
personnel and (2) providing the basis for the next stage of economic and
social development by carrying out studies and completing vital infrastructure.
Before this Plan period ended the Government decided on a major reassessment
of its development strategy, economic institutions and resources. As a first
step, it obtaLned the World Bank's agreement to send a technical assistance
planning mission to Nouakchott for three months in 1967. The report of this
mission "Mauritania: Guidelines for a Four-Year Development Program", published
Ln 1968 made a number of recommendations for strategy, organization, and
projects by sector. The new interim Plan (1970-73) incorporated many of the
findings of the World Bank mission. More realistic investment targets were
set, but continued diffLculty was experienced in identifying and preparing
technically feasible and economically viable agricultural and livestock
projects. Lack of trained personnel was a major factor, most notably In
the Planning Ministry.
25.       Between 1972 and 1975 a team of planners financed by the UNDP under-
took to provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Planning. Composed pre-
dominantly of economists with a strong background in research but limited
practical experience, the team concentrated its efforts on preparing a number
of valuable basLc studies that were used as background papers in the prepara-
tion of the new FLve Year Plan. This team was poorly integrated, however, In
the Planning Mintstry and could not strengthen the Ministry's role as the key
coordinatLng body within Government in charge of project selection and prep-
aration. With the drafting of the Third Plan completed in mid-1976, this
second role will become particularly important during the next five years.
26.       In November 1975, a major reorganization of Government took place;
seven super-ministers were appointed who are also members of the Political
Bureau of Mauritania's sole party and each of whom supervises the work of



-8-
several ministries.   A main purpose of the reorganization was to Improve the
country's economic management.   The Ministry of Planning became part of the
complex of MinLstries supervised by the new Super-Minlster of National
Economy (who was formerly Minister of Planning); he also supervises the
Ministries of Finance, Commerce, Transport and Tourism, Industry and Mirieb,
and FisherLes. In this reorganization, the Planning Ministry was expected
to become the central agency which will integrate overall plan and policy
formulation with the preparation and financing of sectoral programs and
their related projects. The Planning Ministry is to collaborate closely with
other departments and agencies of the Government and in fact share responsi-
bility for tasks ranging from conception to control. Specifically, the
decree defined the functions of the Ministry of Planning as follows:
(1) Prepare long range development plans and programs, arrange
for their financing, and monitor their execution.
(2) Take the necessary measures to coordinate the activities of all
public agencies engaged in executing the development plans and
programs.
(3) Define research priorities and coordinate the execution
of research programs.
(4) Undertake surveys and collect, analyze and diffuse statistics.
The Ministry of Planning is organized into two directorates. The Directorate
of Planning and Economic Research performs the first three functions listed
above and the Directorate for Statistics and Economic Studies the fourth.
27.       Since the early 1960s Mauritania has been making great efforts
to train skilled high level nationals needed for its development programs;
but the demands for such personnel have grown even faster than the supply.
The rapid expansion of the public sector through the recent nationalization
of the mining sector together with the acquisition of the new Sahara province
have further increased the demand for trained manpower. The next phase of
development, as reflected in the Third Plan, will require a good deal more
professionally trained staff. The shortage of people who are able to identify,
evaluate and supervise the execution of projects is thus likely to become even
more acute. Equally critical is the Government's lack of qualified staff at
the national planning level to elaborate long-run general and sectoral strat-
egies, set priorities, and undertake economic and financial analysis.
28.       As mentioned above, the Third Plan includes a substantial number
of projects in mining, manufacturing and transport infrastructure. Prepara-
tion of mining projects is little hampered by limited local planning capacity.
In the manufacturing sector, however, a number of large projects are under
preparation that need to be assessed very carefully from the economic and
financial point of view.   In addition, there is need to work out in detail
strategies for the development of small and medium scale enterprises, for
which there is considerable potential. In the transport sector, the main



- 9 -
project is the Nouakchott-Nema road, already under construction. As this
major transport artery represents a huge investment, its realization demands
a careful rethinking of future transport investments so as to make the best
possible use of it. Finally, long 'term port development remains an open
question in the new Plan; foreign assistance will be crucial in this
respect.
29.       Rural sector investments, considered to be of highest priority by
Mauritanian planners, suffer the most from the lack of absorptive capacity
and the number of good projects included in the Third Plan is severely lim-
ited. While irrigation along the Senegal river within the general framework
of OMVS becomes increasingly important, the Government is eager at the same
time to improve traditional rainfed crop cultivation in selected areas by
using the integrated rural development approach. Both irrigation and rain-
fed crop development will need substantial additional analysis and preparatory
work to generate economically feasible projects and the same holds true for
livestock development. In all three sectors major foreign help is necessary
to complement the limited local capacity to prepare feasible sector strategies
leading to the formulation of concrete development projects. Implementing
such projects is, however, not assured by their sound preparation; Govern-
ment has learned through bitter experience that its rural administrative
services are woefully inadequate in executing development projects. SONADER,
the new agency created to fill the existing void in project execution capabil-
ity, will require considerable foreign assistance to become a going concern.
30.       Government would also like to step up its development efforts in the
social sectors (education, health, and urban development) where comprehensive
sector strategies have to be worked out based on the real needs of the coun-
try. Again, this will only be possible with substantial technical assistance
from abroad.
31.       Between 1970 and 1975 total funding for foreign technical assist-
ance rose from US$4.6 million to US$14.4 million in current prices. In 1973,
the latest year for which detailed data is available, Mauritania received
6260 man/months of technical assistance, 80 percent of which was provided by
DAC countries with France giving the single largest share; multilateral
agencies (UN, EEC, etc.) financed the rest. The bulk of the assistance in
1973 went into education (32 percent -- mainly teachers) and into various
ministries to supplement their operational staff (26 percent); short term,
high level advisors represented 12 percent of the total, while less than
2 percent was specifically for planning assistance. Most World Bank projects
in Mauritania contain substantial technical assistance components as well.
32.       In spite of the high amount of technical assistance Mauritania has
received over the last years, the Directorate of Planning and Research still
lacks qualified personnel. Aside from the Minister of Planning, who is the
former Director of Planning, the Mauritanian professional staff consists of
one economist recently appointed Director, three young economists who returned
with Masters degrees from Canada in late 1975 and were appointed respectively



- 10 -
Chefs de Service for Economic Programs, Studies and Documentation, and Financ-
ing and Foreign Aid, and two other recently returned graduates. The foreign
advisory staff of the Directorate consists of one general adviser seconded by
the German Government, and two Canadian Government financed (CIDA) experts,
a general economist and an agricultural expert. Approximately 10 more
Mauritanians whose training abroad was financed under the 1972-75 UNDP
technical assistance project are expected to complete the requirements for
Masters degrees in Canada during the Spring of 1977 and are scheduled to join
the Ministry.
33.       The Government's request to IDA to finance a policy and project ad-
visory team is motivated by the need to provide urgent support to the work of
the reorganized Ministry of Planning. Equally important is the fact that with
this group of educated young Mauritanians returning next year, a well organized
technical assistance advisory team can play a major role in providing timely
on-the-job training and thereby make a major contribution to endow the Ministry
for the first time with a permanent professional staff capable of carrying out
planning, programming and monitoring functions. The UNDP financed the prepara-
tion of the proposed project and supports its conception and priority for early
implementation; the UNDP does not, however, have sufficient resources available
within its program for Mauritania to finance its execution.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
34.       The project was prepared by the Government of Mauritania with
the aid of a Bank staff member seconded to Mauritania for two months in
the Spring of 1976 and financed by the UNDP. Negotiations were held in
Manila, Philippines on October 8, 1976. The Mauritanian delegation was
led by Mr. Ibrahima Ba, Minister of Planning. A credit and project summary
is provided in Annex III.
Personnel and Functions
35.       The project would provide 5 professionals, for a period of four
years for the team leader (the extra time to permit him to set up house-
keeping and work with the Planning Minister to recruit the remaining team
members) and for a period of three years for the others, as follows:
(1) A team leader who is a general economist and who would
coordinate and supervise the work program of the team
within the Ministry of Planning. He and the other team
members would report to the Minister of Planning and the
Director of Planning. However, they would also be avail-
able to the Super-Minister for National Economy and other
Ministers to provide guidance and assistance on economic
policy questions.
(2) A macroeconomist to advise on matters of financial,
trade, balance of payments and debt management policy.



- 11 -
He would also assist in relating annual and multi-annual
plans and investment programs to the annual budget exer-
cise, to foreign aid availability, and to the mobiliza-
tion of resources for development in general.
(3) Three sectoral advisers in the fields of (i) industry,
fisheries and small-scale enterprises; (ii) transportation
and other infrastructure; and (iii) rural development
including livestock, dry farming and irrigated agriculture.
These experts would be responsible for formulating medium
and longer term development strategies in their respective
sectors and for project identification. In addition, they
would assist government in appraising such projects and
would help monitor their implementation in collaboration
with the technical Ministries concerned.
The proposed terms of reference for these five experts are provided
in Annex IV. The project would in addition provide for consultants to be
engaged from time to time to help fill the gaps in the detailed knowledge
of each advisor in the fields for which he is responsible and to deal with
special subjects such as urbanization, health, nutrition and human resources
development.
Project Organization
36.       The team would be located in the Ministry of Planning under the
direct supervision of the Minister of Planning and the Director of Planning
and Research. The team leader would serve as an Economic Adviser to the
Minister and would supervise the activities of the team within the Director-
ate following an agreed work program which would be discussed semi-annually
with the Association. He would work in close collaboration with the Director
of Planning and Research with respect to carrying out the work program and
training of personnel.
37.       The Government does not expect the formal organization of the
Ministry to be fully operational for several years, at least not until a
sufficient number of Mauritanian staff has been trained and tested on the
job with the help of foreign advisers. Accordingly, an interim organi-
zation of the Directorate would be established which would require close
collaboration of advisers and counterparts in all aspects of the work
including the establishment of the Ministry's coordinating role with the
other Ministries and agencies of the Government.
Training
38.       The major lasting contribution of technical assistance is in terms
of the trained local staff who remain after the expatriates have been with-
drawn. Accordingly, a major role would be assigned to on-the-job training
of up to three Mauritanian professionals by each of the foreign advisers on
secondment to the Ministry of Planning; the training program for each coun-
terpart would be an integral part of the team's work program to be reviewed



- 12 -
with the Association every six months. The 10 young Mauritanian economists
due to return from Canada in 1977 are to be trained under the project, and
their salaries are included in total project costs. In addition, provision
would be made for 10 man years of overseas training for selected Mauritanian
staff to attend courses which cannot be effectively conducted in Mauritania
and which would not otherwise fall within bilateral fellowship programs.
Costs and Financing
39.       Total project cost is estimated at US$3.38 million (net of taxes)
of which approximately 50 percent is expected to be foreign exchange. The
proposed Credit of US$2.7 million would finance 80 percent of total project
costs, including 100 percent of the foreign exchange and about $1.0 million
of the local costs. The financing plan, showing the proposed application of
the contribution of the Association and of Government, is:
US$ million
IDA     Government     Total
Salaries and allowances of advisers            1.32                  1.32
Salaries and allowances of local
counterpart staff                           0.07       0.60        0.67
Consultant budget                              0.40                  0.40
Bilingual secretary                            0.14                  0.14
Overseas training                              0.12                  0.12
Offices                                        0.19                  0.19
Clerical and Secretarial services                        0.08        0.08
Equipment and vehicles and
related operating costs
(including fuel)                            0.10                   0.10
Unallocated                                    0.33                  0.36
TOTAL                               2.70      0.68         3.38
The estimated cost provides for 192 man/months of advisers and approximately
48 man/months of consultants; it includes as well the cost of Mauritanian
counterparts and support services for them and the advisers. The offices
allowance is to provide rental space, on the basis of known local standards
and costs, for the entire team, including counterparts and secretaries; this
is necessary because there is no space available in the existing, small build-
ing occupied by the Planning Ministry nor in any of the aged administrative
buildings nearby owned by the Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
40.       The five advisors would, at the request of Government, be re-
cruited by the Association and seconded to Mauritania; the Government
agrees that the added security of a Bank Group contract would help attract
people with the skills and qualifications needed. The entire cost of the
advisors, their salaries and allowances and including costs incurred in
their recruitment, would be covered out of the proceeds of the credit; to



- 13 -
facilitate early recruitment of the team leader and, hopefully, some of the
team members, provision for retroactive financing of up to US$100,000 for
recruitment expenses after October 1, 1976, is proposed. Selection of con-
sultants would be in accordance with the Association's normal procedures
except that for short-term consultancy contracts up to $10,000 we would
not, in the interest of efficient operation of the advisory team, insist
on prior approval by the Association of the proposed contract. Procure-
ment of equipment and vehicles would be in accordance with the Borrower's
normal procedures which are acceptable to the Association.
41.       The financing plan is set up so that Government and the Associa-
tion can disburse against discrete categories of expenditure; this was done
at the request of the Planning Minister so as to preclude the project's
being delayed because of difficulties within the Mauritanian administra-
tion. The sole exception to this arrangement is the modest provision for
the Association to contribute to the allowances of counterpart staff. The
competition for trained people in Mauritania, within the administration and
between Government and the private sector is fierce; the Planning Minister
feels he needs the resources to offer a small premium to returning grad-
uates to ensure they will serve in his Ministry for the duration of the
technical assistance and training program envisaged under the project.
Benefits and Risks
42.       The technical expertise to be provided under the proposed project
would help the Government in its efforts to formulate an effective and well
planned development program and to identify and prepare specific investment
projects. It would help strengthen the Government's planning machinery
by alleviating the critical shortage of experienced economists and sectoral
advisers. The risk is the normal one for projects of this kind involving
finding suitable expatriates and ensuring their cooperation with local
staff; while it is difficult to recruit high quality experts for this type
of advisory position, our initial efforts to identify suitable candidates
have brought encouraging results. In addition, there is always the risk
that despite the government reorganization and the expanded role given to
the Ministry of Planning, this ministry might in fact not be able to fully
exercise its coordinating function, thus reducing the overall impact of the
project.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
43.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Repub-
lic of Mauritania and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft
Development Credit Agreement follows the form previously used for this type
of project.



- 14 -
44.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Article of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
45.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
ATTACHMENTS
Washington, D.C.
November 16, 1976



TABLE 3A                                      Page I of h pages
MAURITANIA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANO AREA (THOU KM2                ------ ----------------
---------------                                 MAURITANIA                         REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL     1030.7                                      MOSr RECENr
AGRIC.        I. 1$60                            1970   ESTIMATE          SENEGAL       IVORY COAST    ZAMBIA **
GNP PER CaPITA (USRI                      90.0  ,   210.0      310.0              240.0      340.0       410.0
PCPULAT['N ANC VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATtON (MIl-YR, PILLION)            1.0         1.2        1.3                4.4        5.4         4.3
PI'PULAT IGN DENS ITY
peP SQUIQRE KM.                       1.0         1.0        1.0               22.0       16.0         6.0
PEP SO. KM. AGRIC(ILTURAL LAND        3.0 /a       ..         ..               39.0       30.0
VIrAL STATISTICS
CPUDE PIRTH RATE PER THOUSANO        W4.8       144.9       44.8               47.6       46.1        49.7
CRUDf nEArH RATE PEP TrCUSANO         27.1       24.7       24.9               24.4       23.3        20.9
INFAN' MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)          ..        ..        169.0.            156.0
LItE EXPfCTAiKCY ATr alTH (YRSI       35.9       41.0       38.5               40.0       41.0        43.5
GROSS RPPROCUCTION RATE                ..         2.9        2.9                3.0        3.1         3.3
POPULATICN GROWTH RA'E 4II
rOTL                                  0.0*       t.8         2.7*               2.6        3.4         2.9
UP tA                                  ..         7.8       14.1                6.0        8.7        13.6
URP9% PDOP'JLATION IR CF TCTALI         8.0       1i4.2       21.7               29.0       2d.0        30.0
AGE ST-1I('tR e IPERCEN' )
0 TO 14 VEA°S                       41.6        41.5       41.9               41.2       42.5        46.0
l5 TI 64 Y=EAS                       55.2       55.1        55.0              54.9        5h.8        51.0
65 YPAAS AlNr OVER                     3.2        3.1        3.1                3.9        2.7         3.0
AGE rEPEI!CENCY RATIn                   0.8        0.8         0.8               0.8         0.8         1.0
ECCN OMIT 'FPTPNENCY RATIn              1.4 A        ..         ..                1.2 /a     0.9         1.8
FA4ILY PLANNING
ACCEPTCAS (CUMULATIVE. TCOU)           ..         ..          ..
LSFR7 (I OF 14APDICO hCFENI            ..         ..          ..
EM FL YMFN'T
Tn'AL LAFCR EnRcR ITHOUSANT)           300.0        ..       630.0             1600.0     260b.0
IAPrP F-nCFE IN AGREICILTOJPE (To       91.0       85.O       75.0               73.0       82.3
UNEMPLIYrD (% nF LABOR FORCE)            ,.         ..          ..                7.0        6.0        10.  /b
I NCr'E rIST' IPJT ICN
nF PPIVtIr INCCIE EFC'D 8Y-
HlGHrST 5 CF 'HJSFHILDS              .. .$.                 ..
HIGHCST 'JV nF HnlIjFHnLDS             ..          ..         ..
LOWFT  204 OF HOUSFHILDS              ..          *-         .-
LC.VE'T  43ii IF HJSEEhrALDS           ..         ..          ..
OIST-tHUTI1r2. Or LAND OWNzRSHIP
______________________________
t JWNETJ rY TlP lOX OF OWNERS            ..          ..         ..                 ..
T rWIFr Py SMALLEST 10? CWNERS           ..          ..         ..
HeALTH A") 'IUTRITIO'T
POPULATT'l -°P PHYSI(TIAN           3C0GG.0 /   17210.0     11650.0 L         16640.0    12140.0    13580.0
IPiILATIr.% PR NUJRSING °ERSON        6830.0 7d 4320.0       1430 ZI           2680.0     2483.0     2940.3
PCPlJLATI. PT c HrJSPITAL BED        4140.0 L'4 2790.0       2730.0 Z          - 810j, k   680.0      310.0
PEr CAPITA SUJPLY IF -
CALCJ'IS (%'D CF PCOtUIREMENTSI      85.0        89.0       85.0               9 47.0    lOd.0        88.0
PPOTEIN' (GRAAS PFR DAY)             73.0        7S.0       68.o Zi,          64.0        60.0       64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           *-        44.0  b      ..               28.0 /c    18.0 L,    25.0 A
OEATH RATF I/THCUI AGES 1-4            34.0/f        ..         ..
EDUCATICON
ADJUSTEr ENAr!LLMENT RATIr
PRIMAPY SCHnOL                        8.0         6         16.0 /4     1      38.0 /     76.0        70.0 ,
SECONDARY SCH-OL                      0.4        2 2.00      3.0               1 5.0 0    11.0        12.0 
YVAES "F SCHOOLING PPCVIDEC
(F!nST A'.. SECIN" LEV'L)              ..        13.0       14.0               13.0       13.0        12.0
VCCATIGAL FN'fLL'-N"
(I Doc SCONDARYI                      12.0 /a               12.0/a              7.0        7.0        3.0
ADULT LITFPACY RATE (1)                  5.0       10.0         ..               10.0       23.0        17.0
FOUSING
PERSCNS PER ROrM (AVERAGE)               ..          ..         ..                 ..         ..         2.6  d
OCCUPIEn DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED wATER ()                         ..          ..         ..                 ..         ..        88.0
ACCESS TO cLECTRICITY
(T OF ALL OWELLINGS)                   ..         ..          ..
RURAL rtWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTPICITY (Tl                     ..          ..         ..
CCNSIJMPT I "N
RADIO RECFIVEPS (PFR THOU POP)          16.0       47.0       64.0               69.0        17.0       18.0
PASSENGER CARS (PFR THFU POP)           0.4         4.0        4 ° /              9.0       10.0        14.0
ELFCTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             1.0       63.0       74.0               73.0       120.0       957.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAPI                           1.3        1.2                0.1        0.2         0.5
SFF NOTFS ANn rEFINITIONS ON RFVFRSE



Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unles oterwic nted, data for 1960 refer to any Year betwen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 1)o,:        I9OU, md 1970, and For m-ct Reco,.c E,ttico. -t
1973 and 1975.
*  lfferenc.s between IBRD population, growth rateaend U.N. rote of natural increase have not yet boen reconciled.
5*Zablo is selected as an objective country beca.. weit has a large export oriented ining sec tor which, like Mauritania, constitutes the balk of
GDP and ..cc.. ta for e.et e.port..
MAURITANIA           1960    /s   1964;   /b  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force'      /c   1962;   /d  Gover,aaent personn.el
including nidvives and aesiatant nurse        e   oernen      oaia    etbeh       .et,   If  1964-5           2I    er    fae
1970    /a  Government hospital establishocets;      /b   1964-66,    Ic  6-12 ycara (1970) and 12-18 yearn (1968) repectively.
MOST RECENT ESTIM4ATE:    /a  1971;    /b  Govea,oet h-apita1 ..t.blishcecta;      Ic  1969-71 average;    /d  6-12 and 13-19 yesre of
age respectively;    I.  1972.
SENEGAL              19750   /   Ratio of population -der 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        /b  Gover,enent hospital e.t.bli.e.,.nca    /c  1964-
66;   Id  U..djuot.d;    le  Lowr secodary level
l'VORY COAST         1970    /a   uno to i-tngration , population growth rate is higher than the rote of natural increase;      lb  1965-70;   Ic  Ratio of
populstion, under 15 and 65 sand over to total labor force;    /d  love-ent only;      Ic  196Z4-66;   If  12-16 yesra of sge.
ZAMBNIA              1970    I   1965-69;    /b  Persons aseking work;    Ic  1964-66;    /d  Total, arban and rural;    /e   5-12 and 13-17 yasro of age
respectively.
R3, Sept 9, 1976
DRFClNITIONIS OF SOCIAL INDIICATONS
Land Ares (thou ke2                                                               Population par ouroing por-on - Population divided by muber of practi-
Toatal- Total .urface area comprising land area and inland waters.                  clng mle and fonale graduate aureea, "trsi-ed' ar "certified"
Agri.-   Mont recent -ati,nte of ogricultoro1 ores -nd tenporsrily orares                     nd auxiliary pers onnel with training or eaperience.
ponoanently for crops, psatrure, narket & kitchen gardena or to lie             Population par hospital bed - Popalation divided by nonher of hospital
follow.                                                                           beds availab le in publIc and prIvate gonera1 and speciali.ed hospital
and rehabilitation centers: ...cludes nursing homen and -stabliahaaente
GNP Per .aPita (US$) - GNP per capita.aimse       at current market pricea,         for cus todial sad Preventive care.
calculated by none conversion, method aa World Bank Atlaa (1973-75 boois);      Per capita ..pply of caoresf      of resairenent.) - Computed frum
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                                         onorgy equivalont of net faod supplies available in country per capit.
par day; available suppliea coprioe doneutic prodoctio, imports less
Population and vital statiatics                                                     enporta, and changes in stock; net suppliea exclude animal feed, seeds,
Popul4tion (id-yr.   illion) - As of July firat:    if anot awailable,              quantities used in fond proc-sing end Ila..e. in distribution,; require-
averege of cow end-year esti-mtna; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                       -Lat  were cotimated by FAO baned on physiological ...eda for nor,nal
activity and health considering e-iroonenmtl tonperatura, body weights,
Population de...ity - par square kas - Mid-year population per square kilo-         age and sen diatributiona of population, and allowing 107. for ..ate
octet (100 hectsres) of total oare..                                               at household level.
Population density - Par a ...re lku_of acric. land - Cuipated an above for       Per capita supply of protein (gram par day) - Protein contest of per
agiutrlland only,                                                           capita net aapply of food par day; net supply of food i. defined as
above; requironete fat all countries eu.tablished by X81A tcononic
Viral utotiotics                                                                     Reaearch Services provIde fur a   ninimo  alowanca of 60 grons of
Crude birth rate oar thousand - Annual lIve birtchs per tho-aacd of nid-             total protein per day, and 20 grons of animal end p.150 prortei, of
your population   te  .sr arithms~ic ow-rage ending is 1960 ancl 19170,            which 10 gra     should he animal protein; these otandardo are lower
and five-yae.. asrags ending in 1975 for noel rmoent eativate.                     than those of 75 groon of total protein and 23 gram of anim~al protein
Cru~de death rate par thousad - Anneal deaths pot thousand of old-year               as so average for the world, propound by FAO in the Third World Food
population ; ten-year aritlotic a-raga-s'aoIng-iA11960 anc 1970, and4              SurvY.
five-year average ending in 1975 rot smat resent estir&en..                      Per capita proteisupyFrnnmladple - Protein eapply of fend
Infant orai.'s.,(tu            -Annual deaths uf infants under one year             derivod fr.. anil     and pusstCaaper day.
of age per thouaoud liven births.                                               Death rate f/thou)   st.. 1-4 - AmansI deaths per thousand in age group
Life enpoctoocy or birth (yre) - Average nober Of years uf life remain-              1-4 yerar, to children in thi. age group; suggeated as an indicator of
iog at birLh, usualy five-year avrages ending in 1960, 1970 and                   malntrition.
G;roan reproduct1ion rotc -Averag   number of liv. daughters. a woman will         Education
heor in her norna   roproductive period if she experimene   present age-        Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary och-ol - tnro11onat of all sgea as
specific fertility ratron; usua lly five-year averagee ending in 1960,             peruentage of primsry ochool-age population; includes children aged
1970 and 1975 for developing coutrios.                                             6-11 yearo but adjusted for different lengths of primary educa.tion;
Population Rrowth rate,N      to -rtal - Coupo-nd annual growth rates of mid-        for countris with universal educa.tion, enrollment may exceed 100%
Y"a   oulto      tor 153-h      ou9-70 sod 1970-75.                                since oo,ue pupils are below or above the official school age.
Population goth rtet (Cl - urban- Computed like growth rate of total               Adjusted enrollent ratio - secondary nchool - Cenput.d as above;
population; different definitions of urban area. nay affect ...nparo-              secondary educa.tion requires or least four years of approved primary
bility of data enong countries,                                                    instruction; provides g-mara1, vocational. or teacher training
Urban population, (% uf total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                 inrtuctioun for pupils of 12 no 17 yearu of age; correspondence
different definitions of urban   re.a may affect comparability of data            courese are generally excluded.
sno:ng c-nus tres                                                                 Sear of schooling provided (finst end second levels) - Total years of
Ac  tructure inorcent) - Children (0-14 yearn), wurking-age (15-64 years),        schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction maY be par-
so:nd 'retirne~d (65 years and over) as percentages of nid-yeor popula tion.        tially or completely excluded.
Ag  eednyratio - Ratio of populotion under 15 and 65 and over to           Vocational enrollment (C of secondary) - Vocational institutions
thoue of ages II through 64.                                                       include technical, industrial or othar progrens which operate
Eonmlic d.p..dency ratio   - Ratio of population onder iS and 65 and over            indepandently or ae dep.rrusets of eecondary institution.
to the labor force in age group of 15-64 yearo.                                 Adult literacy rate (7.) - Literate adults (able to red en,d write) so
Fonily plann.ing - acc.pt.rs (cnnulative. thou) - Cumulative nunber of               percentage. of total adult population, aged 19 years and over.
auceptrur of birth-control devices onder auspices uf national fonl.y
planning prugren since ince ption.                                               Hw
PFnily planning - users (7. of maried -esn) - Percentageu of married               Personsa mar room (average) - Average nueber of persons per rams, In
womn of child-bearing age (15-44 yeare) who use birth-control devicos              occupied conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwelling. exclude
to all married women is, som  age group.                                          non-perc~nasnt structureu aend onoccupied parts.
Occu pied d-ellinga without piped wtatr (7.1 - Occupied conventional
imploynant                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~duellingo in urban and r,ara  areas without inside or outside piped
Total lbor,,f.rce.Ithousan), - Economically active persons, including                water facilities as percentage of all occupied! dwellings.
a-md forces and onenployed bat excluding houseivea, students, etc.;              Access to electricity CC of all dwellns      Conventional dwellings
defiitions in various countries urn not cooparable.                               with electricity in living quarters aospercen.t of total dwellings in
Labor forc. in agriculture C7.) - Agricultural labor force (in famng                 urban and total areas.
forestry, hunting end fishing) ae percentage Of total labor force.              Rural dwelli,ingsconnected to electricity (.     Cmsputed an shoe for
On..ployed C%. of labor force) - Unenployed are usually defined as                   rua    wlig     only.
persona who are able and willing to take a job, out of a Job on 
given day. rencined cut of a Job, and seeking work for a specified               Cosm.ption
uinim,ns period not exceeding one week; may sot be umoparable between            Radio receivers (par thou p_p) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
countries don to different definitione of onoployed and source of                  casts to geoeralI public per thousand of population , excludes
data, e.g.,   eploymeor office statistics, souple surveys, conpulsory             unlicensed receivers in countries and in ysars   h-e registrati-on  f
unonploy-net insurance.                                                            radio sartwa   in effect, data for recent years may not be comparable
aicemot cutries abolished licens Ing.
ineonte distribution  - Percostags of private incose (both, in cash and            Passngr cars per thou popl - Psosenger gate comprise motor cars
kind) receiveod by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 207., sod pooretat            seating lees than eight peremso; excludes enbulannes, hearses and
40% sfh     .nhoda.                                                               militar   vhicla.
.leutriMirvahuh/r per cap) - Annua consumption of industrial, cm
Diutributi- of land ocaership - Percentages of land ownd by wea lthiest             nercial, public and private electricity in kilowatt hours par capita;
10% and poorest 10% of land owers' generally basad on production data, without allowance for lossi
gr idsbut allowing for imports end exports of electricity.
Heslth and Natritim                                                               Ne_.Print (kg/yr par csp) - Per capita annual cOnaumption in Iliogram
Popnl.tion par Physician - Pupultion divided by number of practicing                estiimted fr- dometic prodoction plus net imports of oe.prlnt.
physicians qualified iron a mdical school at university level.



Page 3 of 4 pages
MAUR-ITANIA
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
(amounts 1.0 millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual           Rset±ueed            Projected            1976-     1973-      1975 ..
1970      193        174975196                     180          17                   1980  -        1970      1975      1980
MATIONAL ACCOUNTS                  3-erkeae           t16-9       rcs&Ecag            ae            veraste Annual Growth Rate            As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product             194.9    208.2   225.5      243.6      251.5     299.4          2.2     8.2            4.2         104.0     109.8     104.6
Gains from Terms of Trade .          7.5   -  6.1  - 13.7     - 21.8     - 22.7    - 13.1.                   ..                         4.0    -  9.8    -  4.6
Gross Domestic Income             -1T.7                                    228T.Tr  ~   286.3      2.5     4.7            5.2         1         !070 100.0 fo .
Imports (incl. NFS)                 94.2    111.8   121.2      132.0      137.0     156.0         5.9      8.7            3.4          50.2      59.5      54.5
Exports `(import capacity)          94.1    104.4    93.3       83.8       76.4     105.6          3.5   -10.4            4.7          50.2      37.8      36.9
Resource Gap                         U TT  7--z      = 27:!               EW76       DU. .4                                             0.0    -T7        iT--
Consumption Expendit.ures          148.3    170.6   185.0      200.1      206.9     237.3         4.8      8.3            3.5          79.1      90.2      82.9
Investment "(mncl. stocks)"         39.2     38.9    54.7       69.9   -   82.5      99.4         -0.2    34.0            7.3          20.9      31.5      34.7
Domestic Savings                    39.1     31.5     26.8       21.7       21.9     49.0         -7.0   -16.7           17.7          20.9       9.8      17.1
National Savings                    25.5     29.9    30.6        22.4       16.5     40.8          5.4   -13.4           12.7          13.6      10.1      14.3
MERCHANDISE TRADE                               Annual Data at Current Prices                                                               As Percent of Total
Fmorts                                8.0     26.8     37.8       49.1       45.8     48.5         49.0    35.0           -0.3           8.4      17.6      10.7
Consumer goods                      46.7     33.9     42.4       51.6      53.2       79.4       -10.1     23.5           9.0          49.0      18.5      17.5
Petroleum products                   5.0     10.0     23.5       26.7       29.2     43.5         26.0    60.5           10.3           5.2       9.6       9.6
Intermediate goods                  19.6     27.6    36.6        50.8      56.9       91.5        12.1    35.0           12.5          20.5      18.2      20.2
Capital stoods                      16J...   53.7     73.2      100.4      114.7    191.0         35.0    37.0           13.7          16.9      36.1      42.0
Total Merchandise Imports cif       95.4    152.0    213.5      278.6      299.8    453.9        116.8     35:5          10.2         100.0     100.0     100.0
Exports
Iron ore                            77.8    102.8    129.6     120.4       130.5    225.1          9.8      8.2          13.3          79.3      78.7      70.5
Copper concentrate                   -       12.8     39.2       15.1       19.4     36.6           -       8.6          19.4            -        9.9      11.5
Fish products                        7.3     12.3     10.6      11.0        16.2     43.2         19.0    -5.4           31.0           7.4       7.2      13.5
Other                               13.0      9.1      6.7        6.5        8.5      14.4       -12      -15.5          17.2          13.3       4.2       4.5
Total Merchandise exports fob       981     13.       86.1     153.0       174.6    319.3         11.8     5.6           15.8         100.0     100.0     100.0
merchandise Trade Indices                            Average 1967-69 - 100     (in tIESj
Export Price Index                 102.0    135.4    162.4      168.5      183.2     285.5         9.9     11.5          11.1
Import Price Index                 112.9    147.1    191.3      227.1      241.4    324.2          9.2     24.5           7.4
Terms of Trade Index                90.3     92.0     84.9       74.2       75.9      88.1         0.6    -10.2           3.5
Export Volumie Index               117.8    118.4    139.1      108.2      113.8    135.4          0.2    - 4.4           4.6
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                  Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices & Exchne Rates.               Aeae     Annual Growth rt              As Percent of Total
Agriculture                         6.       4.7      61.2       65.8       698      8.7          12.      18.7           4.0          38.4      304        0.
Industry and Mining                 66.0     83.7     98.2      85.0       88.5     105.0          8.2      0.8           4.3          36.6      39.3      39.5
Service                             45.      51.4L   5.9M      -65A2       68        80.5          4.5    13.0.4.2                     25.0      30.3      30.3
Total                              180.4    181.8   217.3      216.5      226.9     265.6          0.3      9.1           4.2         100.0     100.0     100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                         In Billions of Current UM                                                                         As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)                                                                                                                    1970     1973     1975
Current Raceipts                     1.4      2.4      3.5       3.5                              19.7    20.0                        14.0     19.9        17.1
Current Expenditures                 1. 3   __I&~ __2...,.3    3.4...~                            15.4    30.0                       .12..A    16..S-.    .J6 ..
Budgetary Savings                    0.1      0.4      1.0       0 1                                .                                  1.2      3.4         0.4
Other Public Sector 1/               0.02    -0.3      0.6       0:32.                                       .02                               -.            .
Public Sector Investment0.2          0.7      1.1      4.2                              50.0        *1.9                               5.7        20.7
'TAILS                  Actual                ~~~~~~~DETAIL ON                         Public Investments (1970 - 74)
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DEALS                                        ctal         -        PUBLIC SECTOR
(As 7. Total Current Explend.)                 1970       19 71       1972     1973    INVESTMENT PROGRAM                     1973 US$           7. of total
General Services                             38.6        38.3       35.8     38.3
Social Services                              32.2        29.6       32.4     30.0    Rural Development                         9.0                  11.4
tconomic Services                             7.3         6.8        6.8      7.0    Industry and Hining                      11.2                  14.3
Other expenditures                           21.9        25.3       25.0     24.      Transport infrastructure                31.4                  40.0
Total curTent expenditures                   100.0       100.0      100.0    100.0    Social infrastructure                    26.9                  34.3
-                                               ~~~~         ~       ~~~~~~~~78.5  100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                        1970      1973     1975
(calculatAd  from  3-year averaSted data)       __         1973      1975     1980
Average ICOR                                               6.12      7.53     8.98
import Elasticity                                        -0.83       0.35    0.62
Average National Savings Rate                              0.17      0.14     0.20
L.ABOR FORCE AND                                Total Labor Force
OUTPUT PER WORKER                  In Thousands        7. of Total
12870               1970
AgriCUltUre (intl. livestock)          460                92.0
Industry                                  7                1.4
Service                                  33                6.6
Total                                   500-             100.0
not applicable                        e staff estimate
not available- nil or negible
..not available separately              -  less than half the
but included in total                    smallest unit shown
1/After Debt Service
Including MIFEEMA



ANNEX I
MAURITANIA                                                       Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT PROJECTIONS
(amounto in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Groth Rate
Actual                 Estimated                 Prolected                    Proj.     7    1975    1980
1970                   1973                       19706  j97.    1978   1979     1980    1985     M      975  19 8 5 1
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)           105.5   111.8   126.1  144.8    194.0     16t.6   182.8   211.1   252.3  297.0   341.5    544.9   8.8    16.3   9.8
Imports (inl. NFS)            106.6   inl41   17R-8 167-2     232.-7    303 7.2  3      36_4   40QR27 Q4_4     496.2    R7D2   23.0    10.3  10.6
Resource Balance (X-M)         -1.1     7.7    -2.7  -22.4    -38.7    -142.6  -143.6  -151.5  -156.0 -157.4  -154.7  - 275.6
Net Factor Service Income    -12.5    -18.5   -20.3  -21.1    -18.6    -18.2   -21.2   -23.8   -.25.4  -27.5  -29.4     -46.3   7.8    10.1   9.5
Current Transfers (net)         -0.9- - .     - 0.6  -23.9     -36.8   -20.0    7.ojQ.   5.      5.5   6.0      6.5       8.2
Balance on Current Accounts    14.5    11.6   -22.4   19.6     -20.6  -140.8  -157.8  -17703  -175.9 -178.9  -177.6    -313.7
Private Direct Investment      - 0.6  - 0.5     3.9    9.8      36.2    15.5    16.3    17.1    18.0   18.9     19.8     25.3    .      5.0    5.0
Official Capital Grants          8.3    7.2    11.9   12.5      20.0    22.0    24.2    26.6    29.3   32.2     35.4     50.2  21.5    10.0    7.2
Public M&LT Loans (net)          2.9    8.8     4.0   29.5      55.1    74.7    87.0   105.1   118.5  130.5     135.3   228.1
Disburaements
-Repayments
Net Disbursements
Other M&LT Loans (net)         -1.5    -1.9     3.0  - 7.9       3.6     18.1   32.1    23.4    25.5   30.5     38.0     45.0
Capital Transactions n.e.i.     5.3     2.0     5.5 -12.1      -52.9   -31.3    25.3    28.3    18.6   4.7     - 9.6     25.1
Change in Net Reserves          0.1   -4.0    -5.9 -12.2       -41.4    41.8   -27.1   -30.2   -34.0  -37.9    -41.3    -60.0
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Public M&LT Loans
Multiltel                 -     4.2      -    2.5        7.9      8.0     5.6    9.0     8.0   10.0      10.0    12.0
JtDhAet Multilateral              -           -    1 0       8.9       -      25 0   26.9    28.9  31.1      33.4     35.3
Governments                   3.2    43.1     2.3  39.3       90.9   104.8     75.0   80.7    86.7  93.2     100.2    264.0
Suppliers                     32     4.        .   93        9:       0.        50    8.      67    9.        0.       6.
Financial Institutions        0.5      -       -     -       49.9      2.0     25.0   26.9    28.9  31.1      33.4     35.3
inaneial Institution-                 -       -     -        4.7      5.0       -      -       -     -         -        -
Public Loans n.e.i.
Total Public M&LT Loans         3.7    47.3     2.3  42.8     162.3    119.8    130.6  143.5   152.5  165.4    177.0    346.6
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed
Interest on Public Debt         0.4     0.5     0.4  0.5        2.4      3.8
Repayments on Public Debt       3 0     2.9     6.8   2.4       5.3     25.3
Total Public Debt Service       3.4     3.4     7.2   2.9       7.7     29.1
Debt Service Ratio (7)            3.2     3.1    5.7   2.0        4.0     18.1
AverAge Terma of Public Debt
Int. an 7. Prior Year DO&D       1.3    1.8     1.1   1.4       3.7     2.4
Aort. as % Prior Year DO&D      11.4   10.7    18.3   6.8        8.2   16.4
IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
as 7. Public Debt O&D         18.1    23.0    27.2 17.3        9.0     9.1
as 7. Public Debt Service       -      0.6      -    0.7       1.5     0.5
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1975
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED EXTERNAL DEBT   Dieb. Only Percent     Total   Percent
IDA                                    14.1     9.1        34.0      8.3
Other Multilateral                      7.3     4.7        12.4      3.0
Governments                           126.2    81.7       301.6     73.7
Suppliers                               1.6     1.0        51.9     12.7
Financial Institutions                  5.3     3.5         9.6      2.3
Bonds
Public Debts n.e.i                       -       -           -        -
Total Public HiLT Debt                154.6   100.0       409.5    100.0
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (diab. only)
not applicable                            e staff estimate
not available                             - nil or negible
... not available separately                -- less than half the
but included in total                       smallest unit shown
1/ Including undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1976)
Loan or                                                 Amount less Cancellation
Credit                                                        (US$ million)
Number    Year   Borrower           Purpose             Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
249-FR    1960   MIFERMA       Iron Ore Mining          66.0
69-MAU   1964   Mauritania    Road Construction                6.7
159-MAU   1969   Mauritania    Road Maintenance                 3.0
273-MAU   1972   Mauritania    Livestock                        4.2       2.3
444-MAU   1973   MaurLtania    Drought Relief Fund              2.5       1.3
459-MAU   1974   Mauritania    Education                        3.8       3.5
S16-MAU   1974   Mauritania    Irrigation Engineering           1.1       0.3
519-MAU   1975   Mauritania    Third Highway                    3.0       2.8
588-MAU   1975   Mauritania    Nouadhibou Port                  8.0       7.0
TOTAL                                       66.0  32.3       17.2
of which has been repaid                  66.0
Total now outstanding                         -
Amount sold                          63.4     -
of which has been repaid           63.4     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/             -   32.3       17.2
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1976)
Amount (US$ million)
Type of                                  Equity
Year     Obligor      Business                        Loan   Investment  Total
1968     SOMIMA      Copper mining
Total gross commitments                          18.8     1.2       20.0
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           18.8     1.2      20.0
Total commitment now held by IFC                   -       -         -
Total undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 2
C. Projects In Execution
Cr. No. 159-MAU - First Road Maintenance Project: US$3.0 million;
Credit Agreement: June 26, 1969; ClosLng Date:
December 31, 1975
This project included (a) the purchase of highway maintenance
equipment, (b) the provision of technical assistance to execute a four-
year highway maintenance and betterment program, and (c) the training of
mechanics and operators. The project is now nearing completion; it has
contributed to setting up an effective maintenance organization. The major
difficulty encountered during implementation was the inability of the Gov-
ernment to assign a sufficient number of counterparts to the expatriate
experts as a result of a general shortage of middle and upper level staff
in Mauritania. This project is being continued by a Third Highway MaLnte-
nance project (Credit No. 519-MAU), hereunder described.
Cr. No. 274-MAU - Livestock Development Project: US$4.15 million;
Credit Agreement: December 17, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project included (a) construction and maintenance of wells;
(b) operation of animal health campaigns, (c) firebreaks in an area contain-
ing about half of Mauritania's population. The implementation of the proj-
ect was delayed due to the lack of a strong project unit. Because of world-
wide inflation, this delay in turn considerably Increased the cost of the
project. Meanwhile, a severe drought reduced the number of livestock by
half and consequently the need for wells. At the end of March 1975, the
Government and the Association reached an agreement to slightly modify the
scale and components of the project. The modification entailed: (a) a 50
percent reduction In the number of wells to be constructed; (b) establish-
ment of a project management unit with a project manager; and (c) hiring of
extra well diggers and mechanics. The amendment was approved by the Board
and the Government signed it Ln March 1976. The project manager as well as
the extra well diggers and mechanics are in the field since the beginning of
this year. The project is advancing satisfactorily. The closing date has
been postponed from December 31, 1976 to December 31, 1978.
Cr. No. 444-MAU - Drought Relief Fund Project: US$2.5 million;
Credit Agreement: December 7, 1973; Closing Date:
November 15, 1977
This Credit is part of the total US$14 million provided to the
six Sahelian countries - the Republics of Tchad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger,
Senegal and Upper Volta, which were affected by the severe drought of
1968-1973.  Content:   (a) rehabilitation and extension of small irrigation



ANNEX II
Page 3
schemes; (b) development and improvement of irrigated vegetable production;
(c) feasibility study and establishment of an irrigated fodder production
center at Rosso; and (d) technical-assistance to the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment. The feasibility study of the Rosso Center was completed in mid-1975
by SEDES. The project as formulated far exceeded the original allocation
for its implementation and implied an operation which would run at a chronic
deficit. The Government and the Bank agreed to reallocate the remaining
amount in this category to other components of the project. The technical
assistance component to the Ministry of Rural Development ended after a year,
as it was originally planned. The remaining components of this project suf-
fered from a delay in implementation and disbursements. A multi-disciplinary
mission was sent to Mauritania in March 1970 to discuss the various problems
of implementation and formulated major proposals relating to reallocation of
the funds, and improvement of administrative procedures. We are waiting for
the decision of the Government on these proposals.
Cr. No. 459-MAU - Education Project: US$3.8 million; Credit Agreement:
February 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This project provides for (a) the establishment of a vocational
training center in Nouakchott to meet training needs for clerical, mechanical
and construction workers; (b) the establishment of a technician training pro-
gram in Nouadhibou; (c) equipment and technical assistance for the National
Pedagogical Center for the upgrading and counseling of teachers through
educational broadcasting and related teaching materials; (d) the establish-
ment of a pilot farmer training center in the irrigated rice perimeter of
M'Pourie; (e) the establishment of a farmer radio programming center at
Kaedi; (f) an experimental study of the feasibility of introducing basic
education (reading, writing, arithmetic) in the Koranic school system; and
(g) technical assistance for the Directorate of Planning to help develop
better indicators of manpower demand.
The project is experiencing a substantial cost overrun due to
the depreciation of the dollar and general inflation. The July 1975 super-
vision mission recommended that the project be reduced in scope to address
the priority sectors of farming and mining as well as the study of Koranic
schools. The Government agreed to exclude two items, primary teachers
upgrading program and the rural radio station. The first has been inte-
grated into an ongoing UNDP/FAO project. The second is being considered
by FAC for possible financing. The remaining components of the project
are in progress.
Cr. No. S-16-MAU - Irrigation Engineering Project: US$1.1 million;
Credit Agreement: June 12, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project provides for (a) the execution of the engineering
studies needed for the implementation of the first phase of the Gorgol
Basin Development Scheme; (b) the carrying out of related health and



ANNEX II
Page 4
education studies; (c) the preparation of final designs, tender documents
and technical schedules; (d) assistance to the Government in bid evaluation;
and (e) technical assistance to the Ministry of Planning for the analysis
of rural development projects. Since the study completed in 1975 has
shown alarmingly high costs, an IBRD/FAO mission was sent in March 1976
to review project costs and the possibility of a more economic alterna-
tive. We are now in the process of reviewing this report.
Cr. No. 519-MAU - Third Highway Project: US$3.0 million; Credit
Agreement: December 11, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The principal aim of the project is to consolidate and expand
the maintenance and betterment efforts started under the First Road Main-
tenance Project (Cr. No. 159-MAU). The project consists of: (a) technical
assistance to relieve the shortage of qualified highway personnel and to
allow for the continuation of the training program undertaken under the
previous credit; (b) purchase of highway equipment for maintenance and bet-
terment works; (c) a betterment program of about 365 km including earthworks
in new alignments to avoid sandy or periodically flooded areas, construction
of surface drainage and high river-crossing structures; and (d) a feasibil-
ity study and detailed engineering of the Rosso-Boghe road (200 km). The
project, which costs a total of US$13.7 million, is cofinanced by the KFAED
(US$3.8 million) and the Government of Canada (US$4.2 million). Due to in-
flation, the proposal submitted by the group of consultants for technical
assistance and the pre-investment study of the Rosso-Boghe road called for
much higher fees than estimated by our appraisal team. To avoid possible
cost overrun, the Government and the Association agreed to reduce the total
technical assistance program from 350 man/months to 200 man/months with the
balance of the program not financed by this project to be continued in a sub-
sequent project. The Credit became effective on June 8, 1976.
Cr. No. 588-MAU - Nouadhibou Port Project: US$8 million; Credit
Agreement: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
This project supports the development strategy of the fishing
sector in Mauritania. It aims to enlarge the port and improve its admin-
istration and operation. Content: (a) construction of civil works, con-
sisting of fishing and commercial berths and an approachway, a sewerage
scheme, and various buildings; (b) purchase of a harbor master's launch
and navigation aids, maintenance equipment; (c) technical assistance to
PAN for port administration, operations and reorganization of its account-
ing and financial systems; and (d) consulting services for studies on the
need for and development of ship-repair facilities. The Credit became
effective on June 2, 1976. The project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX ill
Page 1
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Technical Assistance Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Amount:        US$2.7 million
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description:  A four-year program to finance (1) five professionals for
the Ministry of Planning to elaborate long-term general and
sectoral strategies, set priorities, identify projects, under-
take economic and financial analysis; and (2) temporary con-
sultants to deal with special subjects when needed.
(US$ million)
Estimated Cost:                               Local      Foreign     Total
Salaries and allowances of advisers
(192 man-months)                                 .41        .91        1.32
Salaries and allowances of counterparts            .67         -         .67
Consultant Budget (48 man-months)                  .086       .314       .40
Bilingual secretary                                .07        .07        .14
Fellowships                                                   .12        .12
Office rent                                        .19         -         .19
Clerical and Secretarial services                  .08         -         .08
Equipment and vehicles and related
operating costs (including fuel)                  .038       .062       .10
Unallocated                                        .16        .20        .36
TOTAL                                       1.71        1.67       3.38
Bank's share of local cost = 60%



ANNEX III
Page 2
Financing
Plan:                                                  US$ million
IDA     Government     Total
Salaries and allowances of advisers            1.32                   1.32
Salaries and allowances of local
counterpart staff                            0.07      0.60        0.67
Consultant budget                              0.40                   0.40
Bilingual secretary                            0.14                   0.14
Overseas training                              0.12                   0.12
Offices                                        0.19                   0.19
Clerical and Secretarial services                        0.08        0.08
Equipment and vehicles and
related operating costs
(including fuel)                            0.10                   0.10
Unallocated                                    0.33                   0.36
TOTAL                               2.70      0.68         3.38
Estimated
Disbursements:      FY 77     FY 78       FY 79      FY 80     FY 81   Total
.30       .80         .60        .60        .40     2.7
Procurement
Arrangements:       The five advisors would, at the request of Government, be
recruited by the Association and seconded to Mauritania.
The entire cost of the advisors, their salaries and allow-
ances and including costs incurred in their recruitment,
would be covered out of the proceeds of the credit; to
facilitate early recruitment of the team leader and,
hopefully, some of the team members, provision for retro-
active financing of up to US$100,000 for recruitment ex-
penses after October 1, 1976, is proposed. Selection of
consultants would be in accordance with the Association's
normal procedures except that for short-term consultancy
contracts up to $10,000 we would not, in the interest of
efficient operation of the advisory team, insist on prior
approval by the Association of the proposed contract.
Procurement of equipment and vehicles would be in accord-
ance with the Borrower's normal procedures which are
acceptable to the Association.
Appraisal:           There is no separate appraisal report.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
MAURITANIA - LONG TERM ADVISER
1.   Team Leader/Senior Economic Adviser
Qualifications: Professional economist with graduate degree in
economics. Substantial experience with economic issues and policies at the
national level and thorough familiar.ity with the preparation and administra-
tion of national development plans in developing countries. He should
be sensitive to the problems of establishing priorities given limited means
while recognizing the employment and income distribution objectives of de-
velopment; he should, in additLon, have demonstrated his capacity to deal
with high government officials, to handle expatriate technical staff, and
to design training programs intended to facilitate the transfer of skills
to local counterparts through on-the-job training and special courses.
Duties: Advise the Minister of State for NatLonal Economy and
the Minister of Planning on natLonal economic policy problems such as public
finances; money and credit, the balance of payments, debt management and
others relating to the official allocation of resources in relation to eco-
nomic and social development; advise and assist the Ministry of Planning
on the formulatLon and carrying out of team work programs and the establish-
ment of the Ministry's coordinating role with the technical ministries. Par-
ticular stress is placed in this respect on assisting with the process of
identifying projects which form part of the investment program; advise and
assist the Minister of Planning with the training activities to be undertaken
as part of the project to Include the formulation of detailed training pro-
grams for each counterpart to be trained under the project while ensuring
that these programs do not conflict with those being carrLed out by bilat-
erally financed advisers working in the Ministry; coordinate and develop
the project and maintain close coordination with the DLrector of Planning.
Train up to three Mauritanian counterparts, following a detaLled, objective-
oriented program which will be reviewed every six months.
2.   General Development Economist
Qualifications: Professional development economist familiar with
the techniques of development planning, the methodology of social cost benefit
analysis of projects and preferably some specialized experience in one or more
of such fields as public finance, balance of payments, trade policy, indus-
trial policy, regional development and problem of urban-rural imbalances in-
cluding migration. Should have some experLence in training counterparts.
Duties: Assist the senior economic adviser in carryLng out his
duties. Participate Ln elaborating annual and multi-annual plans. Play a
leading role in making a finance plan and balance of payments projectLons
within macro-economic framework. Assist in the traiLning and coordinatLon of
activities of the mission; and train up to three Mauritanian counterparts,
following a detailed, objective-oriented program whlch will be revLewed
every six months.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
3.   Industrial Development Adviser
Qualifications: Professional training and experience in develop-
ing countries as an industrial economist; desirable to have had experience in
the fish processing industry and some knowledge of the problems of small and
medium scale enterprises in developing countries. Should be very familiar
with the techniques of financial and economic analysis of industrial, and
mining projects. Should have some experience in training counterparts.
Duties: Lead a team of counterparts in providing policy advice to
the Ministers and formulating a strategy for industrial development. Advise
and assist the Ministry of Planning and the technical ministries on the tech-
niques and methodology of industrial project analysis. Advise and assist
the Ministry of Planning on instituting a Government wide system of project
identification, appraisal and monitoring within the context of an annual and
multi-annual development program. Train up to three Mauritanian counterparts,
following a detailed, objective-oriented program which will be reviewed every
six months.
4.   Transport and other Infrastructure Development Adviser
Qualifications: Good basic training and experience in transporta-
tion economics and project preparation, with preferably a background in
regional economic planning, transport systems and some experience in port
development. Should have some experience in training counterparts.
Duties: Lead a team of counterparts in providing policy advice
to the Minister, formulate a comprehensive sector strategy of transportation
and other infrastructure development and identify projects in these sectors.
Advise and assist the Minister of Planning and the technical ministries on
the techniques and methodology of infrastructure project analysis. Advise
and assist the Ministry of Planning on instituting a Government wide system
of project identification, appraisal and monitoring within the context of
annual and multi-annual development programs. Train up to three Mauritanian
counterparts, following a detailed, objective-oriented program which will be
reviewed every six months.
5.   Rural Development Adviser
Qualifications: Experienced agricultural economist familiar with
the Sahel region. He should have some background in planning for rural
development and should be very familiar with the techniques of economic
analysis of projects aimed at development of rainfed agriculture, irrigated
agriculture, and livestock.
Duties: Lead a team of counterparts in providing policy advice to
the Minister, formulate a comprehensive sector strategy of rural development
and identify projects in this sector. Advise and assist the Minister of



ANNEX IV
Page 3
Planning, SONADER, and the technical ministries on the techniques and meth-
odology of project analysis. Advise and assist the Ministry of Planning on
instituting a Government wide system of project Ldentification, appraisal
and monitoring within the context of annual and multi-annual development
programs. Train up to three Mauritanian counterparts, following a detailed,
objective-oriented program which will be reviewed every six months.






IBRD 3172R
NOVEMBER 1972
6°                        12.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA                                          SA RCO
ALGERIA J LIBYA
_     Paved roads
---- Paved roads under construction                                   MAURITANIA
Gravel roads                                                            M      NIGER
Tracks                                                       SCHADA
Railroads                                     /             POUINE GU -'^UPPERVOLT- _ _  CHAD
*  Airfields                                    M  R   C   O      LO 
G8   (   Copper                                          ROCCO         LOR'~ NIGERIA
28      ~ ~~Iron                                                        LiREIP.r'-
Date palms                                              2 8            AHE    C O    EN
t  Fishing.                                . . . . . . . . . . .
A  Wharf
loo   = Annual rainfall, millimeters   Aalun                          I
International boundaries,  /                                            L GE R I A
AGRICULTURAL ZONES
Saharan desert                 \|
Saharan sub-desert                                           '
Sahelien
o     o0  i0o   SO       fI-                                                              '
MILES                                    Bir Mucrr-n
o  50 1oo 150 200 250      SPAN       I 5 
KILOMETERS                                                                                2 4
SAHARA                                                             24
/   Fe)
F I*elnuero?e     *A4LI
Qi~~~~~~i
Nouadhibo 
20                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~201-
2 00
NCOUAKCHT  *    c~            od~i        s                            '\
'|                  6-                                 -tf O
zoo00                                                                              100
300       oederdra  CE                                 un el Atrc ussGA*Nma20
DAKAR *  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~,-,  Sell~~~~~~oby  600~20
DAKARgv                              Bakel                     M     A    L    I
1 S E N  E G A L          3                                            . >4
1165-                         28-r.,^d,,



