D:ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIA'. USE ONLY
g-A/. 's> R    W 
Report No. 6092-MAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
June 5, 1986
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Mauritian Ri2ee/US$      US$/Mauritian Rs
1965                                 0.21                     4.76
1970                                 0.18                     5.56
1975                                 0.17                     6.03
1976                                 0.15                     6.68
1977                                 0.15                     6.61
1978                                 0.16                     6.16
1979                                 0.16                    6.31
1980                                 0.13                     7.68
1981                                 0.11                    8.94
1982                                 0.09                    10.87
1983                                 0.09                    11.71
1984                                 0.07                    14.97
1985/6 projected                     0.06                    15.50
* Annual averages
FISCAL YEAR
(July 1 - June 30)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Arpents      Acres       Hectares
Area:    I arpent  =               1.0          1.04         0.42
1 acre    =              0.96         1.0          0.41
1 hectare                2.37         2.47         1.0
Weight: Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FARC   -  Food and Agricultural Research Council
FSC    -  Farmers' Service Center(s)
LCES   -  Least Cost Expansion of Power System Study
M      -  Million
1;CA    -  Mauritius Chamber of Agriculture
MCFIL  -  Mauritius Chemical and Fertilizer Industry Ltd.
MEIC   -  Ministry of Energy and Internal Communications
MOA    -  Ministry of Agriculture
MSA    -  Mauritius Sugar Authority
MSIRI  -  Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute
Rs     -  Mauritian Rupees
SAL    -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP    -  Sugar Action Plan
SIES   -  Sugar Industry Efficiency Study
tsy    -  tonnes sugar per year



MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Psge No*
CHAPTER I:  THE SUGAR INDUSTRY ................. ...............         I
A.  Agriculture ......I.......                              * 
B.  The Structure and Organization of the Sugar Industry  ..    2
C.  Performance of the Sugar Industry           .....................    3
D.  Industry Development Perspective and
Government Policy .. . .................... ...... . 10
E.  Bank Role in the Agriculture Sector         ...................   13
CHAPTER Il:  THE PROJECT ................................               14
A.  Project History ....... ...  .............................   14
B.  Project Rationale and Objectives          ......................   14
C.  Project Components       ..............................e ..   15
D.  Cost and Financing ***,** .. ....* .......e*   20
E.  Procurement and Disbursement ....... ...................       22
CHAPTER III:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........ ...................       26
A.  Project Administration          ................................   26
B.  Sugar Action Plan Implementation          ......................   26
C.  Annual Work Program .......s ............e..e....   31
D.  Mid-Term Project Review ..        ..................... .....   31
E.  Reporting, Audit and Accounts ......      ...................  32
F.  Environmental Impact ...........................       ..  .....   32
CHAPTER IV:  BENEFITS, RETURN ON INVESTMENT AND RISKS 9*99 9....9   33
A*  Benefits        .    .96999 ........999....9........ *    33
B.  Returns on Investment                   ...                    34
C. Risks ................................  35
CHAPTER V:  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS ..............................    36
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission to
Mauritius in September 1985, comprising Messrs. G. Stern, A. Hu, C.N.
Raghavan, J. Shivakumar and Ms. A. Kumar (Bank) and Messrs. H. Idehara and
W. Whitesell (Consultants). Mr. L. Vidaeus (Bank) contributed to the
report preparation.
Thu document ha a rsticted distibution  nd may be used by neipents only in lf pefoannuc
of their officl dutiL Its contents may not otherwie be dicled witbout Wold dBank auftholuin.



Annexes
1.   Letter from the Minister of Finance of Mauritius to the President of
IBRD and Matrix of Objectives, Goals and Actions.
2.   Industry Background and Technical Information
A. Sugar Mills - Technical Data
B. Sugar Mills - Financial Aspects
C. The Fertilizer Sub-Sector
D. Manpower and Labor
E. Farmers' Service Centers
F. Research
G. The Mauritius Sugar Authority
3.   The Sugar Industry Efficiency Study
4.   Pre-Investment Analysis and Arrangements for Least Cost Expansion of
Power System
5.   Project Cost Estimates
6.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7.   Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 19358 - Mauritius Sugar Estates



MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumnary
Borrower:           Mauritius
Executing           Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Mauritius Sugar
Agencies:         Authority (MSA), Mauritius Sugar Industry Research
Institute (MSIRI) and the Bank of Mauritius.
Amount:             $30 million equivalent
Interest Rate:      Standard variable.
Commitment          Standard.
Charge:
Terms:               17 years, including 4 years of grace.
Project Objectives  The project would support the Government's strategy to
and Description:  broaden the productive base of the economy by
promoting increased productivity within a target level
of sugar production and the gradual release of
resources used in sugar production to support
agricultural diversification. The specific objectives
of the project, to be implemented over a five-year
period, would be: (i) to rehabilitate and modernize
sugar mills; (ii) to strengthen the financial
performance of the sugar-mill sub-sector, increase its
transparency, and broaden mill ownership; (iii) to
improve productivity in the use of land, labor,
fertilizer, machinery, and equipment in sugar
production; and (iv) to support further efforts for the
development of irrigation and the use of bagasse for
power generation.. The loan would provide foreign
exchange for: (i) the acquisition and importation of
machinery, equipment capital and intermediate goods,
and raw materials required for the rehabilitation and
modernization of sugar mills; (ii) the importation of
fertilizer and fertilizer materials; (iii) technical
assistance, office and logistics support to assist the
Mauritius Sugar Authority; (iv) establishment of
Farmers' Service Centers; and (v) support to research
programs of the Mauritius Sugar Industry Research
Institute and of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Benefits/          The project would promote more efficient use of
Risks:          resources in the sugar industry and raise the
productivity of smallholders. In the long run, the
project would be an impetus to agricultural
diversification and the better use of sugar
by-products. It would also improve the business
environment in the industry. The primary risks are: (i)
that investment incentives for sugar mills may not



- il -
be sufficient to achieve the project's objectives or
end up stimulating production beyond the target level;
(ii) that Farmers' Service Centers may not stimulate
the expected productivity increases of smallholders;
(iii) that the Mauritius Sugar Authority would not be
able to achieve a position of respect and acceptance in
the industry, and therefore not become a force in
promoting cooperation in the industry; and (iv) that
research efforts may not result in adequate technology
advances. To the extent practicable, the project
provides safeguards against these risks: (i) the
proposed Sugar Industry Efficiency Study would lay the
foundation fon strengthening the business environment
in the industry and thus create a more favorable
climate for investment by private sugar companies,
without stimulating surplus production; (ii) the
establishment in phases of Farmers' Service Centers
would permit the testing of smallholders' response to
productivity improvement initiatives; (iii) the
arrangements for project implementation would ensure
broad industry involvement in MSA's work, particularly
in policy-related studies and would provide technical
assistance to strengthen MSA; and (iv) the project
would provide for upgrading Mauritius research
capability and for a structured program of research
jointly agreed with the Bank.
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign       Total
----US$ million
Factory Investments                      10.0       15.0         25.0
Fertilizers                                -         9.4         9.4
Mauritius Sugar Authority                0.2         0.8          1.0
Farmers' Service Centers                 2.2         2.0          4.2
Research
(a)  Mauritius Sugar Industry
Research Institute                  1.7         1.6         3.3
(b)  Ministry of Agriculture             0.1         0.5         0.6
Baseline Cost                              14.2       29.3         43.5
Physical Contingencies                     0.0 I/      0.1          0.1
Price Contingencies                        0.7         0.6          1.3
Total Cost                                 14.9       30.0         44.9
Taxes and Duties                            1.0          -          1.0
Total Cost (net of taxes and duties)       13.9       30.0         43.9
1/ US$32,400



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign       Total
US$ million-----
IBRD Loan                                     -        30.0         30.0
Government and other                         4.9          -          4.9
implementing agencies
Sugar companies                             10.0         _          10.0
Total                                 14.9        30.0         44.9
Estimated Disbursement:
IBRD Fiscal Year                      FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
-              --US$ million----
Annual:                               3.8    8.0    6.9    5.3    4.0    2.0
Cumulative:                           3.8   11.8   18.7   24.0   28.0   30.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 6092, dated Jute 5, 1986.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map:                       IBRD No. 19358



MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
CRAPTER I - THE SUGAR INDUSTRY 1/.
A. Agriculture
1.01      Mauritius Is an Indian Ocean island of about 2,000 km2, with
smaller outer islands. The main island has a population of 1.0 M (1984)
and is highly developed. The outer islands are less well developed. The
largest of these is Rodrigues with a population of about 30,000 (1983).
With a GNP of about US$1,100 In 1584, Mauritius has the standard of living
of a middle income developing counzry.
1.02      Agriculture accounted for 14.0 percent of GDP and 50 percent of
total merchandise exports in 1985. Its contribution to employment in the
formal sector was about 26 percent in 1984. Over 90 percent of the
agricultural activity was sugarcane farming. Agricultural products also
represent about 25 percent of total imports into Mauritius, as the Island
imports the bulk of its cereals and meat products. Although the share of
agriculture in GDP has declined in recent years with the rise of
manufacturing and tourism, agriculture remails critical for exports and
employment.
1.03      About half of the total land area of the main island is arable
and about 87 percent of the total cultivated land is occupied by
sugarcane. Mixed stand cropping is usual and most other crops are grown
together with sugar as interline or rotation crops. Tea, however, Is grown
as a pure stand crop, mainly for exports, on another 5 percent of the
cultivated laad. The balance of the land is used for growing foodetops and
small quantities of tobacco. Most of the island's vegetable requirements
are met by local cultivation, but conditions are not suitable for the
cultivation of rice or wheat which are the main imported grains. Livestock
and fish are also produced, mainly for domestic purposes. The island is
self-sufficient for poultry products, has a livestock herd of about 20,000
cattle and 75,000 goats, and there is some deer farming for venison.
Experiments are also being conducted on a small-scale for the production of
some high value crops, particularly flowers and out-of-season vegetables
for export.
1.04      The chief constraints on agricultural development are limited
available land, progressive transfer of agricultural land to industrial,
housing and road use, isolation and long distance from major world markets,
rocky-soils that require expensive derocking, and limited irrigation water,
which is aecessary for cultivation in the drier northern and western
coastal plains. Another constraint is the frequent cyclones which cause
damage and rule out the production of crops which cannot withstand strong
winds. Over the years, sugarcane has thus emerged as the most suitable
1/ This part of the report is based on the findings of a recent sector
study entitled "Mauritius - The Sugar Sector: Problems and Prospects,'
(Report No. 5812-MAS): March 1986.



- 2 -
crop for Mauritius, but its expansion is also constrained by market
limitations.
B. The Structure and Organization of the Sugar Industry
1.05      Sugarcane was introduced in Mauritius during the 17th century.
The present structure of the Industry reflects a gradaal process of
evolution since that time. Since the mid-nineteenth century, the
development of the industry has involved a doubling of the area under cane
cultivation (84,000 ha in 1984/85) and a five-fold Increase in the output
of sugar (630,000 tonnes in 1984/85). Over the last fifteen years, annual
sugar production has, how_ver, fluctuated between 500,000 and 700,000
tonnes with the area under cultivation remaining fairly constant but
tending to marginally e-cline in the last five years.
i.b6      The number of operating sugar mills decreased from some 250
around 1850 to 23 in 1960 which since has been further reduced to 19.
These mills with their associated large estates, referred to as the
miller-planters, account for 55 percent of the island's total cane area and
60 percent/ of total cane crushed. Ten sugar milling companies combine mill
and planttion activity in the same sets of accounts, while the other
companies'have formed partnerships or 'societes', to separate milling and
planting activities. All but one of the mills are in the private sector,
and all but three of the private sector units are locally owned.
1.07      The balaiie or 40 percent of the island's cane is grown on
another 38,000 ha of land -owned by some 33,000 small planters, of which
more than half (18,400) have holdings of less than one acre. Many are
part-time cultivators whose main source of income is elsewhere.
1.08      All cane grown is delivered to a designated mill and planters
have no choice in this matter. Planters are not paid in cash for the cane
they supply but are instead entitled to 74 percent of the sugar, and 100
percent of the molasses and filter cake obtained from their cane; the mill
is entitled to 26 percent of the sugar as payment for milling expenses.
Sugar accrues to planters on the basis of either achieved or average mill
efficiency, whichever is higher. Over time the ratio in which sugar is
divided between miller and planter has shifted in the planter's favor.
1.09      Institutions.  Both parastatals and private organizations are
associated with the sugar industry. At the apex is the Mauritius Sugar
Authority (MSA), established by the Government in July 1984 to coordinate
the various groups within the industry, and to provide impartial and
accurate information and advice to the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) on
sugar industry policy and planning (Annex 2, Sec. G). Although MSA is
under the general guidance of MOA, it is an independent body and its Board
and Advisory Council represent different interests within the industry,
both government and private. Another important institution is the
Mauritius Ch&mber of Agriculture (MCA), a private sector body which
represents mainly the sugar producers and serves as a forum for debate and
policy formulation. Crop insurance for sugar is provided by the Sugar
Insurance Fund Board which also maintains valuable cultivation data on



-3-
individual holdings. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is a centralized
marketing organization for all sugar produced in the country and the Cane
Planters and Millers Arbitration and Control Board checks the sucrose
content of different suppliers' cane, regulates boundaries of factory areas
and arbitrates in industry disputes. Finance for research and special
schemes that benefit mainly labot and smallholders, is raised through
cesses, which are deposited with the Sugar Industry Development Fund, and
research on all aspects of the sugar industry is undertaken by the
Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute (MSIRI).
1.10      Of these institutions, MSIRI, the Syndicate, the Insurance Fund
Board and the Arbitration and Control Board are all widely respected.
However, the newly established MSA has yet to prove itself and gain the
confidence of all industry segments. To this end it needs to be
strengthened through acquiring a cadre of highly competent staff as well as
funding for short-term consultants to help study and analyze policy,
accounting and labor issues affecting the sugar industry.
C. Performance of the Sugar Industry
Recent Developments
1.11      The sugar industry prospered during the early to mid-1970's.
This was a period of relatively steady growth in output of sugar, averaging
in exce.s of 5 percent annually between 1970/71 and 1974/75. The expansion
was supported by rising demand for sugar in preferential markets and
rapidly rising world sugar prices. Industry revenues increased five-fold
over the period, and with a relatively low level of taxation, profits to
sugar producers remained high. Following a period of output stagnation and
a reversal of the price trend during the latter half of the decade, the
industry's performance started to decline. Average annual output fell from
660,000 tonnes during the first half of the 1970's to 583,000 tonnes during
the period 1980/81-1983/84 although production in 1984/85 reached 645,000
tonnes. Total profits (Deft-re depreciation) to miller/planters which
averaged Rs 560 M in 1974 and 1975 plummeted to an average of Rs 161 M five
years later, and fell further to an annual average of RS 18.6 M over the
period 1983-84. As profits declined, aggregate annual investment in
estates with factories fell between 1976 and 1982 by almost 50 percent in
current prices and by close to 80 perccit in constant (1982) prices. This
reduction in investment was more pronounced on the factory side than on
sugar growing operations. A more detailed review of recent financial
performance of sugar mills is provided in Annex 2, Section B
1.12 -   As the performance of the industry deteriorated and other sectors
of the economy developed, the contribution of the sugar sub-sector to the
economy declined. Over the period 1974-85, its share in the Gross Domestic
Product fell from 52.4 to 11.0 percent and its share in total export
earnings from 89.4 to 45.0 percent. Similarly, employment in the
sub-sector dropped from 58,000 to 45,000 between 1975 and 1984 with its
share of total employment declining from 33 to 23 percent.



- 4 -
1.13      The deteriorating performance of the industry since the late
1970's, as measured by reduced output, falling profit levels and a
subsequent drop in investment activities was caused by a combination of
factors. Investigations over the pas_ two years indicate that the primary
determinants for the decline are to be found on the supply side rather than
the demand side of the industry. External market forces do not explain
developments since Mauritius has been insulated to a large extent from
movements in international prices as most of its sugar is sold under
special bilateral arrangements with the EEC and USA (para. 1.15). On the
supply side, short-term random factors such as adverse weatl,er conditions
(cyclones and drought) precipitated the reductions in catput trends. The
decline In financial performance was, however, primarily brought about by
other supply related factors, including the institutional and Government
policy framework influencing producers' decisions. A generally
deteriorating business environment was caused by:  (i) high levels of
taxation on mills and large estates; (ii) Government curbs on redeployment
of land, labor and capital in the industry (including prohibition of mill
closures); (iii) lack of adequate incentives fot investment on mill and
estate improvements; (iv) lack of transparency in private sector operations
leading to development of mistrust of the private sector; and (v) the
apprehension that MSA would unduly interfere with private sector
operations. These aspects are further reviewed below (para. 1.19).
1.14      Against the background of the above developments, the Government
and the industry have since some time recognized the need to design and
implement a "restructutation' program for the sugar industry which aims at
maintaining the long-term viability of the sub-sector, raising investment
in replacement and modernization and rationalizing industry operations on a
national scale (para. 1.33). The Bank has been actively involved in a
dialogue on this 'restructuration' program (para. 1.45). This program and
the proposed Bank assisted project to be linked to its implementation, have
been formulated against the background of the recent deterioration of the
industry's financial performance and the key issues related to the
efficient utilization of land, labor and capital to meet production targets
as constrained by market factors and land availability. These constraints
and issues are reviewed below.
Market Constraints
1.15      Less than 5 percent of Mauritius sugar is sold on the domestic
market. The bulk of the sugar produced is exported to the EEC and the US
where Mauritius enjoys import quotas on favorable terms. The balance is
sold on the world's free market. Under the Sugar Protocol annexed to the
EEC-ACP Lom4 Convention, Mauritius has an annual quota for sugar imports
averaging 505,000 tonnes of raw sugar. Deliveries up to 5 percent in
excess of this quota were realized over 1981-83 because of shortfalls in
the quotas of other member countries. The share of Mauritian sugar in US
sugar imports has been 1.1 percent up to 1985, when it was increased to 1.2
percent. In absolute terms, the Mauritian import quota on the US market in
1984/85 was 25,000 tonnes.
1.16      The EEC price over the last year has been about 16 cents per
pound. Although annual increments declined in 1983/84 and 1984/85, prices
increased in 1985 by 1.5 percent. Price prospects for the EEC market



-5-
therefore appear favorable. The US support prices averaged 20 cents per
pound last year and are likely to remain at around this level In the medium
term as announced recently in the US Farm Bill of 1986. Sugar prices in
the world's free market ranged between 4 to 9 cents per pound last year,
considerably below EEC and US prices, and are projlected to remain low until
accumulated stocks have been depleted. Speedy stock reduction is unlikely
as world production today exceeds consumption and consumption levels are
continuing to fall due to dietary changes and the development of sugar
substitutes. With projected free market prices of 12 cents per pound in
1995 (in constant prices), sales to the EEC and US markets will continue to
provide the basic rationale for sugar production in Mauritius, and output
will be constrained by the volume of demand that is offered at remunerative
prices.
1.17      To meet external and domestic demand, the Sugar Action Plan
(para. 1.34) alms at an average annual sugar production of 615,000 tonnes.
This target which will be kept under review is based on present annual
quota sales to EEC and the US of 512,000 2/ and 25,000 tonnes respectively
and present annual domestic consumption of 38,000 tonnes. It is further
allowing for a margin of 7 percent calculated on above sales to account for
(i) sales to the EEC and US markets made possible by the failure of other
countries to take full advantage of their quotas on these markets; (ii)
free market sales; and (iii) the need for building a buffer stock for bad
years. The Mauritian share of the total annual EEC sugar import quota is
well protected under the Lom4 Convention and its attached Sugar Protocol at
least up to 1990, the year of expiration of Lome III. No changes are at
this stage expected in the Sugar Protocol under the continued LomE
Convention beyond 1990. While indications are that present level of sales
to the EEC market will continue in the medium to long term, there is some
uncertainy about the absolute level of Mauritius sugar quota in the U.S.
import market. Over the next few years, it is likely that downward
adjustments will be made in the total US sugar import quota in response to
declining sugar consumption and development of sugar substitutes. However,
this trend is projected to level out by 1990. It is to be noted, howe-ier,
that even a relatively large decline in the level of sales of Mauritian
sugar to the US market would result in a relatively minor decline in
projected overall sales on the combined export and domestic market. For
example, a 20 percent reduction in the US quota would only result in a
decline of 1 percent in overall sales.
1.18      There is now a need to establish a pricing system which provides
signals to producers to limit the area under cultivation and investmentD in
estates and mills to levels which are commensurate with an average annual
production level of 615,900 tonnes. To the extent that future productivity
gains prove to be greater than production decreases due to losses of
agricultural land to non-agricultural uses, diversification from sugarcane
2/ Consists of the regular quota of 505,000 tonnes plus 7,000 tonnes as
the potential contribution from (i) the permanent reallocation of the
deficit of Trinidad and Tobago and (ii) the possible permanent quota
reallocation resulting from Portugal's entry into EEC.



-6-
is important and the estates are better placed to make this effort than the
smallbolders. To accomplish this an incentive package will be
required which will induce the estates to divert suitable land from
sugarcane to alternative crops.
The Business Environment
1.19      The financial performance of the sugar industry depends not only
on the level of sales of sugar and by-products, but also on the structure
of taxes on sugar output and the productivity of labor. These factors
have, over the last few years, contributed to the financial problems of the
sugar industry. Until recently, the industry also faced restrictions on
mill closures which prevented most producers from moving resources out of
loss-making ventures. High tax rates on land transfer prevented estates
from selling some of their land, in cases where this was desirable to
improve profitability.
1.20      Mill owners claim that despite recent tax relief, profitabilitv
remains too low to generate the necessary investments. These claims can,
however, not be fully evaluated given the current state of financial
reporting by Individual enterprises. Effective monitoring of the financial
status of sugar companies has been difficult given that accounts have not
been uniformly prepared and in many cases do not separate estates from
mills. Disclosure requirements under the old company and partnership laws
provided for only a low level of public accountability. On one hand, these
factors caused mistrust between sugar workers and employers; on the other
hand, the information available to the Government has been inadequate for
gauging whether returns from the industry are sufficient to induce millers
to invest and improve productivity in milling without encouraging over-
Investment in an industry which cannot expand because of market constraints
and land availability. 31 A comprehensive study on the financial status
of the sugar industry is therefore both important and urgent. Such a study
can however only be conducted meaningfully once accounting systems are
ratlonalized and lend themselves to objective evaluation.
Mill Efficiency and Centralization
1.21      The historicel process of centralization of sugar production and
the simultaneous growth in the average size of individual mills evolved
naturally as financially healthy enterprises expanded their operations by
absorbing productive assets of marginal and financially weaker units in
which replacement of key equipment and machinery was found uneconomical.
Thus the number of mills decreased through closure or merger from 259 in
1881, to 38 just before World War II, and to 21 in 1970. Government then
suspended further closures until 1985, when two more mills closed. Another
two or three mills are expected to close in the next five years. Mill size
varies from an annual output of 80,000 tonnes sugar per year (tsy) to
17,000 tsy, averaging 35,000 tsy.
1.22      With a recovery rate of 11 percent for commercial cane sugar,
sugar milling in Mauritius is efficient, even by international standards,
3/  A more detailed review of accounting systems and procedures and their
implications for gauging and comparing the financial performance of
individual enterprises is given in Annex 2, Section B.



despite the relatively small size of the average Mauritian sugar mill. So
far, the decline in investment and maintenance outlays of sugar factories
has not resulted in a visible reduction in their overall operating
efficiency. However, because of low capital expenditures on mills over
several years, there is now a backlog of mafntenance to be cleared and some
of the equipment in these mills is approa ng the end of its useful life
and needs to be replaced. Rehabilitation and modernization of mills Is
therefore necessary, but such investments, as discussed earlier, are a
function of the business environment. In this process, it is desirable to
increase average factory size by c}csing some mills and expanding others
not eo much because of the lower unit costs of production of larger
factories but because the average cost u. new plant falls with size. While
Government now is allowing market forces to bring about further
centralization, as in the past, progressive closures and scale economies in
plant cost lead to indivisibilities that argue for monitoring of the
process and some oversight.
Estate and Smallholder Productivity
1.23      Limited land availability is the main constraint to raising
agricultural output in Mauritius and the area under sugar cultivation,
which now stands at 84,000 ha, decreased between 1972 and 1980 by 7.5
percent due to the urban spread. Hence productivity is particularly
important.  Cane yields per hectare average 70 tonnes per year for the
sub-sector as a whole representing a significant increase from the early
1960's when the average yield was only 54.5 tonnes. Yields have however
declined over the last five years as a result of droughts and cyclones.
The estates are achieving cane yields close to the maximum of available
technology. However, the cane yield of smallholders is 25 percent lower.
this results from farmers leaving cane in the ground too long before
replanting, using obsolete varieties, and slow adoption of modern
technology. The best option for land use intensification in Mauritius is
increasing smallholders' productivity.
1.24      Smallholders have had difficulties in obtaining key inputs and
related services. Agrochemicals, land preparation and cane transport
equipment and planting materials are either owned by or freely available to
estates at competitive prices. But for many small farmers arranging land
preparation and finding high-yielding planting material is costly and
difficult. Because most soils are rocky, heavy machinery is needed for
land preparation and this is difficult to organize and operate on scattered
small plots. It is also difficult for the estates, which grow the
nurseries, to provide several thousand small packages of diverse planting
material on demand. With regard to technology, estates employ professional
staff who maintain constant contact with researchers. By contrast,
smallholders depend on MOA's extension service that is too small to deal
with the large numbers of farmers, many of whom are part-timers and
frequently absent from the farm. To raise smallholders' productivity,
measures are therefore needed to improve key services to facilitate easy
access to inputs for smallholders, foster closer coordination between
farmers and millers in harvesting and transport of cane and to organize
farmers to better avail themselves of services and inputs.



- 8 -
1.25      Availability of labor has not been a problem for the industry.
Labor is, however, the single most important input in sugar manufacture,
accounting for mere than 50 percent of the operating costs of the larger
sugar estates. Its cost is a heavy burden for large producers who must
provide for a variety of worker benefits from which smaller employers are
exempt. Estates are also oblLged to maintain workers over periods when
there Is little sugar work and may not employ such workers on tasks
unrelated to sugar. Seasonal employment, a coœmon feature of sugar
industries elsewhere, is discouraged. As a result, the productivity of
labor is very low for six months of the year. While it Is essential to
protect the interests of workers in the sugar industry, it is also
desirable to increase the flexibility of employment for such workers, to
raise labor productivity. This could be accomplished by introducing
measures designed to encourage redeployment of sugar labor In other sectors
of the economy and provide greater flexibility in the use of seasonal
labor.
Fertilizers
1.26      Fertilizer imports valued at over US$7 M annually constitute the
highest foreign exchange expenditure of any one input group in Mauritian
agriculture. Fertilizers, mostly formulated locally from Imported and
local materials, are a key component of the high yield sugarcane production
package. Consumption has stabilized at 60,000 to 65,000 tonnes of
fertilizer per year, the highest in terms of nutrients per cultivated
hectare of any African country and higher than the average for Western
Europe. Over the past 10 years, fertilizer and raw material imports,
formulation, distribution and pricing were regulated by the National
Fertilizer Scheme. The scheme lowered prices to consumers, but required
the sugar industry (which consumes about 90 percent of the fertilizers) to
raise about Rs 12 M per year by a cess on sugar, to meet income shortfalls
including guaranteed dividend payment, of the Mauritius Chemical and
Fertilizer Industry Limited (MCFIL). This company, 41 percent owned by
sugar companies, had the monopoly for importing, formulating, wholesaling
and exporting fertilizers. In February 1986, the Government terminated the
scheme, including price and distribution controls and the MCFIL imports
monopoly and income supplement. Due to favorable foreign exchange
movements, the initial impact of decontrol has been a small fall in
prices. Despite the changes, MCFIL Is likely to continue to be the main
importer for some time, due to its close ties with sugar companies and
because it operates the only formulation plant in Mauritius. However, its
formulating costs may be higher than necessary due to unused capacity, and
an investigation is needed to see whether promotion of aggressive exports
to use spare capacity could reduce fixed production costs significantlv.
The advantages and disadvantages of local formulation compared to imports
need to be reviewed, also pricing and distribution issues that affect
fertilizer use. Trials are also needed to see whether more cost effective
formulations can be devised, taking into consideration not only optimal
formulation but also the optimal quantities to be used.
Irrigation
1.27      In 1977, 16,000 hectares of land were irrigated; now only 13,000
are irrigated due to the rising cost of power needed for the overhead
systems. Irrigation is important for cane in the drier northern and



-9-
western regions and for diversification crops (which are less
drought-tolerant than cane) in most areas. Important issues are: (1) the
high cost of harnessing more water resources; (ii) the high distribution
system water losses; (iii) water charges much below cost; and (iv) a
dispute about whether to allocate water to irrigation or to a hydroelectric
project at Champagne. Resolving the water allocation dispute is a
prerequisite to planning both irrigation and power development. Canal and
pipe repairs also deserve high priority. Concerning cost recovery, the
Government has raised charges considerably in recent years. Much of the
high cost stems from inefficiencies in irrigation systems, which should be
corrected before the Government considers further raises. In an effort to
explore alternatives to the overhead systems, researchers are testing drip
irrigation which requires less water and power.
Utilization of By-products
1.28      Bagasse, the fibrous residue of cane after milling, has a
potential as fuel for thermal power plants. Recent studies show that over
time and with investment by mills to improve energy efficiency and to dry
and densify bagasse, about 500,000 tonnes could become available for fuel
in Mauritius. This could be absorbed to generate year-round power by
plants already installed in three sugar mills. The next step is the
preparation of a least-cost power development plan which optimizes use of
surplus bagasse generated by sugar mills. Water allocation between
irrigation and power use would be a central issue in formulation of such a
plan. Studies are needed to assess load forecast, bagasse handling,
costing and investment needs. The pricing of bagasse will have to strike a
balance between providing sufficient incentives to mills that can produce
bagasse and ensuring that bagasse remains the least-cost fuel for power
generation.
1.29      Cane tops are cut from cane at harvest and constitute low grade
cattle feed. There is potential for increasing their use, but research and
studies are needed to see whether it can be conserved and used year-round
on a large scale. Molasses and filtercake, the other major by-products,
are fully and economically used.
Research and Diversification
1.30      The MSIRI has helped to keep Mauritius among world leaders in
cane production and milling efficiency, and has also worked successfully on
food crops which can be grown interline or in rotation with cane. However,
there are some gaps in its program, principally a lack of economic analysis
of technical findings and relatively little focus on smallholder problems.
The Institute has recognized the need to develop economic research capacity
and give more attention to smallholder problems by, for example,
investigating the factors responsible for lower yields and providing more
intensive back-up to advisory services.
1.31      Considerable efforts have been made towards diversification.  The
Government has published a White Paper with policy guidelines for
diversification, established a high-level committee to monitor progress and
is providing price support as incentive to diversify. Apart from MSIRI
food crop research, the MOA screens a large range of crops and undertakes
livestock research, and the estates have conducted many trials. There has



- 10 -
been some success in interline and rotational cropping and attaining
vegetable self-sufficiency, but as yet there is no crop which could
feasibly be grown on a large scale and could replace large cane areas.
More studies are needed to identify products with large-scale, local or
export market potential. The donor community, including the Bank, has been
actively supporting the Government's diversification program. Activities
under the proposed project in the area of research and diversification
(paras. 2.19-2.20) would be closely coordinated with ongoing and planned
programs financed from other sources.
1.32      The risk of undertaking diversification research is that
resources could be spread too thinly on too many commodities. The newly
established Food and Agricultural Research Council needs to draw up a short
list of commodities that show the best promise for profitable and
reasonably large-scale production. The capacity of MSIRI to take on more
commodity research is limited, but MOA's allocation of resources should be
reviewed. While engaged in a large program including trials and regulatory
duties, it should be possible to mobilize its resources for intensive
research programs on some additional commodities. For that purpose,
studies leading to institutional changes in MOA's research services are
needed.
D.  Industry Development Perspective and Government Policy
The Sugar Action Plan
1.33      The decline in sugar industry performance has been a source of
great concern to the Government. Accordingly, a Commission of Inquiry into
all aspects of the sugar industry was set up in December 1982 as part of
the SAL I program. Two reports, a main report (the Avramovic report) and a
dissenting report, were submitted by the Commission to the Government in
early 1984. The two reports differed in their diagnosis of the industry's
problems. While the Avramovic report stressed that the financial distress
in the industry was a result of high tax rates, the dissenting report
emphasized the effect of long-term structural problems of the industry,
especially labor relations. Based on the two reports, the Government drew
up a "Restructuration Program' for the sugar industry. On the
recommendations of both reports, the Government established NSA (paras.
1.09-1.10) to plan the restructuring in detail. The MSA subsequently
invited MCA, representing a wide spectrum of the private sector, to prepare
a Master Plan which was submitted to MSA in November 1984. Taking account
of the Master Plan, the Sugar Authority set up four task forces to prepare
the Sugar Action Plan (SAP).
1.34      The SAP was published in February 1985 and projects the
industry's course over the 1985-90 period. The recommendations are based
on the premise that because growth is constrained by market factors and
land availability, the industry's future prospects will depend on: (a)
productivity improvements in the use of land, machinery and labor; (b)
utilization of sugarcane by-products; (c) agricultural diversification; and
(d) cooperation and trust between all parties in the industry.
1.35      To attain its objectives, the SAP proposed: (a) investment
programs for Improving planters' productivity, sugar mill rehabilitation



- l1l -
and rationalization, producing energy from bagasse and intensifying
research particularly for smallholders' problems; and (b) restructuring
measures to: (i) broaden mill ownership; (ii) revise company and
partnership laws to provide for better disclosures; (ifi) encourage
separation of milling from estate enterprises and establish companies for
mills; (iv) reform accounting and financial practices of the sugar
industry; and (v) amend the tax framework to strike a better balance
between adequate returns to the industry and its contribution to Government
budget resources. The proposals of SAP are generally similar to those of
the Master Plan and enjoy the consensus of the private sector on the
majority of issues.
Recent Policy Measures
1.36      On March 15, 1985 the Minister of Agriculture presented SAP to
the Legislative Assembly. Subsequently, the Sugar Industry Package Deal
Bill was enacted to provide important structural changes. The restriction
on mill closures was lifted and two mills closed in June 1985.  Taxes on
the transfer of agricultural land have been substantially reduced to
encourage sales of marginal land by estates and the consolidation of
smallholdings into more viable units. The anomaly in the method of
computing export duty based on historical land holding has also been
eliminated and replaced by a system through which the tax is related to the
size of current land holdings. The most significant tax change, however,
is an alteration in the export tax structure. The exemption ceiling on the
tax was raised from 75 to 1,000 tonnes of sugar exports and the tax was
made progressive to apply to incremental rather than total production,
thereby reducing average incidence even to larger producers. Retroactive
to 1984, the reform amounted to a tax relief of about Rs 100 M to the
industry as a whole and an average of Rs 1.6 M for each large plantation
and sugar mill. Over the last few years, the Government has also reduced
income tax rates and has introduced special 'investment allowances' for
investments in machinery and equipment.
1.37      The Government has also improved accountability of corporations.
The Company Act has been revised for the first time since 1913 and
legislation governing partnerships is also being changed. There has
already been progress among miller-planter companies toward establishing
separate accounts for the mill and the plantation, but some care is needed
to avoid tax disadvantages that may arise from separating the enterprises.
There are also moves toward standardized accounting formats, designed by
MCA and an accounting firm.
1.38      The Government has also addressed diversification issues.  With
World Bank funding, studies have been completed on the tea industry, the
livestock subsector and irrigation. The first two are under review, while
the latter has indicated a strategy for improving irrigation supplies.
With EEC financing, a study was completed on production and marketing
potential for horticultural produce. Finally, the MSA, assisted by
Bank-financed consultants, has drawn up a project preparation report, based
on SAP.



- 12 -
Further Policy Measures
1.39      There is need to further strengthen the business environment.
However, an analytical basis for further reforms of both pricing and
taxation systems can be developed only after-the ongoing efforts to (a)
adopt a uniform accounting system in the industry, (b) undertake
revaluation of assets of estates and mills, and (c) separate mill and
estate accounts, are completed. Thereafter, a comprehensive study of
pricing and taxation options would be needed to explore how best to: (a)
achieve an efficient and equitable distribution of the rent from EEC/US
sugar prices between Government, industry and labor; and (b) develop an
incentive framework that would (i) assure adequate investment in the
private sector of the industry; (ii) support mill centralization resulting
from operation of market forces; (iii) permit efficient redeployment of
land, labor and capital out of sugar as warranted by the limited market
prospects for sugar and additional production arising from productivity
improvements; and (iv) encourage widening of ownership of industry assets.
Based on the findings of the study, the Government would need to develop a
comprehensive package of financial and institutional measures.
1.40      To improve smallholder productivity, it is necessary to design
an institutional structure that would serve the following objectives: (i)
improve coordination between the smallholders and the mill on harvesting
and transport planning; (ii) allow planters to gain better access to input
supplies; and (iii) strengthen extension services available to small
planters. A pilot scheme for development of institutional arrangements has
to be initiated to identify an appropriate long-term institutional
structure.
1.41      In the fertilizer sub-sector, Government has recently removed all
controls. In addition, it should carry out several investigations to
encourage optimum fertilizer use (para. 1.26). These should cover cost
savings that MCFIL could achieve by encouraging exports and thereby fuller
plant capacity utilization; cost effectiveness of fertilizer mixes; pricing
and distribution; and the advantages and disadvantages of local formulation
compared to imports.
1.42      Technology generation for smallholders and for diversification
out of sugarcane call for adjustment in priorities for research carried out
by existing institutions. With the establishment of an apex Food and
Agricultural Research Council, an institutional framework has been
established to carry out this task, but a major work program will have to
be successfully carried out, to effectively deal with the problem.
1.43      Government has already embarked on a Pre-Investment Analysis and
Arrangements for a Least Cost Expansion of Power System Study (Annex 4).
The completion of this analysis and study should assist Government in
making water allocation and management decisions, paving the way for
investment actions on irrigation for sugarcane and other crops, and in
developing a bagasse pricing policy that would encourage its use for power
generation.



- 13 -
E. Bank Role in the Agriculture Sector
1.44      The Bank has lessons to draw from the two agricultural projects
it has supported in Mauritius prior to SAL's. A Tea Project was
unsuccessful in designing an institutional framework for smallholder tea
growing and for controlling the labor costs of the Tea Development
Authority. However, some progress has been made in these areas under the
SAL's. While smallholder tea growing has been organized, processing
capacity constraints and high operating costs of the Tea Development
Authority still cause a considerable burden on the Government budget. A
Rural Development Project did not fulfill production expectations again due
to design shortcomings. The experience of these two projects points
strongly to the need for project design to carefully integrate investments
with reform of the policy environment and the institutional structure. The
problems involved in public sector operations have helped shift focus on
exploiting more fully the potential in the private sector through creation
of an appropriate business environment.
1.45      The Bank has made a major impact into the restructuring of the
sugar industry through the two SAL operations and through an intensive
dialogue with both the Government and the private sector during the
preparation of a major Sector Report (Report No. 5812-MAS: March 1986).
The Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project provided consultant support
for the preparation of SAP and preparation for the Sugar Industry Project.
The Bank has assisted Government in developing a consensus among the
various elements in the sugar industry on SAP. The proposed project
represents a logical extension of this involvement.



- 14 -
CHAPTER II - THE PROJECT
A. Project History
2.01      The sugar industry "restructuration" has been one of the central
themes of the IMF Standby Arrangements and the two Bank Structural
Adjustment Loans. As explained in the preceding chapter, the sugar
industry strategy was developed through a process that began with the 1982
Inquiry Commission and led to formulation of the Restructuration Policy,
the Master Plan and SAP. Bank staff had collaborated at all stages and,
after review of SAP in April 1985, encouraged the Government to write a
project preparation report. This report 'Action Plan for the Sugar
Industry 1985-1990 - Project Preparation" was completed in August 1985.  It
formed the basis for project appraisal by a mission that visited Mauritius
during September 1985. The mission collaborated closely with a Bank team
of energy specialists that was studying the use of bagasse for generating
electricity.
B. Project Rationale and Objectives
2.02      The Project encompasses and supports measures designed to achieve
structural reform in the sugar subsector through an increase in production
efficiency, improvements in technology, and changes in the institutional
and policy environment. Taking into account constraints, the central aim
of the project is to increase the productivity of resources used in meetirng
the industry's target level of production, not to raise the total output of
sugar. In the long run, Mauritius aims to diversify its agricultural
production, substitute for its food imports as much as possible, and
produce alternative export products.
2.03      The specific objectives of the project as developed from SAP
(paras. 1.33-1.35) include:
(a)  rehabilitating and modernizing the sugar mills, limiting average
sugar production levels to 615,000 tonnes per year because of
market constraints;
(b)  strengthening financial performance of the subsector; maintaining
social stability within the industry through measures to increase
transparency and broaden ownership; and gearing MSA for its role
in policy planning and coordination;
(c)  providi-g incentives for productivity improvements in the use of
land, labor, fertilizers, machinery and equipment, thereby
raising efficiency of sugar production, both in the field as well
as in the factory;
(d)  improving application of technology by small farmers through
better extension, farm services and input supplies;



- 15 -
(e)  strengthening research on technology developmcnt for:  (i) the
industry In general; (ii) small farmers in particular,
(iii) diversification out of sugarcane; and (iv) the use of sugar
by-products; and
(f) supporting further efforts on development of irrigation and use
of bagasse for power generation.
2.04      Sugar is and will remain the single most important sub-sector in
the Mauritian economy. The proposed project would underpin SAP, which is
the key to social and economic stability in Mauritius and is essential for
maintaining Mauritius' balance of payments. The SAP encompasses a series
of further vital policy reforms which need to be carefully orchestrated to
maintain social stability. With regard to these policy changes, the
Government has sent a Letter of Intent that confirms its commitment to SAP
(Annex 1).
C. Project Components
2.05      In seeking to address the above objectives (para. 2.03) the
project, to be implemented over a five-year period, would comprise the
following major components:
(i) provision of foreign exchange for the importation by sugar
companies of machinery, materials and equipment to support mill
rehabilitation and modernization (para. 2.03 (a));
(ii) provision of foreign exchange for fertilizer material imports
(pars 2.03(c) and (d));
(iii)  technical assistance, office and logistics support to assist MSA
in performing its policy planning role including the undertaking
of essential industry studies (para. 2.03 (b) (c) and (f));
(iv) establishment of Farmers' Service Centers (para. 2.03 (d)); and
(v)  support to MSIRI's and MOA's research programs (para. 2.03 (e)).
2.06      The proposed loan would cover the investment needs projected
under SAP except for financing of the development of the irrigation
potential and part of the bagasse utilization, which are expected to be
dealt with in future operations.
Detailed Features
2.07      Sugar Mill Investments (US$25.0 M).  For reasons explained
earlier, investments for mill machinery and equipment have in recent years
been well below average (paras. 1.19-1.20). A survey of investments needed
and likely to be made over the period 1985-1990 has been carried out on a
factory-by-factory basis by MCA as part of Its preparation of the Master



- 16 -
Plan. The total investment costs were estimated to be not less than
US$25 M, with about 60 percent foreign cost. The results of the survey
have been reviewed by Bank-financed consultants and the appraisal mission.
As such they serve as the basis for determining the size of the project's
mill investment component and provide an indicative program for mill
investments in rehabilitation, modernization, some capacity expansion of
individual mills as a result of further centralization, and energy
generation over the project period, considered essential to maintain high
standards of mill efficiency (Annex 2, Appendix 1). Investments would
cover all aspects of mill operations including the cane yard, milling
station, boiling house, product storage, steem and power generation,
laboratories, workshops, transport and other mill supporting systems. In
addition to deferred maintenance and replacement, investments are expected
to cover some of the requirements generated by mill centralization.
Further mill closures could well be triggered by a need for major
replacement investments that may not prove viable for a few smaller and
financially weak factories.
2.08      Mill investments are expected to include minor rehabilitation of
facilities and equipment to improve bagasse handling at its present level.
Decisions by mill owners with respect to larger scale investments in mill
modifications, machinery and equipment for expanded, year round, use of
bagasse for power generation are, however, dependent on the completion of
investigations regarding bagasse aspects of mill modifications and the
formulation by the Government of a comprehensive bagasse pricing package.
The latter action is in turn dependent on Government decision following the
study on Least Cost Expansion of Power Systems (para. 3.13). Investment
requirements for bagasse handling and power generation will also be
determined by the progress in mill centralization. Therefore, the bulk of
the investment requirements in the energy sector of mill operations would
have to be addressed by future operations for power development and sugar
factory modernization.
2.09      The investment climate has improved during the last year
following better sugar yields and recent policy measures introduced by the
Government. As a result, a request by the Government for retroactive
financing under the project (para. 2.27) was prompted by millers planning
investments during the current 1986 'off season." Further improvements in
the investment climate are expected to follow as the Governvtent, as
anticipated under SAP, proceeds with the formulation and implementation of
policy reforms. The loan would provide the foreign exchange (US$15 M
equivalent) to be used over a five-year period for the importation by mill
owners of machinery equipment and raw materials for local fabrication. 1/
The investment decisions would continue to be made by mill owners who would
buy the foreign exchange needed from the Government. The owners would be
responsible for arranging local currency financing of the investments.
2.10      The choice of linking part of the loan proceeds to the mill
investment program in the manner described above rather than through
institutional onlending operations, involving individual sub-project
appraisals, is based on the following considerations:
1/ Annual investment levels have never dropped below US$2.5 M with recent
historical levels being closer to US$7 M in current dollars.



- 17 -
(M)  the financial management practices within the industry are
efficient, leaving little doubt that mill owners will base
investment decisions on sound financial criteria;
(ii)  the availability of omestic institutional credit is not a
otnstraint on investments In mill rehabilitation and
modernization; and
(iii)  the &bjective of fostering a positive business environment is
served by holding outside involvement, guidance and possibly
interference in investment decisions to a minimum.
2.11      Monitoring of the level and direction of mill owners' investment
activities would be through the establishment of a list of items eligible
for importation under the project's mill investment component (based on
Annex 2, Appendix 1). The Government's assurances were obtained that the
use of foreign exchange provided under the loan for importation of mill
machinery and equipment would be limited to items included in a list of
eligible items that was agreed on during negotiations. The need for
introducing supplementary measures for monitoring and overseeing the
private sector's mill investment activities would be periodically assessed
in light of the progress in the implementation of the mill Investment
program.  In particmlar, it would be part  X the Mid-Term Project Review
(para. 3.20).
2.12      Fertilizers (US$9.4 M).  About US$7 M of fertilizers and raw
materials for formulation of fertilizers are imported annually by MCFIL.
These imports include Muriate of Potash, Anhydrous Ammonia, Di Ammonium
Phosphate, Ammonium Sulphate, Triple Superphosphate and Single
Superphosphate. The project would help to finance foreign exchange costs
of these key contributants to agricultural productivity. Furthermore, it
would support a study of several issues affecting the fertilizer
sub-sector, including pricing and distribution issues, factory capacity
utilization, and formulations used by planters (para. 3.10 (6)). While no
longer protected by monopoly rights, MCFIL is likely to remain the dominant
importer for some time (para. 1.26).
2.13      Institutional support to the Mauritius Sugar Authority (-US$1.0 M,
Annex 5, Table 2). The project would support the strengthening of MSA to
effectively carry out its tasks (para. 1.09) particularly as they relate to
sugar industry policy and planning, by providing technical assistance and
logistics support, i.e. vehicles, office equipment incluci.,g computing
facilities.
2.14      The technical assistance component is specifically designed to
assist MSA during the early stage of project implementation in carrying out
a series of industry studies. The main study, the Sugar Industry
Efficiency Study (SIES), which in itself contains six components,
constitutes the essential first step towards formulating and implementing
reforms under SAP which would address major policy objectives (para.
3.08). Proposed Terms of Reference for SIES are presented in Annex 3.
2915      A total of 57 man-months of technical assistance would be
provided, consisting of (l) 21 man-months including a financial anal;At, an
economist and a sugar Industry engineer to specifically assist MSA in
undertaking SIES; (ii) 10 man-months for visiting consultants to assist MSA



- 18 -
in addressing specific problems; (iii) 2 man-months of technical assistance
for a Cane Transportation Study for which timing would be decided later;
and (iv) 24 man-months involving a Sugar Industry Specialist to be employed
by MOA to assist the Ministry in discharging its responsibilities under the
project, including that of helping and guiding MSA in undertaking SIES.
2.16      All of the above consultants would be internationally recruited
and have experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. The
selection of the Sugar Industry Specialist is a condition for Loan
Effectiveness. The Government has agreed with the Bank on the desirability
of commencing SIES early and for this purpose, PPF funding has been
recommended (para. 2.26).
2.17      Farmers' Service Centers (FSCs) (US$4.2 M, Annex 5, Table 3). 2/
These centers would be established to help small-scale planters (with less
than 100 arpents cane) to improve production of sugar and related crops.
The centers would serve about 33,000 planters who grow about 66,000 arpents
cane. A typical center would serve roughly 2,000 planters growing 4,000
arpents cane by intensifying extension services, and by helping planters to
organize harvesting, cane transport, replanting and inputs supplies. The
Center would house, under one roof, existing suppliers and agencies dealing
with inputs and services to make them more accessible to planters. The
centers' staff would spend about 80 percent of its time in improving
services and about 20 percent on direct advisory work. Operating
experience would determine the exact number of centers needed to cover all
factory areas, but 16 has been used for costing purposes. Bank funds would
help to finance buildings, equipment, technical assistance and staff
training abroad including visits by senior key staff to review successful
examples in other countries of operations similar to those envisaged under
the proposed FSC component.
2.18      The Centers would be directed by a Project Implementation Cell
staffed by a General Manager, Training Officer and Agricultural Engineer.
Initially these three posts would need to be filled by expatriates while
local deputies receive training abroad. The centers have been modelled on
successful smallholder schemes elsewhere, but the concept is new to
Mauritius. Therefore, to test the scheme and gain operating experiente
before investing ou a large scale, three pilot centers would be established
soon. Assurances were therefore obtained that the pilot scheme of three
Centers would become operative by March 3!, 1987. PPF assistance for
employing the consultants and retroactive financing for construction and
equipment costs that are already being incurred have been recommended
(paras. 2.26 and 2.27). Expansion of additional Centers would be decided
during the mid-term review in September 1988 (para. 3.20). The General
Manager is urgently needed to initiate the pilot scheme and this
appointment is a condition for Loan Effectiveness. The other management
unit staff should also be in place early, and assurances were obtained that
Lhey would be appointed before December 31, 1986. The General Manager
would plan the operation, appoint staff and, with the Training Officer,
organize intensive staff training.
2/ Details are in Annex 2, Section E.



- 19 -
2.19      Research - MSIRI (US$3.3 M, Annex 5, Table 4).  3/  The loan
would help to expand MSXRI's programs for assisting small-scale planters.
These would include: developing a field-by-field land index that would he
the basis both for advisory work and land-use planning; strengthening the
research-extension liaison and economic research units to support FSCs and
conduct economic studies that would guide advisory services; and expand
irrigation research into small farm areas. The loan would also support new
research programs for cane improvement (high fiber content for increasing
bagasse, drought-resistance to reduce Irrigation requirements); crop
diversification; energy related problems (including bagasse technology) and
sugar technology. These programs are essential to SAP and without
assistance from the loan, would be delayed by several years. The MSIRI
would bear recurrent costs while Bank funds would help to finance civil
works and equipment, 16 months technical assistance and overseas seminars
and training.
2.20      Research - Ministry of Agriculture (USSO.6 M, Annex 5, Table 4).
Products that will widen planters' diversification options need to be
identified. Such products should preferably have labor requirements and
returns close to those of sugar and reasonably large-scale markets. First,
a record of all past trials by public and private agencies should be
completed. This would guide the identification effort and prevent
repetition of past work. Next, a detailed agronomy/markets study is needed
to relate the range of crops/products that can be raised in Mauritius to
local and overseas market demand. These studies should lead to a short
list of promising products that would justify intensive research and
development support. The studies and selection of products, to be the
subject of further research ander the project, would be supervised by the
Food and Agricultural Research Council and assurances were obtained that
this task would be completed by October 31, 1986.
2.2i      The MSIRI may only be able to work on a limited number of
additional commodities, but the MOA agricultural service should he able to
mobilize part of its considerable scientific manpower and laboratory
resources for additional intensive commodity research. There are
institutional constraints to the full development of the resources.
Consequently, the Ministry agreed to commission a study by an experienced
research administrator that would identify changes needed to enable the
Ministry to carry out the necessary diversification research.
2.22      MOA scientists confirmed that only modest additional investments
would be needed to supplement existing facilities and equipment, and to
intensify diversification research. Consequently, US$500,000 have been
included in the loan for a diversification research subproject, to be
designed by MOA.  The amount is based nn preliminary estimates of several
research proposals that would be considered by the diversification study,
but a detailed sub-project for diversification research and use of project
funds needs to be prepared. Assurances were obtained that such sub-
project, satisfactory to the Bank, would be prepared by MOA by December 31,
1986.
3/ Technical details on MSIRI and MOA research programs are in Annex 2,
Section F.



- 20 -
D. Cost and Financing
Cost Estimates
2.23      The total cost of investments that the loan would help to finance
is estimated at US$44.9 M equivalent, of which 67 percent is foreign cost
and 33 percent is local cost, including 2 percent in taxes and duties.
Costs have been based on September 1985 prices and 10 percent physical
contingencies have been addded to construction cost estimates. Price
contingencies of 6 percent annually for local costs and 7 percent annually
for 1985 and 1986 and 7.5 percent annually thereafter for foreign costs,
both sets compounded annually, have beer applied to base costs plus
physical contingencies. Incremental major operating costs have been
included where they occur. Detailed cost tables are in Annex 5 and the
following is a summary of the estimated project costs:
PROECT COST SNRY
(RS Million)     ($ Million)            Z Total
-  Foruign  Ome
Loeal Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Eehanfe  Costs
=                 == =a Xsma= -a  :c
A. FACTORY INM MIE         155.02 232.50 387.52 10.00  15.00 25,00  60     58
B. FERTILIZRS                  - 145,70 145.70    -  9.40 9.40     100    22
C. NRITIUS 9WAR AUhRITY     2,51  12,55 15.06  0.16  0.81 0.97      83      2
D. FARMERS SERVICE CENTERS  33.56  30.58 64.14  2.17  1.97 4.14    48      10
E. RESEARCH
NSIRI                    26.13  25.28 51.41  1.69  1.63 3.32     49      8
DEPARMENT OF AGRICULTURE  2.00  7.91  9.9  0.13   0.51 0.64      80      1
Sub-Total RESEARCH          28.13  33,19 61.32  1.82  2.14 3.96     54      9
Total ASELINE COSTS         219.22 454.52 673.74 14.14  29.32 43.47  67    100
Physical Contingencies     0.57  1.19  1.76  0.04  0.08 0.11       68      0
Price Contingnies          11.03  9.29 20.32  0.71  0.60 1.31      46      3
Total MJECT COSTS           230.82 465*00 695.82 14.89  30.00 44.89  67    103
Financing
2.24       The operation would be financed by a proposed IBRD loan of US$30
M. It would, over five years, finance US$15 M foreign cost of the factory
investment program and over three years US$9.4 M of the fertilizer imports
program. Another US$5.6 M of the loan would finance 100 percent of the
foreign cost or 79 percent of the total cost of the other project
components, i.e. strengthening MSA, establishing FSCs and expanding
research by MSIRI and MOA. Funding 'or such activities is usually provided
by the Government as grant finance. Assurances were obtained that the
Government would pass on US$.9 M to MSA and US$1.8 M to MSIRI as grants.



- 21 -
US$2.9 M would be retained by the Government to help finance MOA's project
activities including establishment of FSCs. The proposed loan-would be for
17 years with a 4 year grace period. The financing plan by disbursement
category is shown below:
Finaning Plan Su Disburset Cateory
(Us$ Nillion)
SEMUNT/PARASTATAL
IURD         INDUTRY        Total         Local
-- - --- ---                       For.  (Excl. Dies I
A=Mnt  X      Amont     %   Amunt  X   Exch, Taxes)  Taxes
s    ~z =&-    a=mz ==            USX   9z-      =
A. FACTORY INVESTENS       15.00 60.00    10.00   40.00  25.00 55.69 15.00  10.00  -
B. FERTILIZFRS              *40 10.00       -        -  9.40 20.94  9.40    -       -
C. CIVIL VW10              1.00 67,45     0,48   32.55  1.48  3.29  1.00  0.42   0.06
0. EUIPENT I VECLES        1.46 60.88     09.4    39.12  2.41  5.36  1.46   -    0.94
E. TATRMAINP AM STUDIES    2.84 97.14     0.08    2.86  2.92  6.51  2.*84  o.0o     -
F. INCRENTAL OPERATINS COSTS  -    -      3.39   100.00  3,39  7.54    -  3.39     -
B. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY   0.30 100.00  -     -  0.30  0,67  0.30    -      -
Total Disbursewnt           30,00 66,.3    14.89   33.17  44,89 100,00 30.00  13.89    1.00
2.25      Local currency financing for the factory investment and
fertilizer imports would be met by the mill owners and fertilizer
importers, respectively, who have adequate access to funds required through
local credit institutions. The local currency requirements of MSA, FSC's
and MSIRI would be met from existing cesses levied on sugar production.
Only MOA's small local currency requirement would be met by the
Government's budget.
Project Preparation Facility
2.26      Certain activities should be initiated early to maintain the
momentum of industry restructuring and facilitate project implementation.
These activities include appointing the General Manager, Training Officer
and Agricultural Engineer for the FSC Project Implementation Cell, which
would require US$120,000 Bank finance. This expenditure would allow early
completion of the three pilot Centers and related staff recruitment and
training so that the Centers could be in operation in December 1986.
Further, since MOA has to gear NSA to fulfill its functions effectively,
the Sugar Industry Specialist must be appointed as soon as possible. The
various studies to be undertaken by MSA and the study by MOA to identify
diversification commodities, should also be initiated as soon as possible.
For those purposes, MSA would require Bank financing of US$180,000.
Altogether US$300,000 in Bank funding would be needed through a Project
Preparation Facility to finance pre-project expenditures. A request from
the Government for such an advance has been approved.



- 22 -
Retroactive Financing
2.27      Following the Sugar Industry Package Deal Act, the resulting
revival of confidence in the long-term future of the industry, and improved
financial results due to the good 1985 harvest, some mills are planning to
carry out overdue machinery replacement and mill improvement programs
during the present "closed' season (January to June 1986). The Government
is anxious to use foreign exchange from the proposed loan to defray foreign
costs. The Government has also initiated construction of and equipment
purchases for FSCs, so that the pilot scheme can covmence as soon as
possible. To prevent delaying investments by one season and to avoid loss
of momentum that has built up among millers and benefits from mill
maintenance and improvements and to facilitate early testing of the
effectiveness of FSCs, retroactive financing up to US$2.5 M of the loan is
proposed. This would cover most of projected foreign costs from October 1,
1985, of the sugar mills investment program, the foreign cost of FSCs
equipment requirements and 70 percent of the FSC construction cost.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
2.28      All fertilizer and fertilizer material and machinery, material
and equipment for mill investments amounting to US$2.0 M equivalent or more
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) following
the Bank's guidelines as applied under SAL operations.  Contracts for such
procurement estimated to cost less than US$2.0 M equivalent each, will be
awarded on the basis of normal industrial and commercial procurement
procedures which shall be satisfactory to the Bank. For other components,
contracts for civil works (total cost US$1.5 M spread over 5 years and 17
sites) will be awarded after local competitive bidding. Contracts for
vehicles and equipment (total cost US$2.4 M) exceeding US$100,000 each will
require ICB. Smaller contracts can be awarded after local competitive
bidding procedures, which are satisfactory, or after international shopping
based on price quotations from at least three suppliers. Contracts for
technical assistance will be awarded on the basis of Bank guidelines. A
procurement plan is shown below:



- 23 -
Procurement Method a/
bf   NOT
ICB   LCB   OTHER   APPLICABLE   TOTAL
-US- M--- ___-_____
1) Imports
a) Mill Equipment and           6.0          19.0 b/               25.0
Machinery                   (4.0)        (11.0)                (15.0)
b) Inputs                       9.4                                 9.4
(9.4)                              (9.4)
2)  Civil Works                            1.5                          1.5
(1.0)                        (1.0)
3)  Equipment and Vehicles          1.2           1.2 c/                2.4
(0.8)        (0.7)                 (1.5)
4)  TA, Training and Studies                                 3.2        3.2
(3.1)     (3.1)
5)  Increased Operating Costs                                3.4        3.4
(0.0)     (0.0)
TOTAL                16.6   1.5   20.2         6.6      44.9
(14.2) (1.0) (11.7)       (3.1)    (30.0)
a/ Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by IBRD.
I/ Millers' commercial practices.
el International shopping.
2.29      For all civil works contracts exceeding US$200,000 and for
contracts for purchase of sugar mill machinery, equipment and related raw
materials and for fertilizers exceeding US$2.0 M and for other equipment
and vehicles ex-eeding US$100,000, proposals for advertising, draft bid
documents, specifications, bid evaluations and award proposals would be
sent to the Bank for review before contract award. Other contracts would
be subject to selective post-award reviews. Two copies of all contracts,
whether subject to pre-award review or not would be sent to the Bank prior
to submission of the first withdrawal application and prior to making the
first payment in respect of the contract out of the special accounts (para.
2.32). Assurances have been obtained that procedures described in this and
the preceding paragraph would be followed.



- 24 -
Disbursements
2.30      The US$30 M Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
(i) 100 percent of the foreign exchange expenditures of imported
sugar mill equipment and machinery and raw materials for local
fabrication (US$15 M);
(ii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange expenditures of imported
fertilizer and fertilizer materials (US$9.4 M);
(iii)  100 percent of the foreign exchange expenditures of imported
equipment and vehicles, and 65 percent of local expenditures for
imported items procured locally (US$1.5 M);
(iv) 70 percent of the total cost of civil works (US$1.0 M);
(v) 100 percent of total expenditures for consultant services and
overseas training (US$2.8 M); and
(vi) refund for the Project Preparation Advance (US$.3 M, para. 2.26).
2.31      Retroactive financing in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of US$2.5 M would be provided in respect of the foreign exchange
costs for sugar mill machinery and equipment and FSC construction and
equipment costs made before loan signing, but after October 1, 1985.
2.32      To facilitate project implementation and expedite disbursements,
the Government would open two special accounts in foreign exchange in the
project's name in the Bank of Mauritius. The first account would be used
for disbursements against importation of mill machinery and equipment and
fertilizers. The second special account would be operated by the MOA
Project Unit (para. 3.01) for disbursements against eligible project
expenditures under components other than the mill investment program and
fertilizer imports. At Loan Effectiveness, IBRD would make initial
deposits of US$2.0 M and US$.3 M into the respective two accounts.
2.33      The use of the loan to finance the sugar mill investment program
and fertilizer purchases would be administered in the same way as funds
earlier provided under SAL I and SAL II and the Bank of Mauritius would be
responsible for submitting withdrawal applications (para. 3.04). For the
other components, disbursement requests from all participants would be
submitted through MOA. All disbursements against contracts exceeding
US$20,000 would be fully documented. Reimbursements against contracts for
less than US$20,000 would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures supporting documentation for which would be held in each case
in one central location available for inspection by the Bank's supervision
missions.



- 25 -
2.34      For the foreign-exchange financing for the sugar mill investment
component, the disbursement profile of 5 years is based on (i) an existing
backlog of replacement investments (retroactive financing of up to
US$2.5 M); (ii) the record of investments over the past few years; and
(iII) the indicative program of investment (para. 2.07) which is considered
realistic in light of the improvements in the business environment expected
from Bank involvement and further policy reforms under SAP. Since the
foreign exchange provided for fertilizer Imports is equivalent to less than
one and a half years' requirements, disbursements are projected over three
years. The balance of the loan contains expenditures for studies and
equipment that would also have to be made in the early project disbursement
period. The loan is extended over five years to allow the smallholder and
research improvement components to operate effectively. With 80 percent of
the loan likely to be disbursed within four years, the disbursement
schedule (Annex 6) is not comparable to Bank disbursement profiles.



- 26 -
CHAPTER III - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Administration
3.01      The Ministry of Agriculture would be in overall charge of project
execution, including the coordination of the activities of the various
implementing agencies engaged under the project. The Permanent Secretary
in MOA would head a small project unit comprising the internationally
recruited Sugar Industry Specialist (para. 2.15), an Accounts Officer and
clerical staff.
3.02      The MOA would administer the component dealing with the
strengthening of MSA. Assurances were obtained from Government that
recruitment to the position of Executive Director, MSA and the three
departmental heads for Financial Analysis, Sugar Technology and Agriculture
would be based on criteria, satisfactory to the Bank, in regard to
qualifications and experience needed for these positions and that the
positions would be maintained with incumbents who fulfill these criteria
during the project period. The appointment of the full time Executive
Director is a condition for Loan Effectiveness and assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the three Departmental Heads would be appointed no
later than October 31, 1986.
3.03      The FSC component would be administered by MOA initially through
the Sugar Industry Development Fund, which would support the local costs of
the venture. The General Manager of the FSC Project Implementation Cell
would report directly to MOA. During the project mid-term review,
alternative institutional models for FSCs would be investigated and more
permanent institutional arrangements designed.
3.04      The MOA would disburse funds to MSIRI for the research component
as grant, and directly handle funds earmarked for development of research
within the MOA. The factory investment and fertilizer and fertilizer
material import components involve purchase of foreign exchange by
companies and disbursement of funds would be handled by the Bank of
Mauritius (para. 2.33). Assurances were obtained from the Government that
it would assign to MOA and the Bank of Mauritius, responsibility for
supervising procurement and disbursement for these components, and that
disbursements for these components would be authorized only after
verification with MOA that each application conforms to an approved list of
eligible import items agreed between the Government and the Bank (para.
2.11). This official would also be responsible for furnishing, each
quarter, a statement of actual foreign exchange sold to sugar mills to
enable MOA (and MSA) to monitor investment taking place in the milling
industry.
B, Sugar Action Plan Implementation
3.05      The Letter of Intent sent by the Government to IBRD (para.2.04
and Annex 1) describes the agenda for SAP. Two major sets of studies have
to be completed to provide the basis for further reform. They are (i) the
Sugar Itdustry Efficiency Study (SIES), and (ii) Pre-Investment Analysis
and Arrangements for a Least Cost Expansion of the Power System



- 27 -
Study (LCES). The SIES, supported by funds that would be provided as part
of the proposed Bank loan, would be implemented through MSA with broad
industry involvement. The LCES is receiving funding from non-project
sources and would be implemented by the Ministry of Energy and Internal
Communications (MEIC). It would pave the way for reform in the area of
bagasse pricing which is essential to support further investments by sugar
companies in bagasse handling and power generation (paras. 1.28 and 2.08).
3.06      Given the importance of the sugar industry to the economy and the
integration of project activities with the Government's implementation of
SAP, there is a need for a review at the highest level of Government of the
recommendations of the above two main policy-related studies and for
initiating appropriate Government action regarding institutional and policy
reforms on the basis of such a review% To this end, assurances were
obtained that an interministerial committee, consisting of senior officials
from the Ministry of Finance (Chairman) and the Ministries of Agriculture,
Energy, Economic Planning and Development and Labor and such other persons
that the Government may deem appropriate would be established by October
31, 1986.
3.07      Close involvement of the private sector in the undertaking and
review of SIES and LCES would be essential to pave the way for consensus
on subsequent policy reforms. Such involvement would be facilitated by the
existing industry representation on the Board and Advisory Council of MSA
and close collaboration between MSA and MCA. Furthermore, with respect to
LCES, there will be a need for consultation with duly representative bodies
of the industry on matters relating to the practical implementation and
policy framework of the bagasse aspects of the least cost expansion of the
power system.
The Sugar Industry Efficiency Study
3.08      Objectives.  The objectives, scope, organization and
implementation schedule of SIES are presented in Annex 3. Summarizing, the
broad objectives of SIES are to:
(i)  lay the foundation for rational institutional and policy reforms
to promote the industry's competitiveness and efficient
utilization of resources in meeting the adopted production target
of 615,000 tonnes of sugar per year and paving the way for
agricultural diversification; and in this process
(ii)  foster mutual trust between sugar companies, labor, planters,
sugar agencies and the Government by improving transparency of
sugar company operations.
3.09      The output sought from SIES is a series of specific
recommendations for reforms in the policy and legislative framework of the
industry which in turn, through subsequent and timely Government action,
would lead to:
(i) improvements in the efficiency of mills and estates and the
preservation of the financial viability of the industry;



- 28 -
(ii) a long run evolution of the milling sub-sector that would exploit
potential economies of scale and establish an efficient national
structure for the industry;
(iii) a broadening of ownership in the milling sub-sector;
(iv) enhanced labor productivity in the industry; and
(v)  improved efficiency in the fertilizer sub-sector.
3.10      Study Components.  The SIES consists of the following six study
components:
(1)  Accounting Systems and Standardization Study, to prescribe
uniform accounting and auditing procedures for sugar companies to
facilitate (i) effective comparisons of financial status and
performance across enterprises and over time and (ii) further
evaluation of the policy framework (Component 3).
(2)  Asset Revaluation, to facilitate objective financial appraisal of
sugar companies with results feeding into Study Component 3.
(3)  Policy Options and Pricing Study, to
(i) evaluate the adequacy of current policies and sugar pricing
arrangements in providing signals to the private sector
which would result in a pattern of mill investments and
closures that would be economically most efficient; and
based thereon to
(i1) evaluate options and make recommendations for modifications
to the policy framework and pricing arrangements appropriate
to the need to promote economic efficiency in resource
utilization, while simultaneously assessing the consequences
of such modifications for other industry objectives related
to employment, mill ownership structure and Government
revenues, as well as to agricultural diversification.
(4) Factory-Plantation Separation and Mill Ownership Study, to
recommend measures to (i) encourage separate incorporation of
mills and plantations to pave the way for broadening of mill
ownership; and (ii) encourage wider ownership of mill companies
through appropriate incentives and the establishment of a stock
exchange.
(5)  Manpower and Labor Productivity Study, to examine in an
historical perspective employment trends in the sugar industry
covering (i) changes in real and nominal wage levels; (ii) inter-
unit variations in labor use; (iii) impact of likely
technological changes; (iv) mobility of labor within and outside
the industry as a result of new opportunities emerging from
diversification of the economy; (v) seasonal aspects of labor
demand; and (vi) cost-effective labor deployment. Various
safeguards and measures designed in the past to promote labor
welfare and acquired rights of labor would be taken into account.



- 29 -
(6)  Fertilizer Sub-Sector Study, to investigate the scope for
efficiency improvements in the fertilizer sub-sector with
particular emphasis on (i) the advantages and disadvantages of
local formulation compared to imports; (ii) better capacity
utilization in the industry; (iii) strengthen'ng of research on
cost effective fertilizer packages; and (iv) pricing and
distribution issues.
3.11      Organization.  The MSA, under MOA guidance, would be responsible
for organizing, coordinating and supervising the implementation of SIES.
It would be assisted by MOA's Sugar Industry Specialist and its own team of
consultants to be recruited under the project (para. 2.15). The study
would be undertaken by Study Component Groups (one for each of the six
components) which as members would include representatives from sugar
agencies (including MSA and IOA) and be supported as appropriate by MSA's
team of consultants and by such other persons as the Government may feel to
be necessary. Essential parts of MSA's responsibility would be (i) the
coordination of work programs, resource allocations and scheduling for the
study components and (ii) organizing preparation and subsequent wide review
of individual component reports, as well as the amalgamation of component
reports into a consolidated SIES report.
3.12      Terms of Reference for SIES, based on study objectives and tasks
as shown in Annex 3, were agreed during negotiations. The various
component studies would be undertaken during the first project year
according to individual time schedules shown in Annex 3, ranging from
September 1, 1986 to July 31, 1987. Assurances were obtained that SIES,
with design, terms of reference and manpower inputs acceptable to the Bank
would be completed by the dates specified.
The LCES and the Sugar Action Plan
3.13      The LCES, which is already in progress, aims at determining the
least cost approach to the development of a power system in Mauritius and
as part of this process evaluating the economic role of bagasse as a power
and energy source. It comprises the following sequential components: (i)
a load forecast (in progress); (ii) a Bagasse Handling Study (completed);
(iii) a Bagasse Power Investment Study (Ocheduled to start in July 1986);
and (iv) a Least Cost Power System Expansion (Investment Programming) Study
to begin following the completion of (iii). The schedules and financing
arrangements for the individual study components are shown in Annex 4. The
specific outputs sought from the study are (i) a least cost expansion plan
for the power sector; (ii) a detailed investment program for the power
sector for the coming decade with an indicative program of development for
a second decade; and (iii) recommendations for policy and institutional
reforms to effectively implement the plan. The study will also underpin
efforts to resolve issues relating to water allocation which currently
prevent fuller utilization of the irrigation potential.
3.14      Several important implications for the sugar industry are
expected to follow from LCES. First, the study will (i) determine demand
for bagasse as a source of fuel to produce energy for national consumption;
(ii) project investments by sugar mills required to furnish bagasse fuel
and to ensure firm power supply from mills with existing bagasse fired



- 30 -
power plants as well as investments in expanded or additional power plants
at certain sugar mills; (iii) evaluate the costs of additional bagasse
handling to burn bagasse in the "off-crop" season; and (iv) propose
suitable institutional arrangements for utilization of bagasse in mill
power plants covering commercial arrangements between mills producing
bagasse fuels and the Central Electricity Board and also between the
Central Electricity Board and mills producing electricity from these
bagasse fuels. Second, LCES will lay the foundation for the Government to
formulate a pricing system for bagasse consistent with the constraints of
the least cost expansion plan which would ensure sufficient incentives to
mills to invest in bagasse handling and power generation for supply to the
national electricity grid.
3.15      The MEIC has the responsibility for supervising the
implementation of LCES. Coordination and consultation with MOA, MSIRI and
MSA is expected through an interdepartmental committee chaired by MEIC.
The MSA has played a key role in initiating analysis of investments and
investment requirements related to bagasse handling in individual mills and
is expected under the LCES to provide further input in this area with the
assistance of MOA's Sugar Industry Specialist.
3.16      Assurances were obtained from the Government that the
Pre-Investment Analysis and Arrangements for Le'ist Cost Expansion of Power
System Study will be completed no later than February 28, 1987 in
accordance with a work program satisfactory to the Bank and that the Bank
would be given an opportunity to review and comment on the study prior to
the finalization of the study report.
Joint Government-Bank Review
3.17      To monitor the progress in introdu,cing policy changes, assurances
were obtained from Government that a joint Government-Bank review of the
Sugar Action Plan will be conducted no later than September 30, 1987. The
review would inter alia cover:
(a) discussions of specific measures proposed by the Government as a
result of SIES to:
(i)  ensure the financial viability of the industry;
(il) improve labor productivity; and
(iii) improve the accountability of companies, establish a
framework for broadening ownership of sugar mills and
improve the local stock exchange;
(b) discussions of specific measures proposed by the Government as a
result of LCES relating to:
(i) proposals for rationalizing the bagasse pricing formula;
(ii) proposals for the allocation of total water resources
available in the "Grand River South East Basin' between
irrigation and hydroelectric use; and



- 31 -
(iii)  proposals for strengthening water management in the
Champagne hydroelectric station (situated in the "Grand
River South East Basin").
3.18      The studies and subsequent ccnaultations between the Government
and the Bank would enable the Government to Introduce important measures
for water allocation, bagasse production, and most importantly, ensuring a
viable sugar industry. Assurances were therefore obtained that the
Government would:
(a)  no later than April 30, 1987, establish bagasse pricing formulae
and contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to
provide adequate incentive for the production of bagasse by sugar
mills to be used for generating electric power for the national
grid on a year-round basis;
(b) no later than June 30, 1987:
(i) allocate total water resources in the 'Grand River South
East Basin" between hydroelectric and irrigation use;
(ii) introduce water management in the Champagne hydroelectric
station consistent with the water allocation decision; and
(c) no later than January 31, 1988, institute appropriate measures to
ensure the financial viability of the sugar industry,
C. Annual Work Program
3.19      An annual work program would set targets for operations and
activities to be carried out each year. Assurances were therefore
obtained that such a work program, acceptable to the Bank, would be
prepared by each project agency and would be coordinated by MOA by October
31, 1986 for the 1986/87 financial year and before May 31 of each
subsequent year. For MSA, timetables for staff appointments, equipment
purchases and studies to be carried out should be specified; for FSCs,
similar timetables for staff appointments, facilities construction,
equipping and operation and training programs should be given; and targets
for replanting and sugar yield increase for each Center should slso be
established. Similar timetables should also be given for the research
components, with confirmation that for diversification research, an
agronomy/markets study would be completed by October 31, 1986; a program
for additional diversification research would be prepared by December 31,
1986; and organizational/institutional changes that may be needed by the
MOA research services would be carried out before March 31, 1987 (paras.
2.20-2.22).
D. Mid-Term Project Review
3.20      A joint Government-Bank mid-term project review would be held not
later than September 30, 1988 to monitor the impact of the project on the
sugar industry, and assurances to that effect were obtained from the
Government. Documents for the review to be prepared by MOA would inter



- 32 -
alia include: (a) appraisal of the three pilot FSCs and proposals for
replicating such centers to cover all smallholders; (b) appraisal of
project impact on research activities in MSIRI and MOA and review of
efforts made to expand the diversification research program; (c) assessment
of the workload of MSA and the adequacy of the staffing and organizational
structure; (d) review of Investment and centralization trends in milling;
and (e) detailed proposals for the preparation of a Master Plan for the
sugar industry (1990-2000).
E. Reporting, Audit and Accounts
3.21      The MOA would prepare quarterly progress reports on all loan
components. MOA would also be responsible for assessing the Impact of the
loan on the sugar industry, and preparing the project completion report
(not later than six months after the loan closing date).
3.22      Each participating agency would maintain identifiable project
accounts. These accounts and any statement of expenditures would be
audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The audit
reports would be submitted annually during the loan period, not later than
six months after the end of the fiscal year. Assurances were obtained from
Government on the above reporting, accounting and auditing requirements.
F. Environmental Impact
3.23      Environmental improvement is anticipated from FSCs which would
help small-scale planters to improve and conserve their fields. Similarly
the research component would facilitate bagasse use (a renewable energy
source) for generating electricity and for improving pest and disease
resistance of sugarcane and other crops. The latter research has been so
successful that little pesticide is used in the Mauritius cane crop.
3.24      Sugar mills have taken preventive measures to reduce sugar losses
into liquid effluents and approximately half of the polluted liquid waste
is recycled for irrigation.  The extent to which the residual pollution
needs to be further reduced by reuse or separation of more contaminated
streams is being assessed. Adequate safeguards are planned to prevent loss
of ammonia from storage facilities.



- 33 -
CHAPTER IV - BENEFITS, RETURN ON INVESTMENT AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01      With the sugar industry still the largest subsector in the
Mauritian economy, it is essential that it should perform at peak
efficiency and remain competitive in view of possibly shrinking markets and
competition from other products and other eountries. The project would
contribute towards attaining improved performance. The studies and policy
changes that form part of the project are aimed at restoring financial
health and social stability of the indsetry by designing policy measures,
establishing openness and transparency of transactions of the private
sector and encouraging broadening of mill ownership to include small-scale
planters. This should stimulate investments to centralize and modernize
mills, increase their productivity and reduce processing cost, and maximize
bagasse use for power generation. In the longer term, the project should
help to move resources into other agricultural enterprises by intensified
diversification research and removing impediments to shifting resources
from sugar.
4.02      The intensified research and FSCs would help smallholders to
increase cane productivity and diversify their production. Benefits are
expected from increased cane and sugar yields and reduced sugar losses from
improved cane harvest and transport procedures. The main beneficiaries
would be the 33,000 small-scale planters, 18,400 of whom cultivate one
arpent cane or less. The mills would also benefit by reduced 'down-time'
caused by erratic cane supply.
4.03      The factory investment program would maintain and most likely
marginally improve the high standard of sugar manufacture of Mauritian
mills. There will probably be further mill closures during the project
period, a continuation of the historical factory rationalization process.
Project investments would help to expand and improve the remaining
factories, which would help to reduce processing costs. In addition,
project investments would finance some of the investments needed for
increasing the bagasse supply. Bagasse is potentially the least cost fuel
for power generation, and wou'ld reduce present reliance on coal or oil
imports.
4.04      There would be three importart institution-building benefits.
The first would result from strengthening MSA to provide professional and
effective policy guidance. Such policy advice and accurate information on
returns earned by various sectors of the industry have been lacking to
date. Second, the project would provide smallholders with an institution
tb's would offset, to some extent, the diseconomy of small size in cane
production units, compared to the organized part of the sector. Finally,
the Project would address institutional pro'-- :'s that constrain the
effectiveness of MOA research services.



- 34 -
B. Returns on Investment
4.05      The benefits described above cannot be quantified in precise
terms. For research and extension it is difficult to forecast the degree
of success or failure.  However, past research results must have
contributed markedly to the 25 percent sugar yield increase per hectare
over the 20 year period 1960 to 1980. The extra sugar was worth over
US$20 X to the industry in 1983/84 compared to an outlay of about
US$1.3 M for research.  Similarly the success of the FSCs is difficult to
forecast (that is why testing is being done on a pilot scale), but if a 3.3
tonnes cane per hectare yield increase I/ can be achieved, the economic
rate of return would be about 16 percenT.
4.06      Main factory investments would help to maintain high mill
efficiency, while there would also be some support to mill centralization
and bagasse production and handling. With inadequate maintenance
investments, milling costs would rise, sugar recovery would fall and there
would be a danger that part of the cane crop would not be processed. These
effects cannot be quantified accurately, but can be illustrated by assuming
lower sugar recovery. At present, recovery averages 87 percent of the
sucrose in the cane. Every percent drop in recovery would mean a loss of
7,000 tonnes sugar worth almost US$2 M. 2/ Assuming a gradual reduction
of efficiency in the absence of projecte& investment from 87 percent to 84
percent during the project period, the economic rate of return, even
without taking increased processing costs into account, would be around 30
percent. Also, with regard to the bagasse program, preliminary estimates
project financial and economic benefits at about 34 percent from
investments to increase bagasse production and for bagasse handling, but
additional work is needed to finalize the investment program.
4.07      The investments in factory improvements would be fully financed
by the mill owners. Project support is limited to provision of foreign
exchange for outright purchase. It is therefore not necessary to either
undertake a detailed financial analysis of specific investment proposals
under this component or develop capacity in an intermediate institution to
appraise sub-projects as in the case of a credit operation (para. 2.10).
Given that the opportunity cost of money in Mauritius is 10 percent
(deposit rate) or 12 percent (borrowing rate), and recognizing the high
level of financial management expertise in sugar mills, it can be safely
assumed that investments financed under this component would have
acceptable financial rates of return. If mill investors are securing
financing through local banks at interest rates of 10-12 percent, the
implied ERR would be higher than such rates since economic benefits exceed
financial benefits due to the export tax and since economic costs are lower
than financial costs due to local taxes and excess labor costs in the
off-season.
I/ About 50 percent of the present yield gap between estate and
smallholders applied to 80 percent of the smallholder area, with 20
percent taken as too poor quality land to respond to improved
technology.
2/ Based on World Market prices 1985 Bank projections.



- 35 -
C. Risks
4.08      Investment incentives for the corporate sector have been
inadequate in recent years and despite recent measures (para. 1.36), there
is a risk that the project objectives could be negated by failuTe to
maintain satisfactory incentives and thus not lead to an improved business
environment. The safeguards against such risks are measures to improve
accounting and transparency of sugar companies and the SIES leading to a
Government/Bank exchange of views on how to ensure the financial health of
sugar companies.
4.09      There is also a risk that FSCs may not stimulate expected
productivity increases. This may result from lack of farmers' response or
unsatisfactory management. These risks would be reduced by the pilot phase
planned for the scheme and by reinforcing management, initially, with
experienced, internationally recruited specialists.
4.10      There is also a risk that MSA would not win the respect and
acceptance of all sectors of the industry. In that case, instead of
helping to promote trust, the industry could experience renewed distrust
between its various elements. Safeguards are provided by prescribing
qualifications and experience of senior staff and regular review of the
Authority's performance. The risk is further reduced by employment of an
internationally recruited Sugar Industry Specialist in the MOA to
strengthen oversight at the Ministry level.
4.11      Investments in research always have a risk element.  While this
is considered to be minimal in MSIRI, because of its excellent record,
there would be some risk of not generating adequate benefits from the
relatively small investment to intensify MOA research. Institutional
changes to improve MOA's research services may be more difficult than
anticipated. The identification of products with high potential to
supplement or replace sugar production may prove quite elusive.
Preliminary institutionsl and agronomy/market studies would reduce that
risk. Because the returns could be high and the investment is quite small,
the risk is well worth taking.



- 36 -
CHAPTER V - SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS
5e01      Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations
that:
(a) Foreign exchange for the mill investment program will be used for
inputs of equipment and machinery according to a list of
eligibility agreed on during negotiations (para. 2.11);
(b) The pilot scheme of three FSCs would become operative by March
31, 1987 (para. 2.18);
(c) The staffing of the FSCs Project Implementation Cell would be
completed before December 31, 1986 (para. 2.18);
(d) Studies by MOA to tdentify promising agricultural diversification
commodities with design, terms of reference and manpower input
satisfactory to the Bank would be completed by December 31, 1986
(para. 2.20);
(e) A sub-project satisfactory to the Bank for diversification
research to be conducted by MOA would be prepared by October 31,
1986 (para. 2.22);
(f) Government would pass on US$5.1 M equivalent for project
components on FSCs, MSIRI research, strengthening of MNA,
including studies to the respective implementing agencies as
grants (para. 2.24);
(g) Procurement procedures as specified would be followed (para.
2.29);
(h)  (i)  the position of Executive Director and the three
Departmental heads of the Mauritius Sugar Authority would be
maintained during the project period with incumbents who
fulfill criteria, satisfactory to the Bank, in regard to
qualifications and experience;
(ii)  the three Departmental heads needed by the Authority would
be appointed no later than before October 31, 1986 (para.
3.02).
(i) MOA and the Bank of Mauritius would be assigned responsibility
for supervising, procurement and disbursements for the sugar
mills investments and fertilizer parts of the loan (para. 3.04);
(j) An interministerial Committee would be responsible for reviewing
the recommendations of SIES and LCES and for initiating action
regarding institutional and policy reforms on basis of such a
review; the Committee would include senior officials from the
Ministry of Finance (Chairman), the Ministries of Agriculture,
Economic Planning and Development, Energy and Internal
Communications and Labor and such other persons that the



- 37 -
Government may deem appropriate and would be established by
October 31, 1986 (para. 3.06);
(k) Studies will be conducted by MSA with design, terms of reference
and manpower input satisfactory to the Bank and will be completed
by dates to be agreed at negotiations (para. 3.12);
(1) The Least Cost Power Expansion Study will be completed no later
than February 28, 1987 in accordance with a work program
acceptable to the Bank and the Bank be given an opportunity to
comment on the results prior to finalization of the study report
(para. 3.16);
(m) A joint Government/Bank review would be conducted no later than
September 30, 1987 on progress under the Sugar Action Plan on the
basis of an agenda satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.17);
(n)  Government will:
(i) no later than April 30, 1987, establish bagasse pricing
formulae and contractual arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank;
(ii) no later than June 30, 1987, allocate total water resources
in the 'Grand River South East Basin' between hydroelectric
and irrigation use, and introduce water management In the
Champagne hydroelectric station consistent with the water
allocation decision; and
(iii) no later than January 31, 1988, institute appropriate
measures to ensure the financial viability of the sugar
industry (para. 3.18).
(o) A work program acceptable to the Bank would be prepared by each
project agency and would be coordinated by MOA before May 31, of
each year (para. 3.19);
(p) A joint Government/Bank project mid-term review would be
conducted in September 1988 (para. 3.20); and
(q) Reporting, accounting and auditing arrangements as specified
would be carried out by participating project agencies (paras.
3.21 and 3.22).
5.02      The following are conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(a) Appointment of the internationally recruited sugar industry
specialist in MOA on ter   and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 2.16);
(b) Appointment of the General Manager of the FSC Project
Implementation Cell on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 2.18); and



- 38 -
(c) Appointment of the MSA Executive Dlrector with qualifications and
experience fulfilling criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para.
3.02).



-39-                          Annex I
Page 1
MALURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
Letter From The Minister of Finance of The Government of Mauritius
To The President of IBRD
Mr. A.W. Clausen,
President
IBRD
1818 'RI Street, N,W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Mr. Clausen,
Sub: IBRD Assistance for Sugar Action Plan
The Government of Mauritius embarked on a programe of structural
adjustment in collaboration with the World Bank in 1979. Two structural
adjustment lending programmes have helped the Government to deal with its
balance of payments difficulties through reductions in public expenditure,
wage restraints and an increase in industrial exports.
A central aim of the Structural Adjustment Programme was
restructuration of the sugar industry, which is the dominant sector of the
Mauritian economy. A Commission of Inquiry into all aspects of the sugar
industry was therefore set up and it presented its reports in 1983.
Following this, the Government prepared a Restructuration Programme for the
Sugar Industry, in collaboration with the World Bank. After extensive
deliberation with the various interests in the industry, including private
mills and estates, the Restructuration Programme was translated into a
comprehensive Sugar Action Programme for the industty.  This Programme
enjoys considerable national consensus and commitment.
The Sugar Action Plan encompasses a series of measures designed
to achieve structural reform In the sugar sector through an Increase in
production efficiency, an improvement in technology and organisation and
changes in the institutional and policy environment. The central aim of
the Plan is to Increase the productivity of resources used in this sector,
not to raise the total output of sugar due to constraints which Mauritius
faces in the demand prospects for its sugar. In the long run, the aim of
Mauritius is to diversify its agricultural production, to substitute for
its food imports and to produce alternative export products.
More specifically, the principal aims of the Sugar Action
Plan are to:
o    target average sugar production levels at 615,000 tons per year;



40                            Annex 1
Page 2
o    achieve productivity improvements in respect of land, labour,
machinery and equipment, thereby raising efficiency of sugar
production both in field and factory;
o    shift resources released from sugar production to the production
of presently imported food items and other export crops;
o    strengthen research and development of technology appropriate for
small farmers and for diversification out of sugar cane;
o    improve dissemination of technology to small farmers through
better extension, farm services and input supplies;
o    encourage diversification of the sugar industry through use of
its by-products, particularly bagasse for electricity and cane
tops for livestock;
o    ensure the financial viability of the industry;
o    gear the newly established Sugar Authority for its role in policy
planning and coordination of activities in the sugar sector; and
o    maintain social stability within the sector, reconciling the
sometimes conflicting interests of different elements working
together in the sector.
The Government of Mauritius has enjoyed zlose cooperation with
the World Bank in the formulation of the Sugar Action Plan and the recent
World Bank Sector Report on the Sugar Sector of Mauritius reflects a
meeting of minds on the programmes and policies to be adopted for this
critical sector of the Mauritian economy. Details of the Sugar Action
Plan are set forth in the annexure to this letter. We now seek your
further support for the implementation of this Plan with a loan in the
amount of US$30 million.
Yours sincerely,
(Minister of Finance)



Annex I
41 -Page 3
SUGAR ACTION PLAN
Macroeconomic Perspective
During the mid 1970's the Mauritian economy grew by more than ten
per cent per year. The unprecedented increase in sugar prices was an
important contributor to this. Savings and investment grew substantially
and helped accelerate the growth of the manufacturing, construction and
service sectors. The decline in sugar prices in the late 1970's, followed
by the sharp petroleum price increase of 1979 led to a turnaround in
Mauritius' international terms of trade, and the balance of payments
deteriorated rapidly. Foreign exchange reserves fell and Mauritius had to
borrow on the eurodollar market to meet its foreign echange requirements.
External debt more than tripled between 1976 and 1979 from Rs 243 million
to Rs 927 million and rose to Rs 1,344 million by 1980. Inflation rose
from 8.5% in 1978 to 42% by 1980. Registered unemployment increased from
14,600 in 1978 to 28,800 in 1983.
Following the sharp reversal in economic performance, the
Government embarked on a series of structural adjustment programmes
supported by IMF standby arrangements and World Bank structural adjustment
lending. Public expenditure was reduced and wage restraints were
introduced. The Mauritian rupee was devalued by 30% in 1979 and again by
20% in 1981. In February 1983, the Government changed the peg of the rupee
from the SDR to a trade weighted basket of currencies and has been
following a flexible exchange rate policy since then. As a result of these
measures, the balance of payments, though still difficult, has improved and
inflation has been reduced to 5.5% per year at present. Diversification
measures within the economy led to a rapid increase in industrial exports,
with a parallel increase in employment opportunities in the export
processing zones.
Constraints Faced by the Sugar Sector
Despite the expansion of the industrial sector, sugar continues
to be the single most important sector of the Mauritian economy. Sugar
accounts for over 50% of total merchandise exports today, and provides a
quarter of total employment in the organised sector. Sugar cane
cultivation occupies almost 90% of total cultivated land. Maintaining the
productive efficiency and social stability of this sector is therefore
essential for the overall economic and social health of Mauritius.
Since the latter 1970's, the performance of the sugar sector has
declined. Annual average output fell from an average of 660,000 tonnes per
year between 1972 and 1979 to 585,000 tonnes per year between 1980 and
1983. Employment in this sector fell from 58,000 in 1975 to 48,000 in
1984. Annual investment in the industry declined noticeably from Rs 131.8
million in 1979 to Rs 65.8 million in 1982. Average total profits before
depreciation which were Rs 558 million over 1974-75 declined to Rs 149
million between 1976 to 1979 and further to Rs 67 million in 1980-83.



Annex I
- 42 -                           Page 4
Investigations made over the past two vears have identified the
causes in the decline in performance and reveal that problems which operate
on the supply side were mainly responsible. A fortunate implication is
that many of the problems faced by the industry can be remedied by
appropriate domestic action. External factors are not a sufficient
explanation for the observed decline in the industry's performance since,
to a large extent, Mauritius has been insulated from movements in
international prices as most of its sugar is sold under special bilateral
arrangements with the EEC and the USA. Beyond a certain level of output,
however, demand will be a constraint in the future.
Although the observed decline in performance was partly due to
short-term random factors, such as adverse weather conditions, longer term
structural problems were major factors leading to the decline. Among these
were:
a)   The relatively low efficiency of cultivation in the small farmer
sector, due to its slow adoption of new cultivation techniques,
poor organization of farmer services and inadequate coordination
between small planters and the sugar mills.
b)   Poor profitability in the organised sector, due to 1) the
structure of the export tax regime and its effects on the
profitability of investment in the milling sector and on large
sugar estates; and 2) inflexibilities in resource allocation in
this sector which inhibited factor response to market signals.
These included restraints on the sale and transfer of land, curbs
on movements of capital assets, especially on mill closure, and
rigidities in the labour market.
c)   A lack of transparency and accountability in the organised sector
leading to social tension between the different elements involved
in the sugar sector.
d)   Insufficient research on certain aspects of the sugar sector.
e)   Underutilisation of the by-products of the sugar industry
implying inadequate resource utilisation, and insufficient
attention to irrigation and crop diversification.
Policy Reform and the Action Plan
Some initial steps have been taken by the Government over the
course of the past year to redress these problems. Further measures still
to be taken are embodied in the Action Plan. The paragraphs below
summarise the progress made so far and the agenda for the Action Plan.
(I) Small Farmer Productivity
Small planter cane yields per arpent today are only 75% as high
as the yields on large estates. In comparison to estates, small holders



43                           Annex 1
Page 5
practise, in particular, inferior land preparation, slow adoption of new
cane varieties and leave the crop in the ground for too long before
replanting. Productivity losses also occur during the harvest due to
unsatisfactory liaison with factories over cane delivery arrangements. The
small hoider is constrained by an absence of coordination among the several
institutions which provide services for land preparation, credit, crop
insurance, etc. The present extension service for smallholders is weak and
research has not focussed adequately on small planters' problems.
The Sugar Action Plan therefore envisages the establishment of
Farmers' Service Centres designed to coordinate all the requirements of the
planters in terms of both inputs and services to make them available in one
place. Centres will be set up to cover the entire cane area. Suppliers
and distributors of inputs and services will establish retail outlets at
these Centres to ease the access of small farmers to these inputs thereby
encouraging their use.  These Centres will also provide services for other
major crops grown with sugar cane to promote agricultural diversification.
Each Farmers' Service Centre will be manned by a nucleus of
regular staff who, besides performing a coordinating role, will also
provide extension services. A central unit will be established to
supervise and guide the Farmers' Service Centres and provide direct links
with research establishments.
Initially, three such Centres will be established as a pilot
project. Based on the lessons learnt from this, the scheme will be
extended to the remaining factory areas. It is expected that this
initiative will raise small planters' yields of sugar cane and other crops
and in addition will increase sugar recovery at the factories.
(2) Performance of the Organised Sector
Over the last few years when the sugar industry had suffered low
levels of output due to adverse weather conditions, the inflexible
structure of the export duty put a heavy burden on thlis sector, especially
on large producers. In recognition of this fact, the Government has
altered the structure of the export duty to introduce progressive oarginal
taxation which has led to a reduction in the average incidence of the tax.
The sector was also constrained by an inability to move resources out of
less profitable ventures due to restrictions on mill closure. Such
restrictions have now been eased and two mills - Solitude and Reufac - were
closed in June 1985. Three further mill closures are likely to take place
over the next five years. This will also give the industry the opportunity
to consolidate and rationalise its operation and to take advantage of
economies of scale in production.
High tax rates on land transfer had also prevented large sugar
estates from selling some of their lands in cases where this was necessary
to improve their profitability. Moreover, such land sales were ignored for
the purpose of computing export duty, which continued to be based on the



- 44                          Annex I
Page 6
historical ownership of land, rather than on actual land held after such
transactions. Taxes on land transfer have been reduced from April 1985 for
a five year period and the anomaly in the method of computing export duty
has been eliminated.
The Action Plan provides resources for restoring investment
levels needed to maintain assets and improve productivity in the milling
sector. Maintenance of the profitability of the milling sector is central
to the success of such an investment programme. To monitor profitability,
the Mauritius Sugar Authority has already undertaken initiatives to
introduce a uniform system of accounting for all mills and estates and to
conduct a revaluation of their assets. Once this is done, it should be
possible to introduce greater flexibility In the pricing and taxation
system, to make it more responsive to the conditions of the industry. With
regard to land transfer taxes, the Government will closely monitor the
effects of recent liberalisation and if needed, will take further measures
to enhance land use efficiency in the industry.
The efficiency of the organised sector could also be improved by
raising manpower productivity in this sector and increasing opportunities
in the more productive activities in the economy. Under the World Bank
Second Structural Adjustment Loan, the International Labour Organisation
was asked to conduct an investigation into issues relating to manpower.
This would be complemented by studies by the Sugar Authority on problems
specific to the sugar sector. Following the findings of these
investigations, Government will formulate strategy for overcoming the
constraints faced at present.
The ultimate viability of the sugar sector depends on both its
financial performance and its social responsibility. It is essential to
achieve a measure of consensus among the different elements of the sugar
sector on the industry's future direction. In the past, the industry
suffered mistrust because the corporate framework in which it operated did
not provide adequately for public accountability and transparency of
operations in the organised sector.
Certain initiatives to remedy this situation have already been
taken by the Government. The Companies Act, which had not been altered
since 1913, was comprehensively revised in 1984. Similar revisions in the
Partnership Law are now being processed, and a bill for this is expected to
be ready in November 1986. At the same time, the Government is working on
proposals to reform the functioning of the stock exchange of the country as
a prelude to broadening of asset ownership in the mill sector. This step
enjoys a measure of support of the present mill owners, who welcome broader
participation by planters in mill ownership and a sharing of the
responsibilities for mill operations.



Annex I
Page 7
(3) Research
While the Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute (MSIRI) is
an internationally acclaimed research institution on all aspects of sugar-
cane cultivation, its plan so far has lacked adequate attention to the
needs of smallholders. It has also lacked the resources to complement its
generation of new technology with economic analyses of the costs and
benefits of such technology. It is also rnecessary for both the MSIRI and
the Department of Agriculture to expand their research programme in areas
other than sugarcane. The Sugar Action Plan will provide resources to
augment the capacity of both the MSIRT and the Department of Agriculture to
overcome these deficiencies. The Plan will also support the MSIRI's Land
Index Project, an exercise designed to provide full information on the
potential and actual productivity of agricultural land in Mauritius, on a
plot by plot basis. This will provide the base for detailed agricultural
planning in the economy and intensive extension efforts to be introduced in
the small planter sector.
(4) Underutilization of Other Resources
Around 10% of Mauritius' total electricity supply is already
provided by sugar factories, but the country has the capacity to raise this
share substantially. Three sugar factories (FUEL, Medine and Mon Tresor)
have already equipped themselves with condensing turbo-generators for the
supply of electricity on a regular basis to the national grid. Before
further progress can be made, however, it is now necessary to investigate
in detail the availability of surplus bagasse, optimum bagasse handling and
transportation techniques, the composition of energy demand and the
suitability of bagasse-based power plants for meeting this demand. The
Action Plan will provide some of the resources required for undertaking
these studies.
Water resources in the island have also been underutilised,
partly due to lack of proper planning and execution of irrigation proiects,
and partly because of difficulties in developing suitable field irrigation
systems. Cost recovery in the irrigation sector has also been a problem.
Before embarking on a programme to expand irrigation in the country, it is
recognised that decisions on the allocation of water between competing
users is required. The Sugar Action Plan provides resources for conducting
studies needed to arrive at a rational allocation of water resources.
(5) Implementation of the Plan
As the preceding sections show, the Action Plan involves a
complex set of interrelated activities in policy, technical and-
institutional areas which require car'ful orchestration. In 1984, the
Government established a Sugar AuthokiLy to develop policy capability, to
coordinate the activities of different organizations working in this sector
and to monitor the health of the industry. This Authority will take



- 46-                            Annex I
Page 8
responsibility for the monitoring and coordinating of the Plan.  The
Government recognizes that the Authority must be able to win the confidence
of all elements in the sugar sector and be equipped with objectivity and
professionalism to succeed in the tasks given to it. The Sugar Action Plan
therefore provides resources for the strengthening of the Sugar Authority.



-47 -A.nnex I
Page 9
Matrix of Objectives, Goals and Actions
(l) Small Farmer Productivity - Establishbig Farmers' Service Centers
Objectives
To improve small scale planters' cane productivity and accelerate
crop diversification, by coordinating and organizing services needed by
planters for planting, maintaining, harvesting and transporting cane and
other Ctops; and by intensifying advisory services for the planters.
Goal
Establishing a pilot scheme of three Farmers' Service Centers
with the ultimate goal of covering the entire cane area with such centers
if the pilot scheme is successful.
Recent Government Action
Preparation of detailed scheme proposals.
Introduction of a special credit scheme to facilitate cane
replanting by small scale planters; and preparation by MSA to have the
first FSC constructed.
Intended Project Action
-    Establish the FSC Project Management Unit;
-    Plan the pilot scheme;
-    Employ staff for the first three FSC;
-    Undertake intensive staff training;
-    Construct and establish the three pilot scheme FSC;
-    Expand after mid-term review.
Timing and Monitorlig
Recruit PMU General Manager               August 31,   1986
Planning and PMU staff appointment        November 30, 1986
Staff recruitment for 3 FSC               January 31,  1987
FSC intensive staff training              January, February
March,       1987
FSC building construction                 2 completions:
December,    1986
1 completion:
March 31,    1987
3 pilot FSC start operations              March 31,    1987
Pilot scheme review                       July,         1988
Decision on scheme extension              September,   1988



- 48-                         Annex I
Page 10
(2) Performance of the Organized Sector
Objectives
i> - Facilitate objective financial appraisal of sugar estates and
mills. Foster mutnzal trust among Government, the milling
estates, and planters by improving transparency of sugar company
operations;
ii)   Preserve the financial viability of efficient mills and estates;
iii)   Encourage improvements in the efficiency of individual mills and
estates;
iv)   Fac!litate a long run evolution of the milling sub-sector that
will exploit potential economies of scale and establish an
efficient national structure of the industry; and
v)   Broaden the base of ownership in the estates and milling
sub-sector.
Goals and Actions
a)   Goal:  Adoption of appropriate uniform accounting practices and
formats by sugar mills and estates (directly serving objective
ni)n above).
Recent Mauritian Action
This was included in the Government's Restructuration Program.
The MCA prepared simplified standardized income statements and
balance sheets which were used by most sugar companies in 1984.
With the assistance of local consultants, the MCA has designed
a detailed standard accounting system and manual for the
sub-sector.
Intended Project Action
MSA to review and recommend any needed improvements in MCA's
standard accounting system.
Timing and Type of Monitoring
Bank financing if needed of a qualified accountant/auditor
experienced in sugar industry accounting practices
internationally to assist MSA with its review.
The final accounting system should be approved by December 1986
so that companies can adjust their systems in time to use the new
procedures for the 1987 accounts and provide necessary data to
other parts of the Sugar Industry Efficiency Study.
b)   Goal:  Simultaneous revaluation of assets in the estates and
milling sub-sector (serves goal "a)" and objectives 'i)" and
nV)").
Recent Government Action
Included in the Restructuration Program.



_49-                         Annex I
Page 11
Intended Project Action
Work to be completed by local firms supervised by external
cons-ultant in MSA.
Timing and Type of Monitoring
MSA to monitor progress and complete work by December 31, 1986.
c)   Goal:  Improvements in legal environment and corporate structure
of milling estates (serving objectives "i)" and mv)").
Recent Government Actions
A comprehensive revision of the Companies Act was undertaken in
1984. Inter alia the new Act prohibits new issues of shares with
special voting rights, which had discouraged minority stock
holdings. It also requires organizations to be companies if they
have more than 20 partners and to be public companies If they
have more than 25 share-holders. This implies greater disclosure
requirements.
The Restructuration Program encourages separation of milling from
cane growing activities, and incorporation of mills (including
those that had acted as partnerships).
French technical advice is being sought regarding the
establishment of a stock market.
Intended Project Actions
Preparation of income statements and balance sheets separately
for mills and plantations in cases where they remain part of the
same company.
Appraisal of the prospects for creation of a stock exchange.
Until the private sector implements its expressed intention to
convert mill partnerships into companies, MSA will apply
appropriately strict disclosure requirements.
MSA to coordinate with MCA and Government on defining needed
changes in income tax law to allow continued provision on inter-
company losses, to encourage creation of separate milling
companies and conversion of partnerships.
Mergers of mills with separated plantations to be prohibited.
A study by MSA of the prospects for planter participation in the
ownership of mills.
Timing and Type of Monitoring
Separation of mill and plantation accounts for the 1987 audit
reports.



- 50 -                           Annex I
Page 12
Completion by MSA of the broadening ownership study by February
28, 1987.
MSA to review the progress in incorporating mills and recommend
further incentive measures if needed by September 30, 1987.
Stock exchange study to be completed by February 28, 1987.
d)   Goal:  Permit closing of inefficient mills and consolidation of
existing national milling capacity to efficient regionally
centralized operations (serves objectives "ii)" and "iv)").
Recent Government Actions
Permission given for Solitude and Reufac mills to close in June
30, 1985.
Decision that factory consolidation will be based on the
voluntary market process.
Intended Project Actions
Factory closing and consolidation to be based on commercial
decisions by private sugar companies.
NSA to monitor and facilitate this process.
Existing institutional constraints and bottlenecks regarding
mergers among mills to be removed where possible.
Closing of Inefficient mills not to be inhibited by any fiscal
incentives.
Timing and Type of Monitoring
MSA to submit status reports in September 1987 and September
1988.
Measures to improve climate for mergers to be studied by MSA.
e)   Goal:  Appropriately adjust policy variables affecting the sector
(objectives 'ii) - v)").
Recent Government Action
Export duty structure revised in April 1985 (retroactive to July
1, 1984) to make progressive rates apply to incremental, rather
than total revenues, thereby reducing average incidence.
Intended Project Actions
Periodic adjustments in Government measures would be needed to
ensure that the bulk of the industry remains profitable (and



-51 -                            Annex I
Page 13
thereby able to benefit from investment allowances and
accelerated depreciation).
MSA to carry out a work program to study the economic costs and
benefits of possible mill closings, to help clarify socially
appropriate targets of profitability for the industry, to
evaluate the merits of alternative policy options (Policy Option
Study)#
Preparation of a package of policy adjustments needed to ensure
the financial viability of the industry.
Timing and Type of Monitoring
Government to consult with the Bank prior to announcing new
fiscal/regulatory measures significantly affecting the sugar
industry (such as any change in the 74%/26% sharing ratio of
planter/mill sugar proceeds).
Joint Bank/Government review of the results of the MSA work
program by September 30, 1987.
Consultation between Bank and Government regarding appropriate
policy adjustments to be made with regard to the sugar
sub-sector.
f)   Goal:  Manpower and labor productivity review (serving objectives
ai1T, as part of the Sugar Industry Efficiency Study.
Recent Government Actions
Report by an ILO expert on labor.
Vesting with the MSA the statutory duty to assist the National
Remuneration Board.
Proposal in the Action Plan to commission a study, implemented by
MSA, with technical assistance, external and local.
Intended Project Action
Carry out Study.
Timing and Type of Monitoring
Terms of Reference of the study to be settled by July 30, 1986.
Selection and appointment of external and local experts of the
study team by September 30, 1986.
Completion of report by the team by March 31, 1987.
Exchange of views with the Bank on outcome of the studies by
September 30, 1987.



- 52 -                          Annex I
Page 14
(3) Research
Intensifying Diversification Research
Objectives
To provide planters with more options to allow them to diversify
their agricultural enterprises, in particular options that could occupy
sizeable land areas with returns, labor requirements and risk factors close
to those of sugar.
a)   Goal:  To identify commodities that have promise for economic
production for the local or export markets; to assign research
priorities out of an identified list of reseach requirements. To
allocate responsibility for conducting research to different
agencies.
Recent Government Actions
Legislation passed to establish the Food and Agriculture Council
(PARC) in July 1985.
Reprinting (April 1985) of the 1983 White Paper on
Diversification.
Regular meetings of a "High Level Committee on Diversification"
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture.
Mid-term review of results of action arising from the White
Paper.
Provisions of subsidies to encourage new diversification
ventures.
Intervention to improve air cargo availability for flower
exporters.
Intended Project Actions
Activate FARC.
Review and collate data on past and present diversification
successes and failures and provide input into assessing research
priorities.
Carry out market research study.
Select research priorities.
Assign research priorities to different institutions.
Timing and Monitoring
Complete local information collection/
collation                                 June 30, 1986



-53-                           Annex I
Page 15
Complete market study                     September 30, 1986
Select and assign new research programme December 31,  1986
Subsequent annual research program review at a date suitable for
planning that program.
b)   Intensification of Department of Agriculture Research
Goals: To utilize Department of Agriculture resources more
effectively for intensifying cane diversification research. To
overcome institutional managerial and budgetary constraints that
may limit the Department's perfor-rnce. Preparation of a
sub-project for IBRD funding.
Recent Government Action
Establishment of a separate agricultural research division within
the Agricultural Department under consideration.
No other actions other than those described under Goal "a)'.
Intended Project Action
Commission study of departmental research services - operations,
management, financing, potential, output, constraints - and
recommend: changes that may be needed to develop the full
potential of present staff and facilities; additional funding
requirements; and collaboration with other institutions.
Action on the study recommendations.
Preparation of a sub-project for IBRD funding.
Timing and Monitoring
Study completed                            September 30,. 1986
IBRD sub-project presented                December  31, 1986
Organizational/institutional changes
completed                                 March 31, 1987
(4) Underutilization of Other Resources
Objectives
1)   Promote use of limited water resources in the Island in
activities which maximize economic returns to the nation.
ii)   Prepare a least-cost power development plan which optimizes use
of surplus bagasse generated by sugar mills.
Goals and Actions
a)   Goal:  Allocate total water resources available in GSRE svstem
between hydroelectric and irrigation uses (also taking note of
domestic and industrial water users). This is a pre-requisite



- 54 -                      Annex I
Page 16
for planning intensification of cane cultivation or further crop
diversification in the Noithern Plains (serves objective iL)").
Recent Government Actions
Government has agreed that the Central Water Authority will study
the issue, determine water allocation and introduce a water
management regime in the Champagne hydroelectric station
consistent with allocation ratios.
Intended Project Actions
Completion of necessary studies using technical assistance.
Announcement of water allocation.-
Implementation of water management regime in Champagne.
See attached work program.
Timing and Type of Monitoring
Water allocation announcement by Ministry of Energy and Internal
Communications by June 30, 1987.
Implementation of water management system by Central Water
Authority by June 30, 1987.
b) Goal: Optimum use of bagasse in power generation by establishing
a rational pricing system for bagasse, improving bagasse handling
storage and transport systems, providing incentives for mills to
produce needed surplus bagasse and promoting use of bagasse for
power generation at FUEL, Medine and Mon Tresor mills. To plan
optimal level of bagasse production in sugar mills by costing
production and determining cut-off cost for additional bagasse
production (serves objective 'ii)n).
Recent Government Action
Government, in consultation with the Bank, has established a
work program and has identified sources of technical assistance.
Intended Project Actions
Complete work program for studies (Annex 4 of Staff Appraisal
Report).
Announce new pricing package for bagasse.
Expose potential investors in baling of bagasse to commercially
used technology for baling in El Salvador.
Provide needed incentives to mills that can economically expand
bagasse production.



55                         Annex I
Page 17
Timing and Type of Monitorlng
See attached work program.
Bagasse pricing package by April 30, 1987.
Least Cost Power system expansion plan by February 28, 1987.
(5) Program Implementation
Objectives
i)   Preparation of a program to implement the Sugar Action Plan with
support and commitment from all elements working in the sugar
sector. Establishing a monitorable program of intended SAP
Actions.
ii)   Strengthening the Maurtius Sugar Authority to carry out its
proposed role in the program.
a)   Goal:  Prepare and obtain support on the program from the private
sector and other elements.
Recent Government Actions
Preparation of Restructuration Program in August 1984.
Receipt of Master Plan for Sugar Industry prepared by Mauritius
Chamber of Commerce in October 1984.
Preparation of the Action Plan for Sugar Industry in March 1985.
Statement by the Minister of Agriculture at the Legislative
Assembly on March 15, 1985 on "Restructuration Program for the
Sugar Industry' and approval of the Sugar Industry Package Deal
Act.
Finalization of the Project Preparation Documents for
implementation of the Sugar Action Plan In August 1985.
Discussions and agreement with Bank on Sugar Sector Report on
"Mauritius Sugar: Problems and Prospects.' Consensus reached on
the program with private sector.
Preparation of Draft Letter of Intent from the Minister of
Finance to the President, IBRD, seeking IBRD assistance for the
Sugar Industry Project, to implement the Sugar Action Plan.
Preparation of a matrix of monitorable actions under the project.
Intended Project Action
Close monitoring of progress in performance under the project
through periodic review and project mid-term review.



- 56 -                       Annex I
Page 18
Close monitoring of conditions In sugar sector to make periodic
adjustments to the Sugar Action Plan.
Timing and Type of Monitoring
Joint Bank-Government review of progress in performance on Sugar
Action Plan in September 1987.
Annual work program for the project to be prepared each year on
or before May 31.
Preparation of a Master Plan for the sugar industry in 1989,
based on evaluation of performance of the project In achieving
objectives.
b)   Goal:  To improve MSA's capability and acceptability in its long
run role for sectoral planning and coordination, and the short
run task of project monitoring.
Recent Government Actions
Establishment of MSA through legislation in 1984.
Recruitment of staff to certain positions externally and locally.
Appointment of a part-time technical consultant.
Assignment of responsibility to NSA for the preparation of the
Sugar Industry Project.
Intended Project Action
Stre-gthen responsibility, authority and acceptability by the
appointment of:
i) a full-time Executive Director for MSA;
ii)  an externally recruited full-time advisor for the sugar
program in MOA; and
iII)  three departmental heads for MSA under the Executive
Director.
Locate a unit, of small number but adequate skills, to monitor
and report on project progress (project cell).
Review the functioning of the MSA in respect of its capability
and acceptability, mid-term during the project.
Timing and Type of Monitoring
Selection of the Executive Director and Expatriate Advisor by
June 30, 1986.



-57                           Annex I
Page 19
Completion of selection for other positions by October 31, 1986.
Creation of a Project Monitoring Cell by October 31, 1986.
Positioning of full complement of MSA staff by December 31, 1986.
Mid-term review of the functioning of the MSA by September 30,
1988.
(6) Fertilizer Sub-Sector Efficiency Study
Objectives
Improving agricultural productivity.
Goals and Action
Goal
To examine scope for improving the efficiency in the fertilizer
sector.
Recent Government Action
February 1986. Closing down National Fertilizer Scheme,
liberalizing imports and distribution, with drawing price
Support.
Intended Project Action
Conducting a review of pricing, marketing, formulation, export
possibilities and possible impact on price, storage and other
parameters that determine price, timely availability and use of
fertilizer.
Timing and Tye of Monitoring
Completion of the review - February 28, 1987.
Joint Government Bank review of recommendations - September 1987.



- 58 -                          Annex 2
Page I
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
Industry Background and Technical Infcrmation I/
A. Sugar Mills - Technical Data
1.        Numbers and Capacity.  The number of sugar mills decreased
through closure or merger from 259 in 1881, to 38 pre-World War II, to 21
In 1970. The centralization process was halted by a Government freeze on
closures, from 1970 to 1985, when two more mills closed. With Government
backing for the process, further rationalization of factories : -- fewer
larger units is expected. The overall capacity of the 19 remaining mills
is 2,340 tonnes cane per hour (tch), an average of about 110 tch ranging
from 60 to 250 tch. The mills are small by international standards where
400 tch is quite common, but their performance is high by any standards.
In Mauritius, possibly because of high labor costs, increasing mill size
has not resulted in lower production costs. However, considerable
economies of scale are possible when major re-equipping is necessary,
because the cost of plant (per unit of production) falls with size. There
would seem to be a limit to this process in Mauritius due to increasing
transport distances and costs and possible need for road redesign and
construction.
Operations
2.        The milling season, July to December, is relatively short.  Over
the past 14 years, the number of milling days ranged from 104 in 1980 to
144 in 1976. With mills closed on Sundays, this represents a 4 to 5.5
months milling season. Production peaked at 718,500 tonnes sugar in 1973,
and present capacity is adequate for the planned 615,000 tonnes sugar per
year average production or 700,000 tonnes peak production. The Mauritius
Sugar Authority projects capacity with an average 22 hours milling per
day. While some mills exceed this standard, others have difficulty in
achieving it. Sunday work during the milling season or season extension in
a peak crop year are ways of utilizing the capacity fully.
3.        Factories are well maintained and mechanical time efficiency at
95.2 percent in 1984 is high. A drop in time efficiency over the past
years, coinciding with the spread of mechanical cane loading, has been
overcome.  Efficiency levels indicate that while capital investment in
mills has decreased, essential maintenance to prevent breakdowns has been
done. By contrast, time losses from lack of cane, at 2.1 hours per day,
have been high. The proportion of 'home grown" or "outgrowers" cane
processed has not affected the problem. Economizing on harvest labor by
estates to avoid increasing the permanent labor force, (see Section D) and
I/   This annex summarizes information on industry, structure and
performance as well as details on proposed project activities in
support of Chapters I and II of the SAR.



-59 -                         Annex 2
Page 2
harvesting/transport organizing problems of outgrowers may be the causes
and warrant attention.
4.        All but one factory operates with two 12-hour shifts per day mnd
all are closed on Sundays and holidays. Overtime is paid for work over 45
hours per week and on Sundays and holidays. One factory has installed
extra control equipment and operates three 8-hour shifts per day without
increasing manpower. Savings in overtime are considerable, but labor
unions resist the spread of this procedure.
Factory Performance
5.        During the past five years, overall sugar recovery for the
industry increased from 85.05 percent in 1980 to 86.94 percent in 1984 to
approach the 87 percent level which was consistently achieved in the early
1970's. Between 1975 and 1981, overall recovery ranged only between 85 and
86 percent. Cane quality was relatively low during this period with
sucrose levels in cane consistently below 13 percent. The initial problems
of high trash content in mechanically handled cane has been overcome by
improvements in the field and factories. Most of the estate cane and a
small part of the planters' cane is now mechanically loaded, though all
cane is still harvested manually.
Factory Equipment
6.        The Mauritian factories are typical of older factories which have
been modernized and upgraded over the years. The equipment is well
maintained and operations well supervised as shown by their high sugar
recoveries and low mechanical downtime. All of the factories manufacture
raw sugar. Four factories, Belle Vue, St. Antoine, FUEL and Beau Champ
have refineries to produce both raw and white sugar. For manufacturing raw
sugar, seven of the factories use the two boiling system while the other
twelve factories use the three boiling system. Three mills operate
distilleries, three have refineries, and three operate cogeneration plant
for export of electricity.
7.        Cane is delivered to the factories by trucks and tractor
trailers. Planters' cane is usually delivered in portable bins which are
left in the fields and winched onto trucks when they are picked up. The
cane is weighed as it enters the millyard and sampled, based on a system
managed by the Cane Planters and Millers Arbitration and Control Board.
Most of the cane is bundled and is lifted by revolving or bridge cranes
from the transport units to storage or directly onto the feeder tables.
Truck tippers are installed at a number of factories. Since most of the
cane is delivered during the day, storage is required in the millyard for
night operations.
8.        Cane preparation is typically accomplished by double sets of
knives. Some factories have installed cane shredders to improve
preparation. Juice heating and clarification are accomplished in
conventional shell and tube heat exchangers and tray type clarifiers.
Sugar boiling is carried out in calandria type vacuum pans. Two factories
have recently installed continuous vacuum pans. Crystallizers are



-60 -                          Annex 2
Page 3
conventional U-type, either air or water cooled. In some factories, the
crystallizers have been connected in series into a continuous system.
9.        Since completion of the bulk sugar terminal in 1981, raw sugar is
handled in bulk. Bulk sugar trucks transport sugar from the factories to
the bulk terminal located at Port Louis. About 80 percent of the molasses
production is exported.
Rehabilitation and Modernization
10.       Factory investments have fallen with decreasing profitability in
recent years, but not below the level at which maintenance to sustain
reasonably high efficiency could be ensured. However, much of the
machinery and equipment is over 25 years old. It needs to be replaced soon
otherwise breakdowns will increase, sucrose recovery will decline and the
time may come when the whole crop cannot be processed. The project would
finance the foreign cost of a five-year program to rehabilitate and
modernize the factories. Replacement of old machines and equipment usually
means modernizing with improved technology. Quite frequently,
rehabilitation accommodates some capacity increase of the part of the mill
under treatment at little or no extra cost.
I1.       Factory closures could well be triggered by major and costly
replacement requirements that may not prove financially viable for some
smaller and financially stressed factories. The project would fund
expanding remaining milling capacity to cater for cane from the closed
mills. Investments are projected as quite modest, partly because some
capacity expansion is a by-product of rehabilitation and partly because
equipment and machinery from the closed factory is used to expand
capacity. The economics of this approach militate against 'giant size"
factories that would not enjoy the cost advantages of utilizing existing
equipment.
12.       The type and cost of estimated investments for rehabilitation,
modernization, and factory centralization for the period 1985-1990 is given
in Appendix 1. The estimates are the result of a factory-by-factory survey
of Investment needs and intentions over the 1985-90 period carried out by
the Mauritius Chamber of Agriculture. They should be regarded as
indicative only, since there may be changes over time.
13.       The estimates also show modest investments to improve bagasse
output. More detailed studies in progress indicate a USS4 million cost for
improving factory bagasse output and a US$13 million cost for bagasse
baling and handling equipment. The studies also indicate that the large
bale system provides bagasse more cheaply for power generation than other
systems. Work to refine these indications is continuing. The equipment
survey indicates that there may be some small factories with old fashioned
boilers for which investments to increase bagasse production may be so
costly as not to be financially viable.
B. Sugar Mills - Financial Aspects
14.       There are two aspects of the sugar mills sector that have caused
concern.  On the one hand, the claim by mills of low financial returns or



-61-                            Annex 2
Page 4
losses which have caused a drop in investments to maintain or tmprove the
mills. On the other side, a lack of trust by the independent planters, who
have to rely on the mills for processing their cane and by mill labor that
desires to participate in mill management. At present, detailed financial
appraisals of indivldual mills, including analysis of the reasons for
differences in financial performance, is quite difficult because of wide
variations in accounting practices, and because the audited accounts for
about half the mills are consolidated with estate activities.
Structure of the Industry and Legal Environment
15.       Of the 19 sugar mills now in operation, nine are partnerships
(soci4t6s), whose partners are normally large plantation companies in the
factory's cane area. The remaining ten, including the one owned by
Government, are companies jointly undertaking cultivation and milling. The
accounting and disclosure requirements were, until recently, unsatisfactory
due to outdated company and partnership legislation. The Government has
improved the accountability of mills and is seeking ways of broadening
ownership. The 1984 revision of the Companies Act requires that when there
are more than 20 partners, they must organize themselves as a company, and
when there are more than 25 partners to establish a public company, with
greater consequent disclosure requirements. Centralization of the industry
continues, aided by a lifting of the ban on closing of mills in 1985, which
had been in place since the early 1970's. Firms are now studying merger
possibilities.
Accounting Systems and Procedures
16.       Comparison -f financial results between companies or even across
years for the same company can be misleading because:
{i) Differing depreciation policies make comparisons difficult.
Though generally straight line, depreciation may be based on
either historical or replacement values of assets. The figures
used for taxes represent a third approach.. They are historical
but include adjustments for initial capital and special
investment allowances. A revaluation of assets can result in
enormous increases in a company's equity and total assets.
(ii) Unusual accrual policies. Revenues are accrued on the basis of
December price estimates for the current crop, not fully sold
till the following June. Crop expenses are on a cash basis.
(iii) Changes in replanting schedules or capitalization policies.
Replanting costs are usually shown as an expense and are not
capitalized. Postponing replanting, or changing from 'petite
saison" to "grande saison", imply a pseudo reduction in operating
expenses.
(iv) Irregularities in consolidation procedures. Income from
partnership holdings in mills by plantation companies can be
shown as a loss when the mill shows a profit, because large
reserve allocations are deducted from the net profits before
consolidating its results.



-62 -                           Annex 2
Page 5
(v) Allocation of mill and plantation overheads. Overheads are split
based on tons of cane handled by each production unit, even
though three times more labor is used on the plantations. The
Mauritius Chamber of Agriculture has recently recommended that
certain overheads be allocated by the number of workers.
Recent Financial Performance (Details in Appendices 2 and 3)
17.       Recent climatic events (a severe cyclone in 1980 followed by
drought in 1981, 1983 and 1984), and depressed world market prices have not
been favorable to the Industry. Revenuea were aided to some extent by
several Rupee devaluations, but the export tax rate was increased from
13.5 percent to about 24 percent for large producers, with the imposition
of a surcharge with the 1979 devaluation. The tax was a heavy burden on
large producers and some relief was given through the 1985 "Sugar Sector
Package Deal Act." Under this, a producer's first 1,000 tons were exempted
from tax and revenues from the next 2,000 tonnes were subject to the lower
rate of 15.75 percent.
18.       All but two of the nine partnership mills have been modestly
profitable on a historical cost basis, though they would generally show
losses if depreciation were calculated on an updated replacement value
basis in the last five year period. Each have had positive cash flows in
every year since 1978, with the exception of two mills in 1982. None of
the ten joint milling and cultivation companies use pure historical cost
accounting, and some have not revalued since 1974, while others have
revalued twice since then, so it is impossible to compare performances. In
summary, however, while there have been recent financial problems for a few
private joint companies (including those with the largest mills), nearly
all have enjoyed consistently positive cash flows.  While net profits
represent a less reliable guide, one company each has shown five, four and
three years consecutive losses, two companies had consistent profits till
recently and four showed profits back to 1978. Profits appear modesc based
on recently revalued assets, but substantial on a historical cost basis.
19.       Investments In the sector have declined in recent years due to
decreased profitability and uncertainties about the Government's policies
toward the sector, especially with respect to fiscal measures and mill
elosures. However, the declining levels of real investment in mill
rehabilitation have not produced a deterioration in the industry's
operating efficiency to-date. Essential maintenance has been carried out,
while more costly replacements have been postponed. Extra maintenance cost
can be viewed as fixed costs to some extent, due to the long closed season
and mandatory staff and labor retention. However, the low investment level
cannot continue and-the investment climate and fiscal environment require
further review.
Investment Incentives
20.       The Industry enjoys customs exemption for machinery, increased
"Capital Allowances" for industrial premises and machinery, a special
allowance in the year of investment in industrial buildings or machinery
and income tax deductions; and as indicated above (para. 17), the
Government has given some relief from the important sugar export tax. Care



63 -                          Annex 2
Page 6
is needed to strike the right balance in the incentives and tax package to
exercise just the correct amount of pressure to rationalize milling. Too
much incentive would keep mills open that should close and vice versa. The
degree of mill profitability to broaden ownership is a third consideration.
21.       Until further study will present more and reliable data, the
incentive package seems adeqvate at present.  One aspect that could be
considered is an adginistrative change to encourage mill recovery
efficiency. At present, planters receive 74 percent of the sugar derived
from their cane, based on the recovery efficiency of their factory or the
island average whichever is larger. Mills have no Incentive to invest to
recover more than the average since 74 percent of proceeds from the
additional recovery would gi to planters. Introduction of an island-wide
norm as a basis for calculating recovery would provide incentives for mills
to aim at higher recovery.
The Fiscal Regime
22.       The Industry pays several taxes, of which the export tax is the
most important. The degree of taxation plays a large part in determining
the shape of the Indtstry. The export tax, in particular, 1i an important
tool for regulating the revenues that the Government should be able to draw
from the Industry; and the size of the Industry. There is at present
insufficient information on which to make a sound economic judgment on the
appropriate fiscal contribution thet the Industry should make.  Four
actions scheduled for 1986 would remedy that situation:
(i) the simultaneous revaluation of sugar industry assets under Sugar
Authority supervision;
(ii) the adoption of an appropriate, uniform accounting system;
(iii) the separation of mill and estate accounts; and
(iv) the preparation of a policy option study.
A description of the scope, objectives, tasks and organization of above
studies is given in Annex 3.
C. The Fertilizer Sub-Sector
23.       With a consumption of 249 kg of nutrients per arable hectare
(1983), Mauritius uses more fertilizer per unit area than any other African
country or than the average Western European country. In 1984/85, about
65,000 tonnes of fertilizers were used in Mauritius, about 90 percent for
sugarcane production. Imports of fertilizers and of raw materials for
local manufacture or formulation amounting to over US$7 million were higher
than the foreign cost of any other group of inputs in the agricultural
industry. Fertilizers are a key component of the inputs package that
determines crop yields and its adoption about two decades ago by
smallholders marks an upturn in their cane yields. Today smallholders use



- 64-                            Annex 2
Page 7
about the same quantity of fertilizers per unit area as the large estates,
but the nutrient mix and timing of application need to be examined and
could perhaps be improved.
The Mauritius Chemical and Fertilizer Industry Ltd.
24.       In 1968, following a consultant's report, the Mauritius Chemical
and Fertilizer Industry Limited was established to import, manufacture and
distribute fertilizers. Its manufacturing plant started to operate in
1975. In that year, the Government introduced the National Fertilizer
Subsidy and Price Control Scheme. It gave virtual monopoly for imports of
fertilizers or raw materials to the Company, controlled both wholesale and
retail prices, and undertook to pay the Company any deficiency in its
income to allow it to make a Rs 4.8 million profit. The latter is
equivalent to a 10 percent dividend on the original share holding.  The
income  deZlciency has been about Rs 12 million per year and has been
financed by a cess on sugar.  The Company has the following share holders:
(a)  Foreign Associate (N-Ren Corp.)            31.14 per cent
(b)  Sugar Industry Companies                   41.02 per cent
(e)  Commercial Firms                           10.92 per cent
(d)  The Development Bank of Mauritius          10.53 per cent
(e)  General Members of the Public               6.39 per cent
100.00 per cent
25.       In 1984/85 the Company imported 50,000 tonnes of the following
materials or fertilizers:
Muriate of Potash                               20,000 metric tonnes
Anhydrous Ammonia                               10,000 metric tonnes
DiAmmonium Phosphate                             5,000 metric tonnes
Amonium Sulphate                                12,000 metric tonnes
Triple Super Phosphate                           2,500 metric tonnes
Single Super Phosphate                             500 metric tonnes
50,000 metric tonnes
26.       Practically all these materials came in bulk.  About 18,000
tonnes were sold after bagging into 50 kg bags, while the balance was
manufactured into mostly complex fertilizers with formulae specified by
local researchers. The following is a record of 1984/85 sales:
(a) Imported Fertilizers
Ammonium Sulphate                          12,000 metric tonnes
Muriate of Potash                           3,000 metric tonnes
Single Super Phosphate                        500 metric tonnes
Triple Super Phosphate                      2,5Q0 metric tonnes
Sulphate of Potash (for tobacco)              200 metric tonnes
TOTAL            18,200 metric tonnes



-65 -                           Annex 2
Page 8
(b)  Fertilizers Manufactured Locally from Imported Materials
Complex 17-2-27                            26,000 metric tonnes
Complex 17-8-25                            12,000 metric tonnes
Calcium Ammonium Nitrate                    4,000 metric tonnes
Complex 13-13-20 (for vegetables)           2,500 metric tonnes
Complex 22-7-7 (for tea)                    2,500 metric tonnes
TOTAL            47,000 metric tonnes
TOTAL (a)+(b)    65,200 metric tonnes
The Company also exported about 5,000-6,000 tonnes fertilizers per year,
formulated to suit the customers.
27.       In addition, about 2,500 tons rock phosphate are imported, not by
the Company, but by several dealers that have handled this import for many
years. This fertilizer is used for planting sugar cane. This has been the
only exception to the Company monopoly.
28.       The Company's procurement arrangements are satisfactory and
comprise a mixture of international shopping and bidding. In general, its
procurement is skillfully handled, to take account of the market, shipping
costs (about 30 percent of the CIF price), bulking arrangements, storage
constraints and seasonality of fertilizer requirements.
29.       Under the National Fertilizer Scheme, distribution was carried
out by 34 registered traders. All except one were importers/traders when
the Company started operations in 1975 and they were given a 20 year
contract with fixed delivery quotas. The Mauritius Cooperative
Agricultural Federation supplying cane transport cooperatives is a new
distributor and was given no fixed quota. It was allowed to distribute as
much as it could sell and all other quotas were reduced pro-rata. All
distributors are in Port Louis and six (including the Cooperative
Federation) account for over 90 per cent of deliveries. Few have any
significant storage and the Company provides storage for 30 days after
purchase. Most farmers purchase through these distributors, but there are
retailers in most villages, usually general merchants or agricultural
commodity shops, that stock a few bags. They cater mainly for vegetable
growers, while sugarcane planters purchase from one of the Port Louis
distributors. This is inconvenient for those who do not live near the
town, particularly arranging transport at reasonable rates and delivery at
the right time. The Project Farmers' Service Centers would provide
premises for distributors to operate, so that planters can order their
fertilizers locally.
30.       In February 1986, the Government terminated the National
Fertilizer Subsidy and Price Control Scheme. This has ended the Company's
import monopoly and income subsidy, and price and distribution controls.
Due to favorable foreign exchange movements, fertilizer prices to planters
have dropped slightly, but it is too early to forecast the overall impact
of decontrol on those concerned with the sub-sector. It Is however likely
that the Company will remain the main importer of fertilizer and fertilizer
materials in the near term, because of its close ties with sugar companies
and because it has the only formulating plant in Mauritius.



-66 -                         Annex 2
Page 9
31.       With doubts about the economic benefits of the National
Fertilizer Scheme removed, there are other issues that deserve study to
promote optimal fertilizer use. These include: pricing arrangements and
their impact on distribution and consumption; the advantages and
disadvantages of local formulation versus imports; distributon bottlenecks
and the disincentives to fertilizer use; the possibility of producing more
cost effective formulations; and improving capacity utilization of the
formulating plant. With regard to the latter issue, factory capacity is
only two-thirds used at present and plant management estimates possible
reduction in fixed processing cost at full capacity almost equal to the
recent subsidy. While the local market size is fixed at about
60,000-65,000 tonnes per year, more energetic export efforts may be
warranted and various export scenarios should be explored to optimize the
benefits of local manufacture to the economy.
D. Manpower and Labor
32.       Two factors govern the consideration of manpower in the sugar
industry. The first, the declining number of jobs due to sugar market
limitations, factory rationalization and increasing mechanization. The
second, the seasonal nature of the segar industry. There is inevitably a
trade-off between the objectives of social security on one hand and
optimizing the economic efficiency of the Industry on the other; in
addition, sugar factory closures due to rationalization pose labor
redeployment problems peculiar to the sugar industry. Within the framework
of existing labor policy, the goal of the Sugar Project is to improve the
productivity of labor in the sugar industry, by exploring the feasibility
of changes.
Background
33.       Absolute labor availability has not been a constraint since the
mid-1970s, when labor was in short supply over the harvesting and crushing
season. Since then, the Industry began to adopt mechanical methods of cane
cutting and loading. Approximately 35 percent of all cane is now grab
loaded. Total employment in the industry rose to a high of 58,500 in 1977,
and has declined steadily to 47,500 in 1984. The percentage of workers
employed in the sugar industry out of total employment has come down from
43.4 percent in 1969 to 23.7 percent in 1984, largely due to 'non-sugar
industries' growth. During the same time period unemployment in the
economy rose from 7 percent to 28 percent.
34.       Labor is the highest component of sugar manufacturing costs.
Wages and salaries account for 52 percent of the operating costs of
miller-planter operations, and as much as 60 percent of the operating costs
of cane cultivation, considered separately. Labor costs for small-scale
producers are much lower since they do not have to provide the same fringe
benefits as estates nor are they constrained from employing seasonal
labor. Average monthly earnings in sugar are higher than other
agricultural occupations in the manufacturing sector, and are lower than in
the service sector. In addition, because mills and estates are constrained
from using seasonal labor, labor productivity is very low for six months of



-67-                            Annex 2
Page 10
the year. Nevertheless, the proportion of wages and salaries to total
operating costs has actually declined over time, probably due to a decrease
in absenteeism and an increase in productivity.
The Main Labor Enactments
35.       Employment.  Protection to employment, primarily of seasonal
labor, has been an Integral part of national labor policy since 1963.
Several ordinances governing labor were incorporated in the Labor Act of
1975. The Act applies only to employers cultivating more than 25 arpents.
Part V of the Labor Act includes:
(1) An obligation for employers to maintain a "regular labor force
(defined as every worker who became entitled under the security
of Employment Ordinance 1966 to be offered employment during the
1967 intercrop period); and a "supplementary labor force'
consisting of 15 percent of all other workers employed by him
during the preceding harvest;
(ii) Vacancies arising in the regular labor force other than
retirement must be filled to the extent th't they exceed the
number of the 'supplementary labor force" to be maintained by
him; and
(iii)  Alternate employment must be found for all employees during the
intercrop period within the Industry.
Part VI of the Labor Act deals with termination, requiring legal notice to
a Government board and a generous severance allowance.
36.       Remuneration.  The wage rates and other conditions of work are
governed by regulations made by the Minister under Section 96 of the
Industrial Relations Act, generally known as the Remuneration Orders.
These cover wages, overtime, annual and sick leave, automatic conversion
from daily to monthly employment, bonuses, travelling benefits and
gratuities. Allowances are also made for housing, school and dental
treatment.
Effects of Labor Laws
37.  (i)  The size of the regular labor force, fixed at 1967 levels, has no
relationship to actual needs, because of the mechanization of
cane loading, and greater, though still limited opportunities for
deployment elsewhere.
(ii) To retain 15 percent of seasonal labor during intercrop, has had
the perverse effect of reducing employment (and sugar production)
as employers tended to use smaller numbers and lengthen the
harvest season.
(iii)  The net result of the present provisions regarding termination of
contract is to make employers reluctant to expand their work
force.



- 68 -                          Annex 2
Page 11
(iv)  Remuneration regulations discriminate between the allowances
payable by large and small planters, and put large planters at a
disadvantage because of their total wage bill. This is one major
reason for the high cultivation costs of large planters vis-a-vis
smaller planters.
(v)  Large cultivators have had difficulties due to high rates of
absenteeism. Because of liberal leave policies, some estate
workers hire themselves out to small planters during harvest
time, taking advantage of their higher basic rate due to lack of
fringe benefits.
Intended Sugar Action Plan Action
38.       An assessment will be made by MSA with the help of consultants,
in a historical perspective, of emerging employment trends in the sugar
industry, covering (i) changes in real and nominal wage levels; (ii)
inter-unit variations in labor use; (iii) impact of likely technological
changes; (iv) mobility of labor within and outside the industry as a result
of new opportunities emerging from diversification of the economy; (v)
seasonal aspects of labor demand; and (vi) cost-effective labor
deployment. The scope, objectives, tasks and organization of the study are
shown in Annex 3. They would take full account of acquired rights of
labor.
E. Farmers' Service Centers
Background
39.       The estate sector is considered to be using existing cane
production technology fully. Thus, the 25 percent lower production level
of smallholders offers a major opportunity for intensified land-use in
Mauritius. The reasons for lower yields obtained by small-scale planters
have not been fully established. Lower land quality and irrigation
facilities availability may be part of the reason. Another may be that
current cultivation practices of smallholders may make economic sense in
their circumstances despite lower yields. However, the main reason is
believed to be lower technology standards, in particular, leaving the cane
in the ground too long before replanting, use of obsolete cane varieties,
inadequate land preparation and slow adoption of new technology.
40.       Small plot size and scattered location of services present
smallholders with formidable difficulties particularly for cane
replanting. This involves correlating cane harvest, land preparation, and
replanting, including the supply of high-yielding variety planting material
and other inputs. It also necessitates raising the necessary finance -
Rs 8,000 - 14,000 per arpent. Land preparation is particularly difflcult
to organize for owners of small plots since heavy track machinery is needed
for "derocking" the land and there are major difficulties in deploying such
machinery on small scattered plots. Similarly the supply of "modern'
planting material is difficult to organize by several thousand individual
smallholders and efforts at grouping have not been successful to-date.



- 69-                            Annex 2
Page 12
The Farmers' Service Center Concept
41.       Design.  Farmers' Service Centers have been designed to overcome
these dis-economies of scale. They would house representatives of all
services needed by planters so that fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides,
cane transportation services, land preparation services, crop spraying
facilities, banking and credit and advisory services would all be
centralized under one roof. The Centers would provide a much stronger
advisory service than is available now and help to organize the other
services needed by planters, particularly for cane harvesting and
transport, and replanting. The Centers staff would attempt to group
farmers, particularly for harvesting and land preparation and would try to
ensure that the services are given at the right time and right place.
42.       The Centers would deal with the 66,000 arpents of cane operated
by about 33,000 planters owning less than 100 arpents land each (18,400 own
less than one arpent each). The model Center has been designed to serve
2,000 planters growing 4,000 arpents of sugarcane. Center size and the
number to cover all mills will be determined by operating experience and
will have to be tailored to suit local conditions, but for cost estimating
purposes, 16 standard centers have been used. Each would have a 430 m2
modular building with offices for its staff and for the various agencies
listed above, a small inputs store, and a meeting hall for planters with
audio-visual equipment.
43.       Organization and Staffing.  The standard Center staff would
comprise a Farmers' Service Officer (FSO), assistant FSO and six field
assistants. About 20 local farmers would also work part-time to provide
frequent individual planter contacts. The heavy staffing of Centers is
needed because about 80 percent of the staff time will be used for
coordinating and organizing inputs, replanting and cane harvesting
services, and about 20 percent for advisory work. The latter would cover
sugarcane as well as interline and rotation crops for which the Mauritius
Sugar Industry Research Institute handles research. Close liaison between
the Centers and the Institute would be essential and would be provided by
the Institute's research/extension liaison unit. Equally close links
between the Centers and sugar mills are essential and for that purpose,
each mill would appoint a liaison officer to its Center.
44.       The Centers would be directed by a Project Unit staffed by a
General Manager, Training Officer and Agricultural Engineer. Initially
these posts are projected to be filled by expatriate consultants while
local deputies receive training abroad. This Unit and the Centers would,
for the present, be attached to the Sugar Industry Development Fund that
would provide administrative services. However, the General Manager would
report directly to the Minister of Agriculture or his Permanent Secretary.
While not ideal, this administrative arrangement is the most suitable
available at this time. The main advantage is that the Fund has suitable
legal provisions for the proposed organization and, being an autonomous
agency, has some freedom in offering staff terms of service and travel
funds that are not available to a Government department.



70 -                          Annex 2
Page 13
45.       The success or failure of the scheme will depend heavily on staff
caliber and motivation. Recruitment would be from selected Ministy of
Agriculture staff as well as from the private sector, since qualifications,
particularly for improving planters' services, are found in the sugar
industry rather than in Government services. Scheme designers have allowed
for better terms of service than availahle to equivalent Government staff,
liberal travel funds and incentive bonuses. The scheme management would
0.     need to set targets for each type of work to be conducted by the Centers
and monitor results closely.
46.       Pilot Phase.  While the scheme design has been based on
successful smallholder schemes elsewhere, it would be new in Mauritius and
social and institutional problems would be formidable. Consequently, there
would be a pilot phase to test the effectiveness of the proposals,
financial and economic returns, and the designs; and to gain operating
experience. For that purpose, three Centers will be established in 1986
and will be operated for two years. The Centers would be in different
ecological zones of the Island. The pilot operation would be evaluated in
September 1988 after which it would be decided whether to expand the scheme
or not.
47.       Institutional aspects and cost recovery would also be explored.
Initially, all planters in the area would be members of the Center. In the
pilot stage, the costs would be financed by the Sugar Industry Development
Fund from existing levies on sugar exports. Planters cannot be expected to
contribute to the cost until the Centers prove the value of their services
to the users. Once that happens, the intention is to persuade planters to
meet part or all of the costs. With regard to institutional changes,
alternatives to attachment of Centers to the Fund would be explored. One
would be the establishment of a Farmers' Service Centers Corporation.
Another option would be to establish each Center as a company, owned,
managed and financed by planters. Such companies could ultimately buy
shares in their sugar mills to broaden the ownership and have some say in
the operation of the mill that processes their cane.
F. Research
48.       Technical agricultural research is the responsibility of the
Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute (MSIRI) and the Ministry of
AgAiculture.  The University of Mauritius has been concerned mainly with
longer range socio-economic studies of the agricultural sector to-date. In
July 1985, the Government passed legislation to establish the Food and
Agricultural Research Council. It is to coordinate research and advise on
expanding research into new subjects.  At present, there is no work overlap
between the two main research agencies, but a major task awaiting the
Council is the identification of additional products with good market
potential that should be tried in Mauritius and would most likely require
intensive research back-up. With MSIRI already fully extended, additional
work may need to be tackled by the Ministry of Agriculture or require
additional research facilities. The Council should, as soon as possible,
evaluate the resources of the existing institutions and then advise on
where additional research tasks should be allocated and on financial and
other resources needed for that purpose.



-71 -                            Annex 2
Page 14
Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute
49.       Agricultural research in Mauritius has always given priority to
sugarcane. The Mauritius Sugar Indutstry Research Institute is responsible
for all aspects of sugar research. It was established in 1953 from the
Ministry of Agriculture Sugarcane Researeh Station. The Institute operates
a main station with wall-equipped laboratories and three field stations,
with a staff of about 50 scientists and technicians. It is organized into
divisions for cane breeding and biometry, plant pathology, entomology,
botany, agronomy, chemistry, sugar technology and food crop agronomy. The
Institute cooperates closely with sugar estates where many of the larger
scale field trials are conducted, to some extent supervised by estate
agronomists.
50.       The Institute's work has succeeded in providing cane technology
to the Mauritian Industry that has placed it among world leaders in sugar
productivity and in factory technology. This has resulted from a series of
improved cane varieties resistant to pests and diseases, successful work on
all aspects of agronomy and soil science and major contributions to factory
technology. In recent years, the Institute has successfully undertaken
research on maize, potatoes, beans, and groundnuts, grown either as
interline crops between cane or as a rotation crop between two cane cycles.
51.       The Institute is financed by a levy on sugar exports and with an
annual expenditure of about US$1.3 million, is providing very cost
effective services. However, with such budget, salaries are not
lnternationally competitive and there has been some brain drain, but not
yet disastrously to-date.
52.       Research has been predominantly based on estate needs, and in
general, results apply to all planters - e.g. cane variety improvement,
pest and disease control and plant nutrition. However, there are some gaps
in the Institute's programs - notably the relative lack of economic
analysis of technical results, which is particularly relevant to
smallholders' problems. Some questions that need answers are e.g. - the
most profitable cane cycle length, the economics of land derocking,
smallholder cane production and optimum yield-level that smallholders
should aim for. Consequently, the Project would strengthen the Institute's
ability to help small farmers by:
(a)  Increasing computer capacity to compile a land index of every
cane field on the island. Such index, recording the potential
and problems of the land would be an invaluable extension and
land-use planning tool;
(b) Strengthening economic research capacity, to address the economic
issues listed above, to allow economic analysis of future
research findings and carry out much needed socio-economic survey
work for the small-scale planter sector;



- 72 -                        Annex 2
Page 15
(c) Strengthening the research/extension (for smallholders) liaison
unit; snd
(d) Expanding irrigation studies to cover smallholders' problems.
53.       The Project would also strengthen other areas of MSIRI that would
benefit the entire Industry as follows:
(a) The cane breeding program to develop marginal areas varieties,
better pest and disease resistance, increasing genetic diversity
and improving analytical capacity;
(b) The crop diversification program by providing propagation, seed
production, plant nutrition and food quality analysis facilities;
(c) Energy related research by breeding high fiber content varieties
to increase bagasse yield; and services to help factories improve
the energy balance, and undertaking bagasse storage and handling
trials; and
(d) Analytical and laboratory facilities of the cane technology
division.
Ministry of Agriculture Research Services
54.       The Ministry does not have a separate research unit, but several
divisions, notably the agronomy, horticulture, plant pathology, entomology,
chemistry and animal production divisions are mainly or partly concerned
with research. Their resources are considerable, including about 130
scientific and technical staff and about 100 supporting technical staff, 14
field stations and good laboratory facilities. Apart from research, these
units undertake advisory, quarantine, seed, plant and animal production
work. They carry out a considerable research program on a range of
agricultural, horticultural and fodder/forage crops; plant and animal
disease and pest control investigations and animal production. However,
with the present organizational pattern, it is difficult to undertake
intensive multi-discipline research that may be needed to support crop
diversification efforts. Department budgetting and other regulations also
militate against an intensive research effort with possible budget
inadequacies for materials, cooperative field experimentation on planters'
land and transport for research staff.
55.       The scientific and technical resources in the Ministry should be
capable of making a major contribution towards diversification resear.h,
but investigations are needed to find out whether organizational changes
are needed for the most effective deployment of these resources. Either
the establishment of a research unit in the Ministry or of another
autonomous institute similar to MSIRI have been tentatively mentioned as
possible alternatives to the existing organizational arrangement.



-73-                             Annex 2
Page 16
G. The Mauritius Sugar Authority
56.       The Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA) was set up in 1984 through an
Act of Parliament, as part of the Restructuration Program for the sugar
industry. The Authority has a wide range of statutory duties and powers
with the goal of promoting the development of the sugar industry. The
statutory dutles include the formulation of national policies and plans;
promotion and implementation of overall policies; monitoring and
coordiicttion of research, production and marketing; and advice on economic
and financial performance and prospects. Its powers Include commissioning
studies; revaluing industry assets, examining accounts, monitoring
investments and giving directives to parastatals.
57.       The private sector of the Mauritius sugar Industry has strong
organizational and performance capabilities. Another layer in the sugar
sector is a group of parastatals with individual tasks such as crop
insurance, labor welfare, miller-planter relationships, research, and
commodity handling. In addition, there are the 33,000 small planters and
reportedly about 70,000 labor who depend on the Industry for their
livelihood. By 1983, a wide gulf of distrust had arisen between various
sub-sectors and the Inquiry Commission that examined the problems of the
Industry recommended the creation of the Mauritius Sugar Authority as an
umbrella organization, in part to establish and maintain harmony between
the different segments of the industry. MSA has a role to play: (a) in
long-run sectoral planning and agency coordination; and (b) as a
conciliator of interests and arbiter in disputes. In view of the
comprehensiveness of its duties and powers, the MSA needs guidance in its
formative years to acquire professional and managerial capability, and
objectivity in outlook for its policy formulation and activity coordination
role, without diluting the autonomy of the organizations in the sector.
The Project aims to strengthen the MSA and help it to develop a sense of
direction, purpose and proportion.
58.       MSA's current organization and staffing have inadequacies which
are both qualitative and quantitative. Despite these limitations, MSA has
made a start in the direction of planning and coordination, including the
preparation of the draft Action Plan for Sugar Industry 1985-1990 and of
the Project Preparation Report. The future activities of the MSA would
fall into two categories: a permanent organization for running the systems
of external relationships among all organizations, data collection and
preliminary analysis and evaluation; and a second layer of activities
requiring the help of highly professional experts for specific studies and
for final evaluation and recommendations. The objective is to win the
trust of all sectors of the Industry sufficiently to be able to arbitrate
in disputes and to provide accurate and impartial policy planning advice to
the Minister of Agriculture.
59.       With the above in view, the following action is visualized:
(i) A full-time Executive Director for MSA should be appointed with
appropriate experience and qualifications;



- 74-                         Annex 2
Page 17
II)   An Internationally-recruited specialist in the Ministry of
Agriculture would help MOA to oversee che Authority and the
implementation of the project component related to MSA;
iii)   Three key technical departments (finance, factory and economics)
should be established to be headed by competent personnel and a
full set of supporting staff. An organizational chart is
attached;
iv)   The commissioning of approximately 33 man-months of studies into
sugar industry efficiency issues (Annex 3); and
v)   Purchase of vehicles and equipment needed by the Authority
including adequate computing facilities for its data analysis
role.



- 75 -                       Annes 2
Appendlx I
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
Indicative Factory Investment ProAram 1985-90
Estimated Cost by Investment Category
(Rs x 1,000)
Increase
Item                Rehab.  Modern.  Capacity  Energy   Total   Foreign
Cane weighing                        500     1,100              1,600    1,300
Cane yard crane           5,900  10,100      4,000             20,000   11,300
Feed table                        8,300      2,450             10,750    4,350
Cane carrier & knives    2,400   2,750         750      450    6,350    5,000
Cane shredder                     4,100      4,000              8,100    6,100
Mills & mill drive       14,200  10,000      4,000             28,200    9,800
Inter carr., drives
& chutes                        1,000      8,250              9,250    6,650
Juice pumps               1,620              1,000              2,620    1,950
Juice straining
& weighing              3,200     800        400              4,400    3,900
Juice heaters             1,405              1,000    1,800    4,205    1,915
Clarification             1,300   1,000                         2,300       100
Vacuum filter             5,500   1,000      5,230             11,730   10,930
Evaporators               4,715   3,000      3,000   18,130   28,845   13,145
Vacuum pans               5,750   8,500                        14,250   10,900
Condensing plant          3,675     300        650              4,625    2,350
Crystallizers            10,995   6,500      7,200             24,695    9,850
Centrifugals             34,430   4,200      8,225             46,855   33,775
Syrup & sol pumps
& tanks                 1,150                                 1,150      200
Sugar dryer                       2,500                         2,500    1,000
Sugar bins                        1,300        300              1,600
Bagasse handling
& baling                        4,500               5,200    9,700    6,500
Steam generation        39,620    6,OOQ      6,500   12,000   64,120   43,825
Electric power
generation             2,400    1,700               1,200    5,300    4,500
Instrumentation,
automation               400    8,800                         9,200    9,000
Molae6es storage,
weighing                 800                                    800       800
Workshop                 2,070    2,950                         5,020    4,020
Piping                   2,150                                  2,150       500
Buildings                3,350    2,000        800              6,150       640
Laboratory                 800      200                         1,000    1,000
Waste water
treatment etc.           600    2,700                         3,300    2,450
148,430   94,700    58,853   38,780  340,765  207,750
Sub-total
Inflation factor                                        _      68,632   45,152
TOTAL                                                         409,397  252,902
-_           m_



- 76-                   Mu-2
SUGAR fDVSY PROJECT
JOINT MILLING AND CULTIVATION COMPANIESt KEY FINANCIAL DATA
(lin Rs millions before the 1964 export duty relief).
1978   1979   1960   1981   1982   1983   1964
CONSISTENTLY PROFITABLE COMPANIES
1. & 2. Lonrho Sugar Corporation (Britannia and Highlands)
%let profit (loss)       13.2    8.8    7.4    7.5    3.1    7.0   24.3
Cash f1c%a Prof.+ Dep.  15.2   11.0   10.3   10.7    6.1   11.0   27.5
Year-end net worth        83      82     90    348    339    330    337
3.  Mon Tresor (majority owned by Lonrtho)
;4et profit (tloss)       5.2   13.1    6.4    6.7    4.4    6.3   18.7
Cash flowe  Prof.+ Dep.   7.3   15.2    9.9   10.2    8.0   14.1   22.6
Year-end net worth        59      66     69    214    210    206    205
4.  Savannah  (Espitalier Noel group)
biet profit (loss)        5.9   12.4    7.4    6.3   (0.2)   5.8   5.2
Cash flow= Prof.+ Oep.  10.4.  16.6   14.2   12.5    6.4   12.0  11.2
Year-end net wvrth        92      93   11      119    117    119   153
COt4PANIES WITH RECENT LOSSES
S. Medine (WEAL group) .
Nlet pro tt (loss)        3.2   10.6    5.8    2.8    1.4    2.1  (8.1)
Cash flow- Prof.+ Dep.   7.1   15.7   11.0    7.5    6.8    7.4  (3.0)
Year-end net worth       152    162    179    200    202    209   202
6. t_EL (WEAL group)
'iet pro0it (loss)        5.2   16.6    0.7    0.5  (21.5)   1.0  (6.2)
Cash flow- Prof.+ De0.  10.6   22.4    6.8    6.9  (15.5)   6.8  (0.6)
Year-end net worth       218    224    221    216    195    198   192
7. Constance  (Belle Mare group)
'Net profit (loss)       3.4    8.2    6.0    1.4   (0.7)  (2.0)  (7.4)
Cash flow- Prof.4.Oep.   6.2   11.1    9.2    4.9    2.9    1.9   (3.2)
Year-end net worth       66    103    103    103    102        86     78
UJNPROFITAPLE COMPANIES WITH POSITIVE CASH FLOWS
8.  B au Ch        (Dalais group)
Net pro it (ross)        0.7    3.9   (4.8)  (2.4)  (9.1)  (3.4)   4.7
Cash flowe Prof.+Oep.   S.0   10.    0.6    3.0   (3.4)   2.4   11.8
Year-end net worth      1n9    ' 11    108    286    269    257    254
9.  Mon Desert Alma  (Espita1ier Noel group)
;et profit (loss)        l.P   10.9   (4.2)  (4.S)  (6.0)  (1.6)  (1.1)
Cash flown Prof.+Dep.   6.5   15.6    3.5    3.6    2.0    5.8    5.6
Year-enA net worth      113    117    136    132    130    124    178
COMPANY WITH NEGATIVE CASH FLOWS
10. Rose Belle (GOm-cwned)
Net profit (loss)        0.2    0.2   (7.1) (12.3) (18.6) (15.8)   1.4
Cash flow- Prof.+Dep.   3.7    3.7   (3.1)  (7.4) (14.5) (11.7)   5.3
Year-end net worth       62      62     55      42     24       9      10



- 77 _
WIRIUTIUS                  h       . 3
SUaR INDUSRY PRoJE
MILL PARTN~ERSHIPS: KEY FINAN4CIAL DATA
(In Rs m&l1iong before the 1914 export duty roief)
1978   1979   1960   1981   1982   1983   1964
CONSISTENTLY PROFITASLE MILLS
1. Riche-En-&au
Net profit (loss)          0.4    2.8    1.3    1.S    0.6    2.6    3.9
Cash flow= Prof.+ Dep.   1.7    4.2    2.7    2.9    2.0    4.0    S.4
Year-end net worth         23     23      23      23     23      23     23
2.  Union St. Aubin
Net protfit (loss)         0.2   (0.4).  4.2    4.8    3.5    3.0    4.8
Cash flaw- Prof.+ Oep.   n.a.   n.a.   4.4    6.0    5.1    6.0    8.3
Year-end net worth         30     30      3S      43     48      97     94
3.  St. Felix
Net profit (loss)          n.a.   0.4    1.0    0.8    0.1    0.5   0.6
Cash flow- Prof.+ Dep.   n.a.   1.1    1.5    1.2    0.6    1.0   1.1
Year-end net worth         n.a.   20      20      20     20      20    20
MILLS WITH OCCASIONAL ' OSSES
4. Rempart (Mon Loisir)
Net proffit (loss)         n.a.   3.6    2.9    4.7   (0.8)  (0.9)   2.1
Cash flow- Prof.+ Dep.   n.a.   5.4    4.8    6.8    1.4    1.4    4.6
Year-end net worth         n.a.   37      39    .42      42      42     42
5.  St. Antoine
Net profit (loss)              n.a.0 -.3    1.7   (1.3)  (S.4)
Cash flow- Prof.+ Dep.   -       n.a.     -    1.7    3.1    0.1   (3.9)
Yaar-end net worth         -     n.a.--        24      24      24     19
UNPROFrTABLE MrLLS WITH POSITIVE CASH FLOWS
6.  Belie Vue  (:arel Freres group)
v:et profit (los1 )      (1.7)  (2.7)  (7.2)  (5.7)  (4.1)  (5.4)  (6.7)
Cash flow- Prof.+Oep.   2.3    3.9    0.0    2.3    5.4    S.0    3.9
Year-end net wortn         52     80      81      77    139    146    153
7. mount (Harel Freres group)
:Net profit (loss)       (0.7)  (0.3)  (2.4)  (2.8)  (5.6)  (3.8)  (4.6)
Cash flow- Prof.+Dep.   1.8    2.9    2.0    2.0   (1.1)   2.3    1.3
Year-end net worth        23     32      51     49      54      55    5S
IMILLS WITH NEGATIVE CASH FLOWS
6.  Bel Ombre (A joint milling and cultivation company before 1983)
viet profit (loss)       (3.4)   2.0   (3.0)   1.9   (7.81  (3.8)  (1.2)
Cash flow- Prof.+Dep.  (1.9)   3.6   (1.2)   4.0   (5.6)  (3.0)   0.6
Year-end not worth        40     41      38     40      32      1S     16
9.  Beau Plan  (Harel Freres group)
Net profit (loss)        (1.7)  (2.7)  (5.6)  (7.7)  (9.1) (13.1)  (7.5)
Cash flow- Prof.+Dep.   0.4    1.3   (0.8)  (3.0)  (3.S)  (7.1)  (1.5)
Year-end net worth        26     45      40     36      6S      66     70



Annex 3
- 78 -                       Page 1
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
The Sugar Industry Efficiency Study
Rationale and Obective
1.        The Government recognizes that the further implementation of the
Sugar Action Plan must be based on timely reform in the institutional
environment and Government policies affecting various segments of the sugar
industry. The design and implementation of such reforms, however, require
careful study of the industry's state of affairs and implications of
proposed arrangements for achieving industry objectives.
2.        The proposed project therefore supports the undertaking of a
Sugar Industry Efficiency Study (SIES). Its broad objectives would be to:
(i) lay the foundation for rational institutional and
policy reforms aiming at promoting the industry's efficient
utilization of resources in meeting the adopted average
production target of 615,000 tonnes of sugar per year and paving
the way for agricultural diversification; and in this process
(ii) contribute to the development of a climate of mutual trust
between workers, planters, sugar companies and the Government.
3.        The study would be undertaken on the understanding that
Government policy toward the sugar industry would be formulated with the
view to
(i) ensuring that the industry produces the target quantity of sugar
with maximum economic efficiency and that the policy framework of
the industry as well as the pricing and marketing systems provide
incentives for continued growth in productivity, including where
appropriate, further consolidation of milling operations; and to
(ii) meeting distributional objectives, with regard to ownership of
assets, employment benefits and Government revenue, taking into
account the trade-offs between some of these objectives and the
primary objective of ensuring efficient production and long term
productivity growth in the industry.
4.        The output sought from SIES is a series of specific recommend-
ations for reforms in the policy framework of the industry to be
subsequently considered by the Government for appropriate and timely
action. The study breaks down into six individual components which all are
closely linked. A first set of components involve (i) accounting systems,



_79                         Annex 3
Page 2
(ii) asset revaluation, and (iii) policy options including pricing
arrangements. Another component addresses issues of factory-plantation
separation and mill ownership structure. Finally, there are the manpower
and the labor productivity, and the fertilizer sub-sector efficiency
components. The rationales, objectives and main tasks of the individual
components are described below.
CoMponent 1: Accounting Systems and Standardization
5.        Rationale.  Current reporting systems used by sugar companies do
not allow consistent comparisons of financial status and performance across
enterprises and over time. This limits the Government's ability to gauge
levels of profitability and to assess the adequacy of financial incentives
to the industry. The implementation of the study component is a
prerequisite for the undertaking of Study Component 3 and thus for
decisions on policy reform.
6.        Objective.  Recognizing that steps have already been initiated
with respect to bringing about reform in the industry's accounting system,
the Study Component should prescribe uniform accounting systems and
procedures covering the following areas:
(a) A uniform chart of accounts for sugarcane cultivation and sugar
processing. This chart of accounts should include appropriate
instructions for classification and recording of all receipts and
expenditures.
(b) Standardized procedures to allocate overhead and other common
costs to several operational units for companies or societies
with more than one operational unit, and standardized methods to
calculate the profit contribution of each operational unit to the
entity through the preparation of financial proforma for each
operational unit.
(c) Standardized useful lives and methods of computing annual
provisions for depreciation.
(d) Standardized procedures to account for revaluation (see Component
2) and foreign-exchange fluctuations.
(e) Uniform regulations on disclosure of significant methods,
procedures, assumptions and events in notes for the financial
statements; and of holdings in other companies.
(f) Specification of duties of auditors and guidelines to more
comprehensive audit reports.
7.        Tasks.  The main tasks to be undertaken would be to:
(a)  review work already completed by MCA with respect to standardized
financial statements, audit report and costing manual;



- 80-                       Annex 3
Page 3
(b) review financial reporting systems of a sample of sugar mills and
joint milling and cultivation companies; and to
(c) recommend improvements to the work already completed and prepare
guidelines covering areas mentioned under para. 6 above.
Component 2: Asset Revaluation
8.        Rationale.  As part of the Government's restructuration program,
the sugar companies are expected to undertake a revaluation of mill and
estate assets. Such revaluations are a necessary input into further
studies of the policy framework (Component 3).
9.        Objective.  Revaluation of assets is necessary to establish
comparability of sugar-producing units. Revaluation consists of two
phases:
(a) an initial revaluation of all assets at the same date and using
consistent methods; and
(b) annual updating of revaluation to reflect the current values of
assets in the accounts and financial statements.
The initial revaluation could be based on several methods Including:
(a) replacement of each asset at today's cost less accumulated
depreciation, or
(b) replacement of the mill's existing capacity reflecting today's
cost and technology less accumulated depreciation.
Updating of ttie revaluation could be accomplished by one of four methods:
(a)  repetition of the method adopted for the initial revaluation;
(b) application of agreed-upon indices established to represent
industry-specific construction and installation cost;
(c) indices related to general price levels in the country; and
(d) general price-level indices annually, with specific revaluation
using the same method as adopted under the Initial revaluation
periodically (say every five years).
10.       Tasks.  The revaluation of assets would be undertaken
simultaneously by the sugar companies with the assistance of local
engineering firms. Guidelines for revaluation of assets need to be
prepared by NSA for distribution to the industry. Guidelines should also
request information related to local engineering firms undertaking the
revaluations with respect to (i) their ownership structure and (ii)
procedures they intend to use to ensure independence of the valuations in
cases when ownership interests overlap. Procedures for MSA to undertake
regular updating of the revaluation exercise should be proposed.



-81-                       Annex 3
Page 4
Component 3: Policy Options and Pricing
11.       Rationale.  The question of an appropriate taxation structure for
the industry has been at the heart of the dialogue between the Government,
the industry, the IMF and the Bank on the subject of the industry
restructuration program. Sound judgment on this question requires adequate
information on multiple factors including (i) the cost functions of the
industry as well as of individual enterprises, (ii) the incidence of
taxation on individual enterprises of various sizes and categories, and
(iII) objective measurements of the resulting profitability of individual
enterprises in relation to the opportunity cost of capital. This
information is currently not available. Study components I and 2 of SIES,
feeding into this component, are specifically designed to provide this
information.
12.       Judgement of the appropriateness of the use of policy
instruments, however, also requires an understanding of the relationship
between specific policy instruments and industry objectives. Decisions
also have to be based on considerations of the relative Importance to be
given to taxation and other policy Instruments, in schieving various
industry objectives including that of agricultural diversification and the
release of resources to non-sugar activities. Inputs to the determination
of the appropriate use of labor policy and changes or reforms in corporate
structure, as means of addressing industry objectives, would be generated
by components 4 and 5.
13.       Objectives.  Recognizing that the balancing of industry
objectives is a question that ultimately has to be resolved through the
political process the Policy Option and Pricing component of SIES,
supported by the outputs from Study Components I and 2 aims at providing:
(a) an analysis of the current impact of the Government's policies on
(i) industry performance and decisions regarding economically
efficient use of capital, labor and land; (ii) employment and
other distributional objectives; and (iii) government revenues;
(b) recommendations for appropriate policy reforms and sugar pricing
arrangements to assist the Government in determining the optimum
package of structural reforms, i.e. that set of financial,
pricing, labor and corporate policies that is considered to have
the most beneficial impact on the industry objectives (see para.
3).
14.       Tasks.  The specific but interrelated tasks of the Study
Component would be to:



-82 -                       Annex 3
Page 5
(a) analyze, under existing sugar pricing arrangements, the financial
consequences of current individual policy measures, on sugar
companys' profitability and their decisions relating to (i)
investments in capital assets, including closing and merger
decisions and (it) utilization and transfer of land resources;
(b) based on (i) financial forecasts, to he submitted by each of the
19 mills now in operation, and (1i) the outputs of Study
Components I and 2 undertake an evaluation of the economic costs
and benefits of mill closures as well as the optimum schedule for
closure of specific candidate mills under the existing fiscal and
pricing regimes;
(c) in light of the findings under (a) and (b), evaluate the adequacy
of current policies and sugar pricing arrangements in providing
signals to the private sector which would result in a pattern of
mill investments and closures that would be economically most
efficient; and
(d) based on conclusions reached under (c), to evaluate options and
make recommendations for modifications to the policy framework
and pricing arrangements designed to promote as a continuing
process economic efficiency in resource utilization while
simultaneously assessing the consequences of such modifications
for other industry objectives (see para. 3). While an excessive
level of industry taxation may lead to closing of economially
efficient mills low levels of taxation may encourage economically
inefficient mills to continue to operate and/or prevent mill
mergers which may be desirable to capture economies of scale.
Therefore, from an efficiency stand-point, policy measures and
pricing arrangements would have to be targetted towards a minimum
level of profitability comparable to returns to capital
elsewhere in the economy. In designing alternative pricing
arrangements, consideration should be given to systems to reflect
the differential price structure that Mauritius faces on the
export markets for sugar in returns to individual sugar companies
and planters.
Component 4: Factory-Plantation Separation and Mill Ownership
15.       Rationale.  The Government, through its industry restructuration
program, seeks to encourage mill partnerships (societes) to convert to
companies and joint companies to divide and incorporate separately their
milling and plantation activities (The revision of the Companies Act in
1984 was a significant step towards accomplishing the conversion of
partnerships into companies). Such measures would serve the objectives of
(i) improving financial disclosures, (ii) permitting differential tax



-83 -                     Annex 3
Page 6
regimes to be applied to mills and their plantations, if this was found to
be desirable, and (iii) help to facilitate broadening of mill ownership
with share holdings, for instance, by smaller planters and workers. The
latter objective is important because of mutual interdependence between
mills and planters; the sugar proceeds received by planters partly
depending on mill efficiency and mill efficiency and revenues being
influenced by the quality of cane delivered by planters.
16.       Objective/Tasks.  The main purpose of the study component is to
provide recommendations regarding
(a) measures to be taken, in addition to those already initiated by
the Government, to encourage separate incorporation of mills and
plantation to pave the way for broadening of ownership of mills;
(b) incentives to encourage wider ownership of milling companies; and
(c) further action to be taken with respect to the organization of a
stock exchange through which to open up mill ownership to public
participation, and to measures designed to make such
participation attractive to potential buyers of sugar company
shares, including the possible use of centralized funds to help
planters and employees to acquire shareholdings.
Component 5: Manpower and Labor Productivity
17.       Background.  Labor is the single most important input in sugar
manufacture accounting for more than 50 percent of the operating costs of
the larger sugar estates. There is a need to consider measures that will
encourage greater flexibility in the use of seasonal labor and redeployment
of sugar labor in other sectors as means of raising labor productivity.
The Government has proposed, as part of SAP, to commission a study to look
into the subject matter.
18.       Objective/Tasks.  The purpose of the study component is to review
in an historical perspective employment trends in the sugar industry
covering
(a)  changes in real and nominal wage levels;
(b) inter-unit variations in labor use;
(c)  impact of likely technological change;
(d) mobility of labor within and outside the industry as a result of
new opportunities emerging from diversification of the economy;
(e) seasonal aspects of labor demand; and
(f) cost-effective labor deployment.



-84-                      Annex 3
Page 7
Various safeguards and measures designed in the past to promote labor
welfare and the acquired rights of labor would be taken Into account.
Component 6: Fertilizer Sub-Sector Efficiency
19.       Rationale.  Fertilizers, mostly formulated locally from imported
and local materials, are a key component of the high yield sugarcane
production package. The single local factory operates with low capacity
utilization contributing to high operating costs. The effectiveness of the
pricing schemes and marketing arrangements need review.
20.       Objectives.  The purpose of the study component would be to
examine the scope for efficiency improvements in the fertilizer sub-sector
and make recommendations for improvements through pricing policies,
marketing systems and research.
21.       Tasks.  Specific tasks to be undertaken would be to:
(a) review the pricing arrangements with respect to their Impact on
production, distribution and consumption of fertillzers and make
recommendations for modifications if needed;
(b) examine effective protection of fertilizer production In
Mauritius and possibilities for import competition;
(c) examine means of improving the capacity utilization of the
Mauritius Chemical and Fertilizer Industry Ltd. through exports
to neighboring countries;
(d) review of bottlenecks in the distribution to improve timely
access by planters ( .ncl. storage) to fertilizers, and suggest
improvements; and to
(e) recommend research and trials to produce more effective
formulation of fertilizer consistent with consumer demand.
Organization
22.       The MSA will have the overall responsibility for initiating,
supervising and completing SIES and for organizing and documenting
discussions on the reports within Mauritius involving industry, sugar
agencies and the Government. An essential part of this work will be the
coordination of the six study components, with respect to their work
programs, allocation of resources and interdependent Implementation
schedules. To successfully implement its role, MSA requiree close
cooperation from MOA, MCA and other agencies in the sugar subsector. To
this end, the MOA would recruit under the project a Sugar Industry
Specialist.



-85.-                       Annex 3
Page 8
23.       The project would provide to MSA 21 m/m of technical assistance
In the areas of financial analysis, economics and sugar industry
engineering. In addition, short-term consultant services would be provided
to address specific problems. The financial analyst, the economist and the
sugar industry engineer would, working with counterparts to be designated,
have key responsibilities advising MSA in the planning and supervision of
the Study. Each Study Component would be undertaken by a Study Component
Group based on agreed Terms of Reference (see para. 24). The Groups would
be organized by NSA and staffed by local industry representatives, staff of
the sugar agencies (including MSA) and supported as appropriate by MSA's
team of recruited consultants.
Terms of Reference (TORs)
24.       The TORs for the Study and its components will be prepared on the
basis of objectives and tasks as outlined under paras. 1-21 above. TORa
for the three consultants would lollow closely the objective and task
specifications of the TORs for the individual Study components. In view of
the need for close cooperation between specialists, hiring a consultant
institution may be preferable. This would also ensure that experts adopt a
common approach and feel mutually responsible for success of the overall
effort.  The indicative distribution of technical assistance services (m/m)
by study component is as follows:
Study Component
1      2      3      4       5      6
Financial Analyst                X      X       X
Economist                                       X      X      X       X
Engineer                                X       X
Other                                                  X      X       X
Total                       3      7       7      3      5       3  (28)
cm                      
Implementation Schedule
25.       The time schedule for the individual study components would be as
follows:
Starting      Completion
Date            Date      1/
1.  Accounts systems and standardization    Sept. 1, 1986  Dec.  31, 1986
2.  Asset revaluations                        Sept. 1, 1986  Dec.  31, 1986
3.  Fiscal options and pricing                Dec.  1, 1986  July  31, 1987
4.  Factory-plantation separation
and mill ownership                        Sept. 1, 1986  Feb.  28, 1987
5.  Manpower and labor produetivity           Sept. 1, 1986  March 31, 1987
6.  Fertilizer sub-sector efficiency          Oct.  1, 1986  Feb.  28, 1987
1/  Includes time for review by industry, agencies and the Government.



- 86 -                                   Aram 4
MaR rosR Paw
Muritius: eP-Investment Analysis and hw O
for Leat Gost       o of P~r Eytn
aipply or D~miuIMagme  Option           Prefereeble Sequmce   For. 0Qst       Proposed PLnanclg
WS$'OOO        Arrmwmens
_________________________________        tart       Cc mpl e   estinrte_
Load Forecast                           Apr1 86   Jue 86          50         BKS grant
(Other stnies already in press,
full list ava:lable)
Provisional Water Allocatim Betwem                  by Jne 87                To be prmided by
Omme and NWIP                                                                 MICIGLA
Water Mgement PAO=me for Q=V/W                      by Nbr. r87               T Ibe provdeby
NPIP                                                                          MEIC/a
Dwestient Analysis
a8asse deri fi/hstorjge                Sept. 85   lrch 86        35            WP (grnt) cost-
plete
Evaluation of alditional invesnt and   July 86    Sept. 86        80          ESMP/UNDP grant
nanagmvi pracdtis to enare firm                                               funds. Fteliminary
powr stippy froml FIM; detaled cst-                                           reviw of basse
ing of sspm bmmm gawmtim;                                                     geien cm3leted
review of imewonent naeds for yon-rowd                                 by MM. L¶HP fundtig
operation of HSM and Mm  loser;                                               wm.U apply to M;X
ad aosts of additional        hwAlIo                                          aid cnuultant ser-
to barn bgasse in -off cropW at FE                                            vic. (EB support
alwo reVired
least Qost Pmr Syste Expansim,          Oct. 86    Feb. 28, 87  250           BU  grant asista
(Inve1 p           ).
KM5 - 91ish Agency for Internationl lhccal and F2onosic QOoperatiJ.
MEIC  - Mntstry of lE       san   ternalic
CWA       ntr    ter tlrities
7%M  - Eierg  Seco         et istance Pt ga
CM        axa Elcrcty Bond



OmR INOSiRTR PROJECT
ProJect CoXmpoents bi Year
Totals IncludiM Contin encies                             Totsnl Includins Contirsmncies
(Rs '000)                                                (USS '000)
86/67     87/88     88/89     89/90     90/91      Totsl      86/87    97/98   am89   89/90   90/m    tout
As FACTORY INPESTHETSS          63.551.11 634551.11 77,502.59 91,455.70 91,455.70 387,516.20  4,100.07 44100.07 5,000.17 5.900,37 5,900t37 25.001.05
S. FERTILIZERS                  72.850,00 72850.00          -         -         - 145700.00  400.00 4700.00                            - -  - 9.400400
C. MTIUS S R AUTHORITY          1107*97  2.36A00  1,103.37    382,13    195*05 15924,52    729.5   189.42   71.19   24465   12.5  14027.39
D FAMSSER ICE CENTERS           15179.64  8,757.89 1SM730.0  16.841,61 20m9,50 77.507.72    979.27   50.02 1t014.84 14064.56 1354,81  5.000,50
E RESEARCH
ISIRI                        244020,82 19.223*01  4916.21   4,332.89  4,602.11 56,995,04  1.549.73 1t240#19  310.72  279.54  296M9M  3677,10
llTW   OF A6ICULTUE                  -  2v73537  2      O927.05  3.140.33  3,370.40 12M173*16     -   176.48  18844  202M60  217.45   75.36
5ub-Totel RESEARCH              24,020.82 21,945.38  7,743.26  7t473.23  7,972.51 69?168.20  1,549073 1,416,67  499.57  482,14  514,36 4.462,46
Total PROJECT COSTS              186.908,53 1704053,38 102.079,32 116152#66 1209622.76 695,816.64 129058461 10.71,19 6,595.76 79493,f2 7.782M11 44p.89140
JAn 2. 1986 15:02



S6M rmiiOA   PEElT                                                                          AmiAa 5
Tabe 81.101,3T111 EMI WMWIII
Ostadod Cost table
(29 '000)
bantaiw                        tasa Cowls                                  (~~~~~~~~TdlsImSodr '0001W4
tk,it  WV/6  87/3086/89 V/% 90/    Totel Unit Cutt   8O/1       V7/U   U/P  8910  90/91   uTOW          86/8  87/80  no 809/9090/91  Total
1. IIPIOESTT COSTS
A. VEHICLES                                 wnh       7              -              3    4na.7       945.50           4)2.75           -  11418.25   63.14        12 -                 96 33
P. 06f1CC EOUIPVET
CONUIO                                    ac       2     -    -      -    -    2    208.01        416,02        -  -             -        416.02   27.78                       -   27.78
OTHER EQUIPMEN'T                                     -    -         -         -                    8.42   302.26       -                  907.68  40,41  21.4*                      62.02
S-J1-Toitd 0001CC MGUMMYII                                                                         1.0.44   30226        --  1,323.70   08.21  21,60                  -                 9.00
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTMCE
1. PROJECT 81PREARTION 04C1L1T1
1160  INIUTRY SPECIALIST               ,        6     -           -     -    6         166   1*116.00                  -             IMAM1*160    72.00   -           - -        72,00,
V1SITINO CONSUTPJTS                   us      0.6           -           -0.6           155      93,00        -                         93.00    6.60      -     -  -              6.00
Suib-Ttole PROJECT PREPABATION PACILITY                                                         12709.00        -     -              -  WM29.0   78.00       -                 - '.60
2. PRJECT, PERIOD
5168  INOUTRI SPECIALIST               g       12    6      -    -           to        186  2W2M.0  1*116.00        -            -  3*348.00 149.04  79,74   --                 228.79
IislITIIG C0NSULTANTS                  em     4.4     3     1           -    .4        155    AMI.D  45.60 15.60                    1*-295,80   45. 13  33.22 11.88   -    -   90.2
LOCAL COISUTOTS                        em       -    -     -     -          -                  1)0.00   1.0.0 150.60 150.60 150,00    750.0   9.97  10.57 11.20 11.91 12.58   56.19t
Sub-Total PROJEC  P9100                                                                         3,057.801 71.0   05.6  1530.60 1)-0.00  _5.93.8*  2604.13 12-3.53 23.  11.87 t12.58   M7.M
Sub-Total TECHNICAL 69917881                                                                       4*266.80 1,31.60 305.00 1504.00 150.00  69602.60  M8.13 124,3 23.08 11.87 I2.58   45.1'
6, STUDIES
I. PROJEC PREPARATION FACILITYY
FISCAL. OPT1(1  STIlY                 VA        2        -        -           2        l  15   310.00           -          -     -   310.00   20.60          -     -        -    21.6
1.AUPRO3ET1VTYTUI $113                          2    -      -    -      -     2        Iss    310.00                       -      -   R10.D   20.00       -    -      -      -   20.40
08.16118 OF FACTORY 6166S             som       2     -    -            -     2        155    310.00               --                  310.00   20.60           -        20-    .20.8
IERIFICT1IN OF PLMATIOU ASSET         sos    1.5      -    -    -    -   1.5           155    232.5          -      -            -    23.50   15.60       -     -    -      -    15.60
61181159910  518)1                    mmOY    1.5        -        -     -  1.5         155    2)2.50                   -               W    3.50   15.60  -    -    -       -    15.00
Sub-Iot  PROJECT P059886116 FACILITY                                                             .9,0                                   1439.00   90.00      -                 - 9.600
2. PROJECT PERIM)
FINK4 11185$10           m     S                      - as- -    -            5        155i    77.0                                    MM    750  51.7        5---               51.75
LAW PIOIVETIVISTUDIY                   so       2    -      -     -           2        155    310.60         -      -             - 310.00   20.70        -           -          20.70
VAUT1ION F CORAS.                    emM      2    -     -    -      .     2        1I5    310.00         -      -             -    310.00   20.70                             28.10
WRIFIATIU OF P181110ATI       T MM"           1.5     -     -    -          1.5        1t.i   23250          -      -     -           232.0,  155.53      -                      15.53
CANE T06OSIT STUO                      e        -    -      !     1I          2        155          -        -1500155.00,         -   310.60        -      -1It.4912.78     -   24.66
AccIRIT am511 SW85e                           1.5     -     --    -         1.5        155    232.50         -      -      -      -   232.50   15.53      -     -           -    15.53
Sub-Total PROJECT P910                                                                          10868.60        -1561)0.00             2*170.60  124.20      -11812.78             148.86
58Total S191E9                                                                                     3*255,00          155.60 is0."          SP3565.40, 214.20      It1.8  12.78        238.66
E. 196161N5
SW?1 vum    cam151                       trip      3    4                        7        155    465.00   620.6        -      -         1#085,40   31.05  44.30    -           -    7.35
LOCAL.TANN                               VA165  m    - - -     -     -        -      -     - 1062.60            -             -         1#062,60   70,82     -     -     -          70.02
Sub-Tota) T161N180                                                                                 1,527.60   62MM                        2*147.60 101.6  44.30       -    -    -   146.17
Total 16665138  COSTS                                                                                11816.34 2#653.26 9M.75 305.00 150.00 1_5*0.35  7-29.55 189.42 71,1924.5 1-2.58 I027,391
Total                                                                                                 t1,016.34 29653.2691WM  305.600150.00 15107.35  729.55189942 71.19 24.65 12.581I027.39
Ja,  2, 1986  1MM0



66061110
8660',tofrtyAg?AnlI 
tiMO   WS? V7/6  NW 09 900/91 "Mt      4 Ul ul U    Ogot   0,417   FRIO  111149    el"0    94/91   TlAIj       018   67/00  W8e4     e/9/l    WIt       Tot.1
I. I6081IlT 0595
6. #80*0  NAWM8     fI
1. 95=0 9161108B FEItI.T1
WAEOL OMem                       &    -    -    -    -    6            116   1.916 'A-                                    -   116.00   Ml00       -          
'1619110 O91FtC               a          I    -                       3        '73     (63109                                         465.00   30.09                            
068c16.L*0i 0(141810                     3    -.     .           -    I        135    w&2 to-                           -               30    30.00                                      3.090
36099441 990501 9909401186 PSILIlI                   2,990 (1        -                  -         - 2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OM4600  ;32.00 -  --- -    -    ------ 3-----
2. Flog"? 90930
%44360  NAP                    a        12   12   12    6    -   42            to6  86132.00  7.22.4722.00       1.16.6          -  '.12.08  149.09 139.47   171.43    92.91             71s
106141408OFF301                a        12   1.    9    -    -   33            131   1.860,0  1,66.00  1,515.00        -            3,115.00   20.20 OLD.8   189.91                 -   .64.49
AUlic00IWA   EI.  KM0          to       02    9    -       -         21        153   1.46000 3,193.0          -                     ItM325.00  1.24.20 99W?       -                     221.17
6('IlIl                       ecad       I    -    -    -    -    I    4721.13         47L75        -                                   22.33   31."'i                                   31 '.1
140E663 1161111               VAm         .-         - -   -     --                   432.6:  312.37   316.33    316.33          -1#5181.61  42,24  22.60    24.24   264                113-1'
1d.b-.TOtI 90659  #0(0                                                                 7W.0/40 MO83.3   3,943.33  IZ.4233           - 3436.2e 4/1.25 414.64   302.1'  118.11             1,346.29
Sub-Toala #90*9  1AIn8O1    MITl                                                          9,103,40 5.103.3)  3,943.33  14.43L32          20,721,361 683.25 414,64   302.19  118.31          1 ,434,29
6. fAMM8  90E9ICE444303
990 U0L1M5                      ate,t       I    -    4    4    5    16    062.6?   2,568.00           -  3,450.61 3.438.66  4,313.33 13,602.66 189.77      -  26.22   308 S2  412.94 1,199.44
930 (IJIUJI                     cawt        3    -    4    4    5   16    15437          463.10             617W4?   617.47    771.64  2,469.48   30.92     - 47.32.  W0.9    0831   197.67
*10101uI molipti                Cade        3    -    4    4    5    16         67.15    261,45        -   268.60   268.60   135.33  1,074.40   13.45            20.5e   22.1:    29.60   IS."9
9.h-"m' ~1800   MERVC  09886                                                               MUM2,1            4,336.73 4.336,73 3,420.92 17,346.9  214.14           MAX6,3   38138   S11 26 1,403.10
fTd& IVgJIIWT mm51                                                                          12.345.95 3003.33  84260.46  5,769.06 5,420.92 37,62.31  03739 414,64   638.32  699.70   511.26 2.921,30
II.          MMW461
6. M50 FWAWS  MVIT
LIOCK ST
mmNIIOUI                                   I     1    I    I    I    5            0o     60.00   80.0       80,00    80.0      88.00   40.0.0   5.32   5.64    S.97    6.32        601l   29.0'
*iOL1UmRE MJEI                             1    I      1    1    1    5           75      33.00    23,00    35.00    35.40     75.00    315.00   4.90  5.26      5.60     S.94     6, 29   26.09
3,htot  a    w 114  U EiTf WIT
061971                                                                                   15509 33,0 155.00MO   O    155.06   155.00    73.00  10.30  10,92    11.37    12.27    13.64    38.06
P. FSC
1. LEwSN. 11
FM6 $ON=  191811            Cml.        3    J    7   St   1S   39             'S    223.00   323..2     2,00   825.00 42. 2 .125.00  2,92500   14.93  13.3   V9.20   63.52'   94.30   n29.4'
MMi FM                     calm        I    3    7   it   13   39            56    168,00   168.00    392.00   616.60   84.00  2,84.00   11.16  11.93   29,27    40..'2   70.47   171.49
9380 8691181                Cearm       I    I    7   it   is   39            162    486.00   486.00  1.134,00 1,70.00  2.420.00  6,318.00   12.30  30,23   04.67   141.04   203.86   496.10
039681 PW                   Coal        I    I    7   itis 13        9        200    600.00   600.00  1,400.00 2.208.00  3.000,00  7,860.00   39.87 42,26   104.33   174.12   231.60  417.46
I9fmU M 689CORt.                       3    3    7   II   15   39             67    201.00   201.00    469,00,   737.00  1.003.00  2,613.00   13.36  14.16   33.02    38.33    8' 11  203.10
emtWI      Mm               Coto        2    3    7   II   1s   P9             80    240.00   240.00   560.00   66.00  1.200.00 3,120.00   IS.M  14.91    41.91   696.   100.6'  244.99
1*440.  LOCLA War9                                                                     192.00 1,92.00  4,440.00  7,40669. .00 24.96000  127.89 1335.34   334.50  357,18  805.38 t.95*.0'
2. 66038  Co81s
611611068a1  9861            Cod".      I    I    I   it   13   V9             20      60.00   60.00   140.00    220.40    300.00    70.00    3.99   4.21   10.40    17    1.A .?   OkM.2
WT4440  *MTN3  cam0                                                                      60.00   68.00    140.00   220.00   300.00    70.0    3,99  4.23   10,45    17.- I                61.23
S-to-ai 93C                                                                               1,980,0 1.96.00  4,020.00  7,M60,0  9,90.00 23,740.00  131.M  139.47   344.93   574.39  ,,3s,T  A1.13
To16l FIlamm  01151                                                                          2,15,0 .100 NIB     4,77.00  ?,415.00 10,65.00 26,315.00  141.67  3.39    MU.3   566.86  843.55  2.079.20
Total                                                                                        1;4.490,97,93.33 13,055.06 M184.146 15,435.92 64,144.31  97,27 365.02 1.814,84 1.086,36 3.35481  .6050
-   -tn  -------  ---       s..5       ..a   .fa ----   - ------.,:n.---                     .8  2. . ....
.0* 2.18   1310MI



331333
u. mw SOCAZI
399£. 593. 139334
9914                                                                 349119  396t 
------ --                                                                       -        -                   -  -- ----                                                   -      --
1. 33437(9 WA 1973
693934 DI4321JT1
£9933li                                *A.       3    9                                Is £  3  493.9     9393@0  493.09        -          - 10.33       RA.O    44.4  35.44       -          £3.13
3' t 193 N9 ULA91(1                    i.a       1    2      1                4        333    Is's4     339.9   333,9                    -    29.99      9.335   22.2 £1.9 -1-                 49.29
W14-419  3303M   911144 9 1C3                                                                    -4249   3, 249.9   93.3 -;  2.9                           41,9     DOM   47,31                  1 77.5i
1339'3                                 449     9,   9.3           -    -4-    £  243.3     10'9&79  1,9.79             -                 - 3,317,31    £19.11   139.39                        249.49
9914t9399                              pA        .           . -.  .-.                         499.39                                          MN    493  13.95      -                          1.91
tam",*39..3.'                                                            .           .-- -     042.3351                                      424.31     29.35               -                  29.35
NI£3£M  W£ 044.19109; O&                         -               - -         -                 193.99    £95.44  395.44   193.49   tOS.49    327.23       La9    I.&I112  .61  O9,39   V.3    44. 11
510-7..19 .149 law( 9325(                                                                       2.133.49  £44  3    4.9    £544  3193.49  -4".4399        £9.41  -1n.91  90.09  -t49.9     .. 29
2. 111191ION 33T33
19j373331?     14                                                     1,4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-41.3£  1,441.4t  -      .439       9.3£    74.39      -                  43.99
1(3133491                              ..0393.9                                                               -                                43.44     7.34        -      -      -      -~ 7
3,4-7441 £5394713 33313                                                                         1,92944  34414,11                             2,479.49     %4.34   724.2       -             - 37,52
4.36913-4(33911STUDIES
333J3,                                          £-3-44 -    -    -                                                                            £95.44     7.74               -                    .39
34-T4t,! £69l13-9(MIC STUDIES                                                                     £35.44         -                          - £10.44        2.74               -                   7.74
5. 93133 9131431993.L399
mnw   ~           ~           --11349    £TS.39                                                                                        IV  331  33.31   1211M                        2947
344499963                              pa23613                                                                -        -                         4- 243.£ £.99       -                    - 3.99
1393319993.313  OF THE3 in1        .p.-.                                    .             2,341.24  2.341.29                            4,912.49    £56.33   167.29                        323.9£
74-Total 6391 13314333 LI*93                                            3,393~~~~~~~~~~~~114.22 '7.319.4                                                                 MM,2,3 23,3 394   - - - 33
9993349                                pa.1,121.39  1,121.29                                                           -                 -2,242.31      74X9     99.13                        114.99
gm133 KMPA-:-                                                -     -     -    -              1,014.26         -                 -        -   ,49.2      29.19        -                    - 2.31
19334133  RENDNTI                      ,a.,12F9.6                                                             -                              ,315.64    95.39        -                    - 1.19
3993o                                            -               - -  -        -364,93…*    93.6                                                                     -      -      - 
14-79113     WID £133833  3511 34193333                                                         3.97,95  1.121,29         -                     ,349.23   377.25    63.11                        Was35,3
7. 6£334351C9?1  3gm9
E3919333                               l-,94 43 3.93.4                                                                 -                    WI13D.    £19.93   116.19                         323099
3934.93                                                                                         21.12     23.13                               142.35     3,33    3,9        -                  £3.62
(339999                                                            …993.92--m~49,42                                                                                  -      -             - 9.47
3333in    3994 339433            pa-43.49    £43.49   £42.49   143.49   £42.49    737.91                                                           13.3    39,25  3O.9"  £1.43  £2.73    35.37
S*-3.ot39134371(931393SW                                                                        2,274.42  3,973,93   134.49   14.4   £43.4  3.,42.3    £5.81   31939  19."913 1.43  12.23   353.9
9. 134   3333
(391939..1.                                                              .         9,.344.42  3,943.43                 -        -        - 9.417,35    239.23   321.49      -      -          t 29.7
91432    M U)  331993436,9             pa-.1..9..3l   139.9    399.3   199.39   £69.39    M."6    £2.63    11.54  14.34  33.93  39.43    7.26
su,6-r49.  O1m3  £31                                                                            3,23.4   3,233.41   W9,9    16.3 19.3   ,342              213-91   231.13  19.39  33933.43   49.M
M ~3139.9.6.                                                                       na73.2                719.73                          - - ,421.47    47.44    39.7       -- 9.2
3.13-7.1NW  1£a R7 gm39                                                                           66690    319.23         -                 -3,32.9        39.A6    3973       --    999
t9. EmU9313 9923
witim                   -           -     -     - ~   ~     ~     ~     3.3 -      -          13,14                              3.9 -                           -111  11.421.2
$04-1.1.1911       t0i71    ITM                                                                   a9t."    219.22         -        -          1,19.AA      31.1*   19.76                         13.946
WWA& 9      tM 1339                                                                             9,239.931 14..331.24 1,49.9   439.44   4319.94239,439.13  t3.3f 193423.64  91.33  36.17  39.4 2,52,22
3u3331mM         339963                                                -          -a--   ,97.94 JI92.*91,92.09 1,97.94  2,9.39 4                               -   141.39 131.31 191.03 JIM.A   431.29
94-2e9*3 13433333994393933.3339                                                . 3~~~~~~~~~~~~,3327.991,927,99 3,97,4  ,779   29.4      -  143.241121.51   03939 171.3     9211.291
TOW391   R 19334733                                                                                  1376.14 19,39.X 342 2.4       ,4£3,9  2,413.9643M,3343   3,345.39 1,164,6 232.64199292314.49 3.134.32
LAO1no                                   VA        1    1    I    3    I    3            437     467,9     423    979 41970WA 4.99    W 4  2.9   .43,6    32,36    34.3  36.314  3.34  49.86   34V.4
331931M                                  VA3       I    I      £    I    1    3          322     22.99    32.994  329.99   32I.9   326.4931.34.           15.31    34.94  12.43  13.43  19,33    51.41
9114-0551 STUDIES                         as       I    I      £    3    1    3           23     235.9     M2.9   233.99   23.9   233.4   14,143.         33.44    £9.43  17.49  36.44  11.16    VA.3
am92(13333Liam9                          so        I    I    3       I    1    3         437    437.990   427.99   437.99   437.09  437.9  3.1419.9       29.44    39.2  32.93  34.39  364.9   343.79
33mmu9   W  33          3339739£         anl       I    I      £    1    I    3        3,93   13423,9   3.13.915.913I.*93JI3.991,913.39115,923.99         0,413   71.53  35.79   9.33 35.33   399.23
9IE134919133                             Ss        I    I    3       I    1    3          M9     394.09    34.9   394.99   33.9   234.G  1,939.99         31.54    JI.3  35.23  3H.3  17.9    79.43
£9333                         p~ ~~~~~~~~~a I       J     I  1                 411 1    1  444311431.91 431.3      413.9 9 1.49 129   2.055.4   27.23    39.9   3.60  33.313  34.4   I33.9
139319WA Ia                                        I £   £           I £            a3 49      0 49.9996 .349       4,949  6.499396.39               31.99    4.23 4.4  4.13.93    22.4
S.91313339 91103.133                        so               -    -        -- --    349.411  391.99,  YAM    100.96 b4Q1.99                                      -   35.32  .37.9  39.7 41.93   £33.97
T49  KMN         COSTS                                                                                3,923.9   3,7.333992.  23.993.33.9917,32.99    25434, -;-14          ~        D 23. W9.39.3-2ff9.2 1.315.93
TOW1                                                                                                  V1.35.49 19,6IL.8 9,4119.493,999.48  9.993.319. 3    1.39.23 31419642 469.37 482.14219.39 4.W462
JS    . 33  £334



- 91 -                       Annex 6
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1,
(US$ '000)
IBRD Fiscal    Quarter       IBRD Disbursements    Cumulative    Cumulative
Year         Ending       at end of Quarter                     % Disbursed
1987      Sept 1986             300                 300               1
Dec  1986            500                  800              3
Mar  1987           1400                 2200              7
June 1987           1600                 3800             12
1988      Sept 1987            2000                5800              19
Dec  1987           2000                 7800             26
Mar  1988           2000                 9800             32
June 1988           2000                11800             39
1989      Sept 1988            1900               13700              45
Dec  1988           2000                15700             52
Mar  1989           1500                17200             57
June 1989           1500                18700             62
1990      Sept 1989            1400               20100              67
Dec  1989           1400                21500             71
Mar  1990           1300                22800             76
June 1990           1200                24000             80
1991      Sept 1990            1000               25000              83
Dec  1990           1000                26000             86
Mar  1991           1000                27000             90
June 1991           1000                28000             93
1992      Sept 1991            1000               29000              96
Mar  1991           1000                30000            100
1/ Expected Date of Signing:          July 1986
Expected Date of Effectiveness:  September 1986
Expected Completion Date:          July 1991
Expected Closing Date:             June 30, 1992



Annex 7
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
A. Documents Relating to the Project
1. 1985-1990 Project Preparation. The Mauritius Sugar Authority Main
Report. Action Plan for the Sugar Industry.
i)  Annex 1   The Sugar Industry
ii)  Annex 2   Sugar Industry Institutions
iii)  Annex 3   Factory Rationalization
iv)  Annex 4   Factory Valuation and Potential Studies
v)  Annex 5   Uniform Systems of Accounts
vi)  Annex 6   Planter Productivity
vii)  Annex 7   Land Preparation and Mechanical Services
viii)  Annex 8   Research, Extension and Agricultural Diversification
ix)  Annex 9   Mauritius Sugar Authority (Second Draft)
x)  Annex 10  Financial and Economic Analysis
2.  Report of the Commission of Inquiry on the Sugar Industry, Government
of Mauritius, June 1984.
3.  Report of the Commission of Inquiry on the Sugar Industry (J. Manrakhan
and R. Sithanen), Government of Mauritius, June 1984.
4. A Master Plan for the Modernization and Rehabilitation of the Sugar
Industry. The Mauritius Chamber of Agriculture, 1984.
5. Action Plan for the Sugar Indus-ry 1985-1990. Mauritius Sugar
Authority February 1985 Main Report and six annexes in 3 volumes (Annex
1, Annexes 2-5, Annex 6).
6. Statement by the Hon. N. Deerpalsingh, Minister of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Natural Resources. Restructuration Program for the Sugar
Industry, Government of Mauritius, August 1985.
7. The Mauritius Chemical and Fertilizer Industry Limited. Annual Report
and Accounts 1979, 1983, 1984.
B. Selected Working Papers
1. Factory Rationalization Program, Bagasse Utilization Program, John H.
Payne Inc., October 1985.
2. Role of the Mauritius Sugar Authority, C.N. Raghavan.
3. WIorking Paper on Manpower (Mauritius Sugar Industry), C.N. Raghavan.
4. Sugar Mills - Financial Aspects, William Whitesell



o 0    ;,11o 
w    ~ ~It  t   [ffIg 
l-S:--~~~ j            >0)
</~    ii'''I;
's~~~~
rnZ         
IEbA    f
0[5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m' :



E~~~~~~ ~ DIN                                                     ds. DOWI
g  UN10 _ -_ < < lNI01
n 'C ''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R§ BE'     IIHl~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MAHEBO)UI A*°r/\ 
t . . \ 111, ' I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
t   - / ,-  . ',1'   ,,  i' >, t\@¢  =    ~~~~~=^T  SO '     'e -  '
§ ' . _ M~~is-b d ~~ .. ., .... ._ iT



