Dlo t of
The World Bank
FOR OFTICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4349-MAS
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
Or THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.0  MILLION
TO MAURITIUS
FOR A
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
June 6, 1986
-This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Mauritian Rupee (Rs)
Calendar 1985            January 1986
US$1.00 =                 15.44                   14.24
Rs 1.00 =                  0.06                    0.07
Exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report Rs 1.00 = US$0.06
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Arpents      Acres       Hectares
Area:    1 arpent  =               1.0         1.04         0.42
1 acre    =             0.96         1.0          0.41
1 hectare =              2.37        2.47         1.0
Weight: Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FSC    -  Farmers' Service Center(s)
LCES   -  Least Cost Expansion Plan Study of the Power System
MCA    -  Mauritius Chanber of Agriculture
MCFIL  -  Mauritius Chemical and Fertilizer Industry Ltd.
MEiC   -  Ministry of Energy and Internal Communications
MOA    -  Ministry of Agriculture
MSA    -  Mauritius Sugar Authority
MSIRI -  Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute
SAL    -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP    -  Sugar Action Plan
SIES   -  Sugar Industry Efficiency Study
Government of Mauritius Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Mauritius
Executing            Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Mauritius Sugar
Agencies:          Authority (MSA), Mauritius Sugar Industry Research
Institute (MSIRI) and the Bank of Mauritius.
Amount:              $30 million equivalent
Interest Rate:       Standard variable.
Commitment           Standard.
Charge:
Terms:               17 years, including 4 years of grace.
Project Objectives  The project would support the Government's strategy to
and Description:  broaden the productive base of the economy by
promoting increased productivity (within a target level
of sugar production) and agricultural diversification.
The specific objectives of the project, to be
implemented over a five-year period, would be: (i) to
rehabilitate and modernize sugar mills; (ii) to
strengthen the financial performance of the sugar-mill
sub-sector, increase its transparency, and broaden mill
ownership; (iii) to improve productivity in the use of
land, labor, fertilizer, machinery, and equipment in
sugar production; and (iv) to support further efforts
for the development of irrigation and the use of
bagasse for power generation. The loan would provide
foreign exchange for: (i) the acquisition and
importation of machinery, equipment, capital and
intermediate goods, and raw materials required fnc the
rehabilitation and modernization of sugar mills; 'ii)
the importation of fertilizer and fertilizer materials;
(iii) technical assistance, office and logistics
support to assist the Mauritius Sugar Authority; (iv)
establishment of Farmers' Service Centers; and (v)
support to research programs of the Mauritius Sugar
Industry Research Institute and of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
Benefits/           The project would promote more efficient use of  e
Risks:          resources in the sugar industry and raise the
productivity of smallholders. In the long run, the
project would be an impetus to agricultural
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
|of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
diversification and the better use of sugar
by-products. It would also improve the business
environment in the industry. The primary risks are:
(i) that investment incentives for sugar mills may not
be sufficient to achieve the project's objectives or
end up stimulating production beyond the target level;
(ii) that Farmers' Service Centers may not stimulate
the expected productivity increases of smallholders;
(iii) that the Mauritius Sugar Authority would not be
able to achieve a position of respect and acceptance in
the industry, and therefore not become a force in
promoting cooperation; and (iv) that research efforts
may not result in adequate technology advances. To the
extent practicable, the project provides safeguards
against these risks: (i) the proposed Sugar Industry
Efficiency Study would lay the foundation for
strengthening the business environment in the industry
and thus create a more favorable climate for investment
by private sugar companies, without stimulating surplus
production; (ii) the establishment in phases of
Farmers' Service Centers would permit the testing of
smallholders' response to productivity improvement
initiatives; (iii) the arrangements ror project
implementation would ensure broad industry involvement
in MSA's work, particularly in policy-related studies,
and would provide technical assistance to strengthen
MSA; and (iv) the project would provide for upgrading
Mauritius' research capability and for a structured
program of research jointly agreed with the Bank.
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign       Total
-        -u-s$ mi lion---
Factory Investments                      10.0        15.0        25.0
Fertilizers                                 -        9.4          9.4
Mauritius Sugar Authority                 0.2        0.8          1.0
Farmers' Service Centers                  2.2        2.0          4.2
Research
(a) Mauritius Sugar Industry
Research Institute                   1.7        1.6          3.3
(b)  Ministry -of A-griculture            0.1        0.5          0.6
Baseline Cost                              14.2        29.3        43.5
Physical Contingencies                      0.0 1/      0.1         0.1
Price Contingencies                         0.7         0.6         1.3
Total Cost                                 14.9        30.0        44.9
Taxes and Duties                            1.0          -          1.0
Total Cost (net of taxes and duties)       13.9        30.0        43.9
1/ US$32,400



- iil -
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
- ---US$ million---
IBRD Loan                                   -       30.0        30.0
Government and other                      4.9          -         4.9
implementing agencies
Sugar companies                          10.0          -        10.0
Total                               14.9       30.0        44.9
Estimated Disbursement:
IBRD Fiscal Year                    FY87   FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92
- --U US$ million-=-----
Annual:                             3.8    8.0    6.9    5.3    4.0    2.0
Cumulative:                         3.8   11.8  18.7  24.0  28.0   30.0
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 6092, dated June 5, 1986.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map:                     IBRD No. 19358



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MAURITIUS
FOR A SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECr
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Mauritius for the equivalent of US$30.0 million. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. The proposed loan would support the rehabilitation
of the sugar industry and a program of actions to increase its efficiency.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A Country Economic Memorandum entitled "Mauritius - Adjustment and
Growth" (No. 5533-MAS) was issued in April 1985. The section below
incorporates the findings of an updating economic mission which visited
Mauritius in January 1986.
The Structure of the Economy
3.        Mauritius is a densely populated island with smaller outer
islands situated in the Indiar, Ocean. Its economy is dominated by sugar
production. Despite significant expansion of other sectors since the early
1970s, sugar still occupies around 90 percent of the cultivatable area and
accounts for about 45 percent of export earnings. The level of economic
activity is therefore highly sensitive to fluctuations in sugar production
and exports. Overdependence on a single commodity also renders the economy
highly vulnerable to external shocks and disturbances.
4.        With a GNP per capita of about US$1,100 in 1984, Mauritius has
the standard of living of a middle-income developing country. Standards of
nutrition, health care, and general education greatly exceed those of
neighboring countries. The adult literacy rate is over 80 percent, life
expectancy at birth is about 65 years, and basic needs are extensively
covered. The main island of Mauritius has a population of 1.0 million
(1984) on a land area of about 2,000 km2, just over half of which is
cultivatable. The less-developed outer islands are dispersed over a wide
area of the Indian Ocean; the largest of these islands is Rodrigues, 400
miles east of Mauritius, with a population of about 30,300 (1984).
5.        Mauritius' population is a mosaic of various ethnic groups.
About 68 percent is of Indian origin and about 29 percent consist of
Franco-Mauritians and people of African or mixed descent. The



-2-
Sino-Mauritian population accounts for the remaining 3 percent. This
ethnic diversity is compounded by the diversity of religious and
ideological beliefs, both of which contribute to a complex political
climate. Nevertheless, despite the ethnic complexity, the Government
functions in a system of parliamentary democracy, and the country has
avoided racial, religious, and cultural conflicts.
6.        Mauritius enjoys a pleasant tropical climate, which makes it
attractive for tourists. However, the country is subject to cyclones
between late December and March, which can cause severe damage. The
absence of mineral resources and the distance of Mauritius from major
markets (about 6 thousand miles from Western Europe; 10 thousand miles from
the US; and 7 thousand miles from Japan) affect the potential for economic
development and condition the choice of economic activities. Mauritius
does not lie on the main sea routes, and thus maritime transport costs are
higher than in countries competing in similar markets.
Economic Performance to 1979
7.       Mauritius' economic performance during most of the 1970s was
remarkably successful. With an open economy and an export-oriented
development strategy, the Government encouraged the production of cash
crops (sugar and tea) for export, stimulated the development of export
manufacturing industries and tourism, and provided infrastructure for the
growing needs of the economy. The unprecedented increase in sugar prices
in 1973 and 1974 helped the economy to grow by more than 10 percent per
annum in the years 1972-77. During this period, gross domestic savings
increased substantially and helped accelerate the growth in the
maaufacturing, construction and service sectors. The rapid growth in
production and exports was accompanied by a rapid increase in employment;
in 1977 the unemployment rate was reduced to about half of its peak level
at the beginning of the 1970s. Social objectives were pursued through
public works programs, minimum wage regulations, public provision of health
care and education, food subsidies and selective controls over consumer
prices.
8.        During the post sugar-boom period, however, between 1976 and
1979, serious economic difficulties emerged. The sharp turnaround in the
country's international terms of trade following the decline of sugar
prices in 1976 and the second price increas- in petroleum in 1979 led to a
rapid deterioration in the balance of payments. Foreign exchange reserves
fell, and Mauritius resorted to the Eurodollar market to finance most of
its development requirements. The balance of payments difficulties were
further aggravated by the continuation of an expansionary fiscal policy.
Increasing recourse to external borrowing on non-conLessionary terms
resulted in a rapid increase in Mauritius' debt service obligations.
During 1976-79 the country's external debt more than tripled and the debt
service ratio rose from 1 percent in 1976 to nearly 10 percent in 1979.



While GDP and export growth decelerated, the domestic inflation rate rose
dramatically, and unemployment reached a critically high level.
9.        Beginning in 1979, the Government embarked on a stabilization and
structural adjustment program that has been supported by IMF facilities and
IBRD structural adjustment lending. Since 1979, four consecutive stand-by
arrangements were successfully implemented. A fifth stand-by arrangement
covering the period January 1985 - June 1986 is progressing
satisfactorily. The stabilization program has included actions on the
exchange rate, reductions in consnmer subsidies, wage restraint,
restrictive credit and monetary policies, reductions in the overall fiscal
deficit and an increasingly liberal system of trade and payments.
10.       Despite unfavorable exogenous factors, including adverse weather
conditions in 1980 and 1983, a world-wide recession in 1982, and continued
deterioration in the country's terms of trade, progress under the.
stabilization program has been remarkable. The overall budgetary deficit
was narrowed from about 14 percent of GDP in F! 1981 to 6 percent in FY
1985; the external current account deficit was reduced from about 13
percent of GDP in 1981 to 3.5 percent in 1985, and the domestic inflation
rate was moderated from about 30 percent in 1979 to 7 percent at present.
The current stand-by program primarily continues the policies of the
previous arrangements with further fiscal adjustment, restraint on total
credit expansion, a flexible exchange rate policy and a cautioub wage
policy. A second review of the current stand-by arrangement was completed
in February 1986. Mauritius is expected to reach most of the program
targets by June 1986.   At Covernment's request, an IMF mission is
scheduled to visit Mauritius in July 1986.
Resumption Of Growth
11.       The economy recovered in 1984 after a period of stagnation during
1979-83. This reflected the expansion of economic activity abroad as well
as the favorable impact of domestic economic policies pursued to stabilize
the economy and support export-oriented industrialization and tourism. In
1984, there was rapid growth in all productive sectors except sugar, where
output fell below normal production levels. Gross domestic product
increased by 4.1 percent in 1984 as compared to 0.3 percent in
drought-affected 1983.
12.       The economic recovery of 1984 gained further momentum in 1985 and
this favorable trend seems to be carrying over into 1986. In 1985, GDP
expanded by 5.5 percent in real terms. Particularly striking was the
performance of the Export Processing Zone (EPZ) which grew by another 25
percent in volume, after the 'industrial boom- of 1984 when the EPZ sector
registered a record real growth of 30 percent. In 1985, there was also
strong, though less dramatic, expansion in sugar output, tea production,



- 4 -
food production and tourism. As a result of the significant progress
achieved since 1979 in stimulating export-oriented manufacturing, there has
been a notable change in the structure of the Mauritian economy. Despite a
good crop year in 1985, the share of the sugar sector, including sugar
milling, in total GDP declined from 17 percent in 1979 to about 11 percent
in 1985, while the share of total manufacturing, excluding sugar milling,
increased from 11 percent in 1979 to over 15 percent in 1985. Similar
change has also been achieved in the structure of merchandise exports; the
share of industrial exports in total exports rose from 25 percent in 1979
to 50 percent in 1985.
13.       On the demand side, there was an upturn in capital formation in
late 1983, which continued in 1984 and 1985. Gross fixed investments are
estimated to have increased by 5 percent in 1984 and by about 7 percent in
1985 in real terms. Most of the increase was in construction, primarily in
road infrastructure, industrial estates and hotel expansion, and transport
equipment and machinery. Private investment rose substantially during
1983-85, particularly in manufacturing.
14.       In 1984, roughly 13 thousand new jobs were created in the Export
Processing Zone. In 1985, a further 15 thousand new jobs were created,
mostly in textile industries. Although the new job-openings in 1984-85
exceeded the number of new entrants into the labor force, estimated at
about 10 thousand per year, the rate of unemployment, at about 17 percent,
still remains high.
Structural Adjustment
15.       Mauritius' economic imbalances during the post sugar-boom period
resulted from the Government's expansionary policy response to rising
unemployment and the country's overdependence on a single commodity,
sugar, for domestic incomes as well as foreign exchange earnings.  During
the post sugar-boom period, it became apparent that, for sustained growth
of output and employment and a viable balance of payments position in the
medium-term, Mauritius needed to promote and diversify its exports further,
both in agriculture and industry, and encourage efficient import
substitution in the food and energy sectors.  Given the small size of the
domestic market, export growth was of vital importance to the economy.
Export diversification was also required to reduce the country's
overdependence on sugar and generate additional employment. The
Government's medium-term structural adjustment program introduced in the
early 1980s therefore aimed primarily at encouraging export-led growth
based on export-oriented manufacturing and tourism, and to a lesser extent,
on import substitution in food, energy, and some manufactured products.
16.       In agriculture, although future growth of output and employment
will depend increasingly on non-sugar activities, the critical importance
of the sugar subsector will continue. It will provide the necessary



- 5 -
foreign exchange and domestic resources for sustained growth of output and
investments elsewhere in the economy. After the decline of sugar prices in
1976, two sets of issues relating to the sugar subsector have become
increasingly important: the declining financial profitability of the sugar
industry (large estates with milling facilities) and the low productivity
of the smallholder planters. Given the unfavorable earning prospects of
the sugar industry over the next several years, the Government's Sugar
Action Plan (SAP), issued in 1985, focusses correctly on improving
technical efficiency and reducing production costs both in milling and cane
growing operations (paras. 43-44). The preparation stage of SAP was
supported by the second IBRD Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL It), approved
in 1983.
17.       Whether Mauritius' comparative advantage in producing sugar will
continue depends on the cost and price prospects for sugar, both in
absolute terms and relative to alternative food and cash crops. Given the
uncertainty in regard to both long-term price prospects and long-term
production costs, Mauritius must develop a capacity to diversify its
agricultural basis. The key objectives to be achieved in agricultural
diversification should be to: (a) reach self-sufficiency in selected
foodcrops; (b) reduce dependence upon imported meat and milk; (c) develop
all lands to the limit of their maximum productivity; and (d) establish a
framework of marketing facilities, institutions and price stabilization
mechanisms to provide improved support and security for producers.
18.       In industry, continued promotion of export-oriented manufacturing
remains a major priority for Mauritius. Given the stagnant nature and
limited prospects of the sugar sector, the small size of the domestic
market, and the sizable backlog of unemployed, export-oriented
manufacturing offers the strongest potential to foster growth and add to
foreign exchange earnings. Medium-term policy reforms for manufacturing
industry focus on improving Mauritius' competitiveness, extending the
system of export incentives to all firms capable of export activities, and
attracting new foreign investment and technology to export-oriented
manufacturing.  In tourism, the Government's primary objectives are to
increase foreign exchange earnings and generate additional employment.
This expansion would be obtaiped through investment promotion and improved
air access to Mauritius. In energy, the great majority of investment has
been and will continue to be in the power subsector. In the future, major
expansion of power-system capacity and energy supply is likely to come from
the utilization of bagasse, a by-product of sugar. Therefore, power-system
planning and development is closely linked with SAP. Power generation by
bagasse may grow from about 10 percent of supply now to 30 percent by the
end of the decade.
19.       The policy reforms and programs in agriculture, industry, tourism
and energy are further supported by a rolling three-year Public Sector
Investment Program (PSIP) which is geared primarily to the needs of these
sectors.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS
20.      Mauritius has received five IDA credits and eighteen Bank loans,
totalling $205.3 million (net of cancellations), to help finance projects
in industry, power, ports, agriculture and rural development, urban
development, water supply, and education, and for structural adjustment.
IFC made two small loans in 1971 and in 1981 for hotel development. Annex
II presents a summary of Bank Group operations.
21.      Project implementation is generally satisfactory in Mauritius, as
the country has sufficient administrative and technical capacity to handle
most project responsibilities. However, there have sometimes been delays
due to weaknesses in coordination among ministries and entities responsible
for project formulation and execution. Disbursement performance is close
to the Bank-wide average.
22.      Until the early 1980s, the Bank assistance program concentrated on
supporting traditional investment projects. The two SALs, approved in 1981
and 1983, helped the Government to adopt macro-economic and sectoral policy
reforms that led to resumed growth of the economy. They also laid the
foundation for designing and preparing new investment proposals in
productive areas with emphasis on diversification of the economy.
23.      The Bank's current country assistance strategy revolves around
three main objectives. First, the Bank strategy seeks to identify new
areas where further policy reforms could be introduced with beneficial
effects on investment, employment, economic diversification, and efficient
use of Mauritius' scarce resources. In this connection, planned economic
and sector work will be directed at assessing parapublic enterprises,
enhancing labor mobility, broadening tlic tax base and providing further
fiscal incentives, and improving the allocation of scarce land and water
resources between the rural and urban communities as well as between
production and consumption uses. If a consensus can be built on a
comprehensive set of policy reforms based on appropriate economic and
sector studies, a third structural adjustment operation will be proposed to
assist Mauritius in reaching a higher plateau of economic performance.
24.      Second, the Bank expects to assist the Government in designing and
financing priority investment projects that build on reforms undertaken
under the structural adjustment program, such as the sugar project proposed
in this report, and projects for the development of domestic energy
resources and expansion of the export manufacturing sector.
25.      Third, the Bank is working to improve aid coordination with a view
to promote an assistance program from the donor community increasingly
responsive to the long-term priority needs of the Mauritian economy. The
Consultative Group for Mauritius has met three times and has helped



-7-
considerably in the channelling of resources, particularly during the
difficult adjustment years of the past decade. At the last meeting, held
in May 1985, donors praised the progress achieved and strongly
endorsed the new direction given by the Government to its economic
policies, particularly the impetus given to the promotion of export
manufacturing industries and to diversification of the economy in general.
Ar economic performance improves, coordination efforts are expected to
emphasize sectoral meetings for the formulation of coherent long-term
sector strategies and identification of priority investment programs.
26.      During the 1981-84 period, the IBRD share of total medium- and
long-term disbursements to Mauritius averaged nearly 24 percent. The Bank
Group held 30 percent of the country's total disbursed and outstanding
public medium- and long-term debt at the end of 1984. The total debt
service ratio (excluding DMF), estimated at 15 per cent in 1984, is
expected to decrease to 10% by 1987-88. During 1984, debt service to the
Bank Group represented 13 percent of total service on medium- and long-term
public debt. This service share will rise to about 27 percent in 1986. In
1986, multilateral creditors, including the IMF, are expected to account
for about 70 percent of total debt service on medium- and long-term public
debt (of which 45% IMF, 15% IBRD/IDA). Projections for 1987-88 show that
the service share of multilateral creditors will fall to about 65% of which
35% IMF, 20% IBRD/IDA).
27.      During the post-sugar boom period and since, Mauritius has
demonstrated excellent capacity to protect its international credit
standing. Arrears on debt service have never arisen. Under the
stabilization and SAL programs the Government has taken courageous
measures. Provided that it continues to be committed to a process of
adjustment, Mauritius should remain creditworthy for a significant amount
of additional external borrowing.
PART III - THE SUGAR INDUSTRY
28.     Agriculture accounted for 14 percent of GDP and about 50 percent of
total merchandise exports in 1985. Its contribution to employment was
about 26 percent in 1984. The chief constraints on agricultural
development are limited available land, progressive transfer of land for
industrial, housing and road use, long distance from major world markets,
soil conditions, and limited irrigation potential. Sugarcane, introduced
during the seventeenth century, has evolved as the most suitable crop for
Mauritius, and is grown on 87 percent of all cultivated land.
Structure and Performance
29.       Over the last 15 years, annual sugar production has fluctuated
between 500,000 and 700,000 tonnes on a fairly constant area under
cultivation. Scale economies and technical progress have supported a



- 8 -
centralization process among sugar mills. The number came down from 250 in
1850 to 23 in 1960, and 19 in 1985. Estates associated with these
mills account for 55 percent of the total cane area and 60 percent of all
cane crushed. The balance, or 40 percent of the island's cane, is grown by
some 33,000 small planters, mostly part-time cultivators, of which more
than half have holdings of less than one acre. Planters are entitled to 74
percent and mills to 26 percent of the sugar produced from the planters'
cane. Ten sugar milling companies combine mill and plantation activities,
while the other companies have formed partnerships or "socidtes", to
support separate milling and planting activities. All but one of the mills
are in the private sector, and all but three of the private sector units
are locally owned.
30.       Recent Developments. The sugar industry prospered during the
early to mid-1970s. Steady growth in output was supported by rising prices
and demand in preferential markets. Followfi-'r a period of output
stagnation and a reversal of the price trend during the latter half of the
decade, the industrv's performance started to decline. Average annual
output fell from 660,000 tonnes during the first half of the 1970s to
583,000 tonnes during the period 1980/81-1983/84 although production in
1984/85 rose to 645,000 tonnes. Total profits (before depreciation) of
milling companies fell, as did aggregate annual investment in estates with
factories. Simultaneously, and with the expansion of other sectors in the
economy, the contribution of the sugar sub-sector to the economy declined.
31.       The declining performance of milling companies was caused by a
combination of factors. External market forces do not explain developments
since most of Mauritius' sugar is sold under special bilateral arrangements
with the EEC and USA. Short-term random factors such as adverse weather
conditions (cyclones and drought) precipitated the reductions in output.
The decline was, however, primarily brought about by other supply related
factors, including the institutional and Government policy framework
influencing producers' decisions, in particular the rigidities in the labor
market and the substantial increase in 1979 in the export tax (from 13.5
percent to 23.6 percent of export value) on the corporate sector after the
devaluation of the Mauritian Rupee. This, combined with adverse weather
conditions, caused a deteriorating business environment (para. 34).
Against this background, the Government and the industry have recognized
the need to design and implement a "restructuration program. The Bank has
been actively involved in a dialogue on the program through its work on the
Sugar Action Plan (SAP, para. 43).
32.       Market Constraints.  The bulk of Mauritius' sugar is exported to
the EEC and the US under import quotas on favorable terms. Less than 5
percent is sold on the domestic market, and the balance on the world's free
market. Mauritius has an annual quota on the EEC market for sugar imports
averaging 505,000 tonnes of raw sugar, which is protected under the EEG-ACP
Lome Convention. The share of Mauritian sugar in US sugar imports was 1.1



- 9 -
percent up to 1985, when it was increased to 1.2 percent. In absolute
terms, the Mauritian import quota for the U.S. market in 1984/85 was 25,000
tonnes. The EEC price over the last year has been about 16 cents per pound
and is not expected to increase. The US support prices averaged 20 cents
per pound last year and are likely to remain at around this level in the
medium term. Sugar prices in the world's free market ranged between 4 to 9
cents per pound last year, considerably below EEC and US prices, and are
projected to remain low until accumulated stocks have been depleted. With
proJected free market prices of 12 cents per pound in 1995 (in constant
prices) sales to the EEC and US markets will continue to provide the basic
rationale for sugar production in Mauritius. Output will be constrained by
the volume of demand at remunerative prices.
33.       Production target.  The SAP aims at an average annual sugar
production of 615,000 tonnes. This target, which will be kept under
review, is based on annual quota sales to EEC and USA of 512,000 1/ and
25,000 tonnes respectively and present annual domestic consumption of
38,000 tonnes. It further allows for a margin of 7 percent calculated on
the above tonnage to account for (i) sales to the EEC and US markets made
possible by the failure of other countries to take full advantage of their
quotas in these markets; (ii) free market sales; and (iii) the need to
build a stock for bad years. A pricing system is needed which provides
signals to producers to invest but to limit the area under cultivation and
investments in estates and mills to levels which are commensurate with the
target production level. To tha extent that future productivity gains
prove to be greater than production decreases due to losses of agricultural
land to non-agricultural uses, diversification from sugarcane, supported by
appropriate incentives, is important.
34.       The Business Environment.  During the late 1970s and early 1980s,
whe.i sugar output was low due to adverse weather, the export duty put a
heavy burden on the industry, especially on large producers (para. 31).
Rigidities in the labor market, resulting from existing labor laws and
remuneration regulations, have also contributed to the financial problems
of the industry. Until recently, restrictions on mill closures prevented
most producers from moving resources out of loss-making ventures, and high
tax rates on land transfer discou.aged estates from selling land. Most
mill owners claim that despite the tax relief granted in 1985 (para. 45),
profitability remains too low to support investments necessary to mair,tain
high standards of milling efficiency. Effective monitoring of the
financial status of sugar companies, however, has been difficult since
their accounts have not been uniformly prepared and often do not separate
1/ Including 7,000 tonnes as the potential contribution from (i) the
permanent reallocation of the deficit of Trinidad and Tobago, and (ii)
the possible permanent quota reallocation resulting from Portugal's
entry into the EEC.



- 10 -
estates from mills. Disclosure requirements under the old company and
partnership laws provided for a low level of public accountability. A
comprehensive study on the financial status of the sugar industry is both
important and urgent.
35.       Mill Efficiency and Centralization.  Sugar milling in Mauritius
is efficient by international standards. So far, the decline in investment
and maintenance outlays by sugar factories has not resulted in a visible
reduction in overall operating efficiency. There is, however, now a
backlog of maintenance to be cleared ;d some of the equipment in the mills
is approaching the end of its usetul life. Rehabilitation and
modernization of mills are therefore necessary, but such investments will
depend on the business environment. In this process, it is desirable to
increase average factory size by closing some mills and expanding others,
not so much because of the lower unit costs of production of larger
factories but because the average cost of new plant falls with size. The
historical process of centralization of sugar production evolved naturally
as financially healthy enterprises expanded their operations by absorbing
productive assets of financially weaker units in which replacement of key
equipment and machinery was found uneconomical. In 1970, the Government
suspended further closures until 1985, when two mills closed. Another two
or three mills are expected to close in the next five years, probably by
merger or absorption by more profitable mills.
36.       Estate and Smallholder Productivity.  Cane yields average 70
tonnes per hectare per year for the industry as a whole. Estates achieve
yields close to the maximum of available technology; the cane yield of
smallholders is 25 percent lower. The best option for land use
intensification in Mauritius is to increase smallholder productivity by
facilitating access to inputs, fostering closer coordination between
farmers and millers in harvesting and transport of cane, and organizing
farmers to allow them to have better access to extension services and
inputs.
37.       Labor.  Labor is the single most important input in sugar
manufacture. Large sugar estates must provide a variety of worker benefits
from which smaller employers are exempt. Measures are needed to encourage
redeployment of sugar labor to otner sectors of the economy and to provide
greater flexibility in the use of seasonal labor to raise labor
productivity.
38.       Fertilizers.  Fertilizers, mostly formulated locally from
imported and local materials, are a key component of the high yield
sugarcane production package. Over the past ten years, the National
Fertilizer Scheme regulated fertilizer imports, prescribed sale prices, and
regulated distribution. Under the scheme, the Mauritius Chemical and
Fertilizer Industry Limited (MCFIL) had the monopoly for importing,
formulating, wholesaling and exporting fertilizers. In February 1986, the



- 11 -
Government terminated the scheme and abolished the MCFIL monopoly. Despite
the recent changes, an analysis is needed of the effective protection of
fertilizer production in Mauritius and of the prospects for exports by
MCFIL to use its spare capacity, to determine whether fixed production
costs can thereby be reduced significantly.
39.       Irrigation.  Irrigation is important for cane in the drier
northern and western regions of the country and for diversification crops
in most areas. Important issues affect this sub-sector: (i) the high cost
of harnessing more water resources; (ii) the high distribution system water
losses; (iii) water charges much below cost; and (iv) a dispute about
whether to allocate water to irrigation or to a hydroelectric project at
Champagne. Resolving the water allocation dispute is a prerequisite to
planning both irrigation and power development. The Government has raised
water charges considerably in recent years. Much of the high cost stems
from inefficiencies in irrigation systems, which should be corrected before
the Government considers further increases in water charges.
40.       Use of By-products.  Bagasse, the fibrous residue of cane after
milling, has potential as a fuel for thermal power plants. To assess its
role in power generation, it is necessary to prepare a least-cost power
development plan which optimizes use of surplus bagasse generated by sugar
mills. Water allocation between irrigation and power use is a central
issue in the formulation of such a plan. Studies are underway to assess
load forecasts, bagasse handling, costing and investment needs and to
provide a basis for a national bagasse pricing policy.
41.       Research and Diversification.  The Mauritius Sugar Industry
Research Institute (MSIRI) has helped keep Mauritius among world leaders in
cane production and milling efficiency and has also worked successfully on
food crops. MSIRI has recognized the need to develop economic research
capacity and give more attention to smallholder problems. The Government
has issued broad policy guidelines for diversification, has established a
high-level committee to monitor progress and is providing price support as
incentive to diversify. Further studies are needed to identify products
with large-scale local or export market potential and additional research
programs are needed to accelerate diversification. It is proposed that
these be undertaken under the project. Since other donors are involved in
this area, the Bank-financed studies and research programs would be closely
coordirated by the Ministry of Agriculture with programs financed from
other sources.
42.       Institutional Framework.  Both parastatals and private
organizations are associated with the sugar industry. At the apex is the
Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA), established by the Government in July 1984
to provide advice to the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) on sugar industry
policy and planning. The Mauritius Cl-amaer of Agriculture (MCA), a private
sector body, serves as a forum for debate of industry interests and



- 12 -
represents the latter in the dialogue with Government and parastatal
agencies. The Sugar Industry Development Fund, a parastatal body, channels
finance from a cess on sugar exports to the industry to raise cane
productivity among smallholders, and to promote research and special
schemes that benefit mainly labor. Research on all aspects of the sugar
industry is undertaken by MSIRI. The majority of these agencies are widely
respected. However, as a new body, MSA has yet to gain the full confidence
of all parties. To this end, it needs to be strengthened through acquiring
a cadre of highly competent staff to help study key issues affecting the
sugar industry.
Industry Perspective and Government Policy
43.       The Sugar Action Plan.  The decline in sugar industry performance
in the early 1980s has been a source of great concern to the Government.
The latter addressed the issue as palt of its structural adjustment program
(para. 15-17). Thus, a Commission of Inquiry into all aspects of the sugar
industry was set up in December 1982 as part of the SAL I program. On the
basis of recommendations of the Commission's reports, the Government
established MSA to plan the restructuring in detail. The MSA invited MCA
to prepare a Master Plan. Taking account of the Master Plan, MSA prepared
a Sugar Action Plan (SAP), published in February 1985. It projects the
industry's course over the 1985-90 period. Because growth is constrained
by market factors and land availability, the SAP argues that the industry's
future prospects depend on: (a) productivity improvements in the use of
land, machinery and labor; (b) utilization of sugarcane by-products; (c)
agricultural diversification; and (d) cooperation and trust between all
parties in the industry.
44.       The SAP proposed investment programs for improving planters'
productivity, sugar mill rehabilitation and rationalization, producing
energy from bagasse and intensifying research, particularly to meet
smallholders' needs. It also proposed restructuring measures to: (i)
broaden mill ownership; (ii) revise company and partnership laws to provide
for increased disclosure; (iii) encourage separation of milling from estate
enterprises and establish companies for mills; (iv) reform accounting and
financial practices; and (v) amend the tax framework to strike a better
balance between adequate returns to the industry and its contribution to
Government budget resources. The proposals of the SAP enjoy the consensus
of both Government and private sector on the majority of issues.
45.       Recent Policy Measures.  Based on the SAP, a Sugar Industry
Package Deal Act, adopted by Parliament in April 1985, provided for
important structural changes with the effect of some financial relief to
the industry: (i) the restriction on mill closures was lifted; (ii) taxes
on the transfer of agricultural land were substantially reduced; and (iii)
the structure of the export tax was altered by raising the exemption
ceiling from 75 tonnes to 1,000 tonnes of sugar export, and by making the



- 13 -
tax progressive to apply to incremental rather than to total production,
thereby reducing average incidence even to large producers. In additlon to
these sugar-specific measures, the Government has also taken measures aimed
at improving the business environment in general: (i) income tax rates were
reduced; (ii) special allowances for investments in machinery and equipment
were introduced; (iii) steps have been taken to improve the accountability
of corporations; and (iv) the Company Act has been revised while the new
legislation governing partnerships is being processed.
46.       Further Policy Measures.  Despite the recent policy measures,
there is a need to further improve the climate for modernization and
rehabilitation investments. A basis for further reforms in both the
pricing and taxation systems can, however, be developed only after (a) the
adoption of a uniform accounting system, (b) a revaluation of assets of
estates and mills, and (c) the separation of mill and estate accounts. A
comprehensive study of pricing and taxation options is needed to explore
how best: (a) to achieve an efficient and equitable distribution of the
rent from EEC/US sugar prices among Government, industry and labor; and (b)
to develop an incentive framework that would (i) assure adequate investment
in the private sector of the industry without encouraging over-investment
because of the limited market; (ii) support mill centralization resulting
from operation of market forces; (iii) permit efficient redeployment of
land, labor and capital out of sugar as warranted by the limited market
prospects for sugar and additional production arising from productivity
improvements; and (iv) encourage widening of ownership of industry assets.
Based on the findings of such a study, the Government would need to develop
a comprehensive package of financial and institutional measures.
47.       To improve smallholder productivity, it is necessary to design an
institutional structure that would address the needs discussed above
(para. 36). Technology generation for smallholders and for diversification
out of sugarcane calls for adjustment in the priorities for research
carried out by existing institutions. In the fertilizer sub-sector, the
Government would need to explore measures to improve capacity utilization
in MCFIL and to develop pricing policies to encourage economically optimal
levels of fertilizer use. A study of the existing pricing policy, an
investigation into the cost effectiveness of existing fertilizer mixtures,
and further exploration of export prospects to improve capacity use are
required. In the power sector, Government has already embarked on a series
of studies which should lead to a least cost expansion plan for the
Mauritius power system. The completion of such a plan should assist the
Government in making decisions with respect to water allocation and
management, which would pave the way for investment actions on irrigation
for sugarcane and other crops. It would also permit the formulation of a
bagasse pricing policy that would encourage the use of bagasse for power
generation.
48.       The proposed project encompasses measures aiming at supporting
structural and policy reforms in all of the above areas.



- 14 -
Bank Role in the Agricultural Sector
49.       As discussed in Part II of the present Report, one of the
long-term objectives of the Bank assistance strategy in Mauritius is to
reduce the country's over-dependence on sugar. The project helps address
this issue by fostering efficiency improvements in the sugar industry that
would release resources for non-sugar activities. The Bank is also
assisting in diversifying agriculture and promoting export manufacturing
industries in an effort to transfer resources from agriculture to industry.
50.       The Bank has lessons to draw from the two agricultural projects
it has supported in Mauritius in the past. A Tea Project (Cr. 239-MAS; OED
Report No. 3761 of December 31, 1981) was unsuccessful in designing an
institutional framework for smallholder tea growing and for controlling the
labor costs of the Tea Development Authority. Even though some progress
was made in these areas under the SALs, processing capacity constraints and
high operating costs of the Tea Development Authority still are a
considerable burden on the Government budget. A Rural Development Project
(Cr. 419-MAS; OED Report No. 3988 of June 22, 1982) did not fulfill
production expectations, again due to design shortcomings. This experience
points strongly to the need for project design to carefully integrate
investments with reform of the policy environment and the institutional
structure. The problems involved in public sector operations have helped
to shift focus to exploiting more fully the potential in the private sector
through creation of an appropriate business environment.
51.       The Bank has made a major impact on the restructuring of the
sugar industry through diagnostic studies of the industry under the two SAL
operations and through an intensive dialogue with both the Government and
the private sector during the preparation of a major Sector Report (Report
No. 5812-MAS, March 1986). The Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project
provided consultant support for the preparation of the SAP and of the
present project. The proposed project represents a logical extension of
this involvement.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.       Following its review of the SAP in April 1985, the Bank
encouraged the Government to write a project preparation report. This
report 'Action Plan for the Sugar Industry 1985-1990 - Project Preparation"
was completed in August 1985. It formed the basis for project appraisal by
a mission that visited Mauritius during September 1985. Negotiations were
held in Washington during May 1986. The Mauritius delegation was headed by
Mr. M. Baguant, Financial Secretary. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Mauritius Sugar Industry Project" (No. 6092-MAS), dated June 5, 1986, is
being distributed separately. The main features of the loan and project
are given in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this Report
and in Annex III.



- 15 -
Rationale and Objectives
53.        Consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy, the
proposed project is designed to support the Government's overall strategy
of broadening the productive base of the economy by implementing SAP and
thereby promoting (i) continued growth in the productivity of resources
employed in meeting the target level of production set for the sugar
industry, and (ii) gradual release of resources currently used for sugar
production into non-sugar activities. The SAP encompasses a series of
policy reforms needed to maintain the financial viability and stability of
the industry. The Government has sent a letter confirming its commitment
to the SAP (Annex IV).
54.       The specific objectives of the project would be:
(i)  to rehabilitate and modernize sugar mills withn an annual
average production target of 615,000 tonnes;
(ii) to improve productivity in the use of land, labor, fertilizer,
machinery, and equipment in the sub-sector through better
incentives, improved application of technology by smallholders,
and strengthened research;
(iii)  to establish the analytical base for Government policy measures
to ensure the financial viability of the industry, increase its
transparency and broaden the ownership of mills; and
(iv) to support further efforts for development of irrigation and use
of bagasse for power generation.
Project Description
55.       The project, to be implemented over a five-year period, would
provide foreign exchange for: (i) the acquisition and importation of
machinery, equipment, capital and intermediate goods and raw materials
required for the rehabilitation and modernization of sugar mills; (ii)
the importation of fertilizer and fertilizer materials; (iii) technical
assistance, office and logistics support to assist MSA; (iv) establishment
of Farmers' Service Centers (FSC); and (v) support to MSIRI and MOA
research programs.
Detailed Features
56.       Sugar Mill Investments (US$25.0 million).  A five-year indicative
program of mill investments has been established on the basis of a factory
by factory survey covering rehabilitation, modernization, and some capacity
expansion of individual mills as a result of further centralization. These



- 16 -
investments are required to maintain mill efficiency; to a large extent
they represent deferred maintenance and replacements (para. 34-35). The
recently improved investment climate and further enhancements to be
generated by the continued implementation of policy measures under SAP are
expected to support the projected investment activities. Investments are
expected to include minor rehabilitation of facilities and equipment for
bagasse handling. Decisions by mill owners with respect to larger scale
investments to support year-round use of bagasse for power generation are,
however, dependent on a comprehensive bagasse pricing package
(para. 71). The bulk of the investment requirements in the energy
aspects of mill operations would therefore have to be addressed
subsequently.
57.       The IBRD loan would provide the US$15 million equivalent foreign
exchange requirements of a five-year mill investment program. This would
finance the importation of machinery, equipment, capital and intermediate
goods, and raw materials for the rehabilitation and modernization of sugar
mills. Mill owners would buy the foreign exchange and would be responsible
for arranging local currency financing of the investments. The choice
of this arrangement, rather than an institutional onlending operation
involving individual sub-project appraisals, is based on the following:
gi) the financial management standards of the industry leave little doubt
that investment decisions will be based on sound financial criteria; (ii)
the availability of local institutional credit is not a constraint on
investments; and (iii) the objective of fostering a positive business
environment is served by holding outside involvement and possibly
interference in investment decisions to a minimum. The use of foreign
exchange provided under the loan for importation of the above items would
be limited to a list of eligible goods. Such a list was agreed upon at
negotiations. The need for introducing supplementary measures for
monitoring and overseeing the private sector's mill investment activities
would be assessed at the mid-term project review (para. 76).
58.       Fertilizer and Fertilizer Materials (US$9.4 million).  The
project would help to ensure, through foreign exchange financing, the
supply of fertilizer and of raw materials for the local formulation of
fertilizer which are key to agricultural productivity. Furthermore, it
would support a study of issues affecting the fertilizer sub-sector,
including pricing, effective protection, distribution, factory capacity
utilization, and formulation (para. 69).
59.       Institutional Support to MSA (US$1.0 million).  The project would
provide technical assistance and logistical support to MSA. The technical
assistance component would assist MSA during the early stage of the project
in carrying out a Sugar Industry Efficiency Study (SIES) (para. 69). A
total of 57 staff-months of technical assistance would be provided,
consisting of (i) 31 staff-months for a financial analyst, an economist, a
sugar industry engineer and visiting consultants; (ii) 2 staff-months for



- 17 -
a cane transportation study; and (iii) 24 staff-months for a sugar industry
specialist to be employed by MOA to assist the Ministry in discharging its
responsibilities, including that of helping MSA to undertake SIES. The
consultants would be internationally recruited and have experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. The Government has agreed on the
desirability of commencing SIES early. The appointment of the sugar
industry specialist would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
60.       Farmers' Service Centers (FSCs) (US$4.2 million).  Service
centers would be established to help small-scale planters improve
production of sugar and related crops. About sixteen centers would serve
33,000 planters by intensifying extension services, helping them to
organize harvesting, cane transport and replanting, and facilitating their
access to inputs. Bank funds would help finance buildings, equipment,
technical assistance and staff training abroad. The centers would be
directed by a Project Implementation Cell staffed by a general manager, a
training officer and an agricultural engineer. Initially these three posts
would need to be filled by expatriates while local deputies receive
training abroad. To gain operating experience before investing on a large
scale, three pilot centers would be established in 1986. The appointment
of the general manager would be a condition of loan effectiveness, and
the other management unit staff would be appointed before December 31,
1986. The pilot scheme would become operational by March 31, 1987.
Establishment of additional centers would be decided during the mid-term
project review (para. 76).
61.       Research - MSIRI and MOA (US$3.9 million).  The loan would help
to expand MSIRI's programs for assisting small-scale planters by developing
a land index, strengthening the research-extension liaison and economic
research units, and expanding irrigation research. It would also support
new research programs for cane improvement, crop diversification, energy
related problems and sugar technology. Bank funds would finance civil
works and the foreign cost of equipment, 16 staff-months of technical
assistance, and overseas seminars and training. A series of studies aimed
at identifying planters' diversification options would be undertaken by MOA
with support by project funding and with guidance from the Mauritius Food
and Agricultural Research Council.   The selection of promising
crops/products which would justify further research and development
support, would be completed by October 31, 1986. US$500,000 has been
included in the loan for a diversification research sub-project to be
designed by MOA. Such a sub-project, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
prepared by MOA by December 31, 1986.
Cost and Financing
62.       Total project cost is estimated at US$44.9 million equivalent, of
which 67 percent is foreign cost and 33 percent is local cost, including 2
percent in taxes and duties. Costs have been based on September 1985



- 18 -
prices and 10 percent physical contingencies have been added to
construction cost estimates. Price contingencies of 6 percent annually for
local costs and 7 percent annually for 1985 and 1986 and 7.5 percent
annually thereafter for foreign costs, both sets compounded annually, have
been applied to base costs plus physical contingencies. A breakdown of
costs is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
63.       The proposed IBRD loan of US$30 million equivalent would be for
seventeen years, including four years of grace. It would finance the US$15
million foreign cost of a five-year factory investment program, and US$9.4
million of a three year fertilizer and fertilizer materials import
program. It would also finance 100 percent of the foreign cost or 79
percent of the total cost of the other project components. Funds
equivalent to US$2.7 million would be passed on to MSIRI and MSA as
grants. Local currency financing for the factory investment and fertilizer
imports would be met by the mill owners and fertilizer importers, who have
adequate access to funds. The local currency requirements of MSA, FSCs and
MSIRI would be met from existing cesses levied on sugar production. The
Government's budget would finance only MOA's local currency requirements.
64.       Retroactive Financing.  Scme mills have undertaken to carry out
overdue machinery replacement and mill improvement programs during the 1986
closed" season (January to June 1986). Two of the three pilot Farmers'
Service Centers have already been constructed. To avoid loss of the
momentum that has built up recently among millers and loss of benefits from
mill maintenance and improvements, as well as to support efforts in project
start-up, retroactive financing of up to US$2.5 million is proposed to
cover expenditures made after October 1, 1985. This would cover most of
the projected foreign costs from October 1, 1985 of the sugar mill
investment program, the foreign cost of the equipment requirements for the
first two pilot FSCs, and 70 percent of their construction cost.
65.       Project Preparation Facility.  Certain activities needed to be
initiated early to maintain the momentum of sector"restructuring and to
facilitate timely project implementation. A PPF advance of US$300,000 has
been approved to finance pre-project expenditures (details in Annex III).
Project Administration
66.       MOA would have overall charge of project execution, including the
coordination of the implementation of all components under the project.
The Permanent Secretary of MOA would head a small project unit including
the internationally recruited sugar industry specialist. MOA would
administer the component dealing with the strengthening of MSA, while the
FSC component would be administered by MOA initially through the Sugar
Industry Development Fund. Recruitment for the positions of Executive
Director of MSA and the three department heads for financial analysis,
sugar technology and agriculture would be based on criteria satisfactory to



- 19 -
the Bank in regard to qualifications and experience needed for these
positions and the positions would be maintained with incumbents who fulfill
these criteria during the project period. The appointment of the full-time
Executive Director would be a condition of loan effectiveness and the three
department heads would be appointed no later than October 31, 1986.
67.       MOA would disburse funds to MSIRI for the research component as a
grant, and directly handle funds earmarked for development of its own
research program. The factory investment and fertilizer import components
involve purchase of foreign exchange by private parties and disbursement of
funds would be handled by the Bank of Mauritius (para. 82). The Government
would assign to MOA and the Bank of Mauritius the responsibility for
supervising procurement and disbursement under these components under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
Sugar Action Plan Implementation
68.       Two major sets of studies have to be completed to provide the
basis for further reform. They are a Sugar Industry Efficiency Study
(SIES) and a Least Cost Expansion Plan Study for the power system (LCES)
for which several pre-investment analyses are already underway. The SIES
would be carried out with project funds by MSA, with broad industry
involvement. The LCES, funded by ESMAP and bilateral sources and
carried out by the Ministry of Energy and Internal Communications (MEIC),
would pave the way for reform in the area of bagasse pricing and for
improved utilization of irrigation potential. Given the importance of the
sugar industry to the economy and the required integration of project
activities into the SAP, there is a need for a review at the level of
Government of the recommendations of the above two main policy-related
studies and for Government to initiate action on the basis of their
recommendations. To this end, an inter-ministerial committee, consisting
of senior officials from the Ministry of Finance (chairing) and the
Ministries of Agriculture, Energy, Economic Planning and Development, and
Labor and such other persons as the Government may deem appropriate, would
be established by October 31, 1986. Furthermore, close involvement of the
private sector in the undertaking and review of SIES and LCES would be
essential to pave the way for consensus on policy reforms. This would be
ensured by the close association of MCA with MSA activities.
69.       The SIES.  The broad objectives of SIES are:
(i) to lay the foundation for institutional and policy measures
to promote the industry's efficient utilization of resources
in meeting the production target of 615,000 tonnes of sugar
per year and pave the way for agricultural diversification;
and, in this process,



- 20 -
(ii) to foster mutual trust between sugar companies, labor,
planters, sugar agencies and the Government by improving
transparency of sugar company operations.
The ou:put sought from SIES is a series of specific recommendations for
measures in the financial, taxation, pricing, and legislative framework of
the industry which in turn, through subsequent and timely Government
action, would lead to:
(i) improvements in the efficiency of mills and estates and the
preservation of their financial viability;
(ii) a long run evolution of the milling sub-sector that would exploit
potential economies of scale and establish an efficient national
structure for the industry;
(iii) a broadening of ownership in the milling sub-sector;
(iv) enhanced labor productivity in the industry; and
(v) improved efficiency in the fertilizer sub-sector.
70.       The SIES would be carried out through six closely linked study
components comprising (i) accounting systems and standardization, (ii)
asset revaluation, (iii) fiscal options and pricing arrangements, (iv)
factory-plantation accounts separation and broadening of mill ownership,
(v) manpower and labor productivity, and (vi) fertilizer sub-sector
efficiency. The fiscal options study holds the key to providing a
framework for subsequent Government fiscal policy and pricing reforms.
MSA, under MOA guidance, would be responsible for organizing, coordinating,
and supervising the execution of SIES. I. would be assisted by MOA's sugar
industry specialist and its own team of consultants. Terms of reference
for SIES were prepared and agreed during negotiations. The various
component studies would be completed during the first project year
according to individual time schedules ranging from September 1, 1986 to
July 31, 1987. SIES, with design, terms of reference and manpower inputs
acceptable to the Bank, would be completed by July 31, 1987.
71.       The LCES and the Sugar Action Plan.  LCES would underpin efforts
to resolve issues relating to water allocation, bagasse pricing and
technology, and energy development which currently prevent progress on
fuller utilization of irrigation and power potential. Several important
implications for the sugar industry are expected to follow. First, the
study would determine demand for bagasse as a source of fuel and project
needed energy-related investments by sugar mills. Second, it would
evaluate the costs of additional bagasse handling in the "off-crop" season
and propose suitable contractual arrangements for utilization of bagasse in
mill power plants. Third, LCES would lay the foundation for a pricing



- 21 -
system for bagasse to ensure sufficient incentives to mills to invest in
bagasse handling and power generation for supply to the national
electricity grid. MEIC, the ministry responsible for energy, has the
responsibility for supervising the implementation of LCES. Consultations
with MOA, MSIRI and MSA are expected through an existing interdepartmental
committee chaired by MEIC. MSA would play a key role in the analysis of
investments and in investment requirements related to bagasse handling in
individual mills. The draft final report on the LCES would be completed
and furnished to the Bank for its review and comment no later than February
28, 1987.
72.       Even though the studies leading to and including LCES are being
financed from other sources, it is critical for the sound development of
both the sugar industry and of the power sector that a coherent policy be
formulated across sectors and on a national basis. Indeed, parallel policy
reforms should be undertaken in the sugar and power sectors since the
decision to produce surplus bagasse for year-round power generation belongs
to the sugar mills. The Bank has been the leading agency in assisting
the Government in mapping its strategy in both sectors and the present
project is a logical vehicle to ensure close coordination of activities in
the two sectors.
73.       On the basis of the results of the studies on bagasse and
utilization of water resources (which are inputs into LCES), and the review
with the Bank, the Government would be in a position to take decisions with
respect to the sound development of the power sector. Accordingly, (a) by
April 30, 1987, the Government would establish bagasse pricing formulae and
ensure satisfactory contractual arrangements to provide sufficient
incentives for the production of bagasse by sugar mills to be used in the
supply of electric power to the national grid on a year-round basis; and
(b) by June 30, 1987, the Government would allocate the total water
resources of the Grand River South East Basin between hydro-electric and
irrigation uses and introduce measures for the management of the Champagne
hydro-electric station consistent with the water allocation decision.
74.     Joint Government-Bank Review of Further Policy Measures.  To
monitor progress in introducing policy changes, joint Government-Bank
reviews of SAP would be conducted. The first of these reviews would take
place upon completion of SIES and LCES. It would inter alia cover
discussions of specific measures proposed by the Government with regard to
policy reform. Accordingly, a joint Government-Bank review of SAP would
take place no later than September 30, 1987. Following this review, the
Government would prepare a set of policy measures to be instituted shortly
thereafter. Thus, by no later than January 31, 1988, the Government would
institute appropriate measures to ensure the financial viability of the
sugar industry.



- 22 -
Annual Work Programs and Mid-Term Project Review
75.       Annual work programs would be prepared by each project
implemen:ing agency and coordinated by MOA for submission to tha Bank for
its review and comment by May 31 of each year.
76.       A joint Government-Bank mid-term project review would be held in
September 1988 to monitor the impact of the non policy-related components
of the project on the sugar industry. The review would inter alia include:
(a) appraisal of pilot FSCs and proposals for replication; (b) impact of
research activities and efforts to expand the diversification research
program; (c) the workload of MSA and the adequacy of its staffing and
organizational structure; (d) investment and centralization trends in
milling; and (e) detailed proposals for the preparation of a Master Plan
for the sugar industry (1990-2000).
Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
77.       MOA would prepare quarterly progress reports on all loan
components. MOA would also be responsible for assessing the impact of the
project on the sugar industry and preparing the project completion report.
Each participating agency would maintain identifiable project accounts.
These accounts and any statements of expenditures would be audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The audit reports would be
submitted annually during the project period, not later than six months
after the end of the fiscal year.
Procurement
78.       Cortracts for the procurement of fertilizer and fertilizer
materials and for machinery, materials, and equipment for the
rehabilitation and modernization of sugar mills, estimated to cost US$2.0
million equivalent or more, would be awarded through international
competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank guidelines for SAL operations.
Contracts for the procurement of the same items, estimated to cost less
than US$2.0 million equivalent each, would be awarded on the basis of
normal Mauritius industrial and commercial procurement procedures,
acceptable to Ehe Bank. For other components, contracts for civil works
(total cost US$1.5 million equivalent spread over 5 years and 17 sites)
would be awarded under local competitive bidding. Contracts for vehicles
and equipment (totalling US$2.4 million) exceeding US$100,000 each would be
awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank
guidelines. Smaller contracts would be awarded after local competitive
bidding procedures, which are satisfactory, or after international shopping
based on price quotations from at least three suppliers. Contracts for
technical assistance would be awarded on the basis of Bank guidelines. A
procurement plan is given in Annex V.
79.       Proposals for advertising, for draft bid documents, for
specificatons, for bid evaluations and for contract award would be sent to



- 23 -
the Bank for review before contract award. Such a procedure would apply
to: (i) civil works contracts exceeding US$200,000; (ii) contracts for the
purchase of sugar mill machinery, equipment and related raw materials and
for fertilizer and fertilizer materials exceeding US$2.0 million
equivalent; and (iii) contracts for other equipment and vehicles, exceeding
US$100,OOC. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award
reviews.
Disbursement
80.       The US$30 million loan would be disbursed over five and half
years to cover 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of (i) imported
machinery, equipment, capital and intermediate goods, and raw materials
required for the rehabilitation and modernization of sugar mills, (ii)
imported fertilizer and fertilizer materials, (iii) imported vehicles and
equipment, and (iv) consultant services and overseas training. The loan
would also be disbursed against 70 percent of civil works costs and 65
percent of the local cost for imported items procured locally. To
facilitate disbursements, the Government would open two special accounts in
foreign exchange in the Bank of Mauritius. The first account would be used
for disbursement against imports for the mill investment and fertilizer
components. The second account would be operated by the MOA Project Unit
for disbursement against eligible expenditures for the other project
components. After loan effectiveness, the Bank would make initial deposits
of US$2.0 million and US$.3 million, respectively, into the accounts, at
the request of the Government.
81.       The Bank of Mauritius would be responsible for submitting
withdrawal applications for the mill investment and fertilizer components.
For the other components, disbursement requests from all participants would
be submitted through MOA. All disbursements for contracts exceeding
US$20,000 would be fully documented. Reimbursement for contracts of less
than US$20,000 would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures.
It is expected that purchases of fertilizer and fertilizer materials
would take place during the first two project years and that sugar mill
investments would be made over four to five years. The remaining 19
percent of the loan would cover expenditures for studies, equipment and
civil works, that would be made throughout the project period. The latter
extends over five years to allow the smallholder and research improvement
components to be effectively executed.
Environmental Impact
82.       The sugar mills are already taking measures to control
pollution. The extent to which residual pollution needs further reduction
is being assessed. Adequate safeguards are planned to prevent loss of
ammonia from storage. Environmental improvement is anticipated from the
FSCs, which would help small-scale planters to improve and conserve their
fields. Similarly, the research component would facilitate the use of



- 24 -
bagasse (a renewable energy source) for generating electricity and to
improve pest and disease resistance of sugarcane and other crops. The
latter research has been so successful that little pesticide is used on the
Mauritius cane crop.
Benefits
83.       Restoration of financial health and stability in the sugar
industry is expected to induce the private sector to centralize and
modernize mills, increase productivity, and reduce costs. In the longer
term, the project should help maximize bagasse use for power generation and
move resources into other agricultural enterprises by intensifying
diversification research and removing impediments to shifting resources
from sugar. Benefits from intensified research and operation of FSCs are
expected in the form of increased cane and sugar yields and reduced sugar
losses from improved cane harvest and transport procedures. The main
direct beneficidries of this component would be the 33,000 small-scale
planters.
84.      There would be three important institution-building benefits.  The
first would result from strengthening MSA to provide effective professional
policy guidance. Second, the project would provide smallholders with an
institution that would offset, to some extent, the diseconomies of small
size cane production units, compared to the corporate segment of the
sector. Finally, the project would improve MOA and MSIRI research
services. The above benefits cannot be quantified in precise terms. For
research and extension as well as for the FSCs, it is difficult to forecast
the degree of success or failure. However, past research results have
contributed markedly to the 25 percent sugar yield increase per hectare
over the period 1960 to 1980. If a 3.3 tonnes cane per hectare yield
increase 2/ can be achieved, the economic rate of return on the research
component would be about 16 percent.
85.       Factory investments would help to maintain high mill efficiency,
while there would also be some support to mill centralization and bagasse
production and handling. With inadequate maintenance investments, milling
costs would rise, sugar recovery would fall and there would be a danger
that part of the cane crop would not be processed. Every percent drop in
recovery would mean a loss of 7,000 tons sugar worth almost US$2 million
equivalent based on Bank projections of world market prices.  Assuming a
gradual reduction of efficiency in the absence of projected investment from
87 percent to 84 percent during the project period, the economic rate of
return, even without taking increased processing costs into account, would
be around 30 percent. The investments in factory improvements would be
fully financed by the mill owners. Recognizing the high level of financial
2/ About 50% of the present yield gap between estate and smallholders
applied to 80% of the smallholder area, with 20% taken as too poor
quality land to respond to improved technology.



- 25 -
management expertise in sugar mills, it can be safely assumed that
investments financed under this component would have acceptable financial
rates of return. If mill owners ;ecure financing from local banks at
interest rates of 10-12 percent, the implied ERR would be higher since
economic benefits exceed financial benefits largely due to the high export
tax and since economic costs are lower than financial costs.
Risks
86.       Despite recent steps to improve investment incentives, there is a
risk that the project objectives could be negated by failure to maintain
satisfactory incentives. The safeguard against such risk is the SIES
leading to a Governmeac/Bank exchange of views on how to ensure the
financial health of the industry.  There is also a risk that the FSCs may
not stimulate expected productivity increases as a result of lack of
farmers' response or unsatisfactory management. These risks would be
reduced by the pilot phase planned for the scheme and by reinforcing
management.
87.       If MSA were not to win the respect and acceptance of the
industry, the latter could experience renewed distrust among its various
elements. Safeguards are provided by promoting broad-based industry
involvement in the policy-related studies, prescribing qualifications and
experience of senior staff, regular review of the MSA's performance, and
employment of an internationally recruited sugar industry specialist in
MOA. Finally, investments in research always have a risk element. While
this is considered to be minimal in MSIRI, there would be some risk of not
generating adequate benefits from the investment to intensify MOA
research. Institutional changes to improve MOA research services may be
more difficult than anticipated. The identification of products with high
potential to supplement or replace sugar production may prove quite
elusive. Preliminary institutional and agronomy/market studies would
reduce that risk. Because the returns could be high and the investment is
quite small, the risk is well worth taking.
PART V - RECGMMENDATION
88.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
June 6, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX 1
TAlk I L I ]A                           PaLe I     of  6
-TSOC        A                     L         / *
9trtUo    -vh  LETINAYLLk          A"lFCA U.OFar LURA    P. AnICA & MID LA
AM  (TIU      so. nt
roTAL                                L.          i.e         1.S
AGRIWL URAL                          ILA         1.1         1.1
Cw     uCArIt  (.6)                     ..          ..       1110.0             10*3.                     1134.9
mr  lSUNrGE Pr CAPITA
(mtI2clmm8 OF OLL 3EUI.rtNJ        1ol.0       200.0       312.0             531.5                     021.9
FPPUTlAO An VIT      rt Anna
PoFlaUTON.NID-YRAR (TNUSANS)    600.0          079.0       993.0
UUA  POPULATION C OF TOTALI         13.2        '2.0        55.0               32.0                     49.0
POP:ULATION uactrOzS
POPOILATZ  IN WA 200O (tILL)                               1.3
STATIONAEY POPULATIO  CHILL)                               2.0
POPULATION  OITE1.
POPULATION AINStIT
via so. ag.                      154.8      '43.7        533.9              *5.l                      17.8
F7R SO. Cl. Act. LAND            087.5       740.2       891.0             124.6                     470.1
POar uuno  aac SSTIUUtI (S)
0-1& TVs                         '5.7       42.1         33.8              '5.0                      43.5
15-64 YrS                         5.3        54.          0Z.I              51.5                      53.0
S   AIAMOVE                        2.9         3.2         3.9               2.7                       3.3
POPUATION CGOWTH RATE (S)
TOTAL                              3.0         2.3         1.4                2.9                      2.
UUU                                4.5         .6.         3.5               5.1                       4.4
CRUL SIRIN RATEg (PER mNOuS)        43.0        29.2        25.0              47.0                      40.0
cuK BRAIN LATE (rEt TROUS)           9.2         7.4         0.6              15.0                      11.5
GRESS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.9         1.9         1.0               3.2                       2.8
FAMILY FLAMING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TRlS)           ..         9.8         12.2 IC
tiSs (t OF MARIUO WSN)             ..         25.0        51.0               6.4                      214.
FOOD An  SbIuTIS
INDE OF rooFD PRO. PR CAPITA
(1909-71-100)                      111.0       95.0        120.0              82.9                      95.1
PEt CAPITA SUPPLY Of
CALORIES CZ Of RERULENTS)        113.0       104.0       121.0              98.5                      118.2
PROTESINS (GRAtS PER DAY)         53.0        51.0       62.0               55.4                      77.8
OF  tALCI AmAL AND FULSE         1IA         18.0        n7.0 :o           10.5                      17.8
CHILD (ArES 1-') ODAIN RATE         1L.O         s.7         2.7              16.0                      12.8
LIFt ExPEcr. AT BItrH (YEARS)       59.2       *2.2        *6.6               52.0                      57.8
INFANT PETr. rATE CPEE TDDS)        70.5       61.1        31.8              108.8                      90.8
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (rlOP)
roTAL                             t4.9        *1.0       99.0 IC             2.4                      S7.2
CtAI                              Z7.7      100.0        100.0 IC           07.5                      93.4
RUAL                               3.4       29.0         S8.0 7;'          15.8                      05.8
ACCESS TO ErRETA OtSPosAL
C% OIF POPULATION)
roTAL                              *-        77.0        94.0 IC 8.9                                 45.9
OUtAN                              ..         51.0       100.0 7;           57.7                      63.0
RUIAL                              ..        99.0        90.0 77            20.7                      28.6
POPULATION PER !lYSIC:A           a050.0     4190.0      2010.0 /a         11791.7                    a331.0
POP. PER NULSING PERSON          2070.0  r   820.0        blO.0  .          2459.1                    1845.0
POP. PEr lWSITIT.L KE
TOrAL                           213.0       O50.0       290.0 1-           981.1                     421.8
Vam                              110.0 /t   250.0        290.07i           168.8                     545.0
RULIAL                             *-       500.0       U10.0 ;d          4371.9                    2511.3
AIHISSIONS PER  DOSPITAL SED        ..         22.7        30.' /d            Z7.2                      25.7
AVERACE SIZE o0 aa:SENOLO
TOTAL                              '.9  f     5.3
URAN                               .9 4        ..
RUAL                               '.8 7       ..
AVERCE NO. Of PFERONSIROOR
TOTAL                              1.9 it      ..
CIA                                1.8 7       ..
RUL                                1.97        .  
PERCENrACE OF OMELLINGS WITh ELECT.
TOTAL                             '6.9 7f    70.1 
UMs                               81.9 '.
RURAL                             29.277       ..



ANNE I.
Page 2 of 6
T A a L  IA
lUUPtSSUS I""Olk       E MCSIIS conalImISS
MIT                       (MONT  sCS usuV#lA        
1960Lk-    I,9OL. RECENT               ILI  ZIt               NIDDL NC-co
gITtiMAVEL      AfItCA 1. OF SAJANA    S. AFICA & MDo EAST
ADJUSTED INROWuET RATtOS
PRIMASR:   TOTAL                   U8.0        97.0       106.0               93.7                       19.a
MALI                   103.0        93.0       107.0               100.0                     103.7
FEMLE                   93.0        97.0       105.0               63.2                       75.2
S1COtInaaUt TOTAL                  24.0        Us.O        51.0                17.3                      42.9
MALI                    32.0        33.0        53.0               2s.0                       50.9
FODLW                   15.0        13.0        49.0               14.3                       34.6
VOCATtONAL (C 0  SCONLARY)           2.3         1.4         1.3 !11             1.9                      10-0
PUPIL-TEAQE  RATIO
PRIF                               36.0        32.0        20.0               41.1                       29.7
$ICONDAIT                          22.0        26.0        21.0 10            2a.5                      1.8
PASSINlRM CASITHOUSAID POP           13.6        15.1        27.3 /b            20.3                       17.6
RIOIO RZCI!VKIS/TOUSANO POP          60.6       102.3       206.5               107.8                     175.9
TV R2CIVCTIISfTNOUD POP               ..         22.9        *6.5                20.8                      5142
NEIQPAfLI "DtAILY GENERAL
INTREST) CIRCULATION
PER TIIOUSAND POPUILATION           U.9         79.0         1.2                18.4                      37.2
CINEMA ANNbAL ATTENDANCE/CAITA       11.1 If     10.2         4.2                 0.4                       2.4
LARO.
TOTAL LABOL FOCE (TWUS)             1".0        256.0       354.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   19.6        20.0        23.3                36.2                      11.0
AGRCULTRLTILZ (PECENT)             40.0        34.0        29.0 IC             54.5                      42.4
INDUSTRT (PCeCir)                  26.0        25.0        24.0 7E             18.3                      27.9
PATIECZPATIDN RATE (PERCZNT)
TOTAL                              30.1        30.9        35.6                36J                       26.2
HALE                               48.6        49.6        54.2                47.1                     -46.2
FIUL                        -      .1.3        12.3        16.0               27.2                        5.3
ECMN0ISC DEPNDENCY RLATIO             1.6         1.5         1.1                 1.3                       1.8
INCON  DIISLUZT11
PERCET OF PrVATE INCQ
RECCIVCD a
IGES  5S Of HOuSEHOLDS             28.0        31.0 1       .
hIGHEST IO  o0  HOOUSEOLDS         51.0        55.0 7        ..
LOWEST 20 O   HOrUSEOLDS            4.5         4.3 7        ..
LOVESr 402 o0  OUSHOLDS            14.0        14.0 7t.
ESTIMATED AISOLOTC FOv1TY UICOME
LEvEL (USS PE CAPITA)
UR                                  ..          ..        190.0 /I            590.7                     226.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        O190.07           275.3                      134.0
ESTIMED lLrATVE FOVETR IDCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URAII                               ..          ..        290.0 I.           545.6                      431.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        _90.07             201.1                      326.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY  KCOME .VIEL  C:)
URBAN                               ..          ..         12.0 1.
RitRAL                              ..          ..         12.0 -*              ..                       29.0
NOT AVALLABLE
.OT APPLICABLE
NO ST   S
la  The group average  ftor sech indicacor *ar popuatioa-elBced artthUatIc mes*.  Coversg  of coOnrtt11
amncg cth  Indicatore depends on availabilicy of data ed is not vat'ocn.
lb   Unles ochervas. noted. 'Data for 1960' refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data Eor 1970' between
1969 ad 1971: and daca for `Moet Recent EsteIco' betwen 1981 and 1983.
/c  1980;  Id 1977;  !. 1979: If 1962; a  1972: /b 1978;  ft 1975.
JUN. 1985



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
|Dh114mOFS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
jdosm: AkH lhotgl dm dam  dmmn rrom mumo   auraily judd thot aMiihonlatvwe and rdiablet shou d aim be nomad dia shi may ea be imtevlonally
comparbe bm of thle  of siandardid dmuota and ca_p wud by dafu tcentnn in colaciasg the data. The data ae. norathas. afu so
dumb. ordan or magtud. mdicmate mirdA. And diiaiu cafam  marjor dilmrma biwun caunta.
Th ref mm iroump am all the tm  country group of rh subject country and  ) a counmry grolp wish sonuwhl higer iwrae imconie than the countr,
group otbhe NbAO country (elpl for High IncomiOml Expornm  group whit MWddli Incorme North Afrinca nd Middle EBa   is chown bcause of Utror.r
em-clutaral aieii. Ina ihb mi re   r Voup dara the atarapa a population weghd anrhmenic mana for mch indcator and sown only hnim majority
Ioft hecoeinia m  g oroup ha data for diet ndiclor. Sic the coverW of cunies among the indicwtrs depends on tbe avatiibiimy aO daue ad is not metforin.
caution tiau be eerid melating avemaoronedcator oanther Thenaimiasam onluseful in comparing the valui am it OI indiator  ataimeLamong
the coumuit and  efnem group.
AREA ithouand sq.km I                                            Crude  tB  Rate fper theasdIP-Nuumber of live bmrths in the year
TroJ-Total surfce area compimung land area dnd inland waters:    per thousand ol mid-year populatmon, 1900 1970 and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 19U3 data.                                        Crue Death Rate (per thoamdi-N umber of deaths in the year
A.4gr tar-Estimate of agncultural area used temporanly or        per thousand of mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently ror crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reproducad   Rare-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1912 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive penod if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rtes: usually five-year averages ending
GNSP PER CAPITA (1tSS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pnces. cakulated by same conversion method as florld      Jiu;ly Plasaig-A4cepe.rs. .4Awal (thessaas-Annual num-
Ban/k .4:/ai 1911-813 basisi: 19113 data                         ber of acceptors of birth-control denaces under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    famiy planng program
consumption of commercial pnmary energy (coal and lignite.       FwreIy PIC&IS-UIeIs perent ofm m k  wenta-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and Seothermal ceie-  tage of mamed women of child-beanng age who are practicing or
tnaitsy in kilogrms of oal eqwvalent per captta. 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are prticucing anv form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-beanng age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countnes contracepuve usage is measured ror other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
TarslPpuin ee.Sfid.Yw(hur a.duj-AsofJuly 1. 1960. 1970.          FOOD AIND NLMRITION
and 1983 data.
4'bdw Popxiwies  t perce  of totaijn-Ratio of urban to total         x* of FoedProdwimmPerCaptal969-? -1 00i-lnde xofper
poruauos dsiffer  prent definie-Rtion   of urban ara   afeto totpal  capita annual production of all food commoditeie. Production
population: diffierent defimnaons of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agrculture. Food commodatmes
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      enclude anmale cm dites (g.clure ised  of ts
include pnmar% commodities le.g supgrcane instead of suprn
rpuluutien Pirtecimms                                            which are ediblie And contain nutnents te.g. coffee and tea are
Populanun Of tear y OO-The projection of population for o10.     excluded!: the  compnse cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economv ieparateld  Starting with informauon on    vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and supr beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortalitv rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production o each country is based
inernational migration in the base vear 1980. these pamrneteis   on national ascrage producer price weights. 1961 i-5. 1970. and
'ere projected at ive-y-ear intervals on the basis of generahzed  198: data.
assumption! uinul the populaton became statonarv.                Per Ca*it Supply ofCalorin (percent efreqairemeasi-Comput-
Stat wnart- popularwn-ls one In which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calone equivalent of net food suppliesavailable in countrn
talitv rates have not changed over a long penod. while age-specific  per capita per day A ailabie supplies compnse domestic produc-
ferility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  uon. imports less exports. and changes in stock  Net supplies
i net reproduction rate - I. In such a populaton. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seds for use in agiculture. quantities used an
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distnbution. Requirements were
constanL and the growth rate is zero The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physsological needs for nornal activitv
size was esumated on the basis of the projected charactenstics of  and health considenng environmental temperature. body weichts.
the population an the vear 2000. and the rate of decline of feruliy  ace and sex distnbution of populanon. tnd allowing 10 percent tor
rate o replacemrent level.                                       waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population .tnsen:um-ls the tendency for populaton growth to     Per Capa Supply of Protein (grat per lay-Proten content of
continue bevond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  percapita net suppl of food per day Net supply of food is defined
achievedz that as. ew". after the net reproduction rate has reached  as Abooe. Requirements sor all countnes established by LSDA
unity. The momentum of a populaton in tle year t is measured as  prosade for minimum allouances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population so the population in  dav and 0 grams of animal and pulsc protein. ol' which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertiity remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standaros are lower than those of
men: level from year i onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total proton and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Pap-Udo  Density                                                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Pr srqkn-M id-year population per square kilometer 1100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 198C data.
tarest of total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Paeit Supply &wr .41med and Polse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agncutural land-Computed as above for agncultural     of food denved from animals and puses in grams per day: 196 1-o5.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Populain .4ge 5swrr5 e (percem)-Children m0-14 vears). work-     Child (ages 1-4i Death Rate (per thasandJ-Number of deaths of
magagce15-64v ears;.andretired(65yearsandover)aspercentage       children aged 14 %ears per thousand children in the iame aye
of mid-vear populautn: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countnes data dented
from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
Popula/o Growth Rate rpercenti-rtord-Annual growth rates of
total mid-vear population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 19-0-83      HEALTH
Populati  Growth Rate (percenrr-urhae--Annual growth rates        Life Expectawy ar Birth (years i-Number of %ears a newborn
of urban population for 1940-60. 1960-70. and 1970-8 3 data.     infant would live if prevailing paterns of mortalaty for all people



ANNEX I
Page  4 of 6
at the time of or its binh were to stay the suae throughout its life:  PupM.trocher Ratio - prmarnv. and secondary-Total students en.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       rolled in pnmary and L'condary levls divided by numbers of
Infs Sfr.Woralhl Rot (pr  theusiu.)-Number of infants who die   teachen in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUIMPTION
Access t 5*  Woer Iprecn o pqusiji#-trl wbm. ad_                Passeewer C's eper tousd ppkdtoen-Passenper can com-
rur-Number of people Itotal. urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor can seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to sale water supply (includes treated surface watem or  mncns. hearses and mlitarv vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such As that from protected  RnTe Macar (per thoutAll types of rver
boreholes. spnnp and sanitay wellsi as percentages of their respec  tor radio broadcasts to gseneral pubiAc per thousand of popultion
uve populations. In an urban area a pubic fountan or standpost  excludes  un-licensed rtcnvers in countries and in pears when
located not mome than 200 meters fr om a house may be co nsidered  ecuau-ics    eevr  ncute   n   n~zswe
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  irton of radio sets was in effect data for recent years may
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the  not be comparable sinc most countri  abolished lensing
houselhold do not have to spend a dispropomonate pan or the day  TV Receuri (per r Jheundpepu_ uioal-TV receivers for broadcast
in retching the farruly's water needs.                          to general public per thousand populaton; excludes unlicensed TV
4cress to E,rere  Disposal ipercent of ptpulti-total. bmt.      receivs n countnes and in years when registration of TV sets was
nd rurd-Number of people itotal. urban. and rurali served bv y      effect.
excreta disposal as percentages of ther respective populations-  % P1Wf11 Circution (per rhosd ppopulutuion-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulauon of -daily general interest newspaper. defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water bv water.   penodical publication devoted pnmaniv to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit pnvies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily- if it appea  at last four times a week.
Populiation per PAyssica--Putpulation divided bv number of prac-  Cireniua .4mm    .4ttendane per Capita per Yew-Based on the
tsing physicians qualified from a medical school at unverstv level.  number of tickets sold dunng the year. including admissions to
Popuaion per .esinr Persove.-lopulation divided bv number of    drve-i ctnemas and mobil units
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LADOR FORCE
PopuLi  puer H nspit    g aer . wh      d r -Ppulaon            Total Labor Force lthousansji-Economically active persons. in-
toutal. urban ano rural) divided by their respectivP number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hootal. urban. and rural)udlvcdnd byvtheir npective number Of   students. etc.. covenng population of all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and privat general dad spei   vanous countries are not comparable: 1960. 19'1 and 1983 data.
hospitals and rehabilittion centers. Hospitals are establishet
permanently staled by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fexke (percenee-Female labor force as percenLage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.  corx.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  4!ricukwe (percem)-Labor force in farnung. forestrv. hunutng
bv a physican ibut bv a medical assistant. nurse. midvife. etc.t    and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-pauent accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
li medical facilities.                                          Industrn tpercent-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
.4dnuissions per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or  factunng and clectncity. aster and gas As percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P'uiepauon Rate fpercenn-roral. sak. le mdferse-Paricipation
HOUSING                                                         or activitv rates are computed as total. male, and female labor force
.4verge Size of Houehold persos per houseol)--Jote1/ when.      as percentaues of total. male and female populauon of all ages
andrral-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectielyv 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
living q uarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  particpation rates redecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few esUmates are from national sources
.4vere Nuyher of Parsons per Room-otal, when. and rural-        Ecoinoic Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
%verage number of persons per room  in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working aYe populAtion a tho3 aied 1 5-t4
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellingts exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of DweSags with Ekerricir-roeral. wrha. and rural-   Prcenrage of Total Disposable Incom  rtetr  n cash 4ad kind -
Convenuonal dwellinigs with electncitv in liming quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
cagc of total. urban. .nd rural dwellings respectively          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROL PS
.4djursed Enrollment Rartios                                    The following estimates are 'cry approximate measures of povertn
Pru-arv srhool - totai. male and iemake-Gros, toul. male and    levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the pnmarv level as pcrcentages of  Esrtrited .4bsole Poverty Income Lewel v LSS per capitai-arboa
respecove pnnmarv school-age populauons. While manv countnes    and ruailm-Abso,ute powert% income lcvel is chat income level
consider pnmarv school age to be 6-11 %cars. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutintionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in countrv pracuces in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is no; affordable
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countnes with umversal  Estimaed Reatrive Poverty lncome Level I [ S per capirsa -when
educauon. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some    and rural-Rural relative povcert income lceel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the countrv's standard pnmary-school  averag per capita personal incomC of the Lountry Urban level is
are.                                                            denved from the rural level &ith adjustment ior higher cost of
Secondarn school - roral. male and emzale-Computed as abosc     Iv inig in urban arcas.
secondarv educauon requires at least four vears of approved pn-  Estimed Popatieon Below 4hsoblae Pover hIconw Level (per-
man instrucuon; provides general. vocational, or teacher tramnini  cent -uwrban and rural- fcrcent of populatie 1 i urban and rural
instructions for pupils usuallv of 12 to 1U *ears of agie: correspond-  who are -absolute poor"
ence courses are gencrall excluded.
Voca.tonal Enrollment percent a/ secondarv -Vocational insUtu-            Comparative Analhsts and Data Division
lions include technical. industral. or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
mdepcndendy or as deparnments of secondar instituuons.                                   June 1985



*       Annex I
Page 5 of 6
MAURITUS - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1936
Annual ratas of Growth 5
'Us HIR.          U             1978-82        1962-85
CDP at Market Prices                                1045.9          166.3              1.4            3.4
Gross dometic Invstment                              266.6           19.7            -11.5            9.2
Gross Domnetic Saving                                195.4           16.7              5.2            5.2
Current Account Balance                              -25.5           -2.2              -              -
Exports of Goods, NFS                                56S.3           53.2              2.1            6.6
Imports of Goods, NFS                                566.8           54.2             -7.6           6.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1964
Value added   5S           Labor Force     &         V.A. per Worker
USg Mm.                  Thousand        X             USJ             X
Sugar                      161.1        11.1          41.6        25.7           2247           49.6
Other Agriculture           39.1        4.6            5.2         2.7           7519          166.0
Other Industry             174.S       23.3           45.4        24.6           3639           84.8
Services                    44.2       63.3           04.6        49.6           5789          127.8
Total                    SC?        if7 Il.7                   12              TM -           W. I0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Covernmnt
Re Min.                    X of GDP
1984-86                    1984-85
Current Revenue                             3a62                           23.
Current Expendituree                         3961                          26.2
Current Def;ci;ta                                                          - i:
Capital Expenditure                           SO5                           3.9
Overall deficit                               -324                         -656
Foreign Financing                             1246                          8.3
MONEY, CREDrT AND PRICES
1980     1981       1982      1983       1984        1986
TR* miTlon outetanding at thend of te-rperiod)
Money and Quasi Money                      3837.4   3992.5   4926.9   6428.2           6198        7424
Claims on Government (net)                 2329.9   3196.6   3991.1   4696.8           4906         6234
Claims on private sector                   1981.1    2269.1   2460.9   2796.9          3407         3900
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as X of GDP            44.1       39.1      42.5      42.6       43.4        45.9
GDP Price Deflator (1982 = 166)               823.      92.6     160.6     160.5      116.6        124.8
Annual percentage changes in =
GDP Deflator                                  27.4      11.6       8.7       8.6        7.4          7.1
Claims on Government (net)                   21.8       33.1      26.1      17.7        4.5         6.7
Claims on private sector                       9.3      20.1       8.9      13.7       21.8         14.5
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rats
prevailing during the period covered.
;/  Preliminary
In 1976 prices
At factor cost
J   Employment in large establishments an of 1984.
April 10, 1988



MAURITIUS - TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
1981      1982     loss        1984     1086 s
1983 -85 Avorec-                  1996
uS  _-           %               USIM.         x
Exports of Goods, NFS          510.9      68.56   608.5        569.1    556.3            Sugar       IN. 7            61.3             184.0      44.1
Imports of Goods, NFS          830.4      638.9    512.6       638.1   566.8            Molasses       4.6             1.2              4.5        1.1
Resource Gap                  -119.6      -30.4     -3.9       -29.0    -10.6            Too          12.7             3.3              11.7       2.8
EP?         159.3            41.1             210.5      60.3
Investment Income (not)        -46.3      -46.8    -41.0       -41.9    -44.7           0th  gc       11.8             3.6               7.1       1.7
Net Transfers                   17.8       34.1     19.4        27.4     31.7
Current Account Balance       -148.3      -42.0    -26.5       -43.5    -23.6              Total     367.3           100.0            418.4    1i6.0
Long-term Capital                0.7        1.7      0.9         6.9      7.1
Not MLT borrowing:              37.6       46.0    -21.4        68.6     14.6
Disbursements               49.9       71.6     31.6      111.6
Amortization                12.4       25.6     53.0       42.8        ..           EXTERNAL DEST. DECEMBER 31. 1985
Other capital (net)  i           6.9      -11.3      2.1         5.0      6.9                     (US* million)
Public Debt, outstanding and    389.9
Change In Reserves             103.2        5.6     44.6       -36.2     -4.0              disbursed
( (-) * Increase)
Memo Item                                                                               DEST SERVICE RATIO FOR 1986
Use of -SDRs                    -7.3        -        -           -        -             Public Dobt, Inel. guaranteed  11.8  /
Use of IMF crodit               64.4       33.0     14.7        -9.8    -17.1
IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 31, 1966)
(USMliionW
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                   tBRO         IDA
1981           1982                 1983                1984               1986              Outstanding A Disbursed      101.25     19.81
USS1.0=S.937         USS1.0=10.873        US81.0=11.766       USSI.0 13.801      US81.0 16.443         Undisburced                  69.66         -
R1.60UStO.1119       R1.0=UStO.092        R1.0JUS10.086      R1.04USI.073        RI.O6USI6.665         Outstanding Including         166.86     19.31
undisbursed
1      Preliminary
2      Includes short-term private capital, SDR allocatlon and errors and omissions
J      Debt serviceo payments (excluding IMF repaymnts) as percentage of estimated export earnings.
April 10, 1986
o h



Annex II
Page 1 of 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1986)
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year      Borrower      Purpose                   Bank 1/   IDA   Undisbursed
--US$ 000
Twelve loans and five credits have been fully disbursed  120.91   20.42
1789-MAS  1981      DBM           Development Bank V          5.59               2.86
1926-MAS  1981      Mauritius    Urban Rehabilitation
and Development          15.00               4.99
2164-MAS  1982      Mauritius    Development Bank VI           6.00               4.37
2229-MAS  1983      Mauritius    Water Supply                 12.20               7.67
2337-HAS  1983      Mauritius    Highways                     15.20              14.95
2362-MAS  1983      Mauritius    Technical
Assistance                5.00               4.55
TOTAL                                                  179.90   20.42      39.39
of which has been repaid                              23.59      .72      -
TOTAL now oustanding                                   156.31   19.70       -
Less Amount sold/repaid                                  4.95
TOTAL now held by IBRD/IDA                             151.36   19.70
TOTAL undisbursed                                      _                   39.39
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1986)
Year    Borrower           Type of Business         Loan          Equity         Total
_       --US$'000-
1971    Dinarobin Inns    Tourism                    0.6             -            0.6
& Hotels Ltd.
1981    Grand Baie         Tourinsm                  1.5             0.2           1.7
Hotel Ltd.
Total gross commitment                      2.1             0.2           2.3
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and sales                       2.1             0.2           2.3
Net held by IFC                             0.0             0.0           0.0
Total undisbursed                           0.0             0.0           0.0
1/ Less cancellations; prior to exchange adjustments.



Annex III
Page 1 of 2
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:       18 months
(b)  Preparation by:                      The Mauritius Sugar
Authority assisted
by Bank-financed
consultants.
(c)  Initial discussions with IBRD:       May 1984.
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                   September 1985.
Ce)  Negotiations:                        May 1986.
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:       September 1986.
II. Special IBRD Implementation Actions
An advance of US$300,000 from the Project Preparation Facility
is helping finance technical assistance to strengthen MSA and the Sugar
Industry Development Fund, to ensure early commencement of a series of
policy studies and to operate the FSC pilot scheme. Retroactive financing
for US$2.5 million would cover expenditures after October 1, 1985 for
rehabilitation and modernization of sugar mills and for the construction
and equipping of two pilot scheme centers.
III. Special Conditions
1.        The Government would:
(a) establish by October 31, 1986 an interministerial
committee which would be responsible for reviewing the
recommendations of SIES and LCES and for initiating
institutional and policy reforms on the basis of the review
(para. 68);



Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(b) establish by no later than April 30, 1987 bagasse pricing
formulae and satisfactory contractual arrangements to
provide sufficient incentives for the production of bagasse
by sugar mills (para. 73);
(c) take decisions by no later than June 30, 1987, on the
allocation of total water resources in the Grand River South
East Basin between hydro-electric and irrigation uses and on
water management in the Champagne hydro-electric station
consistent with the water allocation decision (para. 73);
(d) participate in a joint Government-Bank review by no later
than September 30, 1987 of the progress achieved under the
Sugar Action Plan (para. 74);
(e) institute by no later than January 31. 1988,
appropriate measures to ensure the financial viability of
the sugar industry (para. 74); and
(f) participate in a joint Government-Bank project mid-term
review by September 30, 1988 (para. 76).
2.        The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
The appointment, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, of:
- an internationally recruited sugar industry specialist in
MOA (para. 59);
- a General Manager of the FSC Project Management Unit
(para. 60); and
- an Executive Director of MSA (para. 66).



Annex IV
Page I
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
Letter Fron. The Minister of Finance of The Government of Mauritius
To The President of IBIRD
Mr. A.W. Clausen,
President
IBRD
1818 'H' Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Mr. Clausen,
Sub: IBRD Assistance for Sugar Action Plan
The Government of Mauritius embarked on a programme of structural
adjustment in collaboration with the World Bank in 1979. Two structural
adjustment lending programmes have helped the Government to deal with its
balance of payments difficulties through reductions in public expenditure,
wage restraints and an increase in industrial exports.
A central aim of the Structural Adjustment Programme was
restructuration of the sugar industry, which is the dominant sector of the
Mauritian economy. A Commission of Inquiry into all aspects of the sugar
industry was therefore set up and it presented its reports in 1983.
Following this, the Government prepared a Restructuration Programme for th'
Sugar Industry, in collaboration with the World Bank. After extensive
deliberation with the various interests in the industry, including private
mills and estates, the Restructuration Programme was translated into a
comprehensive Sugar Action Programme for the industry. This PrograTme
enjoys considerable national consensus and commitment.
The Sugar Action Plan encompasses a series of measures designed
to achieve structural reform in the sugar sector through an increase in
production efficiency, an improvement in technology and organisation and
changes in the institutional and policy environment. The central aim of
the Plan is to increase the productivity of resources used in this sector,
not to raise the total output of sugar due to constraints which Mauritius
faces in the demand prospects for its sugar. In the long run, the aim of
Mauritius is to diversify its agricultural production, to substitute for
its food imports and to produce alternative export products.
More specifically, the principal aims of the Sugar Action
Plan are to:
o    target average sugar production levels at 615,000 tons per year;



AnneX IV
Page 2
o    achieve procnctivity improvements in respect of land, labour,
machinery and equipment, thereby raising efficiency of sugar
production both in field and factory;
o    shift resources released from sugar production to the production
of presently imported food items and other export crops;
o    strengthen research and development of technology appropriate for
small farmers and for diversification out of sugar cane;
o    improve dissemination of technology to small farmers through
better extension, farm services and input supplies;
o    encourage diversificaton of the sugar industry through use of its
by-products, particularly bagasse for electricity and cane tops
for livestock;
o    ensure the financial viability of the industry;
o    gear the newly established Sugar Authority for its role in policy
planning and coordination of activities in the sugar sector: and
o   maintain social stability within the sector, reconciling the
sometimes conflicting interests of different elements working
together in the sector.
The Government of Mauritius has enjoyed close cooperation with
the World Bank in the formulation of the Sugar Action Plan and the recent
World Bank Sector Report on the Sugar Sector of Mauritius reflects a
meeting of minds on the programmes and policies to be adopted for this
critical sectcr of the Maur'tian economy. Details of the Sugar Action
Plan are set forth in the annexure to this letter. We now seek your
further support for the implementation of this Plan with a loan in the
amount of US$30 million.
Yours sincerely,
(Minister of Finance)



Annex IV
Page 3
SUGAR ACTION PLAN
Macroeconomic Perspective
During the aid 1970's the Mauritian economy grew by more than ten
per cent per year. The unprecedented increase in sugar prices was an
important contributor to this. Savings and investment grew substantially
and helped accelerate the growth of the manufacturing, construction and
service sectors. The decline in sugar prices in the late 1970's, followed
by the sharp petroleum price increase of 1979 led to a turnaround in
Mauritius' international terms of trade, and the balance of payments
deteriorated rapidly. Foreign exchange reserves fell and Mauritius had to
boirow on the eurodollar market to meet its foreign exchange requirements.
External debt more than tripled between 1976 and 1979 from Rs 243 million
to RS 927 million and rose to Rs 1,344 million by 1980. Inflation rose
from 8.5% in 1978 to 42% by 1980. Registered unemployment increased from
14,600 in 1978 to 28,800 in 1983.
Following the sharp reversal in economic performance, the
Government embarked on a series of structural adjustment programmes
supported by IMF standby arrangements and World Bank structural adjustment
lending.  Public expenditure was reduced and wage restraints were
introduced.  The Mauritian rupee was devalued by 30% in 1979 and again by
20% in 1981. In February 1983, the Government changed the peg of the rupee
from the SDR to a trade weighted basket of currencies and has been
following a flexible exchange rate policy since then. As a result of these
measures, the balance of payments, though still difficult, has improved and
inflation has been reduced to 5.5% per year at present. Diversification
measures within the economy led to a rapid increase in industrial exports,
with a parallel increase in employment opportuniti.; in the export
processing zones.
Constraints Faced by the Sugar Sector
Despite the expansion of the industrial sector, sugar continues
to be the single most important sector of the Mauritian economy. Sugar
accounts for over 50% of total merchandise exports today, and provides a
quarter of total employment in the organised sector.  Sugar cane
cultivation occupies almost 90% of total cultivated land. Maintaining the
productive efficiency and social stability of this sector is therefore
essential for the overall economic and social health of Mauritius.
Since the latter 1970's, the performance of the sugar sector has
declined. Annual average output fell from an average of 660,000 tonnes per
year between 1972 and 1979 to 585,000 tonnes per year between 1980 and
1983. Employment in this sector fell from 58,000 in 1975 to 48,000 in
1984. Annual investment in the industry declined noticeably from Rs 131.8
million in 1979 to Rs 65.8 million in 1982. Average total profits before
depreciation which were Rs 558 million over 1974-75 declined to Rs 149
million between 1976 to 1979 and further to Rs 67 million in 1980-83.



Annex IV
Page 4
Investigations made over the past two years have identified the
causes in the decline in performance and reveal that problems which operate
on the supply side were mainly responsible. A fortunate implication is
that many of the problems faced by the industry can be remedied by
appropriate domestic action. External factors are not a sufficient
explanation for the observed decline in the industry's performance since,
to a large extent, Mauritius has been insulated from movements in
international prices as most of its sugar is sold under special bilateral
arrangements with the EEC and the USA. Beyond a certain level of output,
however, demand will be a constraint in the futture.
Although the observed decline in performance was partly due to
short-term random factors, such as adverse weather conditions, longer term
structural problems were major factors leading to the decline. Among these
were:
a)   The relatively low efficiency of cultivation in the small farmer
sector, due to its slow adoption of new cultivation techniques,
poor organization of farmer services and inadequate coordination
between small planters and the sugar mills.
b)   Poor profitability in the organised sector, due to 1) the
structure of the export tax regime and its effects on the
profitability of investment in the milling sector and on large
sugar estates; and 2) inflexibilities in resource allocation in
this sector which inhibited factor response to market signals.
These included restraints on the sale and transfer of land, curbs
on movements of capital assets, especially on mill closure, and
rigidities in the labour market.
c)   A lack of transparency and accountability in the organised sector
leading to social tension between the different elements involved
in the sugar sector.
d)   Insufficient research on certain aspects of the sugar sector.
e)   Underutilisation of the by-products of the sugar industry
implying inadequate resource utilisation, and insufficient
attention to irrigation and crop diversification.
Policy Reform and the Action Plan
Some initial steps have been taken by the Government over the
course of the past year to redress these problems. Further measures still
to be taken are embodied in the Action Plan. The paragraphs below
sucmarise the progress made so far and the agenda for the Action Plan.
(1) Small Farmer Productivity
Small planter cane yields per arpent today are only 75% as high
as the yields on large estates. In comparison to estates, small holders



Annex [r
Page 5
practise, in particular, inferior land preparation, slow adoption of new
cane varieties and leave the crop in the ground for too long hefore
replanting. Productivity losses also occur during the harvest due to
unsatisfactory liaison with factories over cane delivery arrangements. The
small holder is constrained by an absence of coordination among the several
institutions which provide services for land preparation, credit, crop
insurance, etc. The present extension service for small holders is weak
and research has not focussed adequately on small planters' problems.
The Sugar Action Plan therefore envisages the establishment of
Farmers' Service Centres designed to coordinate all the requirements of the
planters in terms of both inputs and services to make them availahle in one
place. Centres will be set up to cover the entire cane area. Suppliers
and distributors of inputs and services will establish retail outlets at
these Centres to ease the access of small farmers to these inputs thereby
encouraging their use. These Centres will also provide services for other
major crops grown with sugar cane to promote agricultural diversification.
Each Farmers' Service Centre will be manned by a nucleus of
regular staff who, besides performing a coordinating role, will also
provide extension services. A centeal unit will be established to
supervise and guide the Farmers' Service Centres and provide direct links
with research establishments.
Initially, three such Centres will be established as a pilot
project. Based on the lessons learnt from this, the scheme will be
extended to the remaining factory areas. It is expected that this
initiative will raise small planters' yields of sugar cane and other crops
and in addition will increase sugar recovery at the factories.
(2) Performance of the Organised Sector
Over the last few years when the sugar industry had suffered low
levels of output due to adverse weather conditions, the inflexible
structure of the export duty put a heavy burden on this sector, especially
on large producers. In recognition of this fact, the Government has
altered the structure of the export duty to introduce progressive marginal
taxation which has led to a reduction in the average incidence of the tax.
The sector was also constrained by an inability to move resources out of
less profitable ventures due to restrictions on mill closure. Such
restrictions have now been eased and two mills - Solitude and Reufac - were
closed in June 1985. Three further mill closures are likely to take place
over the next five years. This will also give the industry the opportunity
to consolidate and rationalise its operation and to take advantage of
economies of scale in production.
High tax rates on land transfer had also prevented large sugar
estates from selling some of their lands in cases where this was necessary
to improve their profitability. Moreover, such land sales were ignored for
the purpose of computing export duty, which continued to be based on the



Annex IV
Page 6
historical ownership of land, rather than on actual land held after such
transactions. Taxes on land transfer have been reduced from April 1985 for
a five year period and the anomaly in the method of computing export duty
has been eliminated.
The Action Plan provides resources for restoring investment
levels needed to maintain assets and improve productivity in the milling
sector. Maintenance of the profitability of the milling sector is central
to the success of such an investment programme. To monitor profitability,
the Mauritius Sugar Authority has already undertaken initiatives to
introduce a uniform system of accounting for all mills and estates and to
conduct a revaluation of their assets. Once this is done, it should be
possible to introduce greater flexibility in the pricing and taxation
system, to make it more responsive to the conditions of the industry. With
regard to land transfer taxes, the Government will closely monitor the
effects of recent liberalisation and if needed, will take further measures
to enhance land use efficiency in the industry.
The efficiency of the organised sector could also be improved by
raising manpower productivity in this sector and increasing opportunities
in the more productive activities in the economy. Under the World Bank
Second Structural Adjustment Loan, the International Labour Organisation
was asked to conduct an investigation into issues relating to manpower.
This would be complemented by studies by the Sugar Authority on problems
specific to the sugar sector. Following the findings of these
investigations, Government will formulate strategy for overcoming the
constraints faced at present.
The ultimate viability of the sugar sector depends on both its
financial performance and its social responsibility. It is essential to
achieve a measure of consensus among the different elements of the sugar
sector on the industry's future direction. In the past, the industry
suffered mistrust because the corporate framework in which it operated did
not provide adequately for public accountability and transparency of
operations in the organised sector.
Certain initiatives to remedy this situation have already been
taken by the Government. The Companies Act, which had not been altered
since 1913, was comprehensively revised in 1984. Similar revisions in the
Partnership Law are now being processed, and a bill for this is expected to
be ready in November 1986. At the same time, the Government is working on
proposals to reform the functioning of the stock exchange of the country as
a prelude to broadening of asset ownership in the mill sector. This step
enjoys a measure of support of the present mill owners, who welcome broader
participation by planters in mill ownership and a sharing of the
responsibilities for mill operations.



Annex IV
Page 7
(3) Research
While the Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute (MSIRI) is
an internationally acclaimed research institution on all aspects of sugar-
cane cultivation, its plan so far has lacked adequate attention to the
needs of smaliholders. It has also lacked the resources to complement its
generation of new technology with economic analyses of the costs and
benefits of such technology. It is also necessary for both the MSIRI and
the Department of Agriculture to expand their research programme in areas
other than sugarcane. The Sugar Action Plan will provide resources to
augment the capacity of both the MSIRI and the Department of Agriculture to
overcome these deficiencies. Tne Plan will also support the MSIRI's Land
Index Project, an exercise #.esigned to provide full information on the
potential and actual prodt:ctivity of agricultural land in Mauritius, on a
plot by plot basis. Thiis will provide the base for detailed agricultural
planning in the economy and intensive extension efforts to be introduced in
the small planter sector.
(4) Underutilization of Other Resources
Around 10% of Mauritius' total electricity supply is already
provided by sugar factories, but the country has the capacity to raise this
share substantially. Three sugar factories (FUEL, Medine and Mon Tresor)
have already equipped themselves with condensing turbo-generators for the
supply of electr'city on a regular basis to the national grid. Before
further progress can be made, however, it is now necessary to investigate
in detail the availability of surplus bagasse, optimum bagasse handling and
transportation techniques, the composition of energy demand and the
suitability of bagasse-based power plants for meeting this demand. The
Action Plan will provide some of the resources required for undertaking
these studies.
Water resources in the island have also been underutilised,
partly due to lack of proper planning and execution of irrigation projects,
and partly because of difficulties in developing suitable field irrigation
systems. Cost recovery in the irrigation sector has also been a problem.
Before embarking on a programme to expand irrigation in the country, it is
recognised that decisions on the allocation of water between competing
users is required. The Sugar Action Plan provides resources for conducting
studies needed to arrive at a rational allocation of water resources.
(5) Implementation of the Plan
As the preceding sections show, the Action Plan involves a
complex set of interrelated activities in policy, technical and
institutional areas which require careful orchestration. In 1984, the
Government established a Sugar Authority to develop policy capability, to
coordinate the activities of different organizations working in this sector
and to monitor the health of the industry.  This Authority %..ll take



Annex IV
Page 8
will take responsibility for the monitoring and coordinating of the
Plan. The Government recognizes that the Authority must be able to win the
confidence of all elements in the sugar sector .and be equipped with
objectivity and professionalism to succeed in the tasks given to it. The
Sugar Action Plan therefore provides resources for the strengthening of the
Sugar Authority.



Annex V
Page 1 of 1
Procurement Plan
NOT
ICB    LCB     OTHER   APPLICABLE   TOTAL
------------US$ million ---
1.  Imports
a) Equipment, machinery,
capital and intermediate        6.0             19.0 b/                25.0
goods, and raw materials       (4.0)8/         (11.0)                 (15.0)
for the mill investment
program
b) Fertilizer and                  9.4                                     9.4
fertilizer materials           (9.4)                                   (9.4)
2.  Civil Works                                 1.5                             1.5
(1.0)                          (1.0)
3.  Equipment and Vehicles              1.2              1.2 ct                2.4
(0.8)            (0.7)                 (1.5)
4.  Technical Assistance                                            3.2        3.2
Training and Studies                                          (3.1)       (3.1)
5.  Increased Operating                                            3.4         3.4
Costs                             16.6      1.5    20.2        6.6        44.9
(14.2)   (1.0)  (11.7)       (3.1)     (30.0)
a/ All figures in parentheses are amounts expected to be financed by IBRD.
b/ Millers' commercial practices.
c/ International shopping.



MAURITIUSS
SUGAR ESTA7ES
* wgrll                             LAS           0sz
MON\DE SER
IEAI 
-REUNi) MON    DESET\                                                                ,I
v\~~~~~~~~~T ABI
. i~~~~~~~~c-






