Document of
Tlhe World Bank
FOR OFIIClAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13161
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2728-MAS)
JUNE 14, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Year       Mauritian Rs/US$      US$1Mauritian Rs
1982            10.873                0.0920
1986            13.466                0.0743
1987            12.878                0.0777
1990            14.863                0.0673
1991            15.652                0.0639
1992            15.624                0.0640
1993            17.500                0.0571
(Estimate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 arpent         =        1.043 acres          =             0.422 hectares
1 acre           =        0.959 arpents        =             0.405 hectares
1 hectare        =        2.369 arpents        =             2.471 acres
1 metric ton     =        1.102 short tons     =             0.984 long tons
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AMSP         Agricultural Management and Services Project
BEDP         Bagasse Energy Development Program
BOM          Bank of Mauritius
CEB          Central Electricity Board
ECU          European Currency Unit
EU           European Union
FSC          Farmer's Service Centers/Farmer's Service Corporation
GATT         General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GOM          Government of Mauritius
IA           Irrigation Authority
IPU          Irrigation Planning Unit
MCA          Mauritius Chamber of Agriculture
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
MSA          Mauritius Sugar Authority
MSIRI        Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute
MSPA         Mauritius Sugar Producers Association
MSS          Mauritius Sugar Syndicate
MTR          Mid-Term Review
ODA          Overseas Development Administration, UK
SAP          Sugar Action Plan
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SEDP         Sugar Energy Development Project
SIEA         Sugar Industry Efficiency Act, 1988
SIES         Sugar Industry Efficiency Study
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
SPES         Small Planter's Efficiency Study
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                          June 15, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:      Project Completion Report on Mauritius
Sugar Industry Project (Loan 2728-MAS)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Mauritius Sugar Industry Project (Loan
2728-MAS) prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II by the Borrower. The Loan of
US$30.0 million was approved in June 1986 and closed in June 1993, a year late, with US$1.6 million
canceled. ODA/UK cofinanced US$1.63 million for technical assistance.
In the early 1980s revival of the dominant sugar subsector featured in two structural
adjustment loans and in sector report dialogues with the public and private sectors. Government and
private sector proposals led to The Sugar Action Plan (SAP) for 1985 to 1990, on which the project
was based, and to legislated structural changes. The SAP targeted productivity and diversification. The
project was a mix of investments, institutional strengthening, and complex policy and technical studies.
It was to finance sugar mill machinery and fertilizers; set up about 16 Farmers' Service Centers
(FSCs) for smallholders; strengthen the Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA), especially for policy work;
support research by the Mauritius Sugar Research Institute (MSIRI) and studies on diversification
by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA); and provide technical assistance.
Despite delays against an ambitious plan, sugar mill and fertilizer investments (80 percent of
costs) met targets, the main set of studies (by MSA) led to further reform legislation and MSIRI did
planned research. Consultants provided valuable assistance. However, an incomplete institutional
design caused difficulties for the FSC component, with only four centers being built (serving a third
of the farmers planned), and five more started. Difficulties were resolved by creating the Farmers'
Service Corporation. MOA did not pursue diversification. Follow-up was weak by Government on
some studies and by the Bank on some institutional aspects and after the joint mid-term review.
The PCR is deficient and inconsistent in places, and (in the absence of monitoring and
evaluation) is inconclusive on the impact of the main investments in sugar mills, fertilizers and FSCs
(being silent on the rate of return). The main lessons are not new: the importance of resolving policy
issues first; that stakeholder participation brings commitment; that objectives and implementation
schedules should be clear and realistic; that institutional designs should be well advanced, and that
monitoring and evaluation is important. The project is rated as satisfactory, sustainability as likely
(although the Borrower notes that financial viability could be temporary) and institutional
development is rated as substantial.
An audit is planned to clarify design issues and outcomes.
Robert Picciotto
by Hans-Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of  l
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2728-MAS)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ..................   1
Project Identity .............................................   1
Project Background  ..........................................    1
Project Objectives and Description  ................................   2
Project Design and Organization ..................................   2
Project Implementation: Overall and by Components .....................   3
Project Results .............................................   6
Sustainability ..............................................   7
Bank Performance ...........................................    8
Borrower Performance ........................................   8
Relationship between Borrower and Bank  ............................   8
Consultants   ..............................................   9
Project Documentation and Data ..................................   9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ...                                 ......   10
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA   ...............                     ..         ...................    12
Table 1: Related Bank Loans  ..................................    12
Table 2: Project Timetable ....................................    13
Table 3: Loan Disbursements  ..................................    14
Table 4: Project Implementation   ................................    15
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing  .............................    16
Table 6: Studies  ..........................................    17
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants ...............................   18
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources  ................................    20
Table 9: Sugarcane area, production and yields, 1980 through 1992  ...                .......   22
Table 10: Sugar Production, Sales and Unit Revenue 1985-1986 to 1992-1993  ...  .   23
Table 11: Technical and Financial Performance:  1983-92  ................   24
Table 12: Employment in the Sugar Industry .........................   25
ANNEX - COMMENTS BY OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION  ..... 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlc authorization.l






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2728-MAS)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sugar Industry Project in Mauritius
(Loan 2728-MAS), for which a loan of US$30 million was approved on June 26,1986, became
effective on January 15,1987, and was closed on June 30, 1993, 12 months after the original closing
date. The last disbursement took place on October 29, 1993, at which time the undisbursed balance
of US$1.62 million was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Agriculture and Environment Division, South
Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Region. The comments received by the Government
of Mauritius have been incorporated as Part II. Comments by the co-financier, the Overseas
Development Administration, United Kingdom, have been attached as an Annex to the report.
Preparation for this PCR was started during Bank missions in July and September-October
1993, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision
reports, and internal Bank memoranda.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2728-MAS)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    The central issue of the sugar sector at the time of project formulation was that of the sharing
of rent in a protected market among the sector partners (mills, growers, labor and the government),
articulated in an environment of intense mistrust between the government and the private sector. The
financial viability of the sector was being continuously eroded, mainly due to the export tax. Against
this background, the project followed the Sugar Action Plan (SAP) of the Government of Mauritius
(GOM) in 1985 and the Bank's sector study.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The project's main objective was to provide means to promote the viability and increased
productivity of the sector, and agricultural diversification through the correction of distortions within
the sector. The specific objectives were to: (i) rehabilitate and modernize the sugar mills; (ii)
strengthen the sector financial performance, increase its transparency, and broaden mill ownership;
(iii) improve productivity in the use of land, labor, fertilizer, machinery, and equipment in sugar
production; (iv) support the development of irrigation and the use of bagasse for power generation;
(v) improve small farmer technology; and (vi) promote research on technology development.
3.    The project components consisted of: (i) the acquisition and import of machinery, equipment,
capital and intermediate goods, and raw materials required for the rehabilitation of the sugar mills;
(ii) the import of fertilizer and fertilizer materials; (iii) technical assistance, office and logistics
support for the Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA), mainly for the Sugar Industry Efficiency Study
(SIES) to assess the industry's financial situation and recommend appropriate fiscal and other
policies; (iv) establishment of the Farmer's Service Centers (FSC); (v) support to research programs
of the Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute (MSIRI) and the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA);
and (vi) strengthening the sector management capability of the MOA.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The originally scheduled closing date (June 30, 1992) was extended by one year, both due
to delays in the physical implementation of the second phase of the FSC program and the
commissioning of a study of environmental importance, namely the Characterization of Sugar
Industry Waste. The estimated project cost at appraisal was US$44.9 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$30 million to be financed by the Bank. Part of this was met later by a
co-financing agency, Overseas Development Agency (ODA), which was not originally a project
partner. The final actual project cost was US$43.46 million, of which Bank financing amounted to



iv
US$28.38 million (94.6 percent of the original loan amount). ODA financed technical assistance for
the FSC in the amount of US$1.63 million.
Project Implementation
5.    The overall performance of the Borrower was highly satisfactory. Despite a nominal delay
in effectiveness and delays of varying lengths in implementing some components, there was no critical
variance between planned and actual output. Loan provision for mill machinery and fertilizer imports
was fully utilized. The SIES was completed and was followed by legislative measures. The FSC
pilot program was a success, but implementation of expansion faced problems. Research programs,
however, did not rise up to appraisal expectations. Procurement, after an initial period of gaining
experience, posed no major problems. Audit and accounts are up to date, after lagging behind in the
first half of the project period.
6.    The factors that affected project implementation were: (i) inter-departmental tensions within
GOM; (ii) bureaucratic procedures; and (iii) GOM's reluctance to vest the project entities with needed
operational independence. These risks were not fully identified in the Staff Appraisal Report.
Project results
7.    The project has successfully supported its central objective: the viability of the sugar sector,
which will continue to be crucial for the economy of Mauritius. The results, achieved in a highly
sensitive socio-political environment, can be summarized as follows:
(a)    Policy reforms. Overall, the most significant project achievement was the rapport
brought about between the private sector and the GOM, for constructive partnership
in sector development. Systems were installed to enable problem solving (export
duty, taxation of bagasse energy and irrigation management) within a more stable and
predictable policy environment.
(b)    The mill sector. The financial performance of the industry improved substantially
following rationalization of the export duty. The project provided needed support for
the private sector in ensuring foreign exchange for investments. Mill investments
doubled compared to the average of 1982-86. Mill performance improved in both
sugar produced and reduction of sugar losses in manufacture (Tables 10 and 11 a).
The SIE Act, 1988, has provided fiscal incentives for productivity increases.
Systems were installed to increase the transparency of the closely held private sector,
through standardization of financial reporting. But mill ownership could not be
broadened. The further reforms in export duty in 1993 have set signals for closure
of uneconomic mills, which has already triggered an industry response.
(c)    Land. Yield of sugarcane per hectare increased during 1987-92 by 6.73 percent
compared to 1980-86 average, but more in the corporate sector than individual
planters. There has been a reduction in the area under cane by about 2.64 percent
from the level in 1980 (Table 9) in favor of food and other export crops.
(d)    Labor. The Bank was not able to influence labor policies (wage increases, and the
restrictions in redeployment of surplus labor). Despite this, there has been a large



v
shift of labor away from the sector (a reduction of about 16.5 percent in 1992 over
the level in 1986) (Table 12), as a result of mechanization.
(e)    Baeasse. The project substantially contributed to promote utilization of bagasse for
energy production through:
(i)      policy changes in the taxation of electricity sold by the mills;
(ii)     constitution of the Bagasse Energy Development Committee;
(iii)     fiscal incentives under the SIE Act for using bagasse for energy
production; and
(iv)      assistance to the borrower in the preparation of the Sugar Energy
Development Project (SEDP).
(f)    Irrigation. Water resource allocation among competing users in a major basin was
settled. A Bank financed study led to proposals on pilot surface irrigation schemes,
and strengthening the Irrigation Authority (IA) as part of the Agricultural
Management and Services Project (AMSP).
(g)    Institution building. The objectives were substantially achieved in respect of MSA
and FSC, but not in research. The MSA has become crucial as a technical advisor
to the Government and as a link between the private sector and the public
institutions. The FSC has filled a void in the small-holder sector through the
provision of inputs, and extension and research linkage. As regards research, the
impact of MSIRI's programs, especially on small farmer productivity, is yet to be
assessed.
(h)    Diversification. MOA did not utilize the opportunity to reorganize its research wing
to generate a diversification sub-project. The amendments to the SIE Act in 1993
have widened the scope of incentives for non-sugar production, but it is too early to
assess its impact.
Sustainability
8.    Project results have a high probability of sustainability due to the following: (i) GOM's
willingness to continue the policy reforms initiated under the SIES, as demonstrated in the measures
taken in 1993, in consultation with the private sector; (ii) industry response to the signals set by the
government towards consolidation of mills, and utilization of by-products; and (iii) action initiated
for the restructuring of the small-holder sector in cane towards improved productivity through
consolidation of holdings and extension services.
9.     To ensure sustainability, several issues still need to be addressed. It will be crucial to
consolidate institutional development in respect of the MSA, FSC and the reorganization of the
extension and research wings of MOA. MSA requires a more broad based structure. FSC has to
be secure in its finances and operational freedom. An economic assessment of its costs and benefits
is due. In the reorganization of the MOA, the roles of the various institutions in the sector will need
to be clearly spelled out. The successor projects (AMSP and SEDP) will contribute to maintain



vi
continuity. As regards labor, GOM should shift away from frequent wage increases unrelated to
productivity, and policies that hinder mobility of labor.
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.    The lessons learned from this project are as follows:
(a)    The project quality at entry was high; it was preceded by the Bank and the IMF
addressing macro issues, which set in place an appropriate policy framework.
Further, project preparation was a detailed exercise by the Borrower, involving Bank
assistance and association of the private sector, which fostered ownership and
commitment.
(b)    The project objectives encompassed the entire sectoral needs, both short and long
term, and in result transcended what could be achieved within the project period. It
would have been better to have distinguished between the two, set monitorable targets
for the first and evaluable steps to set in track the second. In practice, however, the
project achieved this in the steps taken to install a policy framework towards long
term objectives and generate two successor projects which would continue towards
the goal.
(c)    In the country context, (IBRD loans to a country not in distress), there are limits to
the Bank's ability to force the pace of reforms. Yet its role as a counsel and honest
broker has gained it high respect and acceptance and a good measure of influence.
This should be sustained, in view of the relationship established with the Borrower,
the sectoral knowledge gained, and the continuing importance of this sector in the
Mauritian economy.



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2728-MAS)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name  :           Sugar Industry Project
Loan Number               2728-MAS
RVP Unit                  Africa Region
Country                   Mauritius
Sector       :            Agriculture
Sub-sector                Sugar
2.    Project Background
2.1    General. The origin of the sugar industry in Mauritius dates back over three centuries, and
despite the diversification of the economy into other sectors (mainly the textile industry in the Export
Promotion Zone), it continues to be crucial. Nearly 90 percent of the arable land of the country is
cultivated with sugarcane, with 55 percent of the land and 60 percent of the production through 19
milling companies and 21 estates, known as miller-planters (all but one privately owned). The
balance of 45 percent of the land, producing 40 percent of the cane, is farmed by about 35,000 small
farmers. Out of an average annual production of 650,000 tons of sugar, Mauritius exports all but
about 6 percent of its sugar production, and enjoys preferential market access in the European Union
(EU; 510,000 tons) and the United States of America (USA; about 15,000 tons). The balance is
traded on the world market at prevailing prices. The industry operates in a highly structured
environment, with private and public sector operators, and large and small cane growers.
2.2   Policy Context. By the end of the 1970s and early 1980s, the sugar sector was facing a
crisis due to a variety of factors: the precipitous drop in the world sugar prices since the end of
1976; cyclones in 1975 and 1980; and a poor macro-economic environment (high inflation and
foreign debt) together with the worsening financial situation of the sector hampering investments
needed for rehabilitation and modernization. A conflict ensued between the Government of Mauritius
(GOM) and the industry. The industry claimed that the fiscal and labor policies of the GOM were
leading to a financial crisis. GOM in turn questioned the industry's transparency and its financial
accounting systems. The tension rose in 1984 when the GOM appointed a Sugar Enquiry
Commission that issued two sharply divergent reports: one-sided with the Government and the other
with the industry.
2.3   The issues to be solved at that time were: (i) the financial viability and investment capacity
of the private sector needed to be restored; (ii) the industry needed to be made more open and
transparent for its financial presentation to be credible; (iii) fiscal incentives were needed for
increasing productivity and diversification, while still taking full advantage of the EU and USA sugar



2
regimes, within a target level of sugar production; (iv) the productivity of the small farmers had to
be increased through improved extension, etc.
2.4    Linkages between the project, sector and macro-policy objectives. The general macro-
economic issues were addressed through World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF)
supported adjustment programs in the early 1980s, leading to fiscal and monetary restraint. In the
sugar sector the following measures were taken by 1985: rationalization of the export duty; lifting
of the ban on the closure of unviable mills; the setting up of the Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA)
as the Government's technical wing in the sector; and the presentation by the GOM of a
comprehensive Sugar Action Plan (SAP), which formed the basis of the project. The central
objectives of the SAP were improving the productivity in the sugar industry within a target level of
sugar production, diversification of resources away from sugarcane to production of food and export
crops, and strengthening the small-holder sector through services and technology. The project
objectives were based on the SAP.
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.1    Project objectives. The project was aimed mainly at securing the long-term viability of the
sector by the promotion of efficient use of resources in the sugar industry, raising the productivity
of the smallholders, better use of sugar byproducts, and agricultural diversification. The specific
objectives for the project period were to:  (i) rehabilitate and modernize the sugar mills; (ii)
strengthen the financial performance of the sugar-mill sector, increase its transparency and broaden
mill ownership; (iii) improve productivity of land, labor, fertilizer, machinery, and equipment in
sugar production; (iv) support the development of irrigation and the use of bagasse for power
generation; (v) improve small farmer technology; and (vi) promote research on technology
development.
3.2    The project components covered the provision of foreign exchange for: (i) acquisition and
importation of machinery, equipment, capital and intermediate goods, and raw materials required for
the rehabilitation of the sugar mills; (ii) importation of fertilizer and fertilizer materials; (iii) technical
assistance, office and logistics support for the MSA, mainly for the Sugar Industry Efficiency Study
(SIES) to assess industry financial situation and recommend appropriate fiscal and other policies; (iv)
establishment of the Farmer's Service Centers; (v) support to research programs of the Mauritius
Sugar Industry Research Institute (MSIRI); and (vi) strengthening the sector management capability
of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1   In 1984 the GOM commissioned the MSA to prepare an SAP for the restructuring of the
industry. The MSA associated the private sector in the exercise with the representative organization,
the Mauritius Chamber of Agriculture (MCA), presenting a Master Plan to the MSA in November
1984. The SAP was forwarded by the GOM to the Bank in March 1985. The MSA, with Bank
financed consultants, prepared the project, in close collaboration with the private sector, leading to
ownership and commitment on the part of the Borrower.
4.2    There was a clear conceptual foundation for the project. The project was well prepared, and
was timely: it took advantage of the determined efforts initiated by the Governrment to arrest the
general economic decline and the opportunity to dove-tail it to reforms in the sugar sector. The



3
project had a judicious mix, firstly, of foreign exchange support for the private sector and physical
investments and secondly, in institution building and improving the policy framework. Finally, the
project design covered all facets of the industry as a result of the focus on long range objectives. But
to an extent there was a gap in distinguishing clearly between short and long run objectives, and
spelling out the specific results expected in each within the project period.
5.    Project Implementation: Overall and by Components
5.1   The Loan Agreement was signed on July 11, 1986 and the project became effective on
January 15, 1987, about three months behind schedule. The nominal delay was due to the completion
of formalities in the recruitment of two expatriates and a local candidate for three positions. The
project was originally scheduled to be closed on June 30,1992, but was extended by twelve months,
mainly to provide financing for the second phase of the Farmer's Service Centers (FSC) program and
the Sugar Waste Study. Delays in implementation (which at least in part were due to the optimistic
deadlines set in the Staff Appraisal Report, SAR), did not amount to critical divergence from planned
output.
5.2   The Sugar Unit of the MOA, under a Bank seconded expatriate Sugar Industry Specialist
was in overall charge of coordination of the work of the implementing agencies: MSA, MSIRI, FSC,
the Irrigation Authority (IA) and the Bank of Mauritius (BOM). It played a crucial role in project
implementation and policy dialogue with the GOM for fiscal reforms. The individual components
were implemented as below.
5.3    Mill modernization and fertilizer imports. The BOM, with the MSA as its technical
advisor on mill investments, was responsible for these components. Following an initial restructuring
of the export duty and in the climate of growing confidence within the private sector, investments
increased and the loan amount was fully utilized (US$15 million), as was the provision for fertilizer
imports (US$9.4 million).
5.4   Institutional support to MSA. MSA has been strengthened to become the primary technical
advisor to the GOM in the sector, as a crucial link between the private sector and the Government,
and as a coordinator among the various public agencies. A full time Executive Director (a condition
of effectiveness) and three departmental heads were appointed. The MSA, with technical assistance
provided under the project, completed the SIES, covering industry accounting norms and presentation
requirements, revaluation of the assets of the industry, broadening of mill ownership, and labor
productivity. The study led to comprehensive policy measures, through the Sugar Industry Efficiency
Act (SIEA) of 1988, including the export duty, and tax concessions for modernization and utilization
of by-products. In addition, project funds were utilized for project preparation of the Agricultural
Management and Services Project (AMSP, Loan 3333-MAS, signed on June 5, 1991) and the Sugar
Energy Development Project (SEDP, Loan 3458-MAS, signed on July 1, 1992), for the Small
Planters Efficiency Study and the study on the Characterization of Sugar Waste. Despite a
satisfactory overall record, implementation lagged behind in the following.
(a)    Bank's efforts to strengthen the MSA structure, particularly with reference to
economic assessment of policy needs, have been only partially successful. MSA is
still an institution dependent on a few key competent and dedicated staff, who lack
support.



4
(b)    The reforms under the SIEA were intended to provide for annual, and transparent,
assessments of the industry situation and policy adjustments. Partly through a
lukewarm response of the industry to submit returns and partly due to the MSA's
weakness in providing support, this is not being done annually. With recent
legislative changes linking the claims for tax concessions to the submission of
returns, and the increasing association with the private sector in annual financial
assessments of the sector, there is room for optimism.
(c)    The assessment and implementation of the recommendations of the Small Planters
Study were not executed in a structured and coordinated manner.
5.5    Farmer's Service Centers. As against appraisal targets of sixteen centers, only four had
been established by mid-1987, and construction of buildings for five more was started in 1992, after
the Mid-Term Review (MTR), jointly by the Bank and Overseas Development Administration (ODA)
(who co-financed this component to provide three experts for managerial positions). The last five
centers could not be completed within the project period. (One was completed in September 1993,
and the others are expected to be commissioned by February 1994). The African Development Bank,
after a feasibility study by FAO on its behalf, is considering the financing of three more centers, to
complete coverage of the entire island. Under the Farmers Service Corporation Act of 1991, the FSC
is now a statutory organization. It has become a crucial actor in the sector and its role towards the
small farmers qualitatively has been endorsed by the Bank/ODA MTR, ADB/FAO study and others
under the project, in respect of provision of inputs, research dissemination, and organization for
better productivity (mainly, the consolidation of fragmented holdings through Land Area Management
Units). Through this pilot experiment in the project, the Bank has facilitated an infrastructure for
a one-stop service center for the small farmers. The technical assistant provided by ODA ensured
that local counterparts would be trained to take over the responsibilities in the three managerial
positions of the General Manager (now designated as Director), the Agricultural Engineer, and the
Training Manager. However, this component faced many problems during implementation. The
SAR arrangement, in view of the pilot nature, of leaving the institutional structure ad hoc, pending
MTR, was understandable. But it inadequately appreciated the need, in the interim, to secure
arrangements for counterpart funds, and recruitment of personnel. The MTR was not followed up
by the Bank to interact with the GOM on positive measures to address the issues of organization,
funding, staffing and the relative roles of the various entities in the Ministry as regards extension.
The constitution of the entity as a corporation, by legislation, has not as yet led to operational
autonomy, and the FSC continues to have difficulties in personnel matters and securing finances. As
the MSA, it is operating today basically on the leadership provided by one individual- the present
Director.
5.6    The FSC has an important role to play in the future of the sector, but a financial, economic
and performance audit is needed to assess its contribution to small holder productivity, define its role
relative to other organizations and make it a cost effective service entity.
5.7    Research. While the MSIRI is an internationally acclaimed research institution, it was held
to have paid inadequate attention to the needs of smallholders, or to generate economically viable
new technology. The research wing of the MOA lacked resources, in personnel and finance. The
project sought to remedy the situation by providing resources for both. In the end, the MOA chose
not to make any use of these funds. It did not prepare an agricultural diversification sub-project as
required under the project. The MSIRI engaged in ten research schemes, utilizing about US$0.70
million out of the available US$1.70 million. An economic and financial analysis of the impact of
its research, on small-holder productivity, needs to be undertaken. Its work for the land indexing



5
of small farms and socio-economic studies are of significance in this context, but needs measures for
continuity. In technology advance, it was left to the Food and Agricultural Research Council
(FARC), outside the project, and somewhat transgressing its mandate, to make a beginning in one
direction: tissue culture. Project financing was available for this, but it could not be availed of by
FARC because of Bank procurement guidelines.
5.8    Procurement. The Sugar Unit was in overall charge, with the project entities responsible,
under its guidance, for the preparation of the bid documents, bid invitations and evaluation, and
recommendations on award of contracts. Delays were experienced in the initial period of induction
of the entities into the Bank guidelines and procedures, and in the second phase of the FSC program.
But overall procurement activities posed no major problem. The Sugar Unit ensured the dual
compliance with Bank guidelines and GOM's internal procedures. There was no recourse to ICB and
goods were procured under the procedure of invitation of three quotations. Civil works, mainly for
the FSC, conformed to the norms of local competitive bidding.
5.9    Accounts and Audit. Project accounts, centralized under the Sugar Unit, are up to date.
Audits by the Director of Audit, GOM, caused delays in the first half of the project period.
Subsequent agreed arrangements with GOM to expedite audits, ahead of the normal schedule for the
Ministry's audit by the Director, through special measures were fruitful. Audits through FY1991-92
are up to date and accepted by the Bank, and the accounts for the last year of the project (up to June
30, 1993) are due by December 31, 1993.
5.10   Project Costs and Financing. The cost of investments were estimated at US$44.9 million,
comprised of 67 percent foreign and 33 percent local costs. The loan covered the foreign cost of
US$30 million. No co-financing arrangements were made. But subsequent to loan signing, the Bank
agreed with the Borrower's request to avail of grant financing from ODA for technical assistance to
the FSC for three managerial positions. Actual project costs at completion were US$43.46 million,
made up of US$13.45 in local funding, US$28.38 million in Bank funding and US$1.63 million as
grant from ODA. Table 5.1 in Part III gives details of the estimated and the actual costs.
5.11  The breakup of project financing by category as at appraisal and the actuals is summarized
in Table 5.2. The provisions for mill machinery and fertilizer were fully utilized (in fact marginally
overdrawn). Civil works, essentially for the buildings of the FSC, exceeded the loan provision, while
there was a shortfall in the utilization of funds for equipment and TA. There was a cost-overrun in
civil works, largely in the FSC buildings, even though (as against SAR provision for 16 centers),
only nine (four fully and five partly) were financed. This was due to the delay, and consequent
increase in costs, in the construction start up for the last five, as also the more elaborate building
design adopted. For consultant services, the unutilized provision almost corresponds to the ODA
grant towards the FSC management team, originally intended to be covered by Bank financing.
5.12   Disbursements. The disbursements arrangements were as follows: (i) mill investment and
fertilizer imports to be administered by the BOM; (ii) for other components the disbursements
requests were to be through the MOA; (iii) two special accounts for a total of US$2.3 million would
be operated; and (iv) expenditures under US$20,000 would be on the basis Statements of
Expenditures (SOE). It was estimated that 80 percent of the loan would be disbursed in the first four
years. The BOM and the MOA adequately organized themselves in this. But the GOM did not avail
of the facilities of either the Special Accounts or the SOE procedure. After initial start up delays,
in the first year, disbursements were ahead of estimates in the next two. Thereafter they lagged
behind in the remaining years (on average by about 7 percent). On the last disbursement date,
October 29, 1993, an amount of US$28.38 million (representing 94.6 percent of the loan amount)



6
had been disbursed; the undisbursed balance in the amount of US$1.62 million was cancelled on this
date. Table 3 summarizes the estimated and actual disbursements.
6.     Project Results
6.1    The basic objective of the project was to secure the long-term viability of the sector on the
basis of efficient resource allocation. Central to it was the sharing of rent in a protected market
environment with intense mistrust between the sector partners: the industry (millers and growers),
labor and the government. In an industry subject to the vagaries of agro-climatic conditions, and
given the gestation period needed for adoption of technological innovations, it is too early to quantify
the results in terms of productivity improvements. The results, which should to be judged against
this background, coupled to the highly sensitive socio-political environment in which the sector
operates, are as follows.
(a)    Policy Reforms. Overall, the most significant project achievement was fostering and
cementing a rapport between the private sector and the GOM. Measures were taken
for constructive dialogue for partnership in sector development: the close association
between the MSA and the industry, and the setting up of the Joint Public and Private
Sector Committee for sector planning. Systems were installed to enable problem
solving within a more stable and predictable policy environment: export duty,
taxation of bagasse energy and irrigation management.
(b)    The mill sector. The project was highly instrumental in restoring financial viability
to the sector through the restructuring of the fiscal policy (SIES). The export duty
was reduced from an average level of 20 percent to 13.5 percent in 1989, and to 9
percent in 1993. The financial performance of the industry improved continuously.
Against losses of US$84.5 million in 1983, profits rose to a peak of US$415 million
in 1989. Profitability since then has been going down, mainly due to minimum wage
increases given by GOM, in 1990 and 1991 (Table 1lb). The project provided
needed support to the private sector in ensuring foreign exchange for investments.
Mill investments rose from an average of Rs. 150 million annually in 1982-86 to Rs.
340 million in 1987-92. Mill performance improved in sugar production and
reduction of losses in manufacture (Tables 10 and I la). The SIE Act has provided
fiscal incentives for improvement in recovery beyond 86 percent of sugar in cane and
about 6 of the 19 factories have exceeded the norm. Following the adoption of the
SIES Act, systems were installed to increase the transparency of the closely held
private sector. Annual returns are being compiled by the MSA, in consultation with
the industry. But mill ownership could not be broadened. The amendments to the
SIE Act in 1993 structured the rationalization of the export duty to the objective of
closure of uneconomic smaller units. The protective exemption from duty for the
first 3000 tons of production was removed. The industry is already starting to
respond to the signals set: one unit has applied for closure and another is negotiating
with a neighboring mill for merger.
(c)    Land. Yield of sugarcane per hectare increased during 1987-92 by 6.73 percent
compared to the 1980-86 average (Table 9). The increase was marked in the
corporate sector (9.03 percent) as against individual planters (4.34 percent). There
has been, at the same time a reduction in the cane area by about 2.64 percent in
favor of food and other export crops.



7
(d)    Labor. The Bank was not able to effectively influence labor policies in the sector.
Wage increases, after a period of restraint until 1990, have exceeded productivity
increases. With wages constituting about 50 percent of the cost of production of
sugar, the burden is pronounced, considering that basic wages between 1987 and
1991 increased by 80 percent. Further, the SIE Act did not remove the burden on
the industry of having to maintain a "supplementary labor force" during the inter-
crop season, irrespective of requirements. Despite these restraints, there has been
a natural shift away from labor: a reduction of about 16.5 percent in 1992 compared
to 1986 (Table 12). Due to labor costs, the industry has increasingly mechanized
loading operations in cane fields, with 52 percent of cane now being mechanically
loaded.
(e)    Baase  The project substantially contributed to promote the utilization of this
byproduct for energy generation. It ensured a policy change in the taxation of
bagasse generated electricity (Bagasse Transfer Price) so as to provide a greater share
for the producers of energy. A Bagasse Energy Development Committee was
constituted for integrating the use of this byproduct in the national energy policy.
Fiscal incentives in the SIE Act were provided for the saving and use of bagasse for
energy production. Following these policy initiatives, the project provided technical
assistance for the preparation of the SEDP (Ln. 3458-MAS, signed on July 1, 1992).
(f)   Irrigation. Water resource allocation among competing users in the major basin
Grand River South East was settled, assuring for the sugarcane planters in the north
an equitable share. A study on the irrigation requirements of the sector led to the
following recommendations: development of cost-effective surface irrigation for the
s.mall-holders; strengthening of the IA for planning and execution of works; and,
transfer of certain irrigation maintenance responsibilities from the Central Water
AKuthority to the IA. Implementation of these are presently being followed up in the
AMSP (Ln. 3333-MAS, signed in June 1991).
(g)    The institutional objectives of the project were substantially achieved in respect of the
MSA and the FSC, but would require further steps towards sustainability. MSA
needs to be more broadbased, and the FSC has to be more operationally sure of its
finances and independence in personnel management. Also the FSC's role will have
to be in unison with other institutions engaged in extension and research, and its
contribution assessed in economic terms (Paras 5.4 and 5.5).
(h)    Research and Diversification. MSIRI's impact on the improvement in small farmer
technology is yet to be assessed (Para 5.7). The research wing of the MOA was not
geared to presenting a diversification study and a sub-project for implementation.
The project has influenced incorporation in the SIE Act 1988 and the amendments
in 1993 of provision of incentives for use of cane lands for non-sugar use. It is too
early to assess the impact.
7. Sustainability
7.1    The sugar sector will continue to be crucial for the economy of Mauritius, despite
reservations in many quarters about the future of the EU Sugar regime. The negotiations under the
Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GAIT) allay fears of a sudden and



8
abrupt change in the near future. The viability of the sector will continue to be a matter of priority.
The sustainability of the results appear assured because: (a) Government has set up a machinery for
continuous dialogue with the private sector, and has advanced further positive encouragement through
restructuring the export duty on sugar and tax concessions. These are specifically focussed on
diversification, discouraging continuance of uneconomic units and improvements in efficiency; (b)
the industry is reacting positively to consolidation and the utilization of bagasse for energy generation;
and (c) the response of the small-holder to the consolidation of holdings in Land Area Management
Units, though in an early stage, is encouraging.
7.2    Given the continuance of such positive responses, the main risks will be the following: (a)
a set-back in institutional development will be severely adverse. The MSA, the FSC and the research
and extension wings of the MOA are crucial in this. (See paras 5.4-5.7). The successor projects the
(AMSP and the SEDP, and an associated Global Environment Fund Project) are instruments through
which the Bank could exercise its influence to maintain continuity; (b) labor policy of the GOM,
unless it shifts away from the current tendency to award wage increases unrelated to productivity and
preserve constraints on the shifting of surplus labor away from the sector, will erode the viability of
the industry.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1    The main strength of Bank's performance related to a clear conceptual understanding of the
sector problems and the actions needed. It was instrumental in bringing the private and the public
sectors together to work out an action plan on the basis of consensus. This was particularly strong
in the preparatory and start up phases of the SIES. Inputs into supervision were adequate, in the
mandatory and facilitator functions. The main weaknesses were the following: (a) inadequate
appreciation of inter-departmental relationships and internal procedures within the GOM hampering
implementation; (b) inconsistency in following up institution building; and (c) limits to influencing
GOM policies in certain areas (eg. labor, departmental reorganization).
9.     Borrower Performance
9.1    Borrower commitment was high from the preparation stage. Despite delays in implementation
of individual components, the overall performance was satisfactory. Major policy reforms were
initiated and in the developments since the completion of the SIES, further signals in the right
direction for productivity improvement and long-term viability of the sector have been given.
Consultant resources were well deployed. The private sector was closely associated. However, the
main weaknesses were: (a) inconsistency in systematic follow up of policy initiatives (eg. annual
financial review of the sector; sugar labor remuneration; small planter productivity); (b) bureaucratic
delays in processing project proposals; and (c) slow pace of institutional reforms.
10.   Relationship between Borrower and Bank
10.1   The success of the project was above all due to the working relationship the Bank established
with the Borrower, the private sector and the co-financier (ODA). Supervision missions, without
diluting the Borrower's responsibility for implementation, facilitated and provided substantive
implementation assistance. As a counsel and honest broker, the Bank brought the private and the
public sectors together, gaining acceptance and respect. But it still was not adequate enough to



9
influence all facets of GOM's policies, or private sector's response to certain of the signals set by the
GOM.
11.   Consultants
11.1   The consultants provided valuable assistance in project implementation.  The technical
assistance provided was mainly for the MOA and the MSA. The former was essentially for project
implementation by the Sugar Unit, which was instrumental in keeping the process on track and
resolution of differences. The latter was for studies, installation of systems, legal and technical
advice to the private sector and the Central Electricity Board on contract for supply of bagasse
generated energy. (See Table 6 for status and impact of the studies).
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1   The loan agreement was appropriate and adequate for achieving the project objectives. The
SAR provided the basic guidance, subject to adaptation to changing needs, as agreed to between the
Bank and Borrower. The Sugar Unit maintained the overall project data, while the MSA had built
up an information system for technical and financial data of the sector. The FSC, in collaboration
with the MSIRI, is building up a database in respect of sugarcane in the small holder sector.



10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2728-MAS)
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
COMMENTS BY THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES
1.    The Project Completion Report (PCR) has put together facts and figures to enable a quick
professional judgement to be formed about not only the impact of the Project but also the lessons
learnt from it. We concur with the assessment of the Bank that the Project did manage, albeit
temporarily, to restore the financial viability of the sugar sub-sector. However, given the continuing
importance of sugar in the national economy and the imperative of diversification, what is more
relevant is the economic viability of the agriculture sector as a whole in the long run. To borrow
from the terminology of the PCR, what is important is not merely the short-term redistribution of rent
among the sector players but a conscious and systematic augmentation of that rent itself through
productivity improvements within of course the limitations imposed by the emerging global trade
regime. Only a more detailed evaluation of the structural changes brought about within the sugar
sub-sector would enable us to appreciate whether the restoration of financial viability fostered by the
Project remained the essential first step or led to complementary changes elsewhere in a manner that
would ensure the long-term economic viability of the Mauritian sugar industry in a more competitive
world trade environment. Such concurrent and continuous evaluation is within the mandate of the
MSA and would be carried out.
2.    By creating through the Farmer's Service Center (FSC) the institutional infrastructure to bring
the small planter within the framework of productivity gains due to better research and extension
support, the Project had again taken the essential first step. However, at this juncture, consolidation,
rather than expansion appears to be called for. The FSC needs to prove itself and the sector partners
that its approach to closing the productivity gaps between the large and the small planters has not only
been successful but cost-effective. The benefits, direct and indirect, of the FSC experiment, would
have to be quantified carefully and analyzed dispassionately. This again would have to be taken up
as part of the current re-appraisal of and by the FSC.
3.    It was perhaps unavoidable, given the relative priorities, that agricultural diversification and
research support thereof did not get as much fillip under the project as they could have. We do not
agree that these issues have been addressed in greater detail in the Agricultural Management and
Services Project (AMSP). It is our intention to dovetail the follow up requirements of the Sugar
Industry Project into the programs and activities of the AMSP and Bagasse Energy Development
Project.
4.    We have noted the factors which, in the assessment of the Bank, adversely affected Project
implementation. Our hope is that with greater exposure to project management in the coming years,
the required capacities would be built up within all the participating organizations. The observations



11
regarding the strengths and weaknesses of the individual organizations and the suggestions regarding
remedial measures are well taken and would be acted upon.



12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SUGAR INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2728-MAS)
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
1                                         Year of
Loan TitLe                          Purpose                   Approval          Status                        Comments
Agricultural Services          Support to modernization of               1991       Effective;        WiLL address issues on the
Management Project             the agricultural sector,  in                         on-going          reorganization of MOA, agricultural
(Loan 3333-MAS)                organization of sector                                                 diversification, irrigation, agri-
management and delivery of                                             business, and extension-research
services                                                               linkage
Sugar Energy                   UtiLization of renewable bio-             1992       Effectivenes   This project along with the related
DeveLopment Project            mass of sugar cane for energy                        s pending         Sugar bio-energy Technology Project
(Loan 3458 MAS)                generation, with attendant                                             (GEF), will be of crucial
environmental benefits                                                 importance to the sector to set on-
track Long-term measures for by-
product utilization and
envirornental monitoring



13
Table 2: Project Timetable
I                 I         ~~~~~~~~Planned   IActual
Identification                                           May 1984
Preparation                                             April 1985
Appraisal                   August 19, 1985             September 1985
Negotiations                March 20, 1986              May 13, 1986
Board Approval              May 1986                    June 26, 1986
Loan Signature                                          July 11, 1986
Loan Effectiveness          October 9, 1986             January 15, 1987
Loan Closing                June 30, 1992               June 30, 1993
Last Disbursement                                       October 29, 1993



14
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
Cumulative estimates and actual disbursements
(US$ million)
l                 l           Disbursements (cumulative)
Bank           Appraisal
F.Y.            Estimate             Actual                  Actual as al
I       % of estimate
1987                    3.80                  0.02                           0.53
1988                   11.80                 16.95                         143.64
1989                   18.70                20.07                          107.33
1990                   24.00                 22.86                          95.25
1991                   28.00                 26.46                          94.50
1992                  30.00                  26.97                          89.90
1993                                         27.88       As % of Loan amount
92.93
1994                                         28.38       As X of loan amount
1994 __________  ________-______   I_________________                       94.86
The undisbursed balance (US$1,623,316) was cancelled effective October 29, 1993.



15
Table 4: Project Implementation
Component                                        CorpLetlon date
Plamed                             Actual
1. Mill modernization imports                                                     June 1991
2. Fertilizer Imports                         June 1989                           June 1988
3. Mauritius Sugar Authoritv
a) Appointment of E.D.
b) Departmental heads             Condition of effectiveness                December 1986
c) Completion of SIES                  October 31, 1986                        June 1988
d) Bagasse transfer price                July 31, 1987                         JuLy 1988
April 30, 1987                       March 1993
4. Interministerial committee              January 31, 1988                     December 1988
and policy measure
5. Establishment of Farmers
Service centers
a) Pilot Phase                          March 31, 1987                         May 1987
b) Expansion                               June 1991                Started but not coapleted by
Loan cLosing date
6. AlLocation of water                      June 30, 1987                        August 1988
resources of G.R.S.E.
7. Mid Term Review                          September 1988                       August 1989
8. M.0.A.
a) diversification:  study             December 31, 1986
preparation                                                                    Not implemented
b) Sub-project for                     October 31, 1986
diversification research



16
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Copents           |R Apraisal Estiintes                        -|                  Actual Costs
Local  T      Foreign   J    Total             Local         Foreign           Total
1. Factory Investments             10.00           15.00            25.00          10.00          15.23             25.23
L 2. Fertitizer Imports                             9.40             9.40               _          9.42              9.42
|_3. MSA                             0.07            0.96             1.03           0.03           1.26              1.29
|_4. MSIRI                            1.98           1.70            3.68            1.27           0.93              2.20
|    5. MOA                          0.27            0.51             0.78           0.05           0.28              0.33
|    6. FSC                          2.57            2.43             5.00           2.10           1.26              3.36
Total          14.89           30.00           44.89           13.45          28.38             41.83
______________   ODA_____                      0.00             0.00           0.00           1.63              1.63
Total          14.89           30.00           44.89          13.45           30.01            43.46
B. Project Financing
Category                                       Appraisal Estinates                                   Actual I
Local       ODA        Loan   |   Total       Local  |  ODA          Loan        Total
1. Factory Investments                10.00-                 14.50        24.50      10.00 |               15.23        25.23
2. Fertilizer Imo rts                                         9.40         9.40  _           _              9.42         9.42
3. Equipment & Vehicles                0.94                    1.40        2.34       0.76 |                0.99          1.75
4. Civit Works                         0.48                   1.00         1.48       0.79 |                1.23          2.02
5. TA & Training                       0.08                   2.80         2.88  _               1.63       1.51         3.14
6. Incremental Operating Costs         3.39                                3.39       1.90  _          _                  1.90
7. PPF                                                        0.30         0.30              _         _          |      0.00
8. Unallotted                                                 0.60         0.60 _  _                              |      0.00
Total     14.89        0.00       30.00       44.89      13.45       1.63       28.38        43.46
Note: ODA was originally not a project partner.



17
Table 6: Studies
Name                   Purpose                            Status           Impact of the Study                                    ]
Sugar Industry        To formulate and impLement          CompLeted in   This study, which Led to the enactment of the SIEA
Efficiency Study       reforms under the SAP to           JuLy 1988        in December 1988, was crucial to the central
assess major policy issues,                         objective of the project:  securing the long-term
viability of the sugar sector. The Act resulted
in fiscal measures, setting signals for
productivity improvements, diversification and by
product utilization. It installed systems within
the NSA, on basis agreed with the private sector,
for regular review of industry financial
situation.
Small Planters'        To formulate proposals for the   Completed          A 22-point action plan was recommended.
Efficiency Study       improvement of productivity in                      Implementation is underway and a few measures
(SPES)                the small-holder sector in                           given effect to in the amendments to the SIEA
sugar cane accounting for 40                        (1988) in 1993.  But requires to be given a sense
percent of cane production,                         of direction and purpose.  It will need to be
followed up as part of supervision of the AMSP.
Sugar Industry         To analyze the optimal             On-going         Started in 3/93 and scheduled to be completed by
Characterization       treatment of the effluents in                       3/94, in three phases (design, trials and
of Waste Study         the process of sugar milling,                       evaLuation).  The first phase completed under the
(SICWS)                and recommend appropriate                           project.  Assessment of outcome is not yet due.
measures for abatement,                             The other phases, and the implementation of
control and monitoring,                             necessary administration and legislative measures,
l__________________________                          could  be  followed  up  by  the  SEDP.
Irrigation            a) to recommend least cost          Completed        proposals to test 3 pilot centers for least-cost
strategy for development of        April 1990       surface irrigation, and for TA to strengthen IA.
irrigation, particularly with                       Followed up in the AMSP.
reference to the needs of
small-farmers.
b) Reorganization of the IA
for inproving planning and
management capabilities.                                                                                 .



18
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Section    Status  | Completion Date |         Description of Covenant                             Comments
2.01 (c)      OK      Promptty after       Repayment of PPF.                     PPF was not used.
effectiveness
(1/15/87)
3.01                                      lImpLementation program,
including studies.
3.03          OK      June 1991            Parts A & B:  fertiLizer and          Completed by June 88 for fertilizers and
machinery imports.                    June 1991 for machinery, supervision of
the SOM.
OK     December 1988        Studies under NSA for promoting       NSA has evolved a system, following
industry efficiency and for           completion of the study for annual
changes in fiscal policy.             revaluation of assets of the industry and
financial analysis.
3.05          OK      June 1988            Appointment of departmental           In position.
heads of MSA.
OK     August 1989          Farmers' service centers:  pilot    (i) Pilot phase of 4 centers successfully
project.                              completed and reviewed by Bank in the
mid-term review. Expansion of the
program by way of 5 more additional
centers was started but not completed by
June 93.
(ii) FSC management staff initially under
ODA assistance; since repLaced by
Mauritians (Sec. 3.03).
OK                          Mauritius Sugar Industry              Grants to MSIRI sustained research and
Research Institute (MSIRI)            studies as:  land indexing, economic
research, small-scale irrigation, cane
improvement, crop diversification and
sugar technology. Sub-components for
bagasse energy and research
diversification were, however, expanded
into preparation of two stand-alone
projects, since approved by the Bank in
6/91 and 7/92.
3.07          OK      August 1989          Mid-term review.                      Completed, jointly with ODA for the FSC
component.
4.01          OK      Annual              Accounts and audits.                   Audit compliance is up to date.
4.01 (b)      OK      Annual               SOE                                   SOE procedure was not avaied of.
5.01          OK                          Annual reviews.                        Progress reports duly furnished.
5.02          OK      December 1988        Interministerial Comnmittee for       Reviewed studies under the project and
Policy Review.                        led to fiscal poticy changes and
enactment of SIEA.
5.03 (a)      OK      1987                 Least cost power expansion            Completed (under the Ministry of Energy).
study.
5.03 (b)      OK      March 1993           Bagasse Energy Development            Studies and project preparation
including bagasse pricing.            activities financed under the project
have led to a stand-alone project on
Energy Development and research on Bio-
mass utilization (SEDP: MAS loan
agreement: 7/1/92). Included Bank
approval formula for bagasse pricing.



19
Section  ! Status   CompLetion Date             Description of Covenant                             Comments
503 (c)       OK1   August 1988            Allocation of water resources          Agreement reached between MOA and MOE on
between power and irrigation.          sharing and transfer of assets.  Physical
transfer wilL be compLeted shortly.
5.04          OK      December 1989        FinanciaL viability of the sugar    Fiscal and other measures incorporated in
sector,                                the SIEA, and reviewed by the Bank.
7.01 (a)      OK       February 1987       Appointment of sugar industry
specialist for project
_management.
7.01 (b)       OK     December 1986        Appointment of GM for FSC pilot
project.
7.01 (b)       OK     December 1986        Appointment of a full-time
Executive Director for NSA.
Note: Expenditure incurred on the civil works and related contracts in respect of five additional
centers up to June 30, 1993 was financed under the project.



20
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stq  of Project Cycle                 Ptumed       Revised          Final      |       Catnts
Through  AppraisaL                               _  _ _ _ __50.8                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Apprfisel through Board Approval                                     49.8      T
Board Approval through                                                5.4
Effectiverms
Suervision                             87.0          85.5           149.7
TotaL      87.0         85.5            255.7



B. Missions
Stage of Project CycLe   1 Month/Year          N umber of         Days in         peciaization     Perfor ence Rating |          Types of Problems 3/
_____   _             |    Persons            Field          Represented  /                           Status      
Through Appraisal              05/06/84             2                  10              1,6
12/84             2                   5               1,6                                  Identification, Preparation
04/85             3                   11             1.2,6
Appraisal through Board          09/85              4                                1,2,3,6                                           AppraisaL
ApprovaL                                                     
Board Approval through           07/86              2                  13              1,6                                         Project start-up
Effectiveness
l_______________________          10/86              2                   3              1,3                                         Project start-up
Supervision                   06/87-07/87           1                  10               I                                          Project start-up
12/87             2                  12               1,5                    1                          1,2,4
09/88              2                  17              1,3                    1                          4,5,6
08/89             3                   12             1,5,5                   1                            5
10/89-11/89           3                  14             1,3,6                    1                          1,4
02/90-03/90           1                   2               4                                                2,4,6
06/90              1                   6               1                     1                          2,4,5
08/90-09/90           1                  18               4                                                2,4,5
11/90-12/90           1                  22               4                                                1,5,6
03/91-04/91           2                  36              4,7                     1                         2,4,6
08/91             3                   19             1,4,7                   1                           1,5
05/92-06/92           3                  12             1,4,8                    1                          2,4
10/92             3                  20             4,6,8                    1                           2,4
02/93-03/93           2                  29              4,8                     1                          4,5
1/      Keys to Specialization:  I = Economist; 2 =Agronomist; 3 =Financial Analyst; 4= Sugar Industry Specialist; 5 = Extension
Specialist; 6=Management; 7-Financial Economist; and 8=Agricultural Economist.
2/       Overall Status.
3/       Keys to Problems:  1 = Policy Reforms; 2 =Procurement; 3 = Disbursements; 4= Studies; 5 =Institutional; 6= Audit.



22
Table 9: Sugarcane area, production and yields, 1980 through 1992
Yest         Area (ha)         Prodaction    |                       Yield tans      hectare
(miLLion tars)
Ni iter           Omerr           Tennnt           Isltwd
ptants           plants
1980          79,193             4.564              60.00            50.00            38.40            57.60
1981          78,291             5.303              77.70            55.00            48.80            67.70
1982          79,908             6.582              91.00            72.80            57.40            82.40
1983          78,435             5.255              76.30            56.70            47.80            67.00
1984          78,003             5.009              75.10            52.40            43.60            64.20
1985          78,028             5.583              80.00            62.90            50.50             71.60
1986          77,709             6.025              86.10            69.70            53.40             77.50
1987          77,552             6.231              88.80            72.60            55.90             80.30
1988          76.919             5.517              84.70            59.00            48.30             71.70
1989          76.785             5.436              80.80            61.20            43.50             70.80
|    1990     76,303              5.548             85.90             59.60           42.80             72.70
1991           75,966             5.621             89.50             57.80            50.90            74.00
1992          75,077             5.791              88.50            65.00            48.10             77.20
(a) Average yields                    Nilter plants    Ovmer plants           Tenant            Island
(tons/ha)
O) 1980-86                             78.03             59.93             48.56             69.73
it) 1987-92                             86.37             62.53             48.25              74.42
iii) Percent increase of ii)             10.69              4.34             -0.64               6.73
over i)
(b) Average Area Harvested (ha)
(i) 1980-86:  78,510                 (ii) 1987-92:  76,434               (iii) percentage decLine:  2.64
Source: MCA Annual Reports.



23
Table 10: Sugar Production, Sales and Unit Revenue 1985-1986 to 1992-1993
j   Year   | Local and    Exports  |   Total  Unit Price         EU Price
stock       (tons)                MRU/Ton   MRIECU/Ton
1985-86    37,348     608,449     645,797        3897        5,950         448.7
1986-87    44,079     662,760     706,839        4213        7,213         449.2
1987-88    32,654     658,480     691,134        4807        7,988         449.2
1988-89    35,011     599,212     634,223        5399        8,064         449.2
1989-90    35,861     532,440     568,301        6526        8,890         440.2
1990-91    38,961     585,341     624,302        6714        9,746         439.4
1991-92    44,707     565,858     610,565        6884        9,894         439.4
1992-93    43,407     599,761     643,168        7194       10,726         433.7
Source: (i) MCA; (ii) Mauritius Sugar Syndicate (MSS).
Note: The preferential quota arrangements as at present cover about 510,000 tons under
EU/ACP Agreement, and 15,000 tons under U.S. Sugar regime annually. The current price for
exports to USA is around US$0.22 per pound. After allowing for about 40,000 - 42,000 tons
for local consumption (domestic and industrial), and carry over stocks, the balance is exported
to the "free-market" at prices which today are around US$0.10 - US$0.11 per pound.



24
Table 11: Technical and Financial Performance: 1983-92
A. Factory Technical Performance: 1983-92
Year            Recovery                ROR
[___   ~~% Cane  I__
1982              10.45                85.70
1983              11.51                85.30
1984              11.49                85.20
1985              11.57                85.40
1986              11.73                85.70
1987              11.09                85.60
1988              11.50                85.40
1989              10.65                84.90
1990              11.25                85.10
1991              10.88                85.00
1992              11.13                86.90
Note: ROR: Reduced Overall Recovery
B. Industry Financial Performance
Year    | Profit/(Loss) Before Income Tax (MRU million)
1983                                            -84.50
1984
1985                                             79.00
1986                                            222.00
1987                                            178.60
1988                                            138.50
1989                                            414.90
1990                                            303.20
1991                                             62.00
1992                                             35.00



25
Table 12: Employment in the Sugar Industry
Year                   Number of workers
1980                         47,493
1986                        47,005
1991                         40,138
1992                         39,272
Source: Central Statistical Office; MCA.
Note: There has been an overall decline in workforce by 17.3 percent and
16.45 percent in 1992 compared to the years 1980 and 1986 respectively.






27
ANNEX
COMMENTS BY
UNITED KINGDOM OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION (ODA)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF THE
FARMER SERVICE CENTERS
Background
1.    At the request of the Government of Mauritius, ODA provided technical assistance in support
of the Farmer's Service Center (FSC) component of the World Bank financed Mauritius Sugar
Industry Project. UK consultants Booker-Tate Ltd were appointed as managing agents on ODA's
behalf. The three long-term consultants - General Manager, Agricultural Engineer and Training
Manager - were attached to the Project Management Unit (PMU) for a period of some four years
from December 1986 to December 1990.
Project Objectives
2.    The Staff Appraisal Report, Mauritius Sugar Industry Project of 5 June 1986 states the
following:
"These centers would be established to help small-scale planters (with less than 100 arpents
cane) to improve production of sugar and related crops. The centers would serve about
33,000 planters who grow about 66,000 arpents cane. A typical center would serve roughly
2,000 planters growing 4,000 arpents cane by intensifying extension services, and by helping
planters to organize harvesting, cane transport, replanting and inputs supplies. The Center
would house, under one roof, existing suppliers and agencies dealing with inputs and services
to make them more accessible to planters."
Project Results
3.    The project selected four sites namely St. Felix, Rose Belle, Solitude and L'Unite at which
to establish the first pilot FSCs. The four centers now serve the needs of over 10,000 small-scale
planters, some 30 percent of the total. The FSCs provide:
(a)    extension advice on the growing of sugar cane, interline and rotation crops;
(b)    advice on seedcrop supply and on establishing seedcane nurseries;
(c)   inputs, including fertilizer, insecticides, pest control chemicals etc.;
(d)    contractors' services eg. for de-rocking, land preparation, cane harvesting and
transportation;
(e)    a soils analysis service (in conjunction with Ministry of Agriculture's Agricultural
Chemistry Division); and
(f)    advice on available credit for small-planters.



28
4.    In general, it is felt that activities are correctly geared towards relieving the constraints to
improved small-scale planter yields and should feed through into increased efficiency of production.
There are still uncertainties, however, about the economics of some of the technical
recommendations. Further work needs to be done, for example, in assessing the returns to de-
rocking, the most profitable cane length cycle for planters and the optimum yield level that planters
should aim for given the other opportunities for income generation.
5.    Included in the total ODA grant of US$1.63 million were overseas training awards which
have enabled the counterpart staff to gain the necessary skills and confidence to take responsibility
for the continued management and expansion of the FSCs.
6.     ODA will continue to provide follow-up to the FSCs through its technical assistance support
to the Agricultural management and Services Project.



