Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No. 38163 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/01/2006 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Bangladesh 
Project ID: P059143 
Project Name: Additional Financing for Second Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project 
(Microfinance II) 
Task Team Leader: Shamsuddin Ahmad 
Estimated Appraisal Date:October 18, 2006
Estimated Board Date: December 18, 2006 
Managing Unit: SASFP 
Lending Instrument: Financial 
Intermediary Loan 
Sector: Micro- and SME finance (96%); Apex Microfinance Institution (4%) 
Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P);Access to urban services and 
housing (S);Regulation and competition policy (S);Other public sector governance (S); 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
15.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
BORROWER/RECIPIENT        2.25
17.25 
B.  Project Objectives: 
The objectives of the project will remain unchanged and will be to continue IDA's support for 
poverty alleviation through microcredit by: (a) expanding outreach to reach a greater number of 
the poor; (b) diversifying microcredit operations to reach the urban poor; and (c) providing 
technical assistance for building sustainable institutional capacity in PKSF and its Partner 
Organizations (POs).  The components of the project would remain unchanged.  The funds under 
the proposed Additional Financing will be added to two existing components -- the Urban 
Microcredit component and the Institutional Development component and will be used to extend 
sustainable microcredit facilities by the Partner Organizations of PKSF to the affected rickshaw-
pullers in order to restore their livelihood to previous levels. 
 
C.  Project Description: 
The proposed program will be run by PKSF as an urban microcredit program targeting a specific 
group within the city.  It will also provide capacity building support to the affected, the POs and 
PKSF to cover the risks of failure. 
The proposed components are expected to be: 
Page  2
1.  Urban Microcredit:  This existing component will be expanded to create a revolving fund 
for microcredit services to all the rickshaw-pullers and their families that are willing to 
give up that profession and start a new profession. 
2.  Institutional Strengthening of PKSF and POs:  This existing component will be expanded 
to finance the additional overhead costs to be incurred by the POs to initiate and run this 
program.  The support will be provided on a sliding scale during the two years of this 
project after which the POs are expected to pick up these costs from their earnings.  
Moreover, the costs of training the borrowers will also be financed under the program.  
PKSF will set up a small cell to coordinate and supervise the overall implementation of 
this program.  The cost of this Cell including travel and communication expenses, 
workshops, studies and surveys, and office equipment and supplies will be financed 
under this program. 
3.  Project Coordination and Management, Monitoring, Evaluation, Learning and Feedback:  
This would provide support for development of an MIS to monitor and evaluate the 
progress in implementation of the project.  It will include financing for a mid-term 
evaluation by PKSF at the end of the first year, and an Impact Evaluation Survey and 
Project Completion Survey at the end of the second year.  PKSF will also audit the POs 
on a quarterly basis. 
 
D.  Project location (if known): Dhaka city in Bangladesh 
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies: 
PKSF has been the pioneer micro-finance institution, and developed excellent environment and 
social policy and guidelines for safeguarding the vulnerable groups. These contain specific 
policies on indigenous peoples, exploitative child labor and environmental guidelines.  These 
were reviewed for the preparation of additional financing and found to be adequate.  
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
Nilufar Ahmad, Senior Social Scientist 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Page  3
Environmental Category:
 
F
-
Financial Intermediary Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  Not Applicable 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  Not Applicable 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Shamsuddin Ahmad 
November 1, 2006 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Simon C. Bell 
 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
