                                      Documentof
                                    The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                 ReportNo: 39651-BD




                                  PROJECTPAPER

                                          ON A

                PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT

                    INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR10.0MILLION
                          (US$lS.O MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                    PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                         FOR A

        SECOND POVERTY ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCEPROJECT

                                     April 29,2007




Finance& PrivateSector DevelopmentUnit
SouthAsia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
      (Exchange Rate Effective April 24, 2007)
              CurrencyUnit = BDT
                  BDT 1.00 = US$0.01448
                   US$1.OO    = BDT 69.06502



                     July 01 -- June 30
                      FISCAL YEAR



      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
DCA    DevelopmentCredit Agreement
DTCB   Dhaka Transport CoordinationBoard
FBS    Fixed-Budget
F I    Financial Intermediary
FMR    Financial ManagementReport
HDRC   HumanDevelopmentResearchCentre
IC      individual consultant
IDA    International DevelopmentAssociation
ISR    Implementation SupportReport
LOCS    Lines of Credit
MFIs    Microfinance Institutions
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGOs    Non-Government Organizations
NMT     Non-Motorized Transport
N S     National Shopping
PDO     Project DevelopmentObjectives
PIP     Project ImplementationPlan
PKSF    Palli Karma-SahayakFoundation
POS     Partner Organizations
PRSP    Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper
RNPPO   Rehabilitation ofNon-motorized Transport Pullers and
        Poor Owners
SDR     SpecialDrawing Rights
SOE     Statementof Expenses
sss      Single source

                                                                                            FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                   BANGLADESH

                     SECONDPOVERTYALLEVIATIONMICROFINANCEPROJECT


                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS



                                                                                                                      PAGE

          ProjectPaper Data Sheet.. .................................................................................... .l
          I. Introduction...........................................................................................     .2

          11.      BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancing...........................................             .2

          111.     ProposedChanges...................................................................................   .4

          IV.      Consistency with CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS).........................................           .7

          V.       AppraisalofRestructuredor Scaled-up ProjectActivities.....................................            .7

          VI.      ExpectedOutcomes.................................................................................    .9

          VII.     BenefitsandRisks...................................................................................  .9

          VIII.    FinancialTerms andConditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing...................................           10

          Annex: Withdrawalofthe Proceedsofthe Credit........................................................           11




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                       INTERNATIONAL     DEVELOPMENT      ASSOCIATION

                            PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
                 SECOND POVERTY     ALLEVIATION MICROFINANCE         PROJECT

                                PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET

Date: April 29,2007                               TeamLeader: ShamsuddinAhmad

Country: Bangladesh                               Sector Manager: SimonC. Bell
ProjectName: SecondPovertyAlleviation
Microfinance Project                              Country Director: XianZhu

Project ID:P105742                                EnvironmentalCategory:F
Borrower: People's Republic ofBangladesh



FY                   2008           2009


Current closing date: 06/30/2007




Revisedproject developmentobjectivedoutcomes[Ifapplicable]

The Project DevelopmentObjective would remainthe same as the original Project. The proposed
additionalcredit would help financethe costs associatedwith scaling up the UrbanMicrocredit
component ofthe project to reachahitherto underservedsegment of the urbanpoor, which are
the poor rickshaw-pullersdisplacedby abanonNon-Motorized Transport (NMT) incertain
Dhakaroads.

Does the scaled-up or restructuredproject trigger any new safeguard policies? No.
                 -                                                                         -
c                                  For Additional Financing
[ILoan [XICredit [IGrant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing: SDR 10million (USD 15.0 millionequivalent)
        Proposedterms: Standard'Credit


                                              I.Introduction


1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
Credit in an amount of SDR 10 million (US815 million equivalent) to the Peoples' Republic of
Bangladesh for the Second Poverty Alleviation Microfinance (Microfinance 11) Project (Cr. 3457-
BD).

2.       The proposed additional credit would help finance the costs associated with scalingup the
Urban Microcredit component of the project to reach a hitherto underserved segment of the urban
poor, which are the poor rickshaw-pullersaffectedby a ban on Non-MotorizedTransport' (NMT) in
certainDhakaroads. The proposedadditionalloanwill be passed-onby the Governmentas agrant to
the apex microfinance institution called the Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation (PKSF) for
implementation of the expanded activities that will scale up the project's impact and development
effectiveness.

3.       There will be no change to the Project Development Objectives (PDO), project components,
implementationarrangements, and safeguardrequirements. The additionalfunds will be addedto two
existing components: MainstreamUrban Microcredit and Institutional Strengthening of PKSF, POs
andthe borrowers. Funds addedto the UrbanMicrocredit component will be usedby PKSF to create
a revolving fund for financing the microcredit loans of the POs to the target borrowers. Apart from
direct microcredit loans, the borrowers will also be provided with training in technical skills to
facilitate career change. The funds for institutional strengthening will finance the cost of technical
skill trainingof the borrowers, logisticalsupport to the implementingPOs and PKSFandmonitoring,
evaluation, learningandfeedback.

4.       It is expected that about 40,500 of the adversely affected NMT pullers and poor rickshaw
owners, their family members, those pullersthat would like to give up rickshaw-pullingin favor of a
new career, and identified poor and vulnerable groups as defined under Microfinance I1by PKSF
would be provided with microcredit and other services by a maximumo f 15 POs selectedby PKSF.
As the NMT ban is extended to other roads in Dhaka more of the affected NMT pullers will be
covered under this programat that time. With the help of the microfinancialservices offeredto the
affected NMT pullers, it is expected that they and their families would be able to restore their
livelihoodat least to the levelbeforethe bancame intoeffect.

5.       Partnership arrangements: As with the original project, no other multi- or bi-lateral agencies
would be cofinancing the project. The added components will require total financing of US$17.00
million, of which US$l5.0 million is proposed as IDA Credit. The remainingUS$2.00 million will
be sharedbetweenthe implementingagency andits selectedPOs.


       11. BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancinginthe amountof$15 million


6.       Original ProjectDesign:The SecondPovertyAlleviation MicrofinanceProject(Microfinance
II), wasapprovedinJanuary2001,foranoriginalcreditamountofUS$151millionfromIDA
    which
and another US$30millionfrom the Governmentof Bangladesh, became effective inMarch2001. It
was based on the successful implementation of Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project
(Microfinance I),   which helped to identify several issues within existing microfinance programs
includingthe needto expand outreachto cover underservedsegments of society and for a regulatory
framework for MFIs operatingin Bangladesh. The original objectivesof this project are to continue
IDA'S support for poverty alleviation through microcredit by: (a) expanding outreach to reach a
' NMT is   defined for the purpose o f this document to include all kinds o f transport that are not motorized
including rickshaws, pushcartsand rickshaw vans.


                                                     2

greater number of the poor; (b) diversifying microcredit operations to reach the urban poor, and
micro-entrepreneurs; (c) providing technical assistance for building sustainable institutional capacity
in Bangladesh's apex microcredit `wholesaler', PKSF and its partner organizations (POs); and (d)
establishinga legal, regulatory and supervisoryframework for non-governmentorganizations(NGOs)
and microfinance institutions (MFIs) to improve their creditworthiness as well as accelerate their
integrationwith the formal financial market.

7. The Broad objective of continuing IDA'Ssupport for poverty alleviation through microcredit will
remainunchanged. The specific objectives of the additional funds would be to diversify microcredit
operations to reach a new underserved segment of the urbanpoor and providing them with technical
skills so that they can utilize the microcredit for productive gain and improve their livelihood. The
additionalfunds would also continueto build institutional capacity inPKSF, the participatingPOs and
the poorborrowers.

8.   The last archived ISR dated June 19, 2006, reported satisfactory achievement of outcome
indicators. Three of the four PDO Indicators had surpassedthe target while the fourth was close to
thetarget, as follows:

    a. The target for extension of microcredit to 1.2 million new borrowers has been surpassed as
        microcredit has beenextendedto 3.5 millionnew borrowersofwhich 90 percent are women.

    b. The target of reaching270,000 urbanpoor has been exceeded as around 335,000 urban poor
        were given US$2.2 million in microcredit. Under the additional financing, another 40,500
        poor NMT pullers and poor rickshaw owners and their families would be targeted for
        microcredit.

    c: The target of reaching 19,500 micro enterprises has beenexceededas around 55,000 graduate
        borrowershavebeenextendedupto US$0.5 million inmicro enterprise loans.

    d. PKSF has kept its recovery rate at 96.84 percent, just short of the target 98 percent, while its
        POs maintainedtheir recovery rate at 95 percent inline with the target. PKSF's recoveryrate
        has been loweredby one large PO which is restructuringits activities. PKSF has made full
        provision for its outstandingloans to that PO.

9.      The intermediateoutcome indicatorsalso suggest that the project has beenconsistent with the
expectations set out. With regards to strengtheningthe Internal Audit Cell at PKSF, it has been
supported to carry out audits every quarter and in the January - March 2006 quarter, it carried out
audits of the microcredit programsof 40 of its POs. Interms of developingPOs' capacity to monitor
program's impact, some support has been provided to the POs to monitor impact on a regular basis.
Progresshas also beenmade informulating aregulatory framework and implementationarrangements
as the Microcredit Regulatory Authority Act has been passed in July 2006, and a Microcredit
Regulatory Authority has been set up to ensure transparency and accountability in the activities of
microfinanceinstitutions.

10.     Microfinance I1is a well-performing project that has been consistently rated as Satisfactory.
ISRs were producedregularly at six-monthly intervals, with the last two ISRs created over the most
recent 12 months. Based on the progress in disbursing funds and achieving the key performance
indicators,the DO and IPratings have been"satisfactory" inall the IS&.

11.     To date there are no unresolvedfiduciary, environmental, social, or other safeguard problems
with the project. The project, which had an original closing date of June 30, 2005, is currently on its
fourth six-month extension up to June 30, 2007. The extensions were sought to give more time to
PKSFto completethe institutional development activities. It is expectedthat the additional financing
would be disbursed over two years starting from July 1, 2007. Hence, a further extension of the
closingdate to June 30,2009, would be requiredfor the Additional Financing.


                                                    3

12.      Reasons for Additional Financing: Following the Dhaka Transport Coordination Board's
(DTCB) ban on non-motorized transport (NMT) in 2004, several thousand NMT pullers were
adversely affected. An impact analysis study carried out by the Human Development Research
Centre (HDRC) in Dhaka in July 2004 identified about 9,000 rickshaw pullers as being adversely
affected by the ban along roughly 9 kilometers of road. The study further stipulated that the net
monthly income of NMT pullers along the Mirpur Corridor decreased by about 32%. HDRC later
conducted a detailed survey in September 2005 of NMT pullers in Corridor-1 and identified at least
18,846 pullers of whom 97% were already below the poverty line. The survey also found that 98.8%
of the pullers expressed an interest to leave the NMT occupation if an alternative is available and
91.4% were ofthe opinion that micro credit is necessaryto change occupations.

13.      Basedonthe recommendationofthese studies, the GovernmentrequestedIDA to scale-up the
Urban Microcredit component of Microfinance I1to extend micro-financial services to the affected
NMT pullers and poor rickshaw owners through PKSF and its POs.                  Given the successful
performance of Microfinance 11, additional financing to support a rehabilitation program provides a
pertinent solution. This falls in line with the project DOs which emphasize poverty alleviation
through microcredit and diversifying microcredit operations to reach the urban poor and micro
entrepreneurs.

14.      Country Context: Bangladesh is considered the birth-place for microcredit. The successful
achievements of Grameen Bank and its founder Professor MuhammadYunus have been recognized
globally and most recently they have beenawardedthe Nobel Peace Prize. Microcredit has beenused
successfully as a social assistanceprogramfor the poor and is also usedto improve access to financial
services by the underserved segments of the population. The Additional Financing will target one
such underserved segment which are the NMT pullers and poor rickshaw owners whose livelihood
have beenaffectedby abanonNMTs incertainDhakaroads.

15.      Sector Policy: The Bank's policy in this sector is to provide assistance for expansion of
microcredit to underserved segments of the population. This includes the urban poor, the hard-core
poor, and the micro-entrepreneurs. Suchassistance would continueto be implementedthroughPKSF
and its POs and hencethe capacity ofthese institutionswould also needto be strengthenedfurther.

16.      Foreseen Risk Factors: There are several risks associated with this proposal. First, a number
of the affectedNMT pullers listed by the survey may not be found intheir given addresses. Second,
some of them may have shifted to alternative careers and may require different assistance. Third, the
loan repayment rate may drop because some of the borrowers may not have used a loan before.
Fourth, there is a risk that alternative careers may have environmental effects. Finally, there is a risk
of low impact on those that were listed as affected inthe survey but have relocatedto other parts of
the city. Measures to mitigate these risks are discussedinSectionVII.

17.      UnforeseenEvents: An unforeseen event would be the reversalof the banonNMTs, which is
highly unlikely.


                                         111.ProposedChanges


18.      Keeping the Development Objectives unchanged, the additional funds would increase the
scope of the project by providing microcredit services to another 40,500 urban poor NMT pullers in
and around the Mirpur Road area of Dhaka city. The disbursements would be made through a
revolving fund. The components that would receive the additionalfinancing are as follows:

19. Urban Microcredit: US$12.03 million; and Institutional Development: (a) Capacity Building at
Borrowers' Level- US$3.05 million; (b) Capacity Building and Logistic Support for POs -US$1.28


                                                   4

million; (c) Support for Cell at PKSF - US$0.58 million; and (d) Monitoring and Evaluation-
USS0.06 million.

20.     The institutional arrangements for this project remain the same with the Government of
Bangladeshbeingthe borrower andPKSFbeingthe implementingagency with the POsdisbursingthe
funds to the beneficiaries. PKSFwill continue to supervise and assist the POs, while continuingwith
itsexistingmonitoringandauditingfunctions underMicrofinance11.

21.     Financial Management: Under the proposed Additional Financing, a quick assessment of
financial management arrangement in PKSF for managing the additional financing as well as
determiningfuture actionswas carriedout.

22.     The institutional arrangement in PKSF has provided a sound financial managementsystem
for all on-going projects. The core internal controls, accounting, reporting and auditingsystem have
consistently been applied for Bank funded projects. With no PIUs, financial managementfunctions
havebeenmanagedby existingcore staff.

23.     PKSF has consistently been complying with all legal covenants of two on-going projects.
Audit reports and FMRshavebeenreceivedtimely. There were no substantial audit issues as a result
of whichmost ofthe audit opinionswere unqualified.

24.     The followingactions are recommendedfor AdditionalFinancing:

  Issues         Actions                                                           Status
  Staffing       Inorder to assistthe corefinanceteam, whichis staffedwith         Agreed
                 permanentemployeesofPKSF, anadditionalpost ofaccountant
                 has to be created. This positionwill be fundedfromthe
                 additionalfinancingandwill continueto operateduringthe
                 extendedproject life.

  Special        No separate SpecialAccount hasto be openedfor the purposeof       Agreed
 Account         replenishment andwithdrawalof funds. The existingSpecial
                 Account will be operatedto carry out relevantfundingactivities
                 under the project.

  Reporting      Intermsofreporting,thepresentformatofFMRswithsame                 Agreed
                 periodicityshallcontinue. Theprojectwill beresponsibleto
                 ensure that FMRs are submittedon a regularbasisreflecting
                 fundmovementunderthe project inanaccuratefashion.

 Disbursement Eventhoughanideato initiatedisbursementonthe basis ofthe             Agreed
                 FMRswas consideredat one point, laterthe ideawas set aside
                 andagreementwas madeto continue the SOEbasedwithdrawal
                 o f funds from SpecialAccount.
 Audit           Annualaudit functionhasto becarriedout for the additional         Agreed
                 funding. Privateauditorswouldbeengagedto conduct audit of
                 the financial statementspreparedby the finance department.

  Incremental    Forall types of incrementalexpenditureincludingstaffsalaries,     Agreed
  Staff Salaries a new categorytitled IncrementalStaff Salaries andOperating
  and            Costswouldbeused.
  Operating
  costs




                                                  5

 Issues          Actions                                                            Status
 Reviewof        IDA is contemplatingathoroughreview ofthe proposed                 Agreed.
 Project         activities underthe extendedproject. This review would
                 evaluate the past performanceunder the project and assess the
                 benefits which may be derivedfrom the proposedfuture
                 engagement. This would be done inDecember2008, six months
                 prior to Credit closingdate. Alternatively an annual audit report,
                 which may include management letter after conductingdue
                 diligence audit, may suffice.


25.     Disbursements will be handled under traditional procedures, with IDA requiring full
documentation for prior review for those cases where contracts exceed the equivalent of (a)
US$lOO,OOO for goods; (b) US$lOO,OOO for services contracts with firms; and (c) US$50,000 for
individuals. Expendituresbelow the above thresholds and all expenditures under microcredit would be
claimedon SOEs.

26.     Procurement: A quick assessment of procurement arrangements for the Additional Financing
under this project was carried out.

27.     PKSF has decided to set up a separate cell for Rehabilitation of Non-motorized transport
Pullers and Poor Owners, called the RNPPO cell, to implementthe additional financing components.
The additional financing directly tit in Part B (Urban Microcredit) and Part E (Institutional
Development)under Schedule 2 ofthe DCA ofthis project. The procurementarrangements as agreed
under Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement dated January 30, 2001, between IDA and PKSF will
governinthe additional financing periodbetweenJuly 1,2007 and June 30,2009.

28.     PKSF submitted a procurement and selection plan on November 2006 that covers
procurement of goods (logistic support for implementing POs and RNPPO Cell) and services
(capacity building of micro-credit borrowers,POs, PKSFsupport staff) under the additional financing.
The followingtable summarizes issues relatedto procurement that is agreedwith PKSF for additional
financing.

  Componentsto be                                        Description
   financed by IDA
 Micro-Credit           The project will providetraining andchannel microcredit to identified
  Component             affectedNMT pullers andpoor owners. SelectedPOs will ensure that the
  (US$10.83 million     procurementis economic and efficient, following established commercial
  equivalent)           practices. PKSF will closely superviseand monitor the POs and
                        implementationof agreedpolicy instruments to ensure that the microcredit is
                        usedfor the intendedpurpose.
  Procurementof         The goods for POs comprise of 30 sets ofcomputer and accessories, 30
  Goods (logistic       motorcyclesand 210 bicycles, totaling US$90,000. Supportfor setting
  support to POs and    RNPPOcell consists ofprocurement of office appliances (furniture,
  settingup of          photocopier, cell phones, digital camera, video camera, computers and
 RNPPOCell,             accessories) and procurement of 5 motorcyclesand one 4WD Jeep, totaling
  US$O.18 million       US$90,000. Exceptthe 4WD vehicle (US$43,000) which will be procured
  equivalent)           following National CompetitiveBidding(NCB), all other packageswill
                        follow National Shopping(NS) procedures. The single NCB contract is
                        subject to prior review by IDA andthe remainingpackages will be post-
                        reviewed. Under the existingPA aggregateNS thresholdis at US$160,000,
                       this shouldbe increasedto US$300,000 to accommodate the goodsunderthe
                        additional financing.




                                                   6

 Componentsto be      I                                  Description
  financed by IDA
 Procurement of         There are atotal of21 service packages includingtraining on social issues,
 Services (Training     skill development businessdevelopment and refresher training for
 for beneficiaries,     beneficiariesto be given by POs (US$3.05 million), training for PO staff on
 POstaff and            accounting, credit management and TOT on social issues (US$11,000)
 RNPPO Cell staff,      training PKSF staff including RNPPOCell on project monitoring,
 US$3.22 million)       evaluation, internationaltraining and study visits (US$79,000) and other
                        services like RNPPOtraining needassessment, project evaluation, printed
                        media, workshops andpublications(US$80,000). The largest assignment is
                        only about US$22,000 and consultants will be selected following fixed-
                        budget (FBS), single source (SSS) and individual consultant(IC) selection
                        procedures. All service contracts are subject to post-review.
 IncrementalStaff     IIThis includes salary andbenefitsfor PO staff (US$0.56 million), supervision
 Salaries and           by POsoftheir branchoffices (US$O.l 1million), salary ofPKSF's-RNPPO
 OperatingCost          staff (US$80,000) and other operatingexpenses (US$20,000).
 (US$0.77 million
 equivalent)
 Procurement            Existingstaff from PKSF's Finance & Accounts andAdministration has
 Capacity ofPKSF        beensuccessfullyconductingprocurement activities under this credit andthe
                        same team will continueto function for the additional financingperiodtill
                        credit closing date.

                                                    I
                     IV. Consistencywith CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS)


29.     The Country Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh is aligned with the Government's PRSP,
with governance as the core focus across two pillars: (i)improving the investment climate and (ii)
empoweringthepoor. The additional financing beingrequestedfor assistingthe NMT pullers directly
falls inplace with the second strategic pillar mentionedinthe CAS. A key initiative ofthe CAS with
regard to empowering the poor is to provide them with the infrastructural basis to hold service
providers accountable and to allow local governments to respond to community priorities. The
additionalfinancing for this project specifically addresses this aspect ofthe CAS agenda.


                   V. AppraisalofRestructuredor Scaled-upProjectActivities


30.     PKSF has prepared a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which provides details on the
implementationarrangements and the costs of the scaled up project activities. Important aspects of
project designunder the Original Project have beenmaintainedunder the additional financing. PKSF
will set up a small Cell headed by a Project Coordinator and comprising Training and Development
Specialist, one Research Officer, two Monitoring Officers, two Training Officers, an Accountant, an
Office Assistant, and a driver. The operatingexpensesof the Cell, the salary of these additionalstaff,
furniture and equipment, workshop and studies, and staff training will be financed by IDA funds
during the first two years of the project. Subsequently, PKSF will absorb these costs under their
annual budgetstartingfrom the third year.

31.     The total cost of US$17.00 million will be financed by IDA funds of US$l5.00 million,
which the Government has agreed to pass on to PKSF as a grant, and around US$2.00 million of
PKSF's and POs' own funds. Ofthis amount, US$12.03 millionwill be used for creating arevolving
fund for microcredit with IDA contribution of US$10.83 million and PKSF contributing US$1.20
million. The balance US$4.97 million will be used for Capacity Building of the borrowers, POs and



                                                   7

PKSF, including their staff, project coordination and management and Monitoring and Evaluation,
with IDA contribution ofUS$4.17 million and PKSF and POs contributing US$0.80 million.

32.      Microcredit to the identified borrowers will be provided from the revolving fund under the
terms and conditions of the Original Project. Thus, PKSF will on lend the revolving fund to the
eligible POs at 4.5 percent declining balance rate to be repaid inten equal quarterly installmentsafter
a 6 months grace period. The POs, in turn, will extend the microcredit loans to the organized
borrowers at maximum 12.5 percent flat rate to be repaid inone year. The margins generatedunder
this interest rate structure will not be sufficient for the POs, at the start of the project, to cover their
administrative costs, the risks of default and an expected surplus to build the POs' capital base.
Therefore, the Capacity Building component will provide funds to each PO for meetinga part of the
expenses incurred for supervision and administrativepurposes in implementing the project. The POs
will be reimbursedup to 65 percent and 50 percent of the estimated supervision costs inthe first and
secondyear of operations. Thereafter, the POs will be able to bear the entire cost from the third year
of operations based on their expanded scale of activities. There is no risk of the subsidy continuing
beyondthe secondyear, and the POs will continueto serve this market niche usingthe revolving fund
createdat PKSF from the IDA funds. Moreover, project funds would also be usedto providetraining
to the staff ofthese POs.

33.      The selection of the POs will be made by PKSF and guided by the Eligibility Criteria for FIs
inOP 8.30. The eligibility criteriafor POswill includethe following:

         i. Haveinterest to work with identified NMT pullersandpoorowners (Le. aperson
                owning a maximum of two NMTs and comes from lower income group will be
                consideredas poor owners);
         11.    Have existing program(s) inthe Dhakacity (however may or may not have microcredit
                programinDhakacity);
         iii. HavegoodtrackrecordwithPKSFandhaveademonstratedexperienceofensuring
                proper utilization of loan money maintaining a high rate of recovery on a continuous
                basis at bothPKSF and grassroots levels;
      '  iv.    Have potentiality, sufficient skill and organizational strength to organize identified
                NMT pullers and poor owners andto extendtraining and financial services to them;
         V.     Have financial capabilities to cross subsidize additional expenses for the project, if
                needed;
         vi.    Have capabilities to establisha separate cell with trained and experienced staff to run
                the projectwith effectiveorganizationalnetwork; and
         vii.   Havethe capacityto carry out regular Monitoringand Evaluation.

34.      As the lines of credit (LOCs) are for small borrowers with loan sizes not exceeding Tk 50,000
distortions inthe exchange rate, inflationlevel, fiscal positionand financial sector have little effect on
the viability of their business, which would include small trading shops, small manufacturing
including handicrafts, and some services. Moreover, there are no macroeconomic and sectoral
framework issues that will have an impact on the LOCs. Priority will be given to building the
capabilities of the POs, including the reimbursement of incremental staff salaries and operatingcosts.
Given that the target borrowers had not, in most cases, received microcredit before, the POs will be
responsible for providing general orientation training with emphasis on group activities, discipline,
savings and microcredit to the potentialborrowersbeforedisbursingthe first loan.

35.      One ofthe main focuses ofthis project is to impart training to the poor borrowers. Four kinds
of training will be financed, such as: general orientation and social issues training; skill development
training; training on businessdevelopment services; and refreshers and re-training.

36.      In addition to the general benefits of microcredit, this project will accrue further social
benefits by providing the redundant rickshaw-pullersand their families an alternative livelihood, and
keepingthemaway from anti-socialactivities.


                                                     8

37.     PKSF has developed satisfactory environmental and social policy and guidelines which will
be applicableto this project. No new safeguard policies will be triggered by this additional financing
project.

38.      The project will comply with OP 8.30 and will be guided by the Guidance Notes on Lines of
Credit inBank Operations.


                                        VI. ExpectedOutcomes


39.      It is expected that each PO will cover on an average 2,700 identified affected NMT pullers
and poor owners for a total of 40,500 members of which 16,200 borrowers will be given microcredit
in the first year and 21,870 borrowers in the second year of operations, considering 94% borrower
coverage. PKSF will perform regular supervisionand monitoring of the project using its existingset-
up. The agreedoutcome indicatorsare as follows:

    a. Cumulative loanrecoveryrate maintainedat 98%
    b. Microcredit amountingto US$3.87 million disbursed inthe first year to 16,200 borrowersand
        US$8.16 million in the second year to an additional 24,300 new borrowers and 16,200
         returningborrowers.
    C.   Borrowers' occupationchangedwithin two-year cycle.
    d. 100% ofborrowersbeginpersonalsavings.
    e.   Incomeof at least 80% ofborrowers enhanced
    f. Quality and awareness of members in health, family planning and education matters
         increased.

40.      Itis expectedthat the achievement ofthesetargets andestablishment ofarehabilitation
programwill provide a microfinance solutionto NMT pullersthat are displacedfrom other Dhaka
streets.


                                        VII. BenefitsandRisks


41.     As it stands the project has limited risks associated with it in terms of environmentalfactors
and PKSF has an assessment scheme by which it is able to minimize this. Because the project is
essentially an urban microcredit project, the risks associated relate mostly to loan repayment and
eviction risks. Additionally, there is a risk of low impact on those who were listed as affected by
NMT conversioninthe original DTCB surveys because they may have relocatedto other parts of the
city. Finally, there exists a risk that NMT pullers will utilize the microcredit to purchase their own
rickshaw which would work against the ideal of the project of assisting NMT pullers to shift into
other professions.

42.     The loan repayment risk is mitigated through PO assessment of beneficiaries at the early
stages of the program, along with provision of training in social and technical skills along with
business services and refreshers programs. The emphasis on promoting a successful career change
and the use ofgroup microcredit will reduce the riskofborrowersdefaulting. Additionally, suggested
loan sizes will be based on borrower preferences and their own risk assessments. The selection of
POs with expertise in microcredit and other services inDhaka city will also significantly reduce the
riskby effectivescreening of borrowersandprovision ofsupport.

43.     The risk of a low impact on the originally surveyed will be controlled through carrying out a
thorough resurveyingof the project area at the beginning of the program; as this project will be an


                                                   9

ongoing program of PKSF and the POs and the overall objective is to promote effective career
changes inNMT pullers and owners,the overall impact will be high. Additionally, identifiedpoor and
vulnerable groups as defined under Microfinance I1by PKSF living inthe project area can alsojoin
this program.
44.     During beneficiary selection, PO assessment will take into consideration the risk of pullers
buying rickshaws. POs will emphasizethe goals of the project and assist beneficiaries in obtaining
trainingandemployment inother professions.

45.     Unforeseen fundingrisks may also arise inthe project, which canraise the financial needs of
certain components. To balance this risk, PKSF and the POs will act accordingly communicating
these changes as they come about. PKSF also has an overall Contingency Fund for all its active
projects, from which it canallocateadditionalfinancial support ifnecessary.


               VIII. FinancialTerms andConditionsfor theAdditionalFinancing


46.     Bangladeshis eligible for IDA financing. Accordingly, the AdditionalFinancingwill takethe
form of an IDA Credit, with standardterms of 10years graceand40 year maturity.




Dhaka,April 24,2007




                                                10

                                              Annex

                            Withdrawalofthe Proceedsof the Credit



        The table below sets forththe Categoriesof items to be financed out ofthe Credit proceeds,
the allocation ofthe amounts ofthe Credit to eachcategory andthe percentageofexpenditures for
itemsto be financed insuchCategory:

       Category                                                                       %of
                                                                                 Expendituresto
                         Allocated         Reallocated           Allocated        be Financed

                                                                Equivalent)
                         Equivalent)       Equivalent)
  (1) Microcredit         102,630,000   II                II
                              .    .         116,950,000    7,220,000            90%
                                                            (US$10.83 million)
  (2) Goods                   1,100,000 I       600,000     120,000              100% of
                                                            (US$O.18 million)    foreign
                                                                                 expenditures,
                                                                                 100% oflocal
                                                                                 expenditures(e
                                                                                 x-factory cost)
                                                                                 and 70% of
                                                                                 local
                                                                                 expenditures
                                                                                 for other items
                                                                                 procured
                                                                                 locally
  (3) Consultants            2,820,000          750,000 2,150,000                100%
  services, Training                                        (US$3.22million)
  and Study Tours
  (4) Unallocated           11,750,000                 0 0
  (5) Incremental                     0                0 510,000                 65% inFY08,
  Staff Salaries and                                        (US$0.77 million)    and 50% in
  operatingCosts                                                                 FY09
  TOTAL                    118,300,000       118,300,000    10,000,000
                                                            (US$l5 million)




                                                 11



