Report No. PID9067
Project Name                     Bangladesh-Second Poverty Alleviation and (@)
Employment Promotion Project
Region                           South Asia
Project ID                       BDPE59143
Project implementation period    5 years
Borrower                         People's Republic of Bangladesh
Implementing Agencies:
1. Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation (PKSF)
House-31/A, Road-8
Dhanmondi R/A
Dhaka-1205
Contact: Dr. Salehuddin Ahmed
Managing Director
Tel: (880-2) 9126240-1
Fax: (880-2) 9126244
2. Minister of Finance
Bhaban-7
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dhaka
Contact: Mr. Zakir Ahmed Khan
Additional Secretary (Incharge)
Tel: (880-2) 8615360
Fax: (880-2) 8619382
Date PID Prepared                May 2, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September 15, 2000
Projected Board Date             October, 2000
Country and Sector Background:       With half of its population -- roughly
12-13 million households -- living below the poverty line, Bangladesh is one
of the poorest countries in the world. The per capita income of about US$350
is one of the lowest in the least developed countries. Although the economy
has been growing at the rate 4-5 percent annually during the last decade,
the extent of poverty still remains pervasive. While poverty incidence was
relatively unchanged from 1983/84 to 1991/92, it experienced a decline in the
1990s. During 1991/92 to 1995/96, the headcount index declined from 58.8
percent to 53.1 percent for the poor and 42.3 percent to 35.6 percent for the
hard-core poor. The impact of economic growth during the last decade would
have been greater had it not been for the increase in inequality during this
period. Between 1991/92 and 1995/96, the Gini-index of inequality for the
poor increased from 27.2 to 31.0. Reducing poverty and inequality remains a
strong challenge to the government, NGOs, and donors and is at the heart of
the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy.
The government's efforts to improve the economic status of the poor are
through (a) a macroeconomic strategy to accelerate economic growth, thereby



improving prospects for employment and income generation for the poor; and
(b) limited direct poverty focused interventions, supplemented by NGO
activities to reduce poverty and foster human development. Among these
interventions, about 8 million people now receive microcredit from various
NGOs and public programs. It is believed that another 4-5 million poor people
can be brought under microcredit programs in the next five years.
Project Objectives:      The objective of the project is to continue IDA's
support for microcredit targeted to the poorest segments of the population
and particularly women. The ongoing IDA-supported Poverty Alleviation
Microcredit Project channels funds to eligible microcredit nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs) who onlend to the poor through a quasi-governmental
poverty foundation known as the Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation (PKSF). The
project will help expand outreach to deepen the positive impact of the
ongoing project by increasing outreach by about 1.5 million new microcredit
borrowers. It will also allow borrowers to take out higher loan amounts than
under the previous project. The sustainability of PKSF's partner
organizations (POs) largely depends on their ability to meet the demand for
higher loan amounts and promoting institutional development. The proposed
project also aims to support the integration of microfinance to the formal
financial market by improving its legal standing, regulatory and supervisory
framework, and market by building up its creditworthiness. It will widen its
areas of intervention by extending microcredit to the urban poor, hard-core
poor, providing microenterprise loans to graduate borrowers to scale-up their
activities, and providing technical assistance to create sustainable capacity
in PKSF and POs to commercialize their activities in the medium to long run.
Project Description:     The project consists of the following components: a)
extension of microcredit as supported under Microfinance I; b) provision of
microcredit in urban areas to alleviate poverty among the urban poor; c)
provision of microcredit for the hard-core poor; d) expansion of
microenterprise lending to support the microcredit entrepreneurs who have
skills to move into higher level of activities through loans of up to
US$1,000; and e) provision of technical assistance to PKSF and POs to promote
capacity building through training, improved financial management and
control, MIS building, introduction of impact toolkit for continuous impact
assessment, and support for PKSF's work on "Industry Standards" and self-
regulatory measures, including the creation of an oversight Body/Agency.
Project Cost and Financing:      The tentative costs of the project are:
Source
Amount (In Million US$)
Government                       21
IDA                              150
Total                            171
Project Implementation:          PKSF will implement the project. To enhance the
effectiveness of PKSF and its partner organizations, PKSF will create
separate departments to implement urban microcredit, and microenterprise
lending. It will also separate the operations of the small and medium, and
the large-size POs. An Advisor, in the rank of the Deputy Managing Director
has already been hired to undertake the overall supervision of the large-size
POs. PKSF will also improve its accounts to meet international accounting and
- 2-



auditing standards. It has strengthened its internal audit unit recruiting
eight auditors and a Deputy General Manager (Audit) to ensure high standards
of internal control. To improve institution building, it will develop and
agree on the basis of a business plan with its POs and outsource its training
program to accelerate the implementation of a large training program for PKSF
and PO staff. It will also formulate a human resource development policy for
staff development, performance evaluation, career planning and compensation.
PKSF is currently implementing a "pilot program to assess the viability and
institutional arrangements of urban microcredit and microenterprise
lending".
Beneficiaries:           The main beneficiaries of the project are the poor who are
below the poverty line. They represent more than 50 percent of Bangladesh's
population. The ongoing project has already had a positive impact in terms of
poverty reduction and improvement of the socio-economic status of the
targeted people. The hard-core poor who largely have not been able to avail
of microcredit would be covered through innovative methods of credit delivery
and lending incentives. Urban microcredit intervention will improve the
living condition of the large number urban poor who do not have access to
credit. Extension of microenterprise lending will have potential for
generating employment for hard core poor and contribute to economic growth.
Lessons Learned:         For sustainability of microfinance, the lessons learned in
implementing the on-going project have significant implications. Three main
lessons are: (a) to maintain quality of the partner organization, the
effective supervision and monitoring of POs by skilled project officers with
client sensitiveness are required. A rating system to classify POs according
to performance will help in optimizing supervision resources, while
institution of an "early warning system" will help identify problem POs soon
to undertake action as to maintain portfolio quality; (b) sustainability of
POs in terms of accessing financial market and microfinance commercialization
will depend on strong institutional capacity to expand portfolio, reduce
operational costs and enhance POs' creditworthiness. For large-size POs, such
institutional capacity is evident and these POs will take a shorter period to
link with the formal financial market. The small and medium-size POs will
require significant time and assistance for institutional building, and this
will result in their reliance on soft-loan for a long period to attain
sustainability; and (c) the positive impact of microcredit is strongly
evident. This impact can be deepened by extensive targeting of the hard-core
poor and extending larger loans to graduate borrowers to set-up
microenterprises as these enterprises can provide employment for the hard-
core poor.
Environmental Aspects: Whereas the ongoing poverty alleviation project
provided support for microcredit loans up to a value of US$200, the proposed
Microfinance II operation could support investments in microenterprises with
a maximum value of US$1,000. This increase in scale raises the possibility
that subproject activities may have an environmental impact. In order to
adequately address this concern, and to comply with both national legislation
and World Bank policy, the implementation of the proposed credit needs to
incorporate an Environmental Management Framework (EMF) that (i) screens
subproject proposals for potential environmental consequences, (ii) ensures
that subproject designs include suitable measures to mitigate environmental
impacts, and (iii) monitors the implementation of these measures. While
ensuring that significant impacts are avoided, however, the EMF must not
-3 -



impose an unnecessary administrative burden. These issues were discussed with
PKSF and it was decided that as part of project preparation an EMF guideline
would be developed as a benchmark against which to evaluate the environmental
management systems of potential partner organizations. Moreover, provision
will be made for the necessary environmental capacity building, supervision
and monitoring.
Contact Point:           1.  The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
2. The World Bank Office, Dhaka
Md. Reazul Islam
Task Leader
The World Bank
3A Paribagh
Dhaka-1000, Bangladesh
Tel: (88-02) 9669301-8
Fax: (88-02) 8613220
Email: mislam4@worldbank.org
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 21, 2000.
- 4 -



