Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
Additional Financing 
Report No. 37939 
Project Name 
Additional Financing for Second Poverty Alleviation 
Microfinance Project (Microfinance II) 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Micro- and SME finance (96%); Apex Microfinance Institution 
(4%) 
Project ID 
P059143 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
 
Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation (PKSF) 
E-4/B, Agargaon Administrative Area 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka 
Bangladesh 
Tel: 880-2-9140056 
Fax: 880-2-9126244 
pksf@pksf-bd.org 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[X] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 16, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 18, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 18, 2006 
a)  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Following the Dhaka Transport Coordination Board’s (DTCB) ban on non-motorized transport 
(NMT) in 2002, several thousand NMT pullers were adversely affected.  An impact analysis 
study carried out by the Human Development Research Centre (HDRC) in Dhaka in July 2004, 
identified about 9,000 rickshaw pullers as being adversely affected by the ban along roughly 9 
kilometers of road.  The study further stipulated that the net monthly income of NMT pullers 
along the Mirpur Corridor decreased by about 32%.  HDRC later conducted two detailed surveys 
of Mirpur Road for DTCB.  The first report released in February 2005, covered Corridor II of the 
NMT banned road comprising 16,297 identified NMT pullers and poor owners.  The next census 
released in September 2005, included an additional 20,635 NMT pullers and poor owners living 
in Corridor I of Mirpur Road.  The second report found that of the 18,846 identified pullers 
around 97% were already below the poverty line.  The survey also found that 98.8% of the 
pullers expressed an interest to leave the NMT occupation if an alternative is available and 
91.4% were of the opinion that micro credit is necessary to change occupations.  
 
Based on the recommendations of these studies, a comprehensive social assistance program is 
considered to be a good response to assist the affected NMT pullers.  Given the successful 
performance of Microfinance II, additional financing to support a rehabilitation program 
Page  2
provides a sustainable solution.  This falls strongly in line with the project DOs which emphasize 
poverty alleviation through providing microcredit and diversifying microcredit operations to 
reach the urban poor and micro entrepreneurs.  This will also be in line with the objectives of the 
new Country Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh, which is aligned with the Government’s PRSP, 
with governance as a core focus across two features: (i) improving the investment climate and 
(ii) empowering the poor.  The additional financing being requested for assisting the NMT 
pullers directly falls in place with the second strategic pillar mentioned in the CAS. 
 
b) Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objectives of the project will remain unchanged and will be to continue IDA's support for 
poverty alleviation through microcredit by: (a) expanding outreach to reach a greater number of 
the poor; (b) diversifying microcredit operations to reach the urban poor; and (c) providing 
technical assistance for building sustainable institutional capacity in PKSF and its Partner 
Organizations (POs).  The components of the project would remain unchanged.  The funds under 
the proposed Additional Financing will be added to two existing components -- the Urban 
Microcredit component and the Institutional Development component and will be used to extend 
sustainable microcredit facilities by the Partner Organizations of PKSF to the affected rickshaw-
pullers in order to restore their livelihood to previous levels. 
 
c) Preliminary description 
 
The proposed program will be run by PKSF as an urban microcredit program targeting a specific 
group within the city.  It will also provide capacity building support to the affected, the POs and 
PKSF to cover the risks of failure. 
The proposed components are expected to be: 
1.  Urban Microcredit:  This existing component will be expanded to create a revolving fund 
for microcredit services to all the rickshaw-pullers and their families that are willing to 
give up that profession and start a new profession. 
2.  Institutional Strengthening of PKSF and POs:  This existing component will be expanded 
to finance the additional overhead costs to be incurred by the POs to initiate and run this 
program.  The support will be provided on a sliding scale during the two years of this 
project after which the POs are expected to pick up these costs from their earnings.  
Moreover, the costs of training the borrowers will also be financed under the program.  
PKSF will set up a small cell to coordinate and supervise the overall implementation of 
this program.  The cost of this Cell including travel and communication expenses, 
workshops, studies and surveys, and office equipment and supplies will be financed 
under this program. 
3.  Project Coordination and Management, Monitoring, Evaluation, Learning and Feedback:  
This would provide support for development of an MIS to monitor and evaluate the 
progress in implementation of the project.  It will include financing for a mid-term 
evaluation by PKSF at the end of the first year, and an Impact Evaluation Survey and 
Project Completion Survey at the end of the second year.  PKSF will also audit the POs 
on a quarterly basis. 
 
Page  3
d)     Safeguard policies that might apply:  No new safeguard policies will be triggered by this 
additional financing. 
 
e)    Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 2.25 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
15.00 
 Total 
17.25 
 
4. Contact point 
Contact: Shamsuddin Ahmad 
Title: Sr Financial Sector Spec. 
Tel: (880-2) 815-9015, (5764+403) 
Fax: (880-2) 815-9029 
Email: Sahmad1@worldbank.org 
Location: Dhaka, Bangladesh (IBRD) 
 
