Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3457 BD
Project Agreement
(Second Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project )
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PALLI KARMA SAHAYAK FOUNDATION
Dated January 30, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3457 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and PALLI KARMA SAHAYAK FOUNDATION (PKSF).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between the People’s Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred eighteen million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 118,300,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that PKSF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association 
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and PKSF, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under 
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to PKSF on the terms 
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS PKSF, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement 
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PKSF declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, 
to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, environmental, financial, and 
microcredit practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Association and PKSF shall otherwise agree, PKSF 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) PKSF shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, PKSF shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than 
six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
PKSF, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 2.04. PKSF shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, PKSF shall not take or concur in any action which would have 
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan 
and Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) PKSF shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
Page  3
(b) 
PKSF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PKSF of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan and Grant 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations
Section 3.01. PKSF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PKSF shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance 
with sound engineering, financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. PKSF shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make such other provisions as may be satisfactory to the 
Association for insurance against risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PKSF shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
PKSF shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case 
not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. PKSF shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 
45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report 
for such period, which:
(a)
(i) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Page  4
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said 
report, and projected sources and applications 
of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by 
said report; and
(ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Loan during the period 
covered by said report and 
expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and
 (ii)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at 
the end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association 
and of PKSF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with 
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association shall promptly notify PKSF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in 
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or 
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated 
by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed 
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, 
telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or 
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the 
party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified 
are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  5
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For PKSF:
Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation
House 31 A, Road 8, Dhanmondi R/A
Dhaka
Bangladesh
Facsimile:
8802-912-6244
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf 
of PKSF, may be taken or executed by the Managing Director, or such other 
person or persons as he or she shall designate in writing, and PKSF shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, 
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Frederick Temple
Country Director, Bangladesh
PALLI KARMA SAHAYAK FOUNDATION
By /s/ Salehuddin Ahmed
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section 
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions 
Page  6
of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank 
member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, 
respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or more per contract, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines:
(i)
standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall 
be used;
(ii)
invitations to bids shall be advertised in at least one 
widely 
circulated national daily newspaper, and bidding 
documents shall 
be made available to prospective bidders 
at least 28 days prior to 
the deadline for the submission of 
bids;
(iii)
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium 
or 
discount over the estimated cost;
(iv)
bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in 
person, 
to all who are willing to pay the required fee;
(v)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national 
bidders;
(vi)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not 
carried out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, 
and if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm 
determined to be 
the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given 
reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without any let or 
hindrance;
(vii)
bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person 
or by 
courier service or by mail;
(viii)all bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the 
bidding 
documents.  A bidder’s bid security shall apply only 
to a specific 
bid;
(ix)
bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably 
immediately, but no later than one hour, after the 
deadline for 
submission of bids;
(x)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a 
format and 
specified period agreed with the Association;
(xi)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a 
comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior 
concurrence of the 
Association;
(xii)
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be 
Page  7
carried 
out. When two or more bidders quote the same lowest 
price, an 
investigation shall be made to determine any 
evidence of 
collusion, following which:
(A) 
if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall 
be 
disqualified and the award shall then be made to 
the next 
lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; or 
(B) 
if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then 
fresh 
bids shall be invited after receiving the 
concurrence of the 
Association;
(xiii)contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders 
within 
the initial period of bid validity so that extensions 
are not 
necessary.  Extension of bid validity may be 
sought only under 
exceptional circumstances;
(xiv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the 
prior 
concurrence of the Association: 
(A) 
for the first request for extension if it is longer 
than 
eight weeks; and
(B) 
for all subsequent requests for extensions 
irrespective of 
the period;
(xv)
negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
or any 
other bidders;
(xvi)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the 
Association’s 
prior concurrence; and
(xvii)all contractors or suppliers shall provide performance 
security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A 
contractor’s or a 
supplier’s performance security 
shall apply to a specific contract 
under which it was furnished.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $160,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Specialized books and journals costing less than $2,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000 equivalent, may, 
with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement by Beneficiaries
Goods and works to be financed under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project 
shall be procured under local private sector or commercial practices in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.12 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
Page  8
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) the first contract awarded using national 
competitive bidding procedures; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection 
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the 
Association in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A 
(the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of 
this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank 
member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, 
respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 
1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for Microcredit awareness building under Part E of the Project 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services which may be required for conducting seminars and workshops 
under Part E of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for training under Part E of the Project may, with the 
Association’s prior approval, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Page  9
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. 
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) above, 
the terms of reference for all contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms and individual consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
prior review and approval.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A:
PKSF
1. PKSF 
shall:
(a)
enter into a Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement with the Borrower 
and ensure that: (i) the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan are utilized to make 
Sub-loans to POs, for purposes of carrying out Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project, under Sub-loan Agreements for financing Microcredits in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to 
in Part B of this Schedule, and (ii) the proceeds of the Subsidiary Grant made 
available to PKSF by the Borrower are utilized for purposes of carrying out 
Part E of the Project.
(b)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement 
and each Sub-loan Agreement in such manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower and PKSF;
(ii)
comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan and 
Page  10
Grant 
Agreement and such Sub-loan Agreement; and
(iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
(c)
prepare, prior to the start of each Fiscal Year, for approval by 
PKSF’s Governing Body and the Association, a business plan outlining detailed 
financial, operational, and institutional plans for the following Fiscal Year 
and broad goals in these areas for the remaining Fiscal Years until the 
completion of the Project.
(d)
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management, 
and in accordance with the Association’s policies and procedures, PKSF’s 
Memorandum and Articles of Association, and its Statement of Policy.
(e)
establish and maintain satisfactory procedures and operational 
policies for supervision and monitoring of Sub-loans and Microcredits in order 
to: 
(i) 
ensure the achievement of the objectives of the Project;
(ii) 
maintain a cumulative loan recovery rate of 98% on a 
quarterly basis; 
and
(iii) maintain a loan collection ratio of 96-100% on current dues 
on a 
running 12 month basis.
Where, however, such recovery 
rate is not 
achieved in exceptional situations of natural 
calamities or 
emergencies, PKSF shall take measures, 
satisfactory to the 
Association and the Borrower, to 
promptly restore such recovery 
rate.
(f)
ensure that where Microcredit above the amount of Tk50,000 is 
given to microenterprises, training in business management and accounting is 
provided to the Beneficiaries, and that the Beneficiaries comply with the 
requirements of the Guidelines for Management of Microenterprise Environmental 
Health and Safety Risks.
(g)
take steps, acceptable to the Association, towards enhancing 
PKSF’s institutional sustainability, including, inter alia, the adoption of 
cost effective measures, and the re-pricing of PKSF’s Sub-loans to change the 
service charge for SPOs and MPOs to 4.5% and for BPOs to 7%, as amended from 
time to time, in consultation with the Association.
(h)
maintain the following ratios throughout the Project:
(i)
a minimum current ratio of 2.5:1;
(ii)
a maximum debt to capital ratio of 4.5:1; and 
(iii)
a minimum debt service cover ratio of 1.25:1.
(i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance 
with International Accounting Standards, the operations and financial 
condition of PKSF.  PKSF shall have such records and accounts for each Fiscal 
Year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.  PKSF shall 
furnish to the Association in such scope and detail as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by the said auditors, including a limited scope management audit report, 
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such Fiscal Year.  Such report shall include the auditor’s opinions 
on, inter alia, the quality of PKSF’s general accounting practices, adequacy 
of the Management Information System (MIS) and the internal audit/control 
system, adequacy of loan classification and provisioning policies, accuracy of 
loan recovery rates and overdues, the accuracy of the periodic reports 
Page  11
submitted pursuant to paragraph (m) of this Part, and compliance with the 
provisions of this Part A.
(j)
provide to the Association all information, statements and reports 
in respect of the Subsidiary Loan and Subsidiary Grant, Sub-loans and 
Microcredits as the Association shall reasonably request.
(k)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory 
to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
(l)
provide to the Association quarterly and annual reports on the 
progress of carrying out the Project and include in these reports, inter alia, 
information on agreed project performance indicators.
(m)
provide to the Association periodic reports indicating the 
aggregate amount of financing provided to POs during such period based on the 
reports provided by POs pursuant to paragraph 2 (l) of Part B of this 
Schedule, the sources of such financing and the amount to be financed as 
Sub-loans from the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan.
(n)
carry out with the Association a mid term review of the Project by 
December 31, 2002, and duly take into account the comments offered by the 
Association in the further implementation of the Project.
(o)
have its right to the use of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan 
and Subsidiary Grant suspended or terminated upon:
(i)
failure by PKSF to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement, or upon notice by 
the 
Association to the Borrower that it intends to 
exercise any of its 
remedies under Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of 
the General Conditions; 
or
(ii)
upon notice by PKSF that it intends to terminate the 
Subsidiary 
Loan and Grant Agreement, or upon the actual 
termination of the 
Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement, 
whichever occurs first.
2.
Each request by the Borrower or on behalf of the Borrower for 
authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit Account for onlending the 
proceeds thereof to PKSF as a Subsidiary Loan shall be based on the reports 
required to be provided by PKSF and POs pursuant to the provisions of Part A.1 
(m) and Part B.2 (l) respectively, of this Schedule, and contain a summary 
description of such reports and such other information as the Association 
shall request.
Part B:
Sub-loans
1.
PKSF shall utilize the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to make Sub-loans 
to POs that meet and maintain the following eligibility criteria:
(a)
Big Partner Organizations (BPOs):
(i)
the PO’s Governing Body and its management carry out a 
review of 
the PO’s annual business plan;
(ii)
the PO has operated a successful Microcredit program for a 
minimum 
of 5 years;
(iii)
a minimum cumulative loan recovery rate of 95%;
(iv)
a loan collection ratio of 92-100% on current dues on a 
running 12 
month basis;
Page  12
(v)
the PO has at least 100,000 borrowers with a strong 
potential for 
expansion;
(vi)
the PO has at least Tk100 million of its own equity 
(including 
foreign grants, and surplus);
(vii)
the PO maintains the following ratios:
(A)
a maximum debt to capital ratio of 3.5:1;
(B)
a minimum liquidity ratio of 20% of short term 
liabilities, 
and a current ratio of 1.5:1;
(C)
a minimum capital adequacy ratio of 20% of total 
liabilities;
(D)
a minimum debt service cover ratio of 1.25:1; and 
(E)
a minimum rate of return on capital of 2%.
(viii)the PO maintains a strong and transparent accounting, 
internal 
audit and MIS; and 
(ix)
the PO has its accounts audited by an independent auditor 
acceptable to the Association and PKSF on an annual 
basis, in 
accordance with international accounting and 
auditing standards, 
confirming the compliance of the PO 
with the requirements of this 
Part B.1 (a) and submits to 
PKSF such audit report, including a 
limited scope 
management audit report as soon as available, but no 
later than 
six months after each fiscal year.
(b)
Medium Partner Organizations (MPOs):
(i)
the PO has a demonstrated track record of running a 
successful 
Microcredit program, for a minimum of five 
years, or the potential 
to do so with the provision of 
technical assistance and capacity 
building, as determined 
by PKSF;
(ii)
the PO has at least Tk.2 million of its own equity 
(including 
foreign grants and surplus);
(iii)
a minimum cumulative loan recovery rate of 95%;
(iv)
a loan collection ratio of 92-100% on current dues on a 
running 12 
month basis;
(v)
the PO possesses adequate manpower for intensive 
supervision, and 
has a competent management committee; 
(vi)
the PO maintains the following ratios:
(A)
a minimum liquidity ratio of 25% of short term 
liabilities, 
and a current ratio of 2.0:1;
(B)
a minimum capital adequacy ratio of 15% of total 
liabilities 
for POs with more than 6,000 borrowers and 
10% of total 
liabilities for POs with up to 6000 
borrowers;
(C)
a minimum debt service cover ratio of 1.25:1; and 
(D)
a minimum rate of return on capital of 1%.
Page  13
(vii)
the PO maintains procedures and records adequate to monitor 
the 
progress of the Sub-loan and reflect the operations 
and financial 
condition of the PO.  The PO shall have such 
records for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by 
an independent auditor 
acceptable to PKSF, confirming the 
PO’s compliance with the 
Requirements of this Part B.1 
(b).
(c)
Small Partner Organizations (SPOs):
(i)
the PO has a demonstrated track record of running a 
successful 
Microcredit program, or demonstrates the 
potential to do so after 
provision of technical assistance 
and capacity building, as 
determined by PKSF;
(ii)
a minimum membership of 400;
(iii)
a minimum cumulative loan recovery rate of 95%;
(iv)
a loan collection ratio of 92-100% on current dues on a 
running 12 
month basis;
(v)
the PO possesses adequate manpower for intensive 
supervision, and 
has a competent management committee; 
(vi)
the PO maintains the following ratios:
(A)
a minimum liquidity ratio of 25% of short term 
liabilities, 
and a current ratio of 2.0:1;
(B)
a minimum capital adequacy ratio of 15% of total 
liabilities 
for POs with more than 6,000 borrowers and 
10% of total 
liabilities for POs with up to 6000 
borrowers;
(C)
a minimum debt service cover ratio of 1.25:1; and 
(D)
a minimum rate of return on capital of 1%.
(vii)
the PO maintains procedures and records adequate to monitor 
the 
progress of the Sub-loan and reflect the operations 
and financial 
condition of the PO.  The PO shall have such 
records for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by 
an independent auditor 
acceptable to PKSF, confirming the 
PO’s compliance with the 
requirements of this Part 
B.1(c).
2.
PKSF shall enter into a Sub-loan Agreement with each PO for making 
Sub-loans and such Agreement shall, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, provide, inter alia, that:
(a)
PKSF shall make Sub-loans to the PO for purposes of financing 
Microcredit under the Project.  Such Sub-loans shall be denominated in Takas.  
Service charge payable on the principal amount of the Sub-loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time and the period of amortization shall be as 
follows:
(i)
SPOs and MPOs: a service charge of 4.5% with a maturity 
period of 
3 years; and
(ii)
BPOs: the service charge shall be 7% with a maturity of 4 
years.
Page  14
(b)
PKSF may revise the above service charges and maturities in 
consultation with the Association.
(c)
The PO declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
and shall conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management 
and in accordance with its Charter.
(d)
The PO shall establish and maintain satisfactory procedures and 
operational policies for supervision and monitoring of Microcredits so as to 
ensure the achievement of the objectives of the Project. 
(e)
The PO shall ensure that the proceeds of Sub-loans shall be 
utilized to finance Microcredits in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Part C of this Schedule.
(f)
The PO shall exercise its rights under each Sub-loan Agreement in 
such manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower, PKSF and the PO;
(ii)
comply with its obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement; 
and
(iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
(g)
The PO shall duly perform all its obligations under the Sub-loan 
Agreement. Except as PKSF shall otherwise agree, PO shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating 
or waiving the Sub-loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(h)
The PO shall, at the request of PKSF, exchange views with PKSF 
with regard to the performance of its obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Microcredit.
(i)
The PO shall promptly inform PKSF of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit or the performance by the PO of its obligations under the 
Sub-loan Agreement.
(j)
The PO shall: (i) maintain procedures, records and accounts, 
adequate to monitor the progress of PKSF financed microcredit and to reflect 
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of the PO; and (ii) ensure that such 
records and accounts are audited for each fiscal year in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association. 
(k)
The PO shall provide to PKSF all records, documents and 
information in respect of Sub-loans, Microcredit and other activities as PKSF 
shall request.
(l)
The PO shall provide to PKSF at regular intervals specified by 
PKSF reports indicating the aggregate amount of financing provided under its 
Microcredit program during such interval, the sources of such financing, and 
the amount to be financed as Microcredit from the proceeds of the Sub-loans.
(m)
The POs shall provide to PKSF their medium term business plan 
within the framework of which Sub-loans shall be made.
(n)
PKSF shall suspend or terminate the right of the PO to use the 
proceeds of Sub-loans upon:
(i)
failure by such PO to perform its obligations under the 
Sub-loan 
Agreement, or upon notice by the Association to 
Page  15
the Borrower that 
it intends to exercise any of its remedies 
under Sections 6.02 and 
7.01 of the General Conditions; or
(ii)
upon notice by the PO that it intends to terminate the 
Sub-loan 
Agreement, or upon the actual termination of the 
Sub-loan 
Agreement, whichever occurs first.
Part C:
Microcredit
(a)
General:
1.
The PO shall enter into an Agreement with each Beneficiary, and ensure 
that the proceeds of Sub-loans are utilized to finance Microcredit to 
Beneficiaries for Eligible Activities.
2.
Microcredit shall be denominated in Takas. The interest rate on 
Microcredit and their maturity, as well as other terms and conditions and 
procedures shall be determined by the PO in consultation with PKSF.
(b)
Beneficiaries under Part A, B, C and D of the Project:
1. Rural 
Microcredit:
Beneficiaries of Rural Credit lending under Part A of the Project shall 
meet the following eligibility criteria:
(i)
permanent resident of rural area; 
(ii)
possess arable land not exceeding half an acre;
(iii)
total assets do not exceed the value of one acre of arable 
land in 
his/her locality;
(iv)
member of a Savings Group organized and monitored by the PO 
directly; and
(v)
preference for membership extended to women.
2.
Urban Microcredit:
Beneficiaries of Urban Credit lending under Part B of the Project shall 
meet the following eligibility criteria:
(i)
people with no assets residing in urban or semi-urban areas 
with a 
monthly income of between Takas 4000 - 5000; 
(ii)
a resident of the locality for a minimum of three years; 
(iii)
permanent/temporary business in the locality, sound business 
expertise and a good track record in handling the 
previous loan; 
(iv)
preference for membership extended to women; and 
(v)
the target beneficiary cannot be a member of any other 
microfinance institutions and should not be receiving 
microcredit 
from any other institution.
3.
Hard Core Poor:
Beneficiaries of Hard Core Poor lending under Part C of the Project 
shall not be participants of other similar programs and shall meet any or all 
of the following eligibility criteria:
(i)
the eligibility criteria for Rural Microcredit as provided 
Page  16
in this 
Part C; 
(ii)
unemployed with no assets and source of income;
(iii)
female head of the family with many children; 
(iv)
dependent on temporary job; and
(v)
no homestead and works as home-help. 
4.
Microenterprise Lending:
Beneficiaries of Microenterprise lending under Part D of the Project 
shall meet the following eligibility criteria:
(i)
enterprising participant of the PO’s microcredit program for 
a 
minimum of three years, with a good loan repayment 
record;
(ii)
potential to expand existing income generating activities to 
full 
time employment creating enterprises; and
(iii)
an equity participation of at least 20% of the total 
investment in 
the expanded income generating activities.
