Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3457 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 30, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3457 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 2001, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation 
(PKSF as hereinafter defined) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the Credit provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to PKSF, as set 
forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
Page  2
set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Association and PKSF (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth 
below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are 
accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of 
Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, 
adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or 
for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the Bangladesh Bank established by the 
Borrower’s Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President’s Order No. 127 of 1972) for 
the purpose of carrying out the business of central banking;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means a person having a land holding or annual 
income below a threshold established by PKSF under its Statement of Policy (as 
hereinafter defined) or a Microentrepreneur (as hereinafter defined) to whom a 
PO (as hereinafter defined) has made or proposes to make a Microcredit (as 
hereinafter defined);
(c)
"Big Partner Organizations" (hereinafter "BPOs"), means large POs 
with more than 100,000 microcredit borrowers, and which meet the criteria set 
forth in Part B.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(d)
"BPO’s Governing Body" means the group of members appointed in 
accordance with the BPO’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, responsible 
for the overall policies and operations of the BPO;
(e)
"Eligible Activity" means income and employment generating 
activities, as specified by PKSF, to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing 
the proceeds of a Microcredit;
(f)
"Eligible Categories" means categories 1, 2 and 3, as set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(g)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for Microcredits, 
goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower beginning on 
July 1 of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the following calendar 
year;
(i)
"Guidelines for the Management of Microenterprise Environmental 
Health and Safety Risks" means the Guidelines for the management of 
environmental, health and safety risks of microenterprises, prepared by PKSF 
and approved by the Association, as amended from time to time by PKSF in 
consultation with the Association;
(j)
"Hard Core Poor" means a household whose diet provides less than 
1800 calories per person per day and/or members classified as vulnerable 
persons in society;
(k)
"Medium Partner Organizations" (hereinafter "MPOs") means POs 
which meet the criteria set forth in Part B.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement;
(l)
"Memorandum and Articles of Association" means the Memorandum and 
Articles of Association of PKSF as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(m)
"Microcredit" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PO to 
a Beneficiary for an Eligible Activity; 
(n)
"Microentrepreneur" means a Beneficiary receiving a Microcredit 
under Part D of the Project;
(o)
"Microenterprise" means an economically viable full-time 
employment generating entity as specified in PKSF’s Statement of Policy;
(p)
"NGO" means Non-Governmental Organization;
(q)
"NGO-MFI" means an NGO or a microfinance institution established 
in accordance with the laws of the Borrower for, inter alia, carrying out 
Microcredit programs;
(r)
"Operational Manual" of PKSF means the manual dated November 8, 
2000 setting out detailed lending procedures governing the implementation of 
the Project, as amended from time to time in consultation with the 
Association;
(s)
"PKSF" means the Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation, an apex financing 
institution registered as a private non-profit organization under the 
Borrower’s Companies Act, 1913, as amended;
(t) "PKSF’s Governing Body" means the group of seven members appointed 
in accordance with PKSF’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, responsible 
for the overall policies and operations of PKSF;
(u)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and PKSF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement;
(v)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(w)
"PO" means a partner organization of PKSF to which PKSF has made 
or proposes to make a sub-loan (as hereinafter defined); 
(x)
"Small Partner Organizations" (hereinafter "SPOs") means POs with 
Page  4
a minimum membership of 400, and which meet the criteria set forth in Part 
B.1(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(y)
"Special Account" means the Account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(z)
"Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending policy dated 
May 28, 1996 adopted and approved by the Governing Body of PKSF as amended 
prior to the date of this Agreement and reissued on November 14, 2000;
(aa)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by PKSF out of 
the proceeds of the Credit to a PO for financing a Microcredit; 
(bb)
"Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between 
PKSF and a PO providing for a Sub-loan;
(cc)
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit to PKSF for financing a Sub-loan 
pursuant  to the provisions of Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement; and 
"Subsidiary Grant" means the grant made available to PKSF by the Borrower for 
purposes of Part E of the Project;
(dd)
"Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and PKSF, pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of 
this Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of carrying out 
the Project; and
(ee)
"Taka" and "Tk" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred eighteen 
million, three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 118,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree to be paid) through 
PKSF to a PO on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a 
Microcredit to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for an 
Eligible Activity in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account 
is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each 
year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 
Page  5
2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time 
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2011 
and ending January 15, 2041. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on January 15, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the 
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay 
twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months 
or more after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of 
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount 
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in 
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic 
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested 
by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the 
schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of PKSF, or such person or persons 
as he shall appoint in writing, is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Development Credit Agreement, shall carry out the Project or cause PKSF to 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, environmental, financial, and microcredit 
practices, and shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable PKSF to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) relend part of the proceeds of the Credit 
to PKSF for purposes of providing Sub-loans to POs under Parts A, B, C and D 
of the Project; and (ii) provide part of the proceeds of the Credit as a grant 
to PKSF for purposes of Part E of the Project, all in accordance with the 
provisions of a Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and PKSF, containing the procedures, terms, conditions and 
implementation arrangements, approved by the Association which shall, except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, include (A) that interest shall be 
payable on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a simple interest rate of 1% per annum, the 
amortization period shall be 20 years with a grace period of 5 years for each 
disbursement from the proceeds of the Credit onlent to PKSF as a Subsidiary 
Loan, prepayment shall be permitted at any time without penalty, and the 
foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower; and (B) those set forth 
in Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall: (i) exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Loan and Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, 
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement or 
any provision thereof; and (ii) ensure that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Sub-loans and Microcredits will be made in accordance with 
the procedures and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement and the Operational Manual.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans 
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) shall be carried out by PKSF pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices records and separate accounts 
Page  7
reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the 
Association has 
received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case 
not later than six months after the end of each such 
year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management 
Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that:
(a)
PKSF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
PKSF shall have failed to implement the Program outlined in its 
Statement of Policy in a timely fashion and in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
(c)
The Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior approval of the 
Association.
(d)
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of PKSF shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the operations or financial conditions of PKSF or its ability to 
carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PKSF or for 
the suspension of its operations.
 (f)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Page  8
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that PKSF will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the 
meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and PKSF.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in 
the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
PKSF, and is legally binding upon PKSF in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PKSF and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and PKSF in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Secretary, the Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Joint Chief, Deputy 
Secretary, Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant Secretary, Senior Assistant Chief, 
Assistant Secretary, or the Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
(8802) 811-3088
For the Association:
Page  9
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Masihur Rahman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Frederick Temple
Country Director, Bangladesh
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
  (Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Microcredit
 102,630,000
90%
(2)
Goods
1,100,000
100% of foreign expendi-
tures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 70% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally 
(3)
Consultants’ services,
         2,820,000
100% 
Training and 
Study Tours
(4)
Unallocated
       11,750,000
TOTAL
118,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  10
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement; and (b) in respect of a Microcredit, unless the 
Microcredit has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 of the Project 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) 
Microcredits; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent; (iii) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for 
employment of individual consultants; and (iv) training and study tours, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a Special Account in 
Bangladesh Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the said Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex A to this Schedule 1 until the Association receives a request from the 
Borrower to make withdrawals on the basis of Project Management Reports; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of the request from the Borrower 
to make withdrawals on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; 
or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, 
Page  11
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant 
to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for 
the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditures or Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its 
sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made 
and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to 
the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $10,000,000, until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR 22,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the 
Page  12
aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the said Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at 
such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of 
each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
said Special Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all 
outstanding Special Commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Categories, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the said Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into 
the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the 
Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the 
amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the said 
Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) mainstream microfinance 
Page  13
through continued expansion of rural and urban microcredit and an increase in 
loan size; 
(ii) expand microcredit to Hard Core Poor and design innovative products for 
the microfinance market; (iii) extend microenterprise loans to 
microentrepreneurs; (iv) build the institutional capacity of PKSF and its POs; 
and (v) assist in the creation of an appropriate regulatory framework for 
MFI-NGOs so as to improve their accountability and integrate them into the 
financial market.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rural Microcredit
Provision of rural Microcredit financing through PKSF and Big, Medium 
and Small POs to the eligible Beneficiaries.
Part B:
Urban Microcredit
Provision of urban Microcredit financing through PKSF and Big, Medium 
and Small POs to the eligible Beneficiaries.
Part C:
Hard Core Poor 
1.
Provision of Microcredit financing to the Hard Core Poor through PKSF 
and Big, Medium and Small POs to the eligible Beneficiaries. 
2.
Strengthening of the internal capacity of PKSF and POs to address the 
needs of the Hard Core Poor through:
(a)
the establishment of a cell within PKSF with required additional 
staff members to implement Hard Core Poor Microcredit operations; and 
(b)
provision of training to POs on, inter alia, the maintenance of 
accounts, the processing of funding applications for the Hard Core Poor 
Microcredit program, and the operation of Management Information Systems 
(MIS).
Part D:
Microenterprise Lending
Provision of microcredit financing to microenterprises through PKSF and 
Big and Medium POs to the eligible Beneficiaries.
Part E:
Institutional Development
1.
Provision of technical assistance, training, domestic and international 
study tours, and goods, to strengthen the capacity of PKSF and POs to:
(i)
expand microfinance services; 
(ii)
broaden the range of financial services benefiting the poor; and
(iii)
improve the creditworthiness and sustainability of POs.
2.
Provision of technical assistance for the purpose of establishing a 
regulatory framework for the microfinance sector, and monitoring the 
performance of such sector.
*      *      *     *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
Page  14
