Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMCIAL USE ONLY
iZ ZCZ 2 2g- 'Z-D
lteport No. P-5347-BD
MEMORANDUM AhbIRECOMMENDATIQN
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TH.E
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSEDCREDIT.
U              - -OF SDR 31.3 NILLI.                                - 
TQ TH9 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
'iOU   -A  - --  ----- -           _
THIRD INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
*    .       ^         '        '   '       APRIL 9, 1991 
>~~~~~~~~~~~ i
' their offieIal dutes Its contants may'not otherwise be disclosed without World D.wik $Uth0orldatIn
-.V -         - T.i d'umn bu a                                           "eiice ditiuinadmyb  sdb  ecpet nyI h  efnac



V..                 -a                     /         -~~~~J    ,
CURIR,ENCY AND  -QUIY UNITS
(As of May. 1990)
Currency Unit     Taka (Tk)
Tk 1.00        = US$0.0292
US$1.00        a Tk 34.22
$ Crore Taka   = 10 million Taka
1 lakh Taka    -  100,000 Taka
hEIGHTS AND  I.A                  -       -
km   - kilometer (0.62 miles)
-. -c -.              m ~    imet'er (39.37 inches)  .     ..
*S  -  square kilometer (0.386 8q. miles)
'ton  - metric ton (2,204 lbs)
C~~~~~~~~~~ C
e                     MIBU Y U=                                   , a.,MI,ION
- BIWTh A    :n$f 4desh,luiand Witer Trasport Authority.
:IWTC  .   S Dang3ades4 .1alaid Water Transport Corporation
-    DOS  D.-   Department of ShipP$ii-
-SAP     * Enhanced Structurali A4ju%tment Facility
-.tNXDA  -  Finnish lnfternati6nal DeveXopment Auency
P-      --. - WPGrost!bDomeatic -i   tt.
I . .  XMF   . - 'Lnternatifnal Mone tar  Fund
: -     INT     I 1nlaUd W#ter- Trsnsport
J4F      *  Japan GranttFatil' ty ,  .     -                    .
*          = Non-Governmental Organization
SAF.        Structural Ad3ustment Facility          . - -
-" -                         July)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~June 30.
.a  . .  -     
, . ' . ' SJ - ' .. , ' : ^ - , . . t1 ' ' .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESI
THIRD INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumary
lrrorers                   The People's Republic of Bangladesh
Deneficiaries:             Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA)
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC)
Amounts                     SDR 31.3 million (US$45 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Tenns:            Government to onlend to BIWTA (US$35.5 million) and
BITTC (US$11.4 million) for 25 years, including a 5
year grace period on principal, at an interest rate
of 11.5 percent per annum, and these loans would
include both the proceeds of the IDA credit and the
Government's contribution. The remaining proceeds
of the credit would be provided as a grant to the
Department of Shipping (DOS).
Flnacing PlanS                                    Local      Foreign     Total
-((US$ million)-------
Government               6.1          --        6.1
BIWTA                    5.4          --        5.4
BIWTC                    2.0          --        2.0
Finland                   --         5.0        5.0
Japan                      --        0.7        0.7
IDA                      3.5        41.5       45.0
TOTAL                   17.0        47.2       64.2
Economlc Rate of Returns  About 26 percent on components for which benefits
were quantifiable, accounting for 71 percent of
project cost.
Staff AVpraisal Report:    Report No. 8815-3D
MOpss                       IBED Nos. 22359 and 22007
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only io the pw"wmmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World sank aU aorlzation.



MEMORAMDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEnVEOPHENT ASSOCIATION
TO TUE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
F'OR A
THIRD INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I  submit  for  your  approval,  the  following  memorandum  and
recommendation on a proposed development credit to Bangladesh for SDR 31.3
million (US$45.0 million equivalent). The proposed credit would be on standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity and would help finance improvement of the
existing inland waterway transport system. Government would onlend to Bangladesh
Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA) US$35.5 million, and to Bangladesh
Inland Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC) US$11.4 million for 25 years,
including a 5 year grace period on principal, at an interest rate of 11.5 percent
per annum. The project is expected to be cofinanced by grants from the Finnish
International Development Agency (FINNIDA) for Finnish larkkas 20 million (US$5.0
million equivalent), and from the Japan Grant Facility (JGF) for Yen 19.8 million
(US$0.t million equivalent).
PART Is COUNTRY POLICIES AND SWUZ GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Backzround
2.        With a per capita GNP of around US$180, Bangleiesh is one of the
poorest countries in the world. Efforts to reduce its widespread poverty have
been hampered by several physical and structural constraints. With a population
of 113 million in an area about the size of Greece, Bangladesh has a population
density of 800 persons per square kilometer, ten times that of Greece and three
times that of India.   This limits the agriculture sector's contribution to
raising incomes and absorbing the rapidly growing labor force. Although the land
is fertile, frequent floods and cyclones cause severe damage to Bangladesh's
limited infrastructure and make agricultural output subject to high variability.
Other than natural gas, Bangladesh has virtually no mineral resources or oil and
limited physical infrastructure. Its labor force lacks the education, health and
nutrition necessary to make the transition to faster industrial and export-led
growth. Its weak public administration, inefficient public enterprises and frail
financial system have limited the country's capacity to utilize available
resnurces efficiently, implement development projects and programs, and deliver
public services effectively.
3.        The economy is heavily dependent on foreign aid.  It has & low and
declining rate of national savings (4.8 percent of GDP during FY85-90) and high
foreign savings (6.8 percent).  Worker remittances account for over half of
national savings, which in turn finance less than half of total investment in the
economy. Export earnings cover only about 40 percent of the import bill and
public revenues finance only about half of public expenditures. The low level
of domestic revenue generation has constrained the financing of public investment
as well as operations and maintenance activities.



- 2 -
4.        Despite these constraints, Bangladesh made significant progress in the
early  to mid-1980s.    Sustained  stabilization  policies  [assisted by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the IDA] helped to reduce the external and
fiscal deficits from 10-12 percent of GVP in the early-1980s to about 7 percent
of GDP by the late 1980s, while inflation was brought down to 9 percent. Despite
the tight macroeconomic policies, real GDP increased by 4 percent annually
between FY81-87, mainly as a result of adjustment measures that increased the
efficiency of the agricultural and industrial sectors and promoted rapid export
growth.   Policies designed to promote exports and improve exchange rate
management helped to increase non-traditional exports by 20 percent per annum
during the 1980s. Policies were introduced to stimulate domestic production by
providing    incentive  prices  to farmers,  deregulating private  investment
sanctioning procedures, and denationalizing public enterprises. Development of
domestic commercial energy supplies, especially natural gas, increased rapidly,
enabling relatively high growth in the power and fertilizer sectors and
significant import cubstitution in petroleum products.
S. Recent Economic Developments
5.        The stabilization programs of the early to mid-1980s were successful
in correcting macroeconomic imbalances while allowing for steady economic growth.
However, several factors have threatened to limit Bangladesh's ability to raise
per capita incomes substantially. Gross investment d^clined from 16 percent of
GDP in FY81 to 12 percent in FY86, partly because public'investment projects in
most sectors were substantially underfunded and implementation was adversely
affected. At the same time, the financial sector became increasingly insolvent,
reflecting a rapid expansion of private sector credit and very poor performance
in loan recovery. Finally, the performance of public enterprises deteriorated
rapidly after FY82, due largely to a slowdown in the privatization program and
the limited autonomy given to public enterprises.
6.        To address  these and other structural problems,  the Government
undertook a program of structural reform that was supported by a three-year
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAP) covering the period FY87-89 as well as by
IDA adjustment-related lending.  Such lending included an industrial sector
credit, which supported trade liberalization, financial sector and public
enterprise reform and liberalized investment policies.  It also included an
energy sector credit, which supported energy pricing and demand management,
energy resource development and investment, and institutional performance and
development.   The structural reform program was successful in maintaining
macroeconomic balances and increasing international reserves to an all-time high
of US$1150 million by February 1989, equivalent to four months worth of imports.
However, real GDP growth during FY87-89 averaged only 3 percent annually while
the share of investment in GDP fell further.
7.        The decline in economic growth was in part attributable to two floods
and a cyclone which ravaged Bangladesh during FY87-89 and affected both the rice
and jute crops.   Income and employment losses associated with the lowered
agricultural output also contributed to weak domestic demand in the industrial
sector. At the same time, deficiencies in short-term economic management by the
Government contributed to the lower economic growth.  Overly cautious fiscal
management (reflected in substantial underspending below the credit ceilings-
agreed with the IMF) led to unnecessarily large cutbacks in public investment ir



- 3 -
both FY88 and FY89, exacerbating the depressive effects of the floods on the
economy. Many high priority donor-aided projects were stalled due to a lack of
local counterpart funds. This was partly caused by a shortfall in Government
revenue targets but also by the Government running unnecessarily a net financial
surplus with the domestic banking system during FY88 and FY89. In addition, many
of the scarce local funds were used to finance lower priority Government projects
or grant excessive public wage increases rather than to complement donor funds
for aided projects. These factors set back the modest poverty improvements that
occurred in the early to mid-1980s.
8.        On the positive side, the Government completed a major review of the
agricultural sector and began implementing policies (particularly the
liberalization of the distribution of minor irrigation equipment) which have had
a positive impact on agricultural production. In FY90, aided by good weather,
GDP grew at about 5.8 percent.   Despite this recovery, clear signs of a
potentially serious deterioration in the macroeconomic situation emerged in early
FY90. The fiscal and monetary situation weakened significantly as the Government
swung from an overly conservative to a highly expansionary stance. Tax revenues
fell about 10-12 percent below budget projections; current expenditures continued
to increase rapidly (due in part to large wage increases and higher subsidies),
constraining the public investment program through shortages of available local
funds; and credit expansion increased well in excess of agreed credit ceilings.
In addition, because the nominal exchange rate vis-a-vis the US dollar remained
unchanged between November 1988 and March 1990, the taka appreciated by about 10
percent in real terms. The expansionary pressures, coinciding with the recovery
in the economy and appreciation of the taka, also led to a surge in imports and
a drop in foreign exchange reserves to the equivalent of only 1.5 months of
imports.
9.        Recognizing this deterioration, the Government initiated a short-term
program in March 1990 to stabilize the economy, tightening fiscal and monetary
policy and resuming the policy of flexible exchange rate management. The short-
term stabilization program paved the way for the Government to successfully
negotiate an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) program in May 1990
with the IMF and a financial sector adjustment credit with IDA. In addition to
these short-term measures, the Government also initiated: (a) public expenditure
and investment rationalization; (b) implementation of tax reform, including the
introduction of the value added tax; (c) financial sector reform; and (d)
further trade liberalization.
10.       A mid-term donor review of the Government's ecoromic performance in
November 1990 concluded that the Government had made substantial progress in
stabilizing the short-term macroeconomic situation and had initiated a number of
important sectoral reforms. Under the stabilization program, the budget was
strengthened by revenue and expenditure measures, and the deficit contained to
the original target. Credit growth was curtailed significantly, and flexible
exchange rate management allowed export competitiveness to recover to essentially
the level prevailing in November 1988. The external current account deficit was
contained and gross official reserves recovered. Sound policy reforms were being
pursued in agriculture, industry and the financial sector (many of them supported
by IDA credits).    Substantial progress was made  in preparation  for the
introduction of a value added tax and needed price adjustments in many (but not
all) of the public enterprises were implemented. A number of important issues,
however, remained outstanding. While the FY91 budget was more realistic in its



revenue and expenditure forecasts, and included several important provisions to
contain public sector wage increases and restrain subsidies, the Government was
only beginning to come to grips with the difficult task of establishing sound and
realistic public expenditure and public investment programs. The Government also
needed to intensify its efforts in the areas of privatization, public enterprise
reforms, and local resource mobilization.
11.       Early into the ESAF program, Bangladesh was severely affected by the
Gulf crisis. In addition to facing a higher import bill for oil and petroleum
products, Bangladesh lost substantial worker remittances from Iraq and Kuwa-it as
well as export markets for jute and tea. It also had to incur costs associated
with the repatriation and rehabilitation of workers returning from the Gulf.
Preliminary evidence for FY91 points to a slowdown in domestic economic activity
caused both by the uncertainty in the Gulf as well as in the domestic political
situation, which led to the formation of an interim Government in December 1990,
and subsequent elections in February 1991 with the Bangladesh Nationsl Party
winning the largest share of the parliamentary seats. The uncertainties have led
to the postponement of many imports, with FY91 non-oil imports now projected to
decline in nominal dollars. Since Government revenues are highly dependent on
import taxes, the decline in imports is leading to substantial revenue losses to
the budget. At the same time, current expenditures increased because of higher
fuel costs as well as repatriation and rehabilitation costs for workers returning
from the Gulf and discretionary wage increases. The Government's response to the
Gulf crisis has been prompt, both in terms of increasing domestic petroleum
product prices (they were raised by an average of 85 percent) and in taking
measures to restrain current expenditures, while at the same time managing the
difficult task of repatriating displaced workers from Iraq and Kuwait. It has
also followed tight monetary policies in keeping with the original ESAF program
targets and has taken discretionary f ;cal measures to meet the revenue shortfall
while continuing with its structural reforms. As a result, all quantitative and
structural performance criteria under the ESAF program remain on track.
C. The Policy Pramework
12.       The central development issue in Bangladesh is to significantly reduce
poverty by increasing growth and employment opportunities. This is a formidable
task for a poor country where an estimated 30 percent of the population are rural
landless and over half the population have incomes below the poverty level. It
requires increasing economic growth from the less than 4 percent average achieved
during the past decade to 5 percent or more over the medium to longer term, and
generating employment in excess of one million person years per annum, compared
to the 600,000 achieved during the past decade.   Even with higher economic
growth, there would be a need to address specific longer-term social development
and poverty alleviation goals. These goals, which are discussed in Section F
below, are tot  (a) reduce population growth, (b) enhance the development of
human resources, (c) address environmental concerns, and (d) improve and expand
targeted assistance proprams for the poor. A special effort is needed to focus
on women, who continue to be relatively disadvantaged in terms of access to
health, education, and employment opportunities.



£xuand,ng the Rol. of the Private Sector
13.       Higher economic growth rstes will only be possible if there is an
increase in investment led by a more vibrant private sector. The Government has
initiated an extensive program of reforms to improve the economic, financial and
regulatory climate for the private sector. A program of trade liberalization,
including eliminating quantitative restrictions, is underwty. Perhaps the most
notable success thus far has been the removal of restrictions and duties on
imports and distribution of minor irrigation equipment, which provides the
dominant form of irrigation in Bangladesh.  This initial relaxation of trade
restrictions should be followed-up with a more comprehensive trade liberalization
program, as well as continued flexible exchange rate management. There also
needs to be substantial further progress in the reform program designed to
improve the financial climate for private investment and rationalize the
regulatory framework for industry. In the public enterprise sector, the Govern-
ment should extend its successful denationalization program.
14.       The  increased investment  levels that would result  from a more
efficient and unconstrained private sector need to be financed mainly by national
savings, although substantial reliance will still need to be placed on foreign
savings. Growth in private sector savings could be achieved through a revival
in household incomes and corporate profits, assisted by tax and financial sector
reforms. The financial sector reforms would facilitate the collection of overdue
loans and the recycling of funds by the banking system. Monetary and credit
policy should be directed at providing adequate credit to the private sector
while restraining the overall expansion of domestic credit to levels consistent
with the balance of payments and inflation objectives.
15.       In order to ensure that private sector investment is not crowded out
by the public sector, and to promote financial stability, the budget deficit will
need to be maintained at under 7 percent of GDP and will need to continue to be
financed primarily by external concessional aid. Higher public savings need to
be stimulated through implementation of a comprehensive tax reform, restraint on
current expenditures, better management of public expenditure, and measures to
improve the viability of public enterprises, including privatization where
justified.
16.       The Government has, as reflected in the Policy Framework Paper, fully
endorsed this strategy for encouraging the private sector to play a greater role
in increasing the productivity and growth of the Bangladesh economy. Further
details of this approach are provided in the next section.
D. Stimulating the Productive Sectors
Agricultural Policies
17.       The Government's objective is to raise the agricultural growth rate
to 3.5-4.0 percent annually over the medium term.   To achieve this, the
Government intends to rely on increased investment in minor irrigation and
increased use of improved seeds and fertilizer. These are considered the key to
higher cropping intensities and greater use of high-yielding variety seeds. The
Government removed all restrictions on the importation, distribution and siting
of low horsepower irrigation equipment and power tillers in 1988 and exempted



them from duties and taxes. These measures greatly contributed to the record
FY90 harvest and to the continued agricultural growth projected for FY91. The
Government intends to continue with these reforms by developing a time-phased
package of policy and institutional reforms to support several planned investment
operations outlined in the Fourth Five Year Plan, including increased investment
in minor irrigation, expanded drainage and flood control, intensified command
area development, improved research and extension services, and strengthened
delivery system for credit and input distribution.   Better transportation
infrastructure is also important to improve farmers' access to major markets.
28.       As Bangladesh approaches self-sufficiency in rice production, the
Government needs to reexamine its food policies. IDA is presently preparing a
food policy paper to assist the Government in this effort. Among the policies
being examined are those that would bring domestic rice prices into line with the
long-run trend in world prices. This would involves (a) further liberalization
of input markets, which has already reduced production costs substantially;
(b) continued flexible exchange rate policy in conjunction with further trade
liberalization; and (c) allowing market forces to have a greater influence on
output/input prices. An export-oriented strategy may produce an efficient rice
sector, thereby lowering prices to consumers. There appears to be a reduced need
for direct Government interventions to stabilize prices. The private sector,
through an increased role in the storage, trade and transport of foodgrains, may
achieve this objective at lower cost, if necessary assisted by a public sector
import/export stabilization fund to buffer the country against short-run
fluctuation in world markets.   It would also need to improve the public
distribution system so as to better target the poor and improve the efficiency
of food operations.   This requires substantial reforms in the budgeting and
accounting system for food operations. Additional efficiency gains could also
be achieved by introducing more competitive bidding for public sector foodgrain
import, improved internal transport (addressed in part by this project), better
lightering of ships at Chittagong port, and rationalizing public foodgrain
storage facilities and the movement of stocks.
Industrial aud Trade Policies
19.       While economic growth in Bangladesh will continue to rely primarily
on agriculture in the medium-term, fundamental constraints on land availability
will limit the sector's ability to employ an increasing number of the growing
labor force. Economic diversification, relying primarily on private sector-led
industrial development, is essential to create non-farm employment and incomes
for the rapidly growing labor force. Given the limited scale of the domestic
market due to widespread poverty and the need to strengthen the balance of
payments, industrial growth will be based on export-oriented investment
activities in addition to efficient import substitution. Such a strategy would
require, in addition to continued flexible exchange rate management and
improvement in the macroeconomic environment, an improved regulatory framework,
continued rationalization of the trade regime, and an improvement in the
operation of industrial public enterprises.
20.       To facilitate private investment the Government has recently increased
the sanctioning limits of financial institutions to US$2.5 million and within
this limit provided equal treatment to domestic and foreign investments. It also
updated guidelines on foreign private investment, which are expected to make an
important contribution to raising domestic capital formation. It now needs to



(a) abolish or substantially raise the sanctioning limits further, (b) eliminate
the list of discouraged industries for investment, (c) phase out the use of
import passbooks for all goods other than those which remain on the controlled
list, and (d) implement the recently endorsed reforms proposed by the Foreign
Investment Advisory Service relatir.g to the board of Investment
21.       To rationalize the trade regime, the Government is discussing with IDA
a trade liberalization program.  Key aspects of the reform are to phase out ove.
the next few years all quantitative bans and restrictions on imports except those
required for reasons of religion, health, security, and for protecting a small
number of highly sensitive items.  To assint importers, the two liits of banned
and restricted items were combined into a single list and procedures were relaxed
for the authorization of letters of credit.   The Government  is further
rationalizing the tariff structure. With the exception of twelve luxury goods,
the highest tariff levels were recently lowered to 100 percent and would be
lowered to 75 percent at the next stage. The granting of special concessions on
customs duties and taxes to particular terms and/or products is being strictly
controlled. In this regard, the Government recently removed concessionary import
duty rates for machinery and equipment as well as the automatic right of public
enterprises for concessionary rates.
22.       To stimulate exports, the Government intends to remove all import
restrictions on items needed by exporters (except for potentially hazardous
materials), extend the special bonded warehouse facility to all exporting
sectors, including domestic firms producing for exporters, and ensure that the
agency responsible for drawbacks is properly staffed, given greater operating
autonomy, and works with private sector exporters in developing its policies.
As the envisaged structural and macroeconomic policies are implemented under the
adjustment program, the Government intends to remove the recently introduced
export subsidies on an accelerated schedule.
23.       Because non-financial public enterprises play a significant role in
the country's industrial development, their generally poor performance and excess
capacity have stifled industrial growth and drained budgetary resources. Thus
efforts to reform selected public enterprises and proceed with privatization of
potentially viable enterprises should be maintained. The most critical of these
are firms in the jute sector. With appropriate policies, jute could continue to
play an important role in industrial exports, despite the continuing weak
external demand. The jute sector restructuring efforts now underway, therefore,
require urgent support.   Past efforts which focused mainly on the liquidity
problems of the public and private mills by introducing large export subsidies
are being replaced by a program which includes phasing out of excess production
capacity and labor in the existing mills, modernization and rehabilitation
investments in viable public and private sector mills, as well as financial,
organizational and managerial restructuring.
Financial Sector Reforms
24.       The rapid growth of the financial system and the overly expansionary
credit policy pursued by the Government in the mid-eighties without due regard
to enforcement of loan recoveries reduced the effectiveness of the financial
sector.   In addition,  the administered interest rate structure virtually
eliminated price competition and made priority sector lending and the
mobilization of term deposits commercially unattractive.   Recognizing these



- 8 -
serious deficiencies, the Government has begun a series of financial sector
reforms (with IDA support) which seeks to enhance financial sector efficiency
through greater reliance on market competition. reduction in direct Government
intervention, interest rate liberalization, strengthening of the nationalized
commercial banks and an improved legal framework for debt recovery.   The
Government has moved to a more market oriented approach to interest rate
determination; discontinued providing subsidized refinancing facilities by
replacing them with a more general rediscount facility; through the Bangladesh
Bank, imposed new regulations with respect to scheduled bank accounting policies
for provisioning of bad debt and suspension of interest; and instituted financial
courts designed to improve debt recovery.
25.       The Government also intends to strengthen reforms in debt recovery,
loan classification, bank supervision, and financial restructuring of the
natAonalized commercial banks.  Additionally, it proposes to establish open
market monetary operations based on a Bangladesh Bank short-term security,
introduce changes in accounting procedures and pursue capital market development.
These reforms represent a major step forward in restoring the viability of the
financial sector. Recently, a framework was also established for extending these
reforms to cover the agricultural credit banks. The Government also needs to
introduce reforms in development finance institutions in view of their poor
performance and the critical role to be played by them in accelerating future
growth.
E. Improving the Management of Public Resources
Public Resource Mobilization
26.       The Government's strategy in this area is to improve the elasticity,
efficiency and progressivity of the tax system as well as to improve the pricing
of publicly provided goods and services. The move to a broader-based and more
elastic tax system will help to increase the ratio of public revenues to GDP from
9.2 percent of GDP in FY90 to 10.7 percent by FY93. Raising additional public
revenues will increase the rates of return on public sector activities by
allowing increased allocations for high priority operations and maintenance
activities as well as permitting smoother implementation of projects under
construction. The increased revenues are also expected to increase public saving
from -0.6 percent of GDP in FY90 to 1.7 percent by FY93.  Increasing public
saving will reduce the Government's dependence on domestic bank borrowing, making
-ore financial resources available for private sector investment.   A more
efficient and elastic tax system will also avoid the disruption to economic
activity caused by having to take ad hoc discretionary tax measures every year
to make up the revenue shortfall caused by an inelastic tax system.
27.       The lynch pin of the tax reform effort is the introduction of a value
added tax by July 1991. A manufacturer-cum-import level value added tax will
improve revenue elasticity and reduce distortions by replacing the sales tax on
imports as well as most excise taxes.   A number of other reforms are also
underway.   Changes in the income tax system aimed at increasing revenue and
equity were announced in the FY91 budget to become effective in FY92. Recent
improvements were also made in tax administration procedures and the Government
has  commissioned a study to review company  income taxation.    Given  its
importance, tax policy needs to be delined and implemented in a comprehensive



-9 -
framework as discussed in detail in the World Bank report, Bangladesh: An Agenda
for Tax Reform (Report No. 7196-BD, December 15, 1989).
28.       To improve efficiency and raise revenues, the Government is committed
to establishing prices for public goods and services on an economic basis. This
has resulted in recent price increases for natural gas and power, as well as
adjustments in air fares, bus and ferry tariffs, urban water supply tariffs and
petroleum product prices. Petroleum prices were raised in September and October
1990 by a total of 85 percent on average on the basis of a prevailing world price
of US$35 per barrel.  The Government now needs to continue to adjust prices for
public enterprise goods and services as well as strengthen the operating
efficiency and profitability of public corporations through physical and
financial restructuring to er7'nmpass, inter alia, productionr and employment
policies.   There is a criti    need to improve the finances of Bangladesh
Railways, the Bangladesh Powc 'evelopment Board, and the jute mills.
Public Expenditure Management
29.       The Planning Commission has begun to translate the policy objectives
of the Fourth Five Year Plan (FY91-95) into a prioritized three-year rolling
investment program for FY91-93 based on a smaller, more realistic projection of
resources than in previous exercises. The three-year rolling investment program
represents an improvement in the planning framework, as it provides a transparent
statement of the Government's future investment priorities and establishes a
quantitative framework within which the Government and donors can examine the
technical and financial implications of alternative investment decisions and
agree on a realistic and cost effective program. The program clearly represents
a serious and credible effort on the part of the Government to identify
substantial cost savings in the investment program. However, in the future, it
would be better to conduct regular reviews of the project portfolio, rather than
relying on infrequent and politically demanding pruning exercises.
30.       In view of the constraints on tax yields in the short term, efforts
to mobilize sav .Igs must be directed equally at the control of current
expenditures and at reducing the drain on public resources by the public
agencies. Recognizing this, the Government's Fourth Plan projects current
expenditures to increase by 5 percent annually in real terms compared to
9.2 percent during FY8S-89.  Essenrtal elements of a program to achieve this
prudent target need to: (a) restrain the salary component of the current budget
below the real growth of the economy by controlling wage increases and
implementing structural changes in the civil service to improve its productivity;
(b) reform the food distribution system to substantially reduce the subsidy; and
(c) reduce the fiscal drain from public enterprises by implementing appropriate
reforms (paragraph 28).
P. Addressing Social Development Concerns
Population
31.       Rapid population growth constitutes one of the most serious obstacles
to poverty alleviation efforts.   Since independence in 1971, Bangladesh's
population has increased by 35-40 million people. This increase has caused a
large expansion of the number of rural landless households and, through rapid



- 10 -
rural-urban migration, also caused an expansion in the number of urban poor.
Population growth has also over-stretched the social services and worsened the
impact of natural disasters on the environment through encroachment on marginal
lands.   Population growth is putting increased pressure on fuelwood.   The
reduction in fuelwood availability is also causing rural households to use
agricultural residues and animal dung as energy sources, which may be
contributing to soil depletions and reduced fodder availability for draft
animals.
32.       The Government has had an active family planning program since 1975.
The program has been successful in increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate
from 8 percent in 1975 to 31 percent in 1989 and in reducing the average number
of live births per female from 4.1 in 1975 to 3.4 in 1989.  This program is being
expanded, and made more effective by improving the linkages of family planning
to maternal and child health care activities in order to enhance parental
confidence in the survival of children already born. However, it is increasingly
recognized that programs aimed solely at the supply of family planning serrices
will not be sufficient to achieve the desired reduction in fertility. Greater
efforts are needed to promote the general status of women in society as well as
to extend facilities to the population in greatest need,  for example, by
including family planning in the primary and secondary school curriculum.
Human Resource Development
33.       Human resource development, measured in terms of literacy, health and
nutrition, is extremely low in Bangladesh.  The adult literacy rate (about 29
percent) is one of the lowest in the world, and primary and secondary school
enrollment  rates  (about  58  percent  and  27 percent,  respectively)  are
significantly  lower  than  in  in comparable  countries.    Child  and  adult
malnutrition is widespread, and there is a high incidence of diseases that can
be prevented through relatively simple interventions.  Programs to improve the
quality and coverage of basic services, particularly primary education and
primary health care, and reach disadvantaged groups such as women can have very
high benefits in terms of social and economic development.
34.       The Government is making efforts to expand services in these areas,
but progress has been hampered by financial constraints and by manpower and
institutional weaknesses. Public expenditures for human resource development
have remained at about 2.5 percent of GDP between FY81-90, which is well below
the amount required. Increases in funding have been provided by donor agencies,
but this effort has not been matched by the Government from its own revenues.
In recent years, funding problems have been exacerbated by decisions which
directed a large share of local funding into areas with relatively little impact
on the expansion of primary service (e.g., increases in Government stipends to
cover the cost of teachers' salaries in private secondary schools).  Greater
emphasis on cost containment and cost sharing is needed if the Government is to
meet its long-term objectives in these sectors.  While the Government is now
undertaking a new program to improve primary education, efforts will need to be
made to ensure that the proposed overall expansion in the education sector does
not compromise the commitment to higher quality primary education.



- 11 -
Environmental Issues
35.       The  floods  of 1987 and 1988,  and  the worldwide  concern about
environmental issues, have heightened interest in improving environmental manage-
ment in Bangladesh. In 1989 the Government created a Department of Environment
with a much wider mandate than the old Department of Environmental Pollution
Control from which it was created. Bangladesh has declared 1990 the Year of the
Environment and the 19909 the Decade of the Environment.  Studies by donors,
Government and non-governmental organizations (NGO0) have identified a wide range
of environmental issues, including depletion of forests and fisheries, water and
air pollution and biodiversity.   IDA is currently drafting an Environment
Strategy Paper which will review the available evidence on environmental
degradation in Bangladesh, and recommend a strategy for addressing the problems
that are identified.   Particular attention will be paid to forestry issues
(because of depletion of Bangladesh's forests and sources of biomass), industrial
and agricultural pollution control (because of the threat to water supplies and
fish), and biodiversity (because of Bangladesh's importance as a home to a range
of endangered species).   Flooding and flood management is also a particular
environmental concern, and IDA has agreed to take a lead role in coordinating
international action on flood management. IDA's Action Plan for Flood Control
was endorsed at a conference of donors in London in December 1989, and is now
being implemented by Government with the support of 15 donors, including IDA.
Targeted Assistance Programs
36.       In order to have a significant impact on poverty reduction, the
Government will need to make a conscious effort to ensure that public programs
reach the poor and provide goods and services, including credit, that will enable
the poor to enhance their income-earning capacity.  While programs with the
potential for addressing poverty (including education, health and family
planning, as well as income transfers such as subsidies and food distribution
programs) account for close to 40 percent of the total public expenditure
program, by and large the poor are under-represented in terms of direct
beneficiaries of the programs since many of the poor are not able to make full
use of available social services, including education.   Despite the rapid
increase in current expenditures in recent years, the social sectors and programs
that benefit the poor have remained underfunded because of inadequate prioritiza-
tion in the allocation of resources.   This indicates that the major issues
constraining the expansion of poverty-oriented programs are those associated with
the overall management of the public expenditure program; i.e., weak linkages
between Government policy statements and the actual allocation of budgetary
resources, poor implementation performance, and inadequate domestic resource
mobilization.
37.       To improve the effectiveness of existing programs, the Government
needs to improve the targeting of poverty-oriented programs so that they become
more efficient at reaching the poor, including poor women. Across the board
subsidy programs, such as those in agriculture, should be avoided in preference
to limited short-term support to small farmers. At the same time there is a
critical need to integrate women into mainstream development activities. Poverty
and cultural factors have combined to produce widespread discrimination against
women in terms of access to services, employment and income. To realize the full
economic potential of women, the Government needs to make efforts to attract and
retain females in primary schooling, increase their access to maternal and child



- 12 -
health services and family planning methods, and expand programs (with assistance
from NGOs) to provide women with training, income-earning activities and access
to credit.
G. External Financing Requirements
38.       Bangladesh can achieve a 5 percent growth rate over the medium term
if it follows the policies described above.   To support such growth and
particularly to finance the necessary investment levels, Bangladesh would
continue to rely on external assistance.   Total external aid commitments to
Bangladesh are now about US$2 billion a year, of which IDA's share is in the
range of 20-25 percent.   Bangladesh was the third largest recipient of net
transfers of official development assistance in 1988, following India and Egypt.
Even with improvements in public saving and in the share of domestic revenue to
GDP, Bangladesh will continue to face a saving/investment gap of just under 6.5
percent of GDP and a budget deficit of about the same amount (Schedule E). The
savings gap is mirrored in the balance of payments. Given that exports are only
two-fifths of imports and that jute prices and volumes are projected to stagnate,
the current account deficit is expected to remain at just under 6.5 percent of
GDP despite rapid growth of non-traditional exports. This implies that, allowing
for a build-up of reserves and amortization payments, aid flows (excluding short-
term financing and the IMF) would need to range from US$1.9 billion to US$2.3
billion over the next few years.
39.       The bulk of the required aid flows would come from disbursements from
Bangladesh's aid pipeline which stood close to US$5.6 billion at the beginning
of FY91.   The balance of resource requirements would need to come from new
commitments averaging US$2 billion to US$2.5 billion. Of this amount, almost 40
percent would need to come from food and commodity aid commitments, reflecting
Bangladesh's continued reliance on such types of aid for fiscal and balance of
payments support.
40.       Disbursements from the existing aid pipeline have been slowed because
of very long project completion times. This has been due to domestic resources
being spread too thinly, resulting in substantial underfunding of many
donor-financed projects which has, in turn, exacerbated other obstacles to
project implementation, such as procurement delays.   The disbursement ratio
increased significantly for most donors in FY90, but it is not yet clear whether
this heralds the beginning of a sustained long-term improvement in the underlying
trend.  Improved public resource management, as envisaged in the development
strategy, could help improve project implementation and facilitate a sustained
increase in disbursements from the existing aid pipeline.
41.       Bangladesh's  outstanding medium  and  long-term external  debt  is
expected to increase from US$10.3 billion at the end of FY90 to US$13.4 billion
by end FY93, equivalent to just under half of GDP. Because the bulk of the debt
is contracted at highly concessionary terms, the debt-service to GDP ratio is low
at 1.8 percent, while the debt-service ratio, excluding IW repurchases, is
manageable at 15.2 percent of current receipts.   Furthermore, these ratios
are projected to decline to 1.5 percent and 12 percent respectively by FY95,
reflecting projected healthy GDP and export growth (Schedule E).



- 13 -
B. The Bank Group's Assistance to Bangladesh
42.       Aid Coordination.  IDA has supported Bangladesh economic development
since independence in 1977, and is its largest donor. Aid coordination takes
place through the annual Paris Aid Group meetings, the Local Consultations Group,
and in special sector level and aid group coordination meetings. The Paris Aid
Group meeting provides the focus for our donor coordination activities, as it
serves as a forum for discussing broad policy issues with Government and donor
headquarters officials and for providing indications of future donor assistance.
The FY90 Aid Group meeting, for example, stressed donors concerns about the
economic outlook, and at the meeting the Government committed itself to an
*Action Program" of economic liberalization and improvements in budgetary and
public investment management; the Action Program was subsequently reviewed at a
special donor meeting in Dhaka in November 1990.
43.       The Local Consultations Group provides a forum for regular discussions
between Government and Dhaka-based donor representatives. Increasing use is also
being made of special aid group meetings and workshops for in-depth discussions
of substantive issues.
44.       IDA's  major  instrument  for  discussing  policy  issues  with  the
Government and other donors is the annual country ectmomic memorandum prepared
for the Paris Aid Group meeting. Recent major reports include ones on public
resource management, tax reform, women in development, and Government
expenditures on poverty. Ongoing and planned economic and sector work includes
studies of food policy, popu'ation, fisheries, the trade regime and external
competitiveness, the transport sector, and the jute and textile industries.
45.       IDA's country assistance strategy aims to help the Government achieve
faster economic growth in the medium term and a sustained reduction in the
country's overwhelming poverty. IDA will teed to continue to place emphasis on
supporting the productive sectors (agriculture and industry) through increased
private sector development, while maintaining support for family planning
(including female education), so that higher growth will lead to sustained
improvements in per capita incomes.   Human resource development is also an
important objective because of the poor quality of existing social services and
the need for investment in human capital to foster long-term growth. The special
circumstances of Bangladesh also require that IDA pay close attention to ensuring
that women and the poor are not by-passed by development, and targeted programs
and services will be an integral part of our program. The past four years have
demonstrated the high vulnerability of Bangladesh to natural disasters, and
environmental issues, including flood management, will have a high priority in
our assistance strategy. IDA will also continue to provide assistance for the
cost-effective expansion of energy and infrastructure networks.
46.       Lending Level and Composition.  As of March 31, 1991, cumulative Bank
Group commitments to Bangladesh totalled US$4976 million equivalent (net of
US$346 of cancellations). In FY89, total IDA commitments were US$423 million -for
four operations, while in FY90 US$540 million was committed for five operations.
IDA has approved 122 credits and one loan since Bangladesh became a member in
1972. The distribution of this lending to March 31, 1991 is given in Table 1
below.



. 14 -
Table Is Distribution of Lending to Bangladesh, 1972-1991
Cumulative Lending
Sector                          Amount     Proportion
(US$ million)     (Z)
Agriculture, Irrigation and Rural Development      1001.7            19
Power and Energy                                    965.8            18
Industry                                            804.5            1S
Education                                           400.8             8
Transportation and Telecommunications               374.5             7
Emergency Rehabilitation                            188.6             4
Urban Infrastructure                                141.7             3
Population and Health                               125.0             2
Technical Assistance                                 62.5             1
Adjustment and other Non-Project Credits           1257.3            23
Total                                              5322.4          100Z
During FY90, IDA gross disbursements to Bangladesh totalled US$457 million, while
debt-service payments of US$41 million were received (US$13 million for
amortization and US$28 in interest payments), resulting in a net transfer to
Bangladesh of US$416 million.
47.       For the FY91-95 period, the IDA lending program is planned at a level
of about US$400-500 million a year, with perhaps 15 percent in the form of
adjustment credits if the policy reform process is sustained.   While the
composition of IDA's future investment lending program depends on a number of
unknowns, including the development priorities of the new Government, we are
projecting that out of the total planned lending program 25 percent would be for
agriculture, irrigation and rural development, 20 percent for power and energy,
15 percent for transportation and telecommunications, 5 percent for industry and
finance (15 percent counting two planned adjustment credits), 10 percent for
population and health, 5 percent for education and technical assistance,,/ and
5 percent for urban infrastructure. This program, taken as a whole, supports a
comprehensive development strategy geared towards poverty alleviation.
1/ This relatively low percentage reflects the approval in FY90 of a US$160
million General Education Credit (equivalent to 7 percent of the planned
FY91-95 program).



- 15 -
48.       Bangladesh's large structural imbalance between export earnings and
import requirements and its low level of domestic savings means that it will
continue to need substantial fast-disbursin8 adluatment credits, even with
significant efforts to mobilize domestic resources and improve the utilization
of the project aid pipeline. IDA intends to support better fiscal management
through a Public Resourc2 Management Adjustment operation in FY92, which would
support improvements in public expenditure management, resource mobilization and
foreign aid utilization.  Follow-up adjustment operations are planned in the
industry and finance sectors.
49.       In IDA's lending program for Bangladesh support for agriculture has
been a priority as the agriculture sector dominates the economy and determines
the incomes and consumption levels of the vast majority of the very poor. IDA
has supported measures to increase food production bys augmenting the supply of
essential inputs such as irrigation equipment, fertilizer and improved seeds;
developing extension services, research programs and rural cooperatives;
providing agricultural credit; improving flood control, drainage and irrigation
infrastructure; and promoting input and output pricing policies that provide
better production incentives to farmers. IDA's lending program has also promoted
agricultural diversification through increased production of fish and forestry
products. IDA is continuing its support for the agriculture sector through four
agriculture credits planned for FY91-92, with the focus on greater private sector
participation in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. A third
forestry credit is also planned.
50.       IDA assistance to the industrial sector aims to enhance the sector's
capacity to contribute to a higher level of economic growth, provide productive
employment for a rapidly growing work force and improve the country's external
trade and payments position on a sustained basis.  IDA's involvement in the
industrial sector has included projects to increase fertilizer production,
rehabilitate the jute and textile industries, strengthen development finance
institutions and promote small-scale industries. An Industrial Sector Credit
(FY87) supported the first phase of the Government's program to liberalize
restrictions on imports and investments, and a second Industrial Sector Credit
*         is planned to continue this process.  The recently approved Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FY90) supports significant improvements in interest rate
policy, monetary policy, priority lending, central bank supervision and
*        regulation of banks, the operation of the nationalized commercial banks, debt
recovery and domestic capital markets. A second Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit is planned, as are an Industrial Investment Credit and a credit to support
small-scale industries.
51.       IDA lending in the energy sector has supported greater use of natural
gas as a substitute for imported oil, a rationalization of the supply of
petroleum products, conservation and more efficient energy use, and private
sector involvement in gas and oil exploration. IDA is also financing projects
to expand the country's power generation, transmission and distribution capabili-
ties and rural electrification system, as well as to reinforce/rehabilitate the
existing network. An FY89 Energy Sector Adjustment Credit supported improvements
in the organization and operation of public corporations responsible for gas and
power supply and addressed problems of investment planning, cost recovery, system
losses and revenue collection. IDA will continue to support the energy sector
through credits for liquefied petroleum gas and gas infrastructure development,



- 16 -
power plant and grid system rehabilitation, and a second power interconnector
across the Jamuna River.
52.       In the  transport  sector,  this  is  the  third credit  to  support
improvements in the inland water transport system. A number of credits have also
supported improvements in road transportation.  Bangladesh's road network is
extensive, but the roads are in poor condition and inadequately maintained.
A major problem is an excessive number of rural roads constructed to inadequate
standards (for example lacking bridges and culverts) under food-for-work
programs.  IDA's future transport lending will concentrate on supporting the
Government's program to rehabilitate deteriorated roads, improve maintenance
standards, and strengthen overall investment planning. IDA is also evaluating
the feasibility and justification for the first bridge over the Jamuna
(Brahmaputra) River, which will provide a road and power link between the
northwest and eastern regions.
53.       Facing an adult literacy rate of about 30 percent, IDA's lending
strategy in education focuses on primary education and vocational  skills
development. The FY90 General Education Project supports the national goals of
achieving universal primary education, reducing illiteracy, expanding access to
education and upgrading quality. Ongoing and proposed projects for vocational
and technical education promote the training of craftsmen, technicians and
engineers.
54.       To help alleviate the severe economic and social pressures created by
the extremely high and increasing population density, IDA and other donors aret
(a) assisting the Government in developing and implementing population, health
and nutrition policies; (b) supporting the family planning program and related
maternal-child health care services; and (c) funding basic health infrastructure
throughout Bangladesh. A fourth Population and Health Project, supported by IDA
and eleven other donors is expected to be presented to the Board shortly. With
Bangladesh's urban population expected to double (to 35-40 million) by the year
2000, IDA is (through current and planned credits) financing water and sanitation
improvements in Dhaka and Chittagong, as well as helping the Government address
the problem of providing low-cost shelter and infrastructure services to the
urban poor.
55.       IDA's lending program addresses a number of environmental issues.
Besides flood and cyclone protection projects, our past and planned lending
program includes projects in forestry, with support for mangrove reforestation
in the Sundarbans area as well as industrial forestry plantations, and fish
restocking. IDA-supported gas projects aim to promote greater household use of
gas as an alternative to scarce fuelvood and imported kerosene.   Energy
conservation is being addressed through pricing initiatives included in the
Energy Sector and Industrial Energy Efficiency credits. This credit will support
measures to reduce water pollution from dredging and other waterway operations.
Other components are likely to be introduced in IDA-supported projects once IDA's
environmental strategy paper has been discussed with the Government.
56.       Coordination with IMF.   IDA and the Fund have worked closely in
Bangladesh, with many overlapping missions and occasional participation in each
others' missions. The coordination has been especially close in connection with
preparation of four Policy Framework Papers in support of three successive
Structural Adjustment Facilities during FY87-89 and an ESAF operation for FY91-



- 17 -
93.   IDA has also coordinated with the Fund in developing IDA adjustment
operations in the financial and industrial sectors.
57.       Role  of  IFC.    The  IFC  has  been  actively  pursuing  investment
opportunities in the private sector. IFC's most recent investment in Bangladesh,
which financed the manufacture of glass products, was in 1990, and IFC currently
has an active pipeline of projects that it is pursuing.  The Foreign Investment
Advisory Service has initiated a program of technical assistance to improve the
structure and functioning of the Bangladesh Board of Investment so that it
operates to promote and facilitate private investment.
1. Summary Assessment
58.       Bangladesh's economic growth rate has fluctuated over the past few
years. Following an average real growth rate of about 4 percent in the early to
mid-eighties, GDP growth fell to under 3 percent in FY88-89 as a result of
natural disasters and deficiencies in short-term economic management. In FY90
growth rebounded to almost 6 percent, aided by good weather and by the
liberalization of agricultural sector policies. Fiscal and monetary management
were, however, deteriorating rapidly, and the Government introduced a
stabilization program in March 1990.  This paved the way for the successful
negotiation of an IMF ESAF program in May 1990, as well as a Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit with IDA.
59.       The  Government  has  made  good  progress  in  implementing  this
stabilization program. Nonetheless, some significant structural obstacles to
sustained faster growth remain. In fiscal management the Government has made a
sound start in prioritizing the public investment program and taking preliminary
steps towards improving public resource mobilization, but there is a need to
increase further the availability of resources for productive investments by
controlling current expenditures and reducing the losses of the public
enterprises. In agriculture the Government needs to continue with its highly
successful liberalization policy, and also to reexamine, in the face of a
successful expansion of foodgrain production, the framework underlying its
pricing, distribution and trade policies.   In industry the Government has
*        improved the climate for domestic and foreign private investment, but needs to
further encourage private sector-led development through rationalization of the
trade regime, continued flexible exchange rate management and reform of the
regulatory framework.  In the financial sector the Government has introduced
significant reforms--including interest rate liberalization, abolition of
subsidies on refinancing facilities, and an improved legal framework for debt
recovery--but these reforms need to be deepened and extended to the agricultural
credit banks and development finance institutions.
60.       Faster economic growth needs to be accompanied by policies which offer
the poor opportunities to acquire the assets to participate in the development
process.   In human resource development the Government needs to continue to
expand its very successful family planning program, as well as improving the
linkages of family planning to maternal and child health care; in education the
Government has started a new program to improve primary education, but needs to
ensure that the proposed overall expansion in the education sector does not
compromise  the commitment to higher quality primary education.   For the
environment, issues of forest depletion, flood management, pollution and



- 18 -
biodiversity need to be addressed. The targeting of poverty-oriented programs
needs to be improved, and more emphasis placed on production-oriented programs,
such as rural credit, which facilitate access to resources by the poor. Greater
efforts also need to be made to promote the general status of women in society
and to better integrate them into mainstream development activities.
New Government
61.       Following elections in February 1991, in which the Bangladesh National
Party won the largest number of seats, a new Government was formed on March 19,
1991. The platform of the new Government is broadly consistent with the policy
agenda summarized above.
PART Ili THE PROJECT
62.       The 1988 flood demonstrated the critical importance of inland water
transport (IWT) for Bangladesh. In the past, the IWT system has been accorded
a much lower priority than other transport modes even though it carries over a
third of total freight movements and around 20 percent of passenger movements in
the country. Recent budget allocations for this subsector have been less than
one percent of overall public investment and 10 percent of investment in
transport.  Government is now rethinking its strategy in light of experience
during the 1988 floods when IWT proved to be a reliable means of delivering
emergency assistance. More generally, the inland waterway system of Bangladesh
represents a valuable transport asset although its utilization has been poor and
vessel productivity is considerably lower than those in other comparator
countries. Due to inadequate channel maintenance, vital inland ports have silted
up. Training facilities established for inland deck personnel are now nearly
defunct with inadequate staff, inoperable equipment, and course materials which
are not responsive to the needs of the IWT industry. Probably one of the most
critical areas requiring attention is safety on the waterways. Over a five-year
period between 1984 and 1988, there were 56 passenger vessel accidents which
translates to a rate of almost one each month. Over 40 percent of these were
caused by overloading and another 40 percent by collisions.
63.       A Master Plan for the IWT sector has been prepared with technical
assistance from The Netherlands. In addition, IDA has carried out a number of
studies funded by the U.S. Trade and Development Program on vessel safety,
dredging, hydrographic surveys, training and institutional development. IDA also
conducted a study of the BIWTC fleet funded by the United Kingdom's Department
of Trade and Industry Trust Fund.  Out of these studies, the Government has
developed a priority investment program as a basis for the Government's Fourth
Five Year Plan (1991-1995) for the IWT sector. This project finances the core
program within the priority investment program.
64.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  IDA financed two modest operations in
1973 and 1977, respectively, in the IWT sector in Bangladesh. The first credit
(Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project, Credit 424-BD) provided US$4.1
million for spare parts and rehabilitation of an offshore oil terminal. The
second credit (Inland Water Transport II, Credit 735-BD) for US$5.0 million
included funding to develop an investment program for the sector. Both these
projects were completed satisfactorily though with some delay, and led to the



- 19 -
preparation of the proposed project. Both projects show that sustainability of
physical investment is fairly good when viewed from the perspective of economic
return on investment despite considerable delays in implementation, but that
institutional arrangements require strengthening.   7.n the recent past, IWT
agencies have had to rely on fragmented support from various donors whose limited
funding has not been able to respond adequately to the needs. As a result, no
comprehensive effort has evolved to develop the inland waterways.   IDA is
providing leadership in the donor community with its efforts to assist in
developing the least cost core investment program as a means of focussing donor
support.   The project is included in the draft Country Strategy Paper for
Bangladesh and in the Government's Three-Year Rolling Plan (Priority Investment
Program) for FY91-93, and IDA's involvement would strengthen institutional
capacity and address some of the more immediate problems caused by recent neglect
of this important transport subsector. The proposed project would pay particular
attention to institutional strengthening. Care has also been exercised to avoid
the implementation problems encountered in the past, primarily in the areas of
technical assistance and procurement, by requiring that critical elements of
technical assistance be in place by credit effectiveness, and by requiring the
creation of a Project Monitoring Unit at the ministry level to provide high level
oversight of project implementation.
65.       Project Objectives.   By financing the core program for 2WT, the
project would seek to ensure that the Government can address the essential
elements of its development strategy for the IWT sector. The objectives of this
development strategy ares   (a) improving waterway safety and environmental
controls; (b) increasing inland passenger transport capacity; (c) improving
capital asset utilization; (d) reducing inland water freight transport costs; (e)
improving country boat operations; (f) achieving financial viability of BIWTC;
and (g) improving institutional capacity for planning, policy formulation and
training of inland vessel operators.
66.       Project Description.  The project, to be implemented over an eight-
year period, includess (a) an institution-building component which would enhance
the capacities of (i) the Department of Shipping (DOS) to implement safety and
pollution control regulations, including environmental monitoring of dredging,
and to train inland vessel operators, (ii) the BIWTA to improve its planning
function and operations, and (iii) BIWTC to improve financial performance through
restructuring of its fleet, organization and personnel; (b) a vessel safety
improvement component which includes (i) implementation of minimum navigation
standards for day and night navigation on Class I and Class II waterways, and
(ii) upgrading of high frequency communications systems and establishment of 24-
hour distress frequency monitoring at Chittagong, Dhaka and Mongla; (c) an inland
ports and passenger facilities component to provide 100 launch landing pontoons
in rural areas; (d) a waterways development component which includes (i) dredging
to improve waterway access to the northeast and to Baghabari Port in the
northwest, (ii) hydrographic survey equipment, and (iii) support equipment to
improve productivity of BIWTA's existing dredging fleet; and (e) an inland fleet
development component which includes (i) technical assistance and procurement of
equipment to implement an agreed strategic plan for BIWTC, and (ii) establishment
of facilities to provide technical extension services to the country boat sector.



- 20 -
67.       Details of cost estimates and the financing plan are shown in Schedule
A. Amounts and methods of procurement and of disbursements, and the disbursement
schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key processing events and the
status of Bank Group operations in Bangladesh are given in Schedules C and D, and
appropriate maps are also provided. Key economic indicators and projections are
attached as Schedule E. The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 8815-BD, dated April 9,
1991, is being distributed separately.
68.       Agreed Actions.   The following agreements were reached with the
Governments  (a) all cargo tariffs in the IWT sector will be deregulated, BIWTA's
tariffs would be increased by 30 percent, and BIWTC will increase ferry tariffs
by 15 percent and passenger tariffs by an average of 25 percent (these tariff
increases were conditions of Board Presentation and have been fulfilled); (b)
BIWTC will implement a Strategic Plan which calls for reducing its fleet from
over 400 to under 150 vessels, reducing staffing from around 5,900 to 3,700 staff
by June 1993 through early retirement (1,000 staff) and redeployment (another
1,200 staff); it would also undertake an institutional development action plan
which includes organizational restructuring and establishment of five separate
profit centers with separate financial accounts to enable future privatization
or liquidation of specific business segments and institute financial reforms
including rescheduling of overdue long-term debt and convers4on of interest
arrears to equity; (c)  BIWTA vould implement (i) an operations iUprovement
action plan to increase output of its dredging fleet and increase hydrographic
survey output to cover 90 percent of requirements by the year 1995; (ii) an
institutional development action plan which includes establishment of a Dredging
Unit and transfer of regulatory and training functions to DOS; and (iii)
financial reforms including rescheduling of outstanding long-term debt; and (d)
DOS would implement an institutional development action plan which includes
establishment of an Inland Ship Safety Administration. In order for the three
agencies to undertake these agreed actions, the Government has agreed to provide
necessary allocations in the revenue budget for increased maintenance dredging
by BIWTA and for the expanded activities of DOS in the area of safety regulation
and enforcement.
69.       Kuvirormental Aspects.  An environmental assessment funded by The
Netherlands Trust Fund was carried out in May 1989. Currently, there are few
measures in place to ensure that waterway development and operations do not
adversely impact on the environment. Under the project, DOS would (a) carry out
an environmental mapping to identify environmentally sensitive waterway
activities and users; (b) establish laboratory facilities for testing dredge
materials prior to disposal; and (c) carry out studies and develop implementing
regulations for protection of inland waters.   The Japan Grant Facility has
approved resources to carry out all of the above environmental actions within the
project.
70.       Project Benefits.  Benefits of the project are expected froms (a)
reductions in vessel casualties; (b) reductions in the unit costs of dredging;
(c) reductions in waterway transport costs on routes improved by dredging and by
upgrading of night navigation; (d) savings in vessel and passenger time and cargo
losses; and (e) improved environmental monitoring and control. Economic rates
of return have been computed for: navigational improvements (32Z); dredging works
and improvements (23Z); and rural pontoons (26Z). The overall rate of return for
the project is 26 percent on components for which benefits have been quantified
and these account for 71 percent of total project costs.



-21 -
71.       Risks.  Delays in project implementation, particularly with regard to
institutional, financial and operational improvement action plans, are the main
project risks.   To address this, the Government has established a Project
Monitoring Unit within the Ministry of Shipping, to be supported with consultant
services, to ensure that project implementation receives attention at the highest
level and is well coordinated.
72.       Recommndation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 9, 1991



, 22 -
Schedule A
BANGLADE8E
THIRD INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs
Cost
Project Component                          Local     Foreign      Total
----- (US$ million)-------
Dredging                                        --         3.0        3.0
Aids-to-Navigation                             1.4         5.4         6.8
Inland Pontoons                                2.0         5.5        7.5
Equipment                                      1.9        17.2       19.1
Project Support Tech. Assistance               0.4         2.0        2.4
Capacity Building Tech. Assistance             0.6         3.5        4.1
Base Cost a/                                   6.3        36.6       42.9
Physical Contingencies                         0.6         3.6        4.2
Price Contingencies                            1.3         7.0        8.3
Subtotal Total Contingencies                   1.9        10.6       12.5
Project Costs                                  8.2        47.2       55.4
Taxes and Customs Duties                       8.8          --        8.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           17.0        47.2       64.2
a/  At June 1990 prices.
Finacing Plan
Amount
Financier                                  Local     Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)-
Government                                     6.1          --        6.1
BIWTA                                          5.4          --        5.4
BIWTC                                          2.0          --        2.0
Finland (FINNIDA)                               --         5.0        5.0
Japan (JGF)                                     --         0.7        0.7
IDA                                            3.5        41.5       45.0
TOTAL                                         17.0        47.2       64.2



- 23 -                            Schedule I
BANGLADBSH
THIRD INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Procurement Method and Disbursements
Procurwment
Procurement Method
ICB       LCB         Other        Total Cost
ProJect Component                  --------___--US$ million--
Part A
Dredging works                    --         --          3.8            3.8
(3.8)         (3.8)
Parts B & C
Single responsibility           21.0        --            --          21.0
contracts for Aids-to-         (15.8)                                 (15.8)
Navigation and
Inland Pontoons
Part D
Equipment                       24.4       1.0           5.0           30.4
(17.6)     (1.0)         (5.0)        (23.6)
Part _
Technical Assistance              --        --           9.0            9.0
-(1.8)
TOTAL                           45.4       1.0          17.8           64.2
(33.4)     (1.0)        (10.6)        (45.0)
Note: All figures include physical and price contingencies, and taxes and
customs duties. Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounfts
financed by the Association.
Disbursements
Category 1/                  Amount          Proportion of Expenditures
(US$ million)              Financed
Category 1 - Part A                   3.9          30X of total cost
Category 2 - Parts B and C           15.7          75Z of total cost
Category 3 - Part D                  23.6       t 100% of foreign expenditure
t 100? of local ex-factory
[ 78% of other locally procured
Category 4 - Part E                   1.8          100X of total cost
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
92      93      94      95       96      97      98    99
-____---___----(US$ million)------------------------
Annual             1.3     5.7     4.7      7.2     9.0     6.3    8.1   2.7
Cumulative        1.3      7.0    11.7    18.9    27.9    34.2   42.3  45.0
.1/ A description of the categories is shown in the Procurement Table above.



- 24 -
Schedule C
BANGLADESH
THIRD INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:             30 months
(b)  Prepared by:                       The Government of Bangladesh with funding from
U.S. Trade and Development Program, U.K.
Department  of  Trade  and  Industry,  and
Netherlands Trust Funds, and by the World Bank
as executing agency.
(c)  First IDA missiont                 October 1988
(d)  Appraisal mission departuret       March 1990
(e)  Negotiationst                      February 1991
(f)  Planned Date of Effectivenesss    August 31, 1991
(g)  List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:  PPAR # 4026 - Inland Water Transport,
Credit 424-BD, June 30,1982;
PCR  I 5778 - Second Inland Water Transport,
Credit 735-BD, June 28, 1985



- 25 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BAIMDESH
A. STATEMENT OF SA  LOANS A   IDA CREDM
(As of DOcembr 31, 1990)               Amount In US mlilon
(le  cancel lotions)
Credit No.        FY     Borrower                 Purpose                 Bank       IDA   Undiebursed
1 Loan and 64 credits have been fully disbursed                           56.9    2777.8
of which SECALs, SAL. and Program Credits a>
Cr. 0980-4D    1980     Bangladesh    Eighth Imports                                60.0
Cr. 1071-6D    1961     Bangladesh    Ninth lmport Program                          66.0
Cr. 1194-8D    1982     Bangladesh   Tenth I"ports Program                         100.0
Cr. 1300-S0    1983     Bangladesh    Eleventh Imports Program                     110.0
Cr. 1471-B0    1984     Bangladesh   Twelfth Imp-rte Program                       140.0
Cr. 1S04-60    1964      angladesh    Supplemet.. Assisance                         23.5
Cr. 166S-0     1986    BangIadesh    Thirteenth Imports Progra                     200.0
Cr. 1818-3     1967     BangIadesh   Industrial Sector Credit                      190.0
Cr. 1018-1-0   1989     Bangladesh   Industrial Soctor Credit                        2.5
Cr. 1999-60    1990     Bangladesh    Energy Soctor Adj. Creilt                    176.0
Cr. 1999-1-6   1980    Bangladesh    Energy Sector Adji. Crdit                       2.3
Sub-Total                                                                      1068.3
Cr. 121540     1982     Bangladeh    Agricultural Extenslon xa           .          20.5            4.3
Cr. 1247-6     1962     Bangladesh    Chittagong Port                               48.7           41.1
Cr. 1254-8     1982     Bangladesh   Ashugan] Power                                 92.0            5.6
Cr. 1287-0     1988     Bangladesh    Deep Tubemlla II                              36.2            2.9
Cr. 1821-0     1983     Bangladesh   Telecom.unlcatlone  III                        3S.0           13.7
Cr. 1349-60    1983    Bangladesh    PubWlc Administration                          10.4            2.8
Cr. 1384-D     198     6angladesh   Rural DOvelopment I                            656.5          18.1
Cr. F022-D     1904    Bangladesh   Textile DMI SU                                  22.0           28.0
Cr. 144040     1984    Bangladesh    Technical Asslstance V                         26.0           19.0
Cr. 1465-6     1984     Bangladesh    Agricultural Reserch U1                       17.2            9.6
Cr. 1487-60     1984    Bangladesh    BIDS S"mll Scheme                             41.5           82.4
Cr. 1477-0     1984    Bangladesh   Textil eo so                                    23.0           11.2
Cr. 149040    1984      Bangladesh    Technical Eduestlon                           31.8           10.4
Cr. 1674-8     1985    Bangladesh    Primary Education UI                           78.0           10.7
Cr. 1568-0     1985     Bangladesh    Second Cos Development                       110.0           79.6
Cr. 169140     1988    Bangladesh    Flood Control & Dralnage III                   4.0            40.9
Cr. 16838D     1986    Bangladesh   Rural Electrlficatlon II                        79.0           58.7
Cr. 16344D     1966     Bangladesh    Forestry XI                                   28.0           20.9
Cr. 164840     10S8     Bangladeh   Power Tranmission & C1st                        56.0           26.5
Cr. 164940     1906     Bangladesh    Population XII                                7.0            62.2
Cr. 161-B4     198S     Bangladesh    Shrimp Culture                                22.0           17.5
Cr. 113440     1987     Bangladesh    Dhaka WUA  II                                 80.0           20.6
Cr. 1749-DO    1987     Bangladesh    Refinery Modiflcation b LPG                   47.0           48.4
Cr. 1784-6D    1987    Ibngladeh    Flood Control & Drainage IV                     20.0           18.1
Cr. 182740     1967    Bangladesh    Road Rehab & MeaIntenane                      102.0           62.4
Cr. 18700      1988     Bangladesh   Sm Sc FCD A Irrigation II                      81.5           89.0
Cr. 193040    1938      Bangladesh   Urban Development I                            47.6           45.7
Cr. 1940-DO    1988     Bangladeh    Rural Roads & Markets                          62.8           47.6
Cr. 1942-      1088     Bangladesh   Industriol Enorgy Eff tIleney                  11.4           11.?
Cr. 2000-0     1980    Bangladesh    Export Developmnt                              25.0           24.0
Cr. 2016-B     1989    Bangladesh   Power Distribution (16 Towns)                   87.0           67.0
Cr. 204840     1989     Bangladesh   Flood Rohabilltation  tI      '               183.6           06.6
Cr. 2099-B0    1990    Bangladesh    8ID6 Systm Rehab                               58.9           58.0
Cr. 211-DO    1990      Bangladesh    Genral Education                            169.8          169.3
Cr. 2129-80 b>  1990    Bngla  desh   Rural Electrifiastion III                    106.0          1111.
Cr. 2146-0     1990    Bangladesh    Fisheries III                                  44.6           4C.8
eCr. 212-60     1990    Bangladesh    Financtil Sector Adjust. Credtt               175.0          114.5
sCr. 212-90     1991     Bangladesh   Financial Sctor Adjust. Credit                  8.5           8.S
tO"al                                                   56.9    4930.6 t>        1520.9 c>
of which has ben repaid                                12.2       57.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                           44.7    4873.2
Amount sold        0.4
Of whlch repaid   0.4             Total Undlsbursed               1521.1
a) Approved during or after FY80.
b) Not et effective.
c) The principal amounts of IDA credits are shown In US Dollar oqulvalent at date of negoctations,
as shown In the President's Report. Undisbursed mounts shown tn US Dollar equivalent are valued
at the exchange rate applicable an the date of this statent. In same caes, therefore, the
undlsbursed blanceo lndicates a doliar amount grter than the origlnol prineipal credit
amount expresed In dcllars.
SAL, SECAL or Proram Loan.



- 26 -
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMDNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1990)
Investment    Fiscal                                     Type of              Loan    Equity    Total
Number        Year            Obliaor                   Businoon                  (USN MIIlIon)
139          1969     Karnaful I Paper MllN Ltd.       Pulp and Paper        5.80    0.68      6.23
468          1979     Highapeed Shipbuilding and
Heavy Engineering Co. Ltd.       Shipbuilding         1.20    0.36       1.56
528          1960     Industrlal Promotion and
DOvelopment Company of
Bangladesh, Ltd.                 DFC                  0.00    1.05       1.06
786          1975     Industrial Development
Loesing Company of               Money and Capital
Bangladesh                       Markete              3.02    0.16       3.18
767/         1986/   Beat Shoo Comp ny
857          66       (Bangladesh) Ltd.                Shoes                 4.46    0.61      4.97
Total ross Comitments                                          14.28    2.71      18.99
Loee caneellation., termintions,
rpayment and sales                                             10.00    0.99      10.99
Total Commitments now hold by 2FC                               4.42    1.72       6.14
Total Undisbursed (includinj
artiTnont' portion)        -                                             0.07      0.07



Key Economic Indiceotrs and Projections
(in percent unless otherwise noted)
FY      FY       FY       FY       FT       FY       FY       fT       FT
1987    1968    1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1995
-Actual                Est.               Projection
GDP Growth Rate                    4.2      2.9     2.6      5.7      8.8      4.6      4.7     5.0      S.0
GDP/Capita Growth Rate             1.8      0.5     0.1      8.3      1.3      2.3      2.4     2.8      2.8
Consumption/Cap Growth Rate        1.7     0.9      1.1      2.7      1.6      2.2      1.9     2.2      2.2
GOP deflator                      11.0      7.6      7.7     7.8      9.0      8.S      8.0     7.0      0.s
Aid Disbursements                 1596    1640    1669    1S10    1758    1994    2078    2240    2270
Total DOD (in S m) 1/             8871    9624    9881   10260   11198   12808   18405   14442   15464
DODJGDP                           47.6    50.1    48.4    46.0    48.8    47.8    48.2    48.5    48.4
Dobt Service (in 8 m) 2/           804      872     867      411      392      404      488     463      478
Debt Service/IGS 8/               10.0    10.8      9.4      9.S      9.0      8.8     8.5      8.2      7.9
Debb Service Ratio 4/             14.7       1S    14.8    16.2    18.7    18.0    12.9    12.4    11.9
Debt Service/GOP                   1.7      1.9     1.8      1.8      1.8      1.8      1.6     1.6      1.5
Gross Investment/GOP              12.0    11.0    10.7    10.7    10.8    11.2    11.7    12.2    12.8
Domestic Savings/GOP               3.1      2.4     0.4      0.9      2.2      2.5      2.9     8.4      8.8
National Savings/GDP               6.8      5.8     4.0      8.9      4.6      5.0      6.6     6.9      6.8
Marginal National Savings Rate    15.7    -1.0   -18.7       8.5    24.2    12.9    16.0    15.0    15.2
Public Investment/GOP              8.8      5.6     5.7      5.1      4.8      6.2     6.S      6.8      5.7                 X
Public Savings/GOP 5/              1.2     0.8      1.0      0.8      0.2      0.9      1.7     2.1      2.3
Private Investment/GOP             S.7     8.0      4.9      S.6      6.8      8.0     6.2      6.6      6.9                 -
Private Savings/GOP 6/             6.4      S.0     8.0      8.8      4.4      4.1      8.8     8.8      4.0
Ratio of Pub/Pvt Investment      110.6   98.8   118.8    91.1    82.8    88.7    88.7    84.8    82.8
Government Revenues/GOP            8.9     8.9      9.6      9.i      9.7    10.2    10.7    11.0    11.3
Government Expenditures/GOP       17.8    16.1    18.7    18.8    16.4    16.8    17.2    17.7    18.0
Deficit (-) or Surplus (+)/P      -8.4    -7.2    -7.2    -7.8    -8.7    -8.8    -8.S    -8.7    -8.7
Export Volume Growth Rate         22.5      7.2     9.0      5.8      S.2      7.S     7.8      7.9      8.2
Exports/GDP                        6.1     8.4      8.8      S.7      6.9      7.0     7.1      7.8      7.8
Import Volum  Growth Rate         10.1    14.8      2.2      2.4    -8.7       8.8     6.8      6.1      5.8
Imports/GP                        14.9    15.8    18.4    16.6    15.7    1S.8    18.0    16.3    16.8
Current Account (in I m)          -968   -1111   -1878   -1641   -1488   -1816   -1726   -1886   -2089
Current Account/GDP               -5.S    -S.8    -8.7    -8.8    -8.2    -6.2    -8.2    -8.8    -8.4
Terms of Trade Index (FY90=100)  loS.)   112.8    99.8   100.0    99.9   100.4   100.8    99.5    98.5
1/ Debt outstanding and disbursed.
2/ Excludes IMF repurchases.
8/ Iports of goods and services.
4/ As a proportion of exports of goods, services and current transfers.
S/ These are 'national' not 'domestic' savings.
Source: Ministry of Finance, Bangladesh Bank, and Staff estimates.                                                        IN



WR 22359R
BANGLADESH
THIRD INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PASSENGER AND FREIGHT MOVEMENTS ON TRANSPORT NETWORK
PASSENGERS                                                                                        FREIGHT
'SUPpies and demands are based en a apanese                                                       Suplies and demands and mndel split parametes
study and papubtien dae. Medal spli param                                                         are basd on Intermohdl Transport Study.
*mee calilratad irem infnrmation in te Intermodal
Transport Study.
}    l   \   til   9  @   %   PERSOlNS PER DAY:  }    e <   t           v -    %               METRIC TONS PER DAY:
O                                                                                                  3ROAD GAUGE RAIL  -O  G
F  ~  ~ ~        -    MER GAUGE RAILM    GUERI
-    IwWAy TRANSPORT                                           HGHWAY TST
WATER TRANSPORTWAETRNPT
FERRRYCCROSSINGS
.-=;'S'=_                         \'t                                                                                                \;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJL19



BANGLADESH
THIRD INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM
DMRAM    ND  PAOE                       \T -PM  REOGING  UNDER PROJEa
WATERW  ROUTES AND EAS AVAITADE DE tO
CASS I.2t lAD
--
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A    MPMCAS0;X0: 6.....h.. LD a 
P R- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ o
INDIA               r   zI N  D  I A                                                                                A         BOUND;i
ti-~~~~~~~~~~                                                            5kg. z   ; -.t  5                  S: -\EYANMAR-
-2r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~H
9K-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
t _acw8G sa..S< bxz>\;   i<t#;6tN>«  a4     :
m f.  0\ 0 *; :' t % s e 2 J ' 9t Q < 3 3 5 o; 5 3~~~~~~~~~~~~C.W
P}MJSA             BANe t'   GL` ~w  fUe nJ.          Rs.ds 5                *5                          r\\



