Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21470
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-22320; IDA-22321; TF-26800)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR35.90 MILLION (US$51.25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE THIRD INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
November 23, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 03/30/2000)
Currency Unit   Bangladesh Taka
Bangladesh Taka 51.00   US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0196   Bangladesh Taka 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 01  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP                      Annual Development Plan
ATN                      Aids to Navigation
BIWTA                    Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BIWTC                    Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
BMC               :      BIWTC Management Consultants
BUET              :      Bangladesh University for Engineering and Technology
BWDB              :      Bangladesh Water Development Board
C&P                      Conservancy and Pilotage
DANIDA                   Danish Intemational Development Agency
DCC                      Design and Coordination Consultant
DOS               :      Department of Shipping
DSL                      Debt Service Liability
DPTC                     Deck Personnel Training Center
DCA               :      Development Credit Agreement
DGPS                     Differential Global Positioning System
DOSA                     Dollar Special Account
ERD                      Economic Relations Division
EPC                      Environmental Pollution Control
EPFS                     Electronic Position Fixing System
FINNIDA                  Finnish Intemational Development Agency
FinnRA                   Finnish Road Administration
FYP                      Five Year Plan
GOB                      Govemment of Bangladesh
HPC                      Hamburg Port Consulting GmbH
HF                       High Frequency
IBRD                     Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB               :      Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA                      Intemational Development Association
IWT               :      Inland Water Transport
IWT III           :      Third Inland Water Transport Project
ISSA                     Inland Ship Safety Administration
JGF                      Japan Grant Funds
JEGF              :      Japan Environment Grant Facilities
LAD               :      Least Available Depth
LIB                      Limited Intemational Bidding
MOS                      Ministry of Shipping and Ports
M3                       Cubic Meter
NCB                      National Competitive Bidding
PMU               :      Project Monitoring Unit
PC                       Planning Commission
PCD                      Project Concept Document
PD                       Project Director
PIP                      Priority Investment program
PP                       Project Proforma
SAR                      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                      Special Drawing Rights
SLA                      Subsidiary Loan Agreement
TA                :      Technical Assistance
TAPP                     Technical Assistance Project Proforma
TOR                      Terms of Reference
USD                      United States Dollars
Vice President:    Meiko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Frederick T. Temple
Sector Manager/Director:    Vincent Gouarne
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Arun Banerjee/Magsoodul Mannan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Bangladesh
Third Inland Water Transport Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 8
6. Sustainability                                                                     9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                    11
9. Partner Comments                                                                  12
10. Additional Information                                                          21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P009540                                       Project Name: Third Inland Water Transport
Team Leader: K. M. Magsoodul Mannan                       TL Unit: SASIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: January 18, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Third Inland Water Transport                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-22320;
IDA-22321; TF-26800
Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                           Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: TP - Ports & Waterways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD.  11/28/88                                Effective: 08/31/91           08/31/92
Appraisal:  03/15/90                                  MTR:                      01/15/95
Approval:  05/02/91                                Closing: 06/30/99            06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOB/MOS/BIWTA/BIWTC/DOS
Other Partners: FINNIDA, JGF (Japan)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           A. Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager:     Frederick Thomas Temple                   D. Groves
Sector Manager:      Vincent Gouarne                           M.J. Staab
Team Leader at ICR:   Arun Banerjee                            George Tharakan
ICR Primary Author:   Ajay Kumar; Maqsoodul
Mannan
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M--Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact. N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1         Inland waterways have always been important in Bangladesh. During the 1980s, the inland
water transport (IWT) system carried over a third of the total freight traffic and 20% of passenger traffic.



However, inspite of its importance, the sector has been characterized by low level of investment and asset
utilization, inadequate enforcement of regulations related to vessel conditions, poor standard of vessel
safety due to overloading, inadequate navigational marks and lack of proper systems and facilities for
training of vessel crew. After the 1988 floods, which demonstrated the critical importance of IWT in
delivering emergency assistance, Government reconsidered its strategy to strengthen the sector. A master
plan for the IWT sector was prepared and a number of studies were canried out on vessel safety, dredging,
navigation aids, hydrographic surveys, training and institutional development with donor assistance.
Based on the study recommendations, Government developed a Priority Investment Program (PIP) as a
basis for the Government's Fourth Five Year Plan (1991-1995) for the IWT sector. This Project supported
the core program within the PIP.
3.1.2         The objectives of the Project were to:(a) improve waterway safety and environmental
controls;(b) increase inland passenger transport capacity; (c) improve capital asset utilization;(d) reduce
inland water freight transport costs;(e) improve country boat operations;(f) improve the fnances of
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA) and Bangladesh Inland Water Transport
Corporation (BIWTC); and(g) enhance institutional capacity for planning, policy formulation and training
of inland vessel operators.
3.1.3         Various studies conducted under the earlier projects contributed to the preparation of this
project. The Project objectives were consistent with both the Government and IDA's sector development
strategy which recognized strong linkages between the sector development and: (i) poverty alleviation; (ii)
private sector development; and (iii) provision of essential supporting infrastructure. Improvement in the
condition of country boat operators, employing many landless rural poor, was aimed at improving their
access to technology and capital and providing indirect benefit by lowering transport costs, increasing
mobility and raising farm gate prices of agricultural products.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1        Although the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended thrice (May 24, 1999;
June 14, 1997; and March 21, 1995), the original objectives were not changed.
3.2.2         Due to prolonged delays in implementation, DCA was first amended in March 1995 and a
revised implementation schedule was prepared; the covenants were amended, taking into account the
re-assessed capacity of the implementation agencies, and a number of conditions were dropped. The
schedule for implementation of the financial recovery program for BIWTA and BIWTC was also revised in
view of the start-up difficulties.
3.2.3         After the devastating 1998 floods, a supplemental credit in the amount of SDR 4.6
million(US$ 6.2 million) was approved on April 20, 1999 to fund additional dredging works and
rehabilitation needs; the DCA was amended for the third time in May 1999.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1         The total cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$64.2 million, with financing
by IDA=US$45.0 million (70%); FINNIDA= US$5.0 million (8%); Japan='US$0.7 million (1%);
Government-US$6.1 million (9.5%); BIWTA=US$5.4 million (8.5%); and BIWTC=US$2.0 million (3%).
-2 -



3.3.2        The project comprised of five components:
(a)   Dredging Works: to deepen selected waterways to ensure availability 'of 1.8 meters of
water during all seasons. 10 million cubic meters of dredging would be carried out by force
account using BIWTA's five dredgers. The project would finance 30% of the dredging costs.
(b) Upgrading Navigation Aids for about 1200 km of selected Class I and Class II waterways,
mainly involving procurement and installation of about 400 shore lights, 50 lighted buoys
and 100 unlighted buoys.
(c)  Provision of 100 Pontoons and access bridges at selected landing stations.
(d)  Provision of Equipment: (i) for BIWTA, equipment for rehabilitation of five dredgers;
spare parts and dredge support equipment; communication systems; inland survey work
boats and accommodation barges for BIWTA survey crews; installation of an electronic
position fixing system; and equipment/ facilities for five country boat owners associations to
be established by BIWTA;(ii) for BIWTC, rehabilitation of selected vessels and provision
of miscellaneous facilities and equipment for its operations; (iii) for DOS, purchase of speed
boats for safety patrols; equipment for hiland Deck Personnel Training Center; and
equipment for strengthening environmental control.
(e) Technical Assistance comprising (i) consultancy services to assist the BIWTA and BIWTC
in implementation of their institutional development/operational improvement/financial
recovery action plans; (ii) technical assistance for the establishment of the Inland Ship
Safety Administration (ISSA) in the DOS, preparation of an environmental mapping of
inland waterways, and preparation and implementation of DOS regulations for
environmental protection and control of inland waterways; and (iii) project implementation
support.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1        As part of the third amendment of the DCA, a supplemental credit of SDR 4.6 million was
provided to fund additional dredging works of 2.5 million cubic meters, and rehabilitation of BIWTA's
dredgers and infrastructure damaged by the 1998 floods, bringing the revised project cost at US$ 71.4
million.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1        Although the Project's objective and design were: (i) consistent with the CAS; (ii)
supportive of the core program of the government's PIP for the sector; and (iii) based on a number of
earlier studies on BIWTC fleet, vessel safety, dredging, navigation aids, hydrographic surveys, training and
institutional development, the quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory for the following reasons.
3.5.2         Overloading of Project Objectives.  During project preparation and appraisal, the
complexity of carrying out substantial reforms for the IWT sector was under-estimated, the processes not
clearly identified, and the preparedness and capacity of the implementing agencies not well calibrated. In
retrospect, the project design was overloaded with too many goals. Some of the covenanted reform steps
were not supported by thorough analysis, and were thus impractical to implement. The proposed transfer of
the Inland Deck Personnel Training Center from the BWITA to DOS and redeployment of surplus staff of
BWITC to DOS are cases in point. All these led to prolonged implementation delays. The risks were
-3 -



incompletely assessed at appraisal. Monitoring indicators were well defined but not quantified at appraisal,
thus coud not be used as intended to follow up on progress.
3.5.3      Lack of Ownership. Though the Project supported core program of the Government's PIP, the
implementation delays suggests that while there was a keen interest in getting the physical investments
going, the commitment to carrying out institutional reforms was lacking. A major contributing factor was
that the staff of BWITA and BWITC were not consulted during the preparation of the reform program.
Consequently, attempts to implement reforms met strong resistance from the unions, and the government
failed to overcome this opposition.
3.5.4        Lack of Project Implementation Readiness. Credit effectiveness had to be extended twice
and was delayed by 12 months because of the delays in implementation of the action plans. Even after
effectiveness, the readiness of the concerned agencies to implement the Project was lacking. About one
year after credit effectiveness, disbursements were suspended for five months due to disagreement between
the Government and IDA on key Project related issues. Key weakness of the preparation efforts may be
noted: (i) IDA did not require preparation of a Project Implementation Plan as a condition of credit
effectiveness; and (ii) agreements sought from the Government during appraisal were overly optimistic and
did not take into account the prevailing weak institutional environment. Procurement was substantially
delayed on account of (i) late appointment of supervision consultants, (ii) delays in GOB's approval to the
award of key contracts; and (iii) absence of technical specifications documents for some investment
sub-components.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1        Implementation of the project's investment components and operational action plans of
BWITA and BWITC was satisfactory, albeit after inordinate delays. Implementation of the institutional
and financial recovery action plans by BWITA and BWITC was unsatisfactory. Project outcomes in
relation to its main objectives are as follows:
(a)  Improving waterway safety and environmental controls. The new Inland Ship Safety
Rules (ISSA-Rules) were gazetted on December 31, 1999. Establishment of the new Inland
Ship Safety Administration (ISSA) has passed the planning stage and the Govermment is
currently processing a development project to deploy the required staff and establish the
necessary facilities. A fully equipped environmental laboratory for chemical testing of
dredge materials has been established in collaboration with the Bangladesh University of
Engineering and Technology (BUET) and is functioning satisfactorily. The regulations for
environmental protection of inland waterways have been prepared and are in the process of
being enacted. An environmental mapping of the inland waterways has been completed
identifying sensitive resources and sources of pollution. A Geographic Information System
(GIS) has been established and is in use by DOS.
(b)  Increasing Inland passenger transport capacity. Inland passenger transport capacity has
almost doubled. This has resulted in reductions in journey time for both vessels and
passengers and cargo handling cost.
(c)  Improving capital assets utilization. A program to rationalize and rehabilitate BIWTC's
and BIWTA's assets and equipment has been implemented, resulting in a reduction in
- 4 -



operating costs. BIWTC's capital asset utilization has improved by rehabilitation of ferries,
tankers, conversion of dumb barges into self-propelled inland cargo vessels and
improvement of shipyard facilities.
(d)  Reducing Inland water freight transport costs.  Pontoons and access bridges were
provided for 175 landing stations. This has facilitated freight transport operations in the
remote areas, benefiting the rural poor by lowering transport costs, increasing mobility,
reducing prices of purchased commodities and raising farm gate prices of agricultural
outputs.  The passenger launches are operated almost entirely by the private sector,
improving private sector operations and services.
(e)  Improving country boat operations. The project envisaged establishment of five country
boat centers at different locations in the country for provision of technical extension services
to country boat owners. Procurement and construction of the facilities as well as
implementation under this component was unsatisfactory. Substantial delays occurred in
the process of site selection and subsequent land acquisition. Out of five boat centers, 3 have
been successfully completed. One site was washed out by river erosion before
commencement of construction. BIWTA has agreed to complete the remaining center using
its own resources. Related workshop equipment and demonstration boats have been
procured by BIWTA but are yet to be deployed to the centers. BIWTA has agreed to lease
out the operation of these centers to a private sector entity known as the Country Boat
Owners Association (CBOA).
(f)  Improving the finances of BIWTA and BIWTC.
The implementation of operational improvement and financial recovery action plans by
BIWTA and BIWTC was unsatisfactory.
BIWTA has always been financed by a combination of GOB budget allocations for non
revenue services( mainly dredging )and revenues from conservancy and pilotage fees, inland
port and canal charges. Under the project, BIWTA undertook to progressively raise tariffs to
cover full operational costs of its revenue eaming services plus depreciation; the GOB agreed
to increase budget allocations for BIWTA's nonrevenue services. With these agreements,
BIWTA was projected to achieve a marginal profitability of Tkl5.8 million by FY95. During
the project period, BIWTA increased its tariffs by 70%, barely covering the inflation for the
period; whereas GOB's budget allocations to BIWTA were stagnant,from Tkl40 million in
FY93 to Tkl77 million in FY 2000. During the same period, BIWTA's expenditures increased
at an average annual rate of 10.9 %, whereas its revenues inclusive GOB allocations grew at
only 6.5 % p.a. on average. As a result, BIWTA's financial position actually deteriorated
dramatically from achieving a break-even in FY92-93 to incurring a loss of Tk 244 million in
FY2000, with an accumulative loss of Tk 3.4 billion at the end of FY00. Although BIWTA
has implemented the various measures in the financial recovery plan such as write-off of
uncollectible accounts receivable, disposal of obsolete stocks, rescheduling of outstanding
debts and conversion of debt to equity, these are not adequate to change BIWTA's fnancial
position substantially.
The BIWTC's financial performance also falls short of the SAR expectations. On the operating
expenditure side, the targeted 20 % reduction in staff cost and 15% reduction in fuel costs did
not fully materialize, and BIWTC is still burdened by overstaffing and an oversized fleet. On
- 5 -



the revenue side, the tariff increase introduced by BIWTC were inadequate. Following the
opening of the Jamuna Bridge in 1998, a large portion of traffic (particularly bus traffic) has
shifted away from BIWTC ferries to the Jamuna Bridge crossing, causing an estimated
revenue loss of Tk 200 million in FY99. As a result, BIWTC was unable to sustain the modest
improvement achieved during FY97 -98 when it eamed an operating income of Tk 90 million
and 72 million respectively, and incurred operating losses of TK 63 million and 34 million in
FY 99 and 2000. The completion by 2003 of complementary transport infrastructure to better
link the Jamuna Bridge to the transport network could further weaken BIWTC's position. This
requires BIWTC to explore all options, including scaling down loss making activities, to
ensure its long term financial viability.
(g)  Institutional development and training of inland vessel operators.
See para 4.2.8.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1        Dredging Works and Rehabilitation of Five Dredgers. All planned procurement of
equipment for the rehabilitation of BIWTA's five dredgers, purchases of spare parets and dredge support
equipment has been completed. The successful rehabilitation of five old dredgers enabled the satisfactory
completion of 12.5 million m3 of dredging works at the selected sections of waterways targeted under the
project, including 2.5 million cubic meters of dredging of waterways after the 1998 floods. Development
dredging of about 5 million cubic meters improved the least available depth (LAD) on three critical
waterway routes: the Meghna-Kushiyara; the Titas; and the Kangsa. Maintenance dredging of about 5
mnillion cubic meters carried out under the project improved access to critical inland terminals and facilities
at Baghabari Port, the Aricha-Nagarbari-Daulatdia Ferry terminals and Barisal Port. This resulted in
reductions in cargo and passenger transport costs.
4.2.2        Navigation Aids. Out of 1200 km of selected Class I and Class II waterways, about 918
km have been upgraded by BIWTA by providing buoys and beacons. Upgrading of the remaining 282 km
is expected to be completed by December, 2000. The conversion of old gas powered lights to solar powered
lights has been successfully completed during the project period. A computerized inventory system for
navigational aids and store system was developed and established at BIWTA. The system has been made
operational and is functioning satisfactorily.
4.2.4        Inland Pontoon Facilities. Under this component, 175 pontoons have been provided in
the rural areas of Bangladesh, exceeding the original target of 100 pontoons. The construction of pontoons
was timely and of satisfactory quality. BIWTA has leased out the operations of these pontoons on a yearly
basis to the potential private entrepreneurs. The overall achievement is satisfactory.
4.2.5        Flood Rehabilitation: This component consisted of additional dredging of waterways (2.5
million m3) using by BIWTA dredgers, and repair and replacement of damaged pontoons, navigation aids,
hydrographic equipment and installations. The works and procurement has been timely and successfully
completed.
4.2.6        Provision of Equipment/ Facilities. Besides the procurement of equipment, spare parts,
and dredge support systems for BIWTA's five dredgers, the project financed the purchases/installation of
the following :(i) 60 sets of high frequency transceivers, three sets of distress monitoring systems;(ii)five
hydrographic survey work boats and three accommodation barges for the hydrographic department of
- 6 -



BIWTA; (iii)a most advanced electronic Position Fixing System for BIWTA (a country wide system for
supporting differential global positioning system with three reference stations and monitoring stations );(iv)
equipment for BIWTC's fleet rehabilitation, including seven dumb barges, two tankers and six K-type
ferries; and miscellaneous equipment and facilities for BIWTC, including shipyard machinery, gangway
construction for the terminals at Dhaka, Khulna and Chittagong, and civil works for office and terminal
buildings; and (v)six patrol boats, equipment for the GIS system, the environmental laboratory and the
ISSA under the DOS sub-component. All procurement and construction were satisfactorily completed,
though with some delays.
4.2.7         With the new equipment, the shipyards of BIWTC are technically upgraded to provide
ship repair services. For example the slip-way at dockyard no. 1 is now ready for operation after an idle
period of almost 30 years. Further, with the new office and terminal buildings as well as the newly
constructed terminals and gangways, the service quality of BIWTC has improved.
4.2.8        Institutional Development of BIWTA, BIWTC and DOS:
The main thrust of the institutional development action plans are: (a) for the BIWTA, restructuring the
organization for dredging, deregulation of freight tariffs, and transfer of training function to DOS; (b) for
BIWTC, establishment of five profit centers and staff reduction through redeployment (to BIWTA and
DOS) and early retirement; and (c) for DOS, establishment of an Inland Ship Safety Administration (
ISSA)responsible for safety and environmental controls in inland waterways. Both BIWTA and BIWTC
have achieved partial results. A dredging Unit has been established but the land bound staff have not yet
been assigned to the unit and the efficiency of the new unit remains the same as before; freight tariffs have
been deregulated. BIWTC has established five operational units but has not given them full administrative,
managerial and financial powers; the proposed redeployment of BIWTC staff to BIWTA and DOS was
dropped; and BIWTC reduced its staff from 5,809 in 1990 to 4,010 in 2000 through natural attrition. The
new Inland Ship Safety Rules (ISSA Rules ) were gazetted on December 31, 1999. The Inland Ship Safety
Administration (ISSA) is yet to be made operational.
4.2.9        Technical Assistance. The focus of the TA component was primarily to assist the MOS
and the implementing agencies to implement the project efficiently and effectively. To this end, a
multidisciplinary team of international and local consultants was engaged as Design and Coordination
Consultant (DCC). Training/study tour program for senior officers of the implementing agencies was
carried out with a focus on enhancing understanding of institutional development issues and private sector
involvement in administration of ports and waterways. The program comprised of five study tours to
various countries in Asia, Europe and the United States.
4.2.10       Besides the DCC, consultants were appointed to assists:(i) BIWTC to develop a manpower
rationalization plan; (ii) DPTC to carry out "train the trainer" program; (iii) DOS to establish the
environmental laboratory, carry out environmental mapping, set up facilities for a GIS system for the
inland water transport sector, and prepare the Inland Ship Safety Rules (ISSA). Overall, the performances
of the consultants were satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1        Economic rate of return (ERR) has been recalculated for the three project components
which have quantifiable benefits. These are the navigation aids; dredging improvements; and rural
pontoons. All assumptions and key parameters adopted at appraisal were applied in the reestimation.
Financial costs were converted to economic costs by shadow pricing major cost components as adopted
during the appraisal and the following aggregate conversion factors were applied: (i) for fuel--0.85; skilled
- 7 -



labor--0.89; unskilled labor--0.7; and (ii) for other domestic items the standard conversion factor of 0.80
was used.
4.3.2        The navigation aids component irnproved navigation along 918 route-km and generated
benefits through reductions in: (i) average vessel delays awaiting pilots from about 6 hours to 5 hours; and
(ii) voyage times by about 10 % on most routes. The benefit measures are approximations based on
improved navigational capacity as reliable data were not available. Benefits resulting from improved safety
and reduced vessel damage/losses were difficult to quantify and, therefore, excluded from the analysis.
Maintenance costs per annum are assumed to be 12% of the investment costs. The reestimated ERR is
26.6% as compared to the SAR estimate of 31.7 %. The lower ERR is primarily due to a decline in traffic
volume carried by BIWTC ferries with the opening of the Jamuna Bridge. This particularly impacted the
Dhaka - Khulna route, where freight traffic declined by about 50% and passenger traffic by about 20%.
4.3.3        The dredging improvements component resulted in benefits through: (i) reduction in unit
economic cost of dredging from Tk 28/cu m to Tk 21/cu m; and (b) reductions in cargo transport cost from
Tkl.39/ton-km to 0.92/ton-km on the three routes (Kushiyara, Kangsa and Titas river) where the Least
Available Depth (LAD) was doubled from 0.9m to 1.8 m. The ERR for this component is estimated to be
20.7%, comparable to the SAR estimate of 23%.
4.3.4        The rural pontoons have improved accessibility to the rural areas and have resulted in
reductions in:(i) launch berthing times on average from 20 minutes to 10 minutes; (ii) cargo handling cost
from Tk 20/ton to Tk15/ton; and (iii) cargo damage from 5% on average to 4%. The realized benefits are
as estimated during project preparation and reflect approximations in absence of specific measurements.
Following the methodology adopted in the SAR, benefits to generated traffic have not been included in the
analysis. In addition, benefits resulting from improved safety and reduced loss of life from accidents have
also not been included in the analysis. Maintenance costs are assumed to be 5% of the investment costs and
a major maintenance expenditure is expected to be incurred in year 201 l(after 15 years) as assumed in the
SAR. the ERR is estimated to be 33.4% as compared to 26% at appraisal. The higher ERR is due to the
increased provision of 175 pontoon facilities under the project, exceeding the SAR provision of 100
pontoons.
4.3.5        The combined ERR of the above three components is estimated at 26.6%, which is almost
the same as estimated during project appraisal.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for this project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Judging by the project outcomes, the institutional development impact is considered negligible.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1        Extended periods of political unrest such as the non-cooperation movement (hartals) in
1995-96, and the devastating floods of 1998 adversely impacted on project implementation and contributed
to implementation delays.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
- 8 -



5.2.1        Three factors substantially affected project performance. First, frequent changes of key
personnel at MOS, BIWTA and BIWTC. During the course of the project, the Secretary, MOS was
changed seven times and during one crucial year, the Secretary was changed three times; Chairmen of
BIWTA and BIWTC were changed eight times each. The high turn-over of senior officials led to a loss of
institutional memory of project knowledge and, more importantly, further erosion of project ownership and
commitment to reforms. Second, inaction on the part of several Ministries (Law, Establishment and
Finance) contributed significantly to delays in the implementation of key elements of the action plans
(approvals of ISSA rules and regulations, environmental rules and regulations, writing off uncollectible
accounts receivable, disposition of unused stocks, etc). Third, problems associated with GOB's budget
allocations in terms of adequacy and timeliness led to delays in project payments to suppliers/contractors,
adding to project implementation delays.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1        The procedure -bound and bureaucratic management culture in the MOS, BIWTA and
BIWTC impeded implementation. Very often, the Boards and management of the respective agencies
overruled practical decisions made by the Project Director (PD) for implementing contracts, which in many
cases led to substantial delays in project implementation.
5.4 Costs andcfinancing:
5.4.1        A  supplemental credit of SDR 4.6 million was approved on April 20,1999 for
rehabilitation of inland waterway infrastructure damaged by the 1998 floods, together with an one year
extension of credit closing date from June 30, 1999 to June 30, 2000. At credit closing, SDR 34.65 million
( 96.5 % of the Credit) was disbursed.
5.4.2        The credit effectiveness was delayed one year due to delays in meeting the effectiveness
conditions. During August 1993 to December 1993, disbursements were suspended on account of inaction
on the part of the implementing agencies to implement the agreed action plans and protracted procurement
delays. Delays in the appointment of project supervision consultant and discontinuation of funding by
FINNIDA on consultancy services during rmid-course of the project led to slow project implementation and
disbursement.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1        The project sustainability is unlikely basically because GOB's commitment to pursue
much broader policy and institutional reforms, including divestiture of potentially viable revenue earning
operations to the private sector, appears weak. BIWTA continues to show substantial losses partly because
of the non-availability of Government allocations in proportion to increased dredging operations. And
BIWTC's future financial position remains precarious in the face of increasing shift of traffic from its ferry
operations to the Jamuna Bridge. Recent developments in BIWTA and BIWTC indicate that both
organizations have felt the need for change to improve their efficiency and reduce operating costs. BIWTA
has sought offers from reputed international firms for expansion, modernization and beautification of its
busiest Dhaka River Port Terminal at Sadarghat and its adjacent areas on Build, Operate and Transfer
(BOT) basis. The Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Center (IFFC) established under the IDA financed
Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project is assisting BIWTA in this regard.
-9-



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1         IDA's early initiative to have a follow -up project was dropped primarily due to a strong
resistance from the implementing agencies BIWTA and BIWTC (labor unions) to divest their operations to
the private sector.
6.2.2         To sustain the reform initiatives taken by MOS/DOS/BIWTA/BIWTC under this Project,
DANIDA has agreed to fund a five -year (2000- 2005) program to support :(i) Shipping Policy
forrnulation and Implementation; (ii) Ship Safety and Environmental Management; (iii) Rehabilitation and
Management of the Dhaka-Khulna Corridor; (iv) Ferry services at Aricha crossing; and (v)assistance to
the Country Boats sector. The main thrust of DANIDA's assistance is to turn both BIWTA and BIWTC
into a viable and well performing entities.
6.2.3         For the operationalization of the ISSA, DANIDA would provide technical assistance for
three years. ISSA would have responsibilities over both vessel safety as well as environmental protection
of the waterways.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during preparation was unsatisfactory for the reasons explained in
para 3.5.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  The Bank's supervision performance was overall Satisfactory. During the project period, the Bank
monitored the project closely and helped the implementing agencies identify technical problems and
implement appropriate solutions. Bank supervision reports were well documented with detailed Aide
Memoires. Bank's project staff showed flexibility and responsiveness in adapting the project design to
changing and unanticipated circumstances as reflected in the amendments to the DCA. The Banl's field
office in Dhaka played a key role in maintaining adequate follow-up with the implementing agencies and
providing prompt advice. It is worth mentioning that despite Bankes insistence and diligent efforts, the
progress in implementing the reform program was undesirable, in view of Borrower's lack of ownership and
commitment to the implementation of the reform.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1  The overall Bank performance was Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  The borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. The project was a part of the
Borrower's Priority Investment Program and the Borrower fully participated in all aspects of the Project
design. However, the probability of successfully implementing the reform programs would have been
considerably enhanced if a more participatory approach was undertaken and all stakeholders consulted in
the preparation and design of the reform related Action Plans.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
- 10 -



7.5.1         On the physical components, the complex and bureaucratic procedures of the Government
led to substantial delays in implementation. The Government also failed to provide sufficient counterpart
funds in a timely fashion. On the institutional components, frequent changes of senior officials, lack of
proper coordination among different Ministries, the uncertain political environment and the failure to use a
participatory approach in the formulation of the reform program led to failure in carrying through the
reform process. The Government implementation performance is therefore rated unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1         Overall, the performance of the executing agencies can be considered satisfactory during
implementation. The executing agencies assigned individual Project Directors (PDs) responsible for
implementation of key components under the project. At the initial stage, quality control work was mostly
done by consultants; as BIWTA/BIWTC staff became trained, this responsibility was gradually taken over
by them and was satisfactorily performed with assistance and advice from the consultants. The executing
agencies complied with IDA guidelines on procurement and disbursement, though there were some delays
in submission of audit reports.
7.6.2        Notwithstanding initial delays and start-up difficulties, the executing agencies completed
the investment components within the project period. The flood rehabilitation component implemented by
BIWTA was completed on schedule. The close coordination among the consultants, PMU and the PDs
helped in timely resolution of issues confronted during implementation.
7.6.3         The implementation of the institutional development, operational improvement and
financial recovery actions were hampered, primarily due to a lack of ownership. The frequent changes in
key personnel both in the MOS and the three executing agencies also hindered progress in implementation
of the action plans. By the end of the project, the Action Plans were implemented only to a limited degree.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1         The physical achievements of the project were considerable, albeit with delays. However,
the Government failed to achieve most of the important reform objectives of the project and this raises
serious doubts about the long-term sustainability of the physical achievements. The overall Borrower's
performance was therefore unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    Need for Thorough Planning of Reform Programs Through a Participatory Process.
The project intended to carry out a very substantial package of reforms for the IWT sector consisting many
important changes in policies, institutions and existing practices and affecting a diverse set of stakeholders.
Overall achievements of the project in this regard fell short of expectations. One of the major reasons for
poor implementation of the reforms was that the staff of the various organizations targeted for reforms
were never consulted during the preparation of the reform program. As a result, all attempts to implement
the institutional reforms were opposed by the workers who were likely to be affected, and the Government
also failed to overcome this opposition. To successfully implement a reform program it is essential that
plans are made in full consultation with all stakeholders, that the plans are sufficiently detailed and that
stakeholders continue to be involved during the implementation of the reforms.
8.2    Continuity of Key Personnel and Close Monitoring of Project Implementation. The
- 11 -



implementation of both the investment components and reform programs suffered serious setbacks on
account of the frequent changes in key personnel both in the MOS and the executing agencies. It is also
important to involve senior officials of the line ministry in closely monitoring project progress. This is
especially important for projects whose implementation require substantial level of inter-agency
coordination. For example, active participation of high officials from the MOS contributed positively to
the timely completion of the flood rehabilitation component. The implementation of various elements of the
action plans/reform program, similarly, could have been expedited with monitoring and follow-up at senior
levels.
8.3    Empowerment of the Project Director (PD)/Implementing Agency. The current
financial threshold set by the Government for approving procurement related activities by the executing
agencies is inadequate. There were long delays in the approval of major contracts (exceeding the threshold
of the concerned agencies) by the higher authorities. These delays can be minimized by increasing the
financial authority of the parastatals. This issue adversely affects all projects, whether government or donor
financed, across all sectors. The GOB should be urged to reform the procurement rules and procedures in
order to ensure economy and efficiency in project implementation.
8.4    Enhancing the Role of the Private Sector. Inprovements have been noted in the
financial performance of BIWTC subsequent to its decision to reduce its involvement in direct boat and
ferry services. This has enabled the private sector to expand its involvement. To improve service delivery,
the public sector should re-define its roles focusing on policy formulation and regulation and divesting
commercial activities to the private sector.
8.5    Commitment to Reforms.   Cosidering the lack of consensus on reforms , more
preparatory activities should have been carried out prior to Credit approval, and irreversible action ( such
as enactrnent of appropriate legislation) taken prior to effectiveness.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
1.  INTRODUCTION
The Third Inland Water Transport Project (IWT-III project) was established in 1991 by IDA with co
financing of Finish International Development Agency (FINNIDA) with a grant of FIM 19.8 mil to
technical assistance, (equivalent to about US$ 5.5 mil) and Japan Grant Facilities (JGF) with a grant
of US$ 0.7 million equivalent to fund environmental aspects of the project. IDA project funding was
allocated to Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 31.3 million (USD 45.0 million equivalent). Credit
closing as per the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was initially 30 June 1999. Due to the
prolonged and devastating flood in Bangladesh in 1998 the IWT-III Project was extended by a flood
rehabilitation component with a supplemental credit of SDR 4.6 million (USD 6.25 million
equivalent) and an extension of the credit closing date to 30 June 2000. The total amount of the IDA
credit for funding under the IWT-lII Project including flood rehabilitation was SDR 35.9 million.
The overall project was comprehensively outlined and identified with concerned objectives, project
activities, and project financial planning in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) April 9, 1991 of the
- 12 -



World Bank ref (881 5-BD)) (SAR).
2    Project Objectives
By financing core investments for the Inland Water Transport (IWT) sector the project would seek to
ensure that the Government can address the essential elements of its development strategy. The
objectives of this strategy are:
(a) Improving vessel safety and environmental controls
(b) Improving inland passenger transport capacity
(c) Improving capital asset utilization
(d) Reducing inland water freight transport costs
(e) Improving country boat operations
(f)  Improving the finances of BIWTA and BIWTC; and
(g) Improving institutional capacity for planning, policy formulation and training
of inland vessel operators.
3    Project description
The various components of the project have been grouped into five parts. They are as follows:
3.1  Part A- Dredging:
Selected waterways would be deepened as needed to ensure that 1.8 meters of water are available at
all seasons. Dredging works totaling 10 million cubic meter would be carried out by force account at
a rate of 2 million cubic meter per year using BIWTA's dredges as follows:
(a) 2 million cubic meter at the Ajmirganj section of the Meghna Kushiyara River.
(b) 1.3 million cubic meter at the Baulai section of the Kangsa River.
(c)  1.7 million cubic meter in the Titas River and
(d) 5 million cubic meter for rehabilitation of certain patches of Class I and II waterways including
access to Baghabari Port.
3.2 Part B - Aids to Navigation
Aids to navigation on about 1200 km of Class I and Class II waterways will be upgraded to secure
day and night navigation by rehabilitating existing equipment and provision of new floating and shore
lights, beacons, etc. as well as replacement of about 75% of acetylene powered lights with solar
powered lights. This would mainly involve procurement and installation of about 400 shore lights, 50
lighted buoys and 100 unlighted buoys. Waterways to be upgraded were:
a) all Class I and Class II waterways
b) proposed Class II waterway from Bhairabazar to Chattak
c)  approaches to Mongla and Chittagong Seaports
d)  Aricha-Daulatdia-Nagarbari, Bhuapur-Sirajgonj and Mawa ferry routes.
3.3 Part C - Inland Pontoons Facilities
Presently, there are about 1400 landing stations at which launches handle passengers and cargo. Of
- 13 -



these, about 230 stations have pontoons to facilitate passenger and cargo movements. An additional
175 pontoons, including 2 (two) tugs and their access bridges would be provided under the project at
selected locations conforming the pontoon location criteria agreed with Government.
3.4  Part D - Equipment/Spares
The project includes numerous smaller components as follows:
(a)  procurement of equipment/spares for rehabilitation of 5 nos. 18 inch cutter suction dredges
including fuel monitoring systems
(b)  procurement of spare parts and floating support equipment for BIWTA's dredgers
(c)  purchase and installation of equipment to upgrade BIWTA and BIWTC High Frequency (HF)
telecommunication equipment and establishment of distress frequency monitoring at Dhaka,
Mongla and Chittagong.
(d)  purchase of inland survey work boats and accommodation barges for BIWTA survey crews
(e)  procurement and installation of an electronic position fixing system to replace BIWTA's
existing DECCA system.
(f)  rehabilitation of selected BIWTC vessels within the overall parameters established for the
BIWTC fleet in the strategic plan
(g)  procurement of miscellaneous equipment and facilities for BIWTC including fuel monitoring
systems
(h)  purchase of 6 speed boats to DOS for safety patrols
(i)  purchase of equipment for strengthening the DOS Inland Deck Personnel Training Centre
(j)  purchase of equipment for DOS for environmental control
(k)  purchase of equipment and facilities for country boat owners association to be established by
BIWTA.
3.5  Part E - Technical Assistance
a)   Strengthening of BIWTA by provision of assistance to BIWTA for the implementation of the
BIWTA Institutional Development Action Plan;
b)   Strengthening of BIWTC by provision of assistance to BIWTC for the implementation of the
BIWTC Strategic Plan;
c)   Strengthening of MOS by provision of assistance to MOS for Project design and coordination
by MOS.
d)   Establishment of the Inland Ship Safety Administration (ISSA) within DOS;
e)   Environmental protection and control of inland waterways by preparation of an environmental
mapping of inland waterways for DOS as well as preparation and implementation of DOS
regulations for environmental protection and control of inland waterways; and
f)   Strengthening of BIWTA's Inland Deck Personnel Training Center.
4.   Achievement of objectives
The project has achieved its major physical and non-physical objectives to a large extent. Night
Navigation has substantially improved on the major important routes between Dhaka and Chttagong
as well as Mongla which were primarily used by the private sector shipping industry for cargo and
passenger transport. The Solar Powered lighting has shown a sustainable functions with less
maintenance requirements for operations. Increase of inland passenger transport capacity has been
achieved with the implementation of the project. This has saved voyage time, improved safety of
- 14 -



vessels. 175 nos. launch landing stations are improving efficient transport facilities in the rural areas
for the poor people. Installation of pontoons has improved accessibility to rural areas. This has saved
vessel and passenger time, reduced handling cost of cargo and damage to cargo. BIWTC have
improved their passenger terminals in Dhaka, Chittagong and Khulna by constructing new gangways
for the terninals enhancing their service quality. An improvement of capital asset utilization has been
achieved for BIWTC by rehabilitating 6 nos. K-type ferries, converting dumb barges into self
propelled inland cargo vessels, rehabilitation of oil tankers, improving shipyard facilities as well as
through chartering vessels to private operators instead of operating themselves. Improvement of
finances extent of BIWTA and BIWTC was achieved to certain extent through writing off of
uncollectable arrears and by increasing tariffs. In general it is seen that the project objectives have
been achieved to large extent considering the complexity of the overall project structure and present
institutional environment of the Bangladesh Public Administrations.
5.   Output by components
5.1  Physical Components:
5.1.1 Dredging Program: The dredging program for development dredging as well as for rehabilitation
dredging was fully implemented by dredging 12.5 million m3 during the project period.
5.1.2 Aids to Navigation: The Aids to Navigation of the 1st phase has successfully been procured and the
development of the procured buoys and beacons to the Class I and Class II waterways, conversion of
old gas powered units to solar powered lights have also been successfully completed during the
project period and deployment of additional navigational aids is still in the process. As it was
required under the project a computerized inventory system for the navigational aids and store system
for the stores have been developed and established at BIWTA, by the diligent effort of BIWTA. This
has now been successfully made operational.
5.1.3 Inland Pontoons: Under this component 175 nos. Pontoons and 2 tugs have been procured.
Procured Inland Launch Landing Stations have been provided in the rural areas of Bangladesh.
Technically the construction of the pontoons was timely, adequate and of satisfactory quality. This
was the largest investment component under the project and the achievement was fully satisfactory.
The changes in the design of the jetties and pontoons have substantially reduced the maintenance cost
and have made the structure more durable.
5.1.4 Rehabilitation & Instrumentation of five Dredgers : This component was divided into five
subcomponents; (I) procurement of vacuum & pressure system; (2) procurement of a dredged
mixture flow monitoring system; (3) procurement of a fuel barge fuel monitoring system; (4)
procurement of a diesel engine fuel monitoring system; and (5) procurement of spare parts for
rehabilitation of dredgers. All the subcomponents have been procured successfully. Highly
sophisticated fuel monitoring system has been installed. Side by side dredging unit has introduced of
manual system for fuel monitoring. Furthermore, substantial amount of spare parts required for
thorough and substantial rehabilitation program was procured and is still in the process of
implementation within a general overhauling program of the 5 dredgers. The dredgers are already 25
years old, but they are relative in good condition and components, which are exposed to intensive
wear and tear, are being replaced or reconditioned, enabling BIWTA to carry out the necessary
dredging works in the near future. Achievement of this component is satisfactory.
- 15 -



5.1.5 Dredge support equipment and spares: This component had nine subcomponents; (I) procurement
of spare parts for supports equipment; (2) procurement of two new dredge tender boats; (3)
procurement of three floating derricks (self propelled crane boats); (4) Procurement of mobile crane;
(5) Procurement of floaters and their pipes; (6) procurement of FS wire ropes for the dredgers; (7)
procurement of ball joints for the dredge pipes; (8) Procurement of rubber hose pipes for the dredge
pipes; and (9) procurement of house boats. All procurements have been completed and implemented
during the project period. Except some delays in construction of the dredge tender boats and floating
derricks procurement was successful and the newly acquired equipment is supporting the dredging
operation of BrWTA.
5.1.6 HF Telecommunication and distress monitoring: Under this component various equipment of HF
transceivers and receivers have been procured and successfully installed. Out of 63 units 30 units
each have been handed over to BIWTC and BIWTA. The remaining 3 units has been provided to
DOS. The HF tele comrnunication and distress monitoring has substantially improved with the
introduction of this system.
5.1.7 Survey workboats & accommodation barges: Under this component five hydrographic survey
work boats and 3 accommodation barges have been procured for the hydrography department of
BIWTA. Construction of the accommodation barges has been completed. The survey workboats have
been constructed and accepted by BIWTA.
5.1.8 Electronic Position Fixing System (EPFS): Under this component a country wide system for
supporting differential global positioning system (DGPS) with three reference stations and
monitoring stations has been procured under a turnkey supply and installation contract. Procurement
and implementation has been successfully completed. The new system enables BIWTA to carry out
hydrographic surveys with modem equipment and to produce computerized hydrographic charts with
digital technology. Furthermore the system provides accurate position data of any kind of survey
works in Bangladesh for private and public sector.
5.1.9 Establishment of five country-boat-center at different locations of Bangladesh to provide
technical assistance to the country boat sector: Construction of the country boat centre facilities
under this project can only be considered as partly completed. Out of 5 boat centres, 3 have been
successfully completed. One has been washed out by river erosion. BIWTA is now taking steps to
complete the unfinished country boat center at Narshingdhi with GOB fund and BIWTA's own
resources. The procured workshop equipment and demonstration boats have been procured and
installed at the boat centers. The Design of the boat centers was largely assisted in order to achieve
technical viable solution for the boat center layout and equipment. With a view to ensuring
substantially BIWTA plans to lease out the boat centres to private sector entity Country Boat
Owners Association (CBOA).
5.1.10 Upgrading of the DPTC (BIWTA) : Procurement of training equipment has successfully been
completed and installed at the training centre. Training of the instructors has also successfully been
completed.
5.1.11 Fleet Rehabilitation (BIWTC) : This component consists of three subcomponents; (1)
Rehabilitation of 7 dumb barges; (2) Rehabilitation of 2 coasters and two tankers; (3)
Rehabilitation of 8 K-type ferries. All rehabilitation programs have been successfully completed
during the project period with the following exceptions. The rehabilitation of the two coasters had
- 16 -



to be dropped since the required amount of works exceeded the allocated budget and the investment
as such would not have been financially viable. BIWTC decided to sell the coasters instead of
rehabilitation. This decision was in principle on line with the overall objectives of the project
whereas a reduction of the fleet was also a major project target. The two tankers were successfully
refurbished and have been chartered out to private operators for cargo transport. The rehabilitation
program for the K-type ferries was reduced to 6 ferries due to budget constrains. The ferries were
rehabilitated by replacing substantial hull and deck plating, replacement of the main engines,
propulsion units and upgrading of all technical facilities. All the 6 ferries are now in operation and
are delivering a satisfactory service for the BIWTC at the Mawa and Aricha ferry links.
Substantial improvements of safety aspects, speed, reduction of fuel consumption and improvement
of passenger facilities were achieved with that program. With the rehabilitation of the 6 ferries
BIWTC have achieved to give a new lifespan of about 15 years to these ferries with a reasonable
investment. The investment could be considered as highly feasible and the investment amount will
be recovered by their operation in a short period. The overall outcome of the fleet rehabilitation of
BIWTC implementation can be considered as highly satisfactory in view of the project objectives
achieved.
5.1.12 Miscellaneous Facilities and Equipment: this component consists of the five subcomponents; (1)
procurement of different office equipment; (2) Procurement of 7 no pick-up and 2 microbuses; (3)
Procurement of different types of ship yard machinery and a winch for the slipway of Dockyard
No.1 including turnkey rehabilitation of the slipway; (4) gangway construction for the BIWTC
terminals at Dhaka, Khulna and Chittagong; (5) civil works for construction of new office and
terminal building at different locations. All procurements and construction were successfully
completed during the project period. Newly procured equipment of shipyards of BIWTC have
improved ship repair services. The slipway at dockyard no I is now ready for operation after an
idle period of almost 30 years. Further with the new office and terminal buildings as well with the
newly constructed terminals and ganways the service quality of BIWTC has satisfactorily and
substantially improved.
5.1.13 Equipment for ISSA (DOS): Under this component 6 patrol boats, various equipment and two
vehicles have been acquired. Procurement of all components has been successfully completed and
are implemented in the operation of DOS/ISSA.
5.1.14 Laboratory Equipment for Environmental Component: Under this component laboratory
equipment for the environmental laboratory as well as office equipment and two vehicles have been
acquired. Procurement of the relevant components has been successfuly completed and is
implemented in the operation of the environmental laboratory. The environmental laboratory has
been established in collaboration between DOS and Bangladesh University for Engineering and
Technology (BUET) with all essential laboratory equipment for dredge material testing. The
cooperation with BUET secures a high level scientific support for operation and maintenance of all
the sophisticated equipment. Furthermore the cooperation provides also access for BUETS
scientific educational program to modem laboratory facilities.
5.1.15 Flood Rehabilitation (BIWTA) : This component consists of seven different subcomponents with
several activities under each subcomponent. The subcomponents are: (1) Additional dredging of
waterways (2.5 million m3) by BIWTA dredgers; (2) Repair and replacement of damaged
equipment and components for dredgers; (3) Repair of damaged pontoons of launch landing
stations; (4) Repair and replacement of damaged aids to navigation; (5) Repair and replacement of
- 17 -



damaged hydrographic equipment and installations; (6) Civil works, general infrastructure, spuds
& dolphins, jetties & steel structures; (7) Procurement of spares for survey/buoy tender vessels.
Works and procurement under all five subcomponents have been timely and successfully
completed. A substantial amount of design and specification works were required in order to
achieve thorough rehabilitation of all the facilities capable of sustaining the operation and
providing durable infrastructure for BIWTA. Completion of this component is considered as
highly satisfactory.
5.2    Technical Assistance (TA) Components
5.2.1  BIWTC Strategy Plan: Five profit centers, capital restructuring, reduction of fleet from 472
vessels to 147 vessels by 1995, reduction of surplus manpower, subsidy of coastal services by the
Government, and tariff increase. The actions of this plan have been partly implemented.
Limited financial and managerial power have been delegated to the established four operational
units and tariffs have been gradually increased.
5.2.2  BIWTC Institutional Development Action Plan: This includes appointment of management
consultants to organize the corporation, reduction of manpower through redeployment and early
retirement, and take over of Barisal Workshop from BIWTA. Management Consultants had been
appointed. The action plan can be considered as partly implemented.
5.2.3  BIWTC Financial Recovery Action Plan: This includes improvement of revenue collection,
reduction of operating costs by reduction of staff and fuel monitoring system, reduction of accounts
receivables by writing off of un-collectable arrears. All consultancy components have been
satisfactorily completed in the course of the project. The financial situation of BIWTC was
improving till 1997-98. However, with the opening of the Jamuna Bridge from June 23, 1998, the
situation has deteriorated.
5.2.4  BIWTA Operational Improvement Action Plan: This includes the improvement of dredge
operation, replacement of gas powered lights of aids to navigation, maintenance program for all
marine crafts, computerized inventory system for aids to navigation and HF equipment, upgrading
of the hydrographic department and replacement of the DECCA chain by an electronic position
fixing system, Upgrading of the DPTC, and establishment of five country boat centers. All major
activities have been completed satisfactorily.
5.2.5  BIWTA Institutional Development Action Plan: This includes restructuring the organization for
dredging, deregulation of freight tariffs, redeployment of staff from BIWTC, increased emphasis
on planning, and transfer of training functions to DOS. This action plan has only been partly
completed, the dredging unit has been established.
5.2.6  BIWTA Financial Recovery Action Plan: This includes revision of tariffs, budget allocation for
non revenue earning operation, writing off of un-collectable arrears, valuation of stocks and
disposal of obsolete stocks, maintaining of separate accounts for revenue and non-revenue earning
activities and auditing of the accounts by independent auditors, rescheduling of outstanding debts
over a period of 20 years and conversion of debt and interest payable to equity. All actions have
been implemented. But the financial situation of BIWTA, despite the implementation of the action
plans, has not improved. It is worth mentioning that BIWTA is a regulatory body and is engaged in
providing services.
- 18-



5.2.7  DOS Institutional Development Action Plan: This includes consolidation of training functions
for the maritime sector in DOS and establishment of an Inland Ship Safety Administration (ISSA).
Under this action plan the environmental laboratory has also been established, and training was
carried out. A sustainable frame has been achieved by establishing the laboratory in collaboration
with BUET. The action plan can be considered as partly implemented.
6.   Cost and Financing
6.1    The total project estimated cost (IDA portion) was 51.25 mil USD. The actual expenditure has
been found 47.88 mil USD which is close (93.42%) to the total estimated cost. Fund flow did not
significantly affect the implementation of the project. Head wise expenditures are shown at Annex.
A.
7.     Sustainability
7.1   Infrastructure such as construction of office building, jetties, Pontoon etc have been set up.
Rehabilitation of dredgers and their ancillary crafts, installation of solar powered buoys etc. have
increased facilities to the common people. Implementation of the project has reduced accident in the
waterways, reduced transport cost, saved vessel and passenger time to move from one place to
other in waterways. The Project will be sustainable on long term basis, if sufficient fund for
maintaining the above installations is provided with by the Govt.
8.    Borrower's Performance
8.1   The project was identified and out lined in the SAR of the World Bank in 1991 with project
objectives and financial planning. Borrower reviewed the project proposal with respect to technical,
economical and arrangement of the implementation. The project components such as institution
building, vessel safety and environmental monitoring for DOS, restructure of fleet, organization,
personnel & finance of BIWTC and improvement of navigation, upgrading of high frequency
communication system, establishment of 63 distress frequency monitoring at different places,
provision of 175 pontoons in rural areas, country boats to extend services to the country boat
sector and dredging for navigability of waterways were selected with the help of the concerned
agencies of GOB. They were found justifiable and acceptable. Completion of the components has
provided facilities to the common masses was of Bangladesh.
8.2   G.O.B's performance during implementation can be considered satisfactory. Although there were
changes of Govt. during implementation of the project, their commitment to the project did not
change. To implement project Govt. provided with necessary money and positive decision. The
components of the project were completed in time except a few and they were for prolonged Flood
of 98.
9.    Lessons/Learned
9.1   Delegation of Financial Power to PD/Implementing Agencies
Threshold of financial power of PD or Implementing Agencies is to be enhanced. This may
improve implementation of the project.
9.2    Continuity of key personnel:
- 19 -



Frequent change of key personnel in the Agencies as well as in the MOS hampered and delayed the
implementation of the project. Continuity of key personnel is very important for successful
completion of the project.
9.3    Appointment of a Project Director for Reform Programs, the lack of a responsible PD for
implementing the reform packages was a major cause for delays and unsuccessful implementation.
The existence of a high-level officer within the Ministry would foster an adequate and timely
implementation of such reform programs.
9.4   Joint tender evaluation, for complex and high value procurements joint evaluations between the
Ministry, the agency and the concerned consultants have fostered and accelerated the decision
process and award of contract.
9.5    Thorough planning and preparation of implementation of reform programs, a more detailed
planning of necessary and required steps during implementation and a subsequent preparation of
those step would have overcome many problems which surfaced during implementation of the
reform programs.
9.6    High level continuous monitoring. The implementation of the project got the impetus and
momentum through a rigorous and continuous monitoring from the highest authority in the MOS.
The timely completion of flood rehabilitation component is one of the glaring examples. This effort
should be replicated as a monitoring tool for future projects.
9.7    ADP Budget planning to be strictly coordinated with project finance. The inadequacy of GOB
counterpart fund or the timely availability of the GOB counterpart fund and revision of the same in
consultation with the Planning Commission was not effectively carried out. This resulted in delayed
payments to the contractors and thereby ultimately affected project implementation. Since fund
flow delays are often cited as one of the most common problems affecting project imnplementation,
serious consideration should be given before the implementation of the project.
9.8    Activities requiring actions from other Ministries: The approval process of the Action plans was
substantially delayed due to involvement of other Ministries (MOF, MOE, MOL). This can be
considered as one of the major factors in impeding the implementation of the action plans. It took
more than a year by MOL to provide vetting with the ISSA rules and regulations. The lessons
learnt is that for any future projects requiring the actions from different Ministries should carefully
be coordinated.
9.9    Continuity of Consultant role: In view of FINNIDA's reluctance to the continuation of the
consultancy services during the mid-course of the project, the implementation of the project was
seriously hampered. It took at least a year to recruit the DCC. With a view to ensuring a consistent
engineering approach and minimizing the amount of potential conflicts! disputes, the continuation
of a single consulting fimn must be ensured from the beginning to the end of the project.
9.10 Mid -term review: An effective mid-tenn review can make the project flexible with all physical
targets achieved in phases along with gradual capacity building of the executing agencies.
10.  EVALUATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
- 20 -



Donor's performance from identification to completion of the project was satisfactory. Though
there were some initial problems about selection of some components, the donor - borrower
relationship was good. Supervisory Missions were very professional, objectively oriented and
based on understanding of the Borrower's institutional capabilities and on the basis of donor's
policies and procedures. During the project implementation, the donor - borrower relationship was
beneficial and productive. Both parties responded positively to the practical needs that arose during
implementation. Implementation problems were correctly identified & adequately assessed.
Necessary advice was given to the implementing agencies and follow up actions were adequate.
The timing of Supervision Missions was appropriate and time spent for this was sufficient.
(b) Cofinanciers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndleato ~r/Max                    Prjetd n at S'                        ctmLaet Estiat
Reduce inland ship accidents         Number of recorded accidents are about the  number of accidents reduced from 24 in
same from 1990 to 1996. Accident should  1993 to 6 in 1999
decrease after project completion;
Establish and staff ISSA             All 12 ISSA rules to enforce ship dafety  Completed
regulations gazetted
Reduce average vessel delays awaiting pilots Average vessel delays awaiting pilots  Completed
reduced from about 6 hours to 5 hours
Reduce average voyage times          Voyage times reduced by about 10 percent
on most routes
Reduce average cargo transport costs  In the process of being compiled     Average cargo transport cost reduced from
Tk. 1.39/ton-km to 0.92/ton-km along three
routes
Increase least available depth       Least available depth (LAD) doubled from    Completed
0.9m to 1.8m
Reduce rural launch berthing tmes    Rural launch berthing times reduced, on  Completed
average, from 20 minutes to 10 minutes
Reducew cargo handling costs         Cargo handling cost reduced from Tk. 20/ton
to Tk. 1 5/ton and damage reduced from 5%,
on average, to 4%
Increase number of boats in the private  number of boats in the private sector almost
sector                               doubled
Complete study of environmental control    Study completed                 Rules for environmental control of MIT in
inland estuaries yet to be vetted by the
Minstry of Law
Output Indicators:
indlcator rlx                      PrjectdisnlastPSR                      t       s Esimat
Improve navigable waterway length    Waterway length was kept to about 3800 km
by maintenance dredging under the project
(3878 kms in 1996/97);
Improve dredging quantity            Dredging quantity was between 2.5 million
cubic meters in 1992/93 and 3.39 million in
1996/97. This helped maintain the channels
open for navigation;
Reduce unit cost of dredging         Unit cost of dredging reduced from Tk.
28/cu. m. to Tk. 21/cu.m
Increase dredging quantity           dredging quantity increased from 2.5 million
cubic meters in 1992/93 to 3.39 million cubic
meters in 1996/97
Develop navigational routes          navigational routes developed along 918
route-km
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                  US$ milion      US$ million
Dredging                                                     3.00            10.62             354
Aids to Navigation                                           6.80             7.32             108
Inland Pontoons                                              7.50            11.64             155
Equipment                                                   19.10            24.75             130
Technical Assistance:
Project Support-TA                                           2.40             3.40             142
Capacity Building-TA                                         4.10             5.81             142
Taxes and Custom Duties                                      8.80
Total Baseline Cost                                         51.70            63.54
Physical Contingencies                                      4.30
Price Contingencies                                         8.20
Total Project Costs                 64.20             63.54
Total Financing Required                  64.20             63.54  L
Proiect Costs bv Procurement (AUS$rioneu (vAalnw_
1. Dredging Works                                       0.00          0.00         3.80         3.80
(0.00)         0.000        38          (3.80)
2. Aids-to-Navigation and Inland Pontoons              11.00 0.00                  0.00          1.00
_____________ ____________ ____________  (15.80)       (  00              L(15.80)
3. Equipment                                           2440           1.00         5.00         30.40
3. Equipment    _______________________________       (17.60)         1.00)        5.00        (23.60)
4 Technical Assistance                                  0.00          0.00         9.00         9.00
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (0.00)(0.00)  I ~   1.80)I 1 5 )
Total                                                  45.40          1.00         17.80        64.20
1   (33.40)       (1.00)       (10.60)      (45.00)
- 23 -



Proiect Costs vPoueetArr eet (At                      (US$ mllion ellluivalent)       
1. Dredging Works                         0.00          0.00          10.62        10.62
1. Dredging Works                       ~~~~~~~~(  )  (  2     ( 4.50)      ( 4.50)
2. Aids-to-Navigation and Inland Pontoons               18.96         0.00          0.00         18.05
_______ _______ ______ _______ _______ ______16.05)     0.00         (0.00)        16.05)
3. Equipment                                            15.32         5.11          4.33         24.75
3. Equipment                            ~~~~~~~~ ~~( 15.01)  ( 4.10)  ( 4.33)     ( 23.44)
4. Technical Assistance                                 9.21          0.00          0.00         9.21
4. Technical Assistance                 ~~~~~( 3.41)      ( 0.00)    ( 0.00)      ( 3.41)
Total                                                   43.49         5.11          14.95        63.54
1   (34.47)       (4.10)        (8.83)       (47.40)
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Perctg of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            ActsletEtte
IDA      Govt.      CoF.      :lA        G          Co       IDA O. __t  _ CoP.
Dredging                  3.80       0.00      0.00       4.50      6.12       0.00    118.4   0.0    0.0
Aids to Navigation        7.70      2.80       0.00      7.32       0.00       0.00    95.1    0.0    0.0
Inland Pontoons           8.10       2.40      0.00       8.73      2.91       0.00    107.8  121.3   0.0
Equipment                23.60       6.50      0.30      23.44       1.31      0.00    99.3   20.2   0.0
Technical Assistance      1.80       1.80      5.40      3.41       0.00       5.81    189.4    _    107.6
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS: OVERALL PROJECT
(million Taka)
Aids to Navigation    Dredging Improvements   Rural Launch Landinq Pontoons OVERALL
PROJECT
Costs Benefits Net Flow Costs  Benefits Net Flow  Costs  Benefits Net Flow   Net Flow
1993                          45.0            45.0                                -45.0
1994                          65.0           -65.0                                -65.0
1995   43.0           -43.0   65.0   57.8    -7.2                                 -50.2
1996   92.0           -92.0   60.0   59.5    -0.5                                 -92.5
1997   87.0   80.8    -6.2   60.0   61.3       1.3  100.0              -100.0   -104.9
1998   76.0   84.0      8.0   50.0   63.2     13.2  200.0    64.2    -135.8   -114.6
1999   29.0   87.4    58.4   37.6   65.1      27.5   150.0   109.8      -40.2      45.6
2000   39.2   90.9    51.7   12.0   67.0    55.0   82.0   155.5          73.5    180.2
2001   39.2   94.5    55.3   12.0   69.0    57.0   26.5   161.7          135.2    247.6
2002   39.2   98.3    59.1   12.0   71.1       59.1    26.5   168.2      141.7    259.9
2003   39.2  102.2    63.0   12.0   73.2    61.2   26.5   174.9          148.4    272.7
2004   39.2  106.3    67.1   12.0   75.4    63.4   26.5   181.9          155.4    286.0
2005   39.2  110.6    71.4   12.0   77.7    65.7   26.5   189.2          162.7    299.7
2006   39.2  115.0    75.8   12.0   80.0    68.0   26.5   196.8          170.3    314.1
2007   39.2  119.6    80.4   12.0   82.4    70.4   26.5   204.6          178.1    328.9
2008   39.2  124.4    85.2   12.0   84.9    72.9   26.5   212.8          186.3    344.4
2009   39.2  129.4    90.2   12.0   87.4    75.4   26.5   221.3          194.8    360.4
2010   39.2  134.5    95.3   12.0   90.1       78.1    26.5   230.2      203.7    377.1
2011   39.2  139.9   100.7   12.0   92.8    80.8   79.5   239.4          159.9    341.4
2012   39.2  145.5   106.3   12.0   95.5    83.5   26.5   249.0          222.5    412.3
2013   39.2  151.3   112.1                            26.5   258.9      232.4    344.6
2014   39.2  157.4   118.2                            26.5   269.3      242.8    361.0
2015                                                  26.5   280.0       253.5    253.5
20161                                                 26.5   291.2      264.7    264.7
IRR (/)   26.6%                  20.7%                      33.4%    26.6%/
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performnce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
3/88                          3   EG, FA,TS
10/88                         3     EG, FA, TS
4/89                          2     EG,TS
11/89                         2     EG, TS
3/90                          3     EG, FA, TS
12/90                         2      EG, TS
Appraisal/Negotiation
02/91                         5   EG, EC, FA,, LC, DB
Supervision
12/91                         2  EG, TS                                S                  S
03/92                         2  EG, TS                                S                  S
12/92                         2  EG, TS                                S                  S
05/93                         2  EG, TS,                               U                  U
10/93                         2   EG, TS                               U                 U
04/94                         3  EG, TS, FA                            S                  S
07/94                          3  EG, TS, FA                            S                 S
03/95                          3  EG, TS, FA                            S                 S
10/95                         3  EG, TS, FA                            S                  S
06/96                         3  EG, TS, FA                             S                 S
12/96                         3  EG, TS, FA                            S                  S
03/97                          3  EG, TS, FA                            S                 S
10/97                         3  EG, TS, FA                            S                  S
03/98                          3  EG, TS, FA                           S                  S
10/98                         3  EG, TS, FA                            S                  S
10/97                         3  EG, TS, FA                            S                  S
03/98                          3  EG, TS, FA                            S                 S
10/98                         3  EG, TS, FA                            S                  S
05/99                         3  EG, TS, FA                            S                  S
01/2000                       3  EG, TS, FA                             S                 S
ICR
11/2000                       3   EG, TS, FA,                          S                  S
Note: EG: Engineer; TS: Transport Specialist; EC: Economist; FA: Financial Analyst; LC: Legal;
DB: Disbursement
- 26 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staffweeks               US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                 60                          129
Appraisal/Negotiation                      20                           43
Supervision                               196                          421
ICR                                        20                           41
Total                                     296                          634
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Oi Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Li Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
* Gender                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
OI Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
O Lending                                             OHS OS *U OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU  OHU
Ol Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
E Preparation                                         OHS * S   O  U  O HU
E  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS * U O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Full supervision reports, including Form 590/PSR of the project
2. Consultants Final Report on Project linplementation dated August 2000
3. IWT-III Project, Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement dated May 24, 1999
4. IWT-I1I Project,Development Credit Agreement dated June 17, 1991
5. IWT- III Project, Japanese Grant Agreement dated March 21, 1992
6. Staff Appraisal Report dated April 9, 1991
- 30 -



