Page  1
March 6, 1995
Mr. Lutfullahil MaJid
Secretary
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
  Republic of Bangladesh
Room 3, Block 8, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Re:
BANGLADESH: Credit No. 2232-BD
(Third Inland Water Transport Project)
Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
Dear Mr. Majid:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 17, 1991 between the 
People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the International Development 
Association (the Association) for the above-captioned Project. We also refer to the 
letter dated December 31, 1994 from the Economic Relations Division requesting an 
amendment to the Development Credit Agreement.
We are pleased to inform you that pursuant to the above request, the Association 
has agreed to amend the Development Credit Agreement as set out below:
A.
Schedule I to the Development Credit Ageement
(1)
In the table set out in paragraph" of said Schedule 1, categories 2 and 3(a) 
should now read as follows:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be financed
(2)
Goods and
works under
No Change
No Change
Part C of the
Project
(3)
Equipment and
materials:
(a) Parts B
No Change
No Change
and D
(except
Parts D(5)
and D(6))
of the Project
(2)
Paragraph 3(d) is deleted.
B.
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
The word BIWTA should be substituted for the word DOS in Parts D.3 and E.6.
C.
Section I of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement
Part A.2 of said Section I of Schedule 3 should now read as follows:
The procurement, construction and installation of pontoon facilities under Part 
C of the Project shall be carried out under a turnkey contract. Such contract shall, 
inter alia, require the contractor to carry out testing and adequate maintenance for 
at least twelve (12) months after the installation of equipment.
D.
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement ~
Page  2
In paragraph 2, the date January 15, 1996 should be substituted for the date 
June 30, 1993.
E.
Schedule 6 to the Development Credit Agreement
Parts B.1 and C.1 now should read as follows:
Part B: 
Covenants to be Included in the BIWTA Subsidign~ Loan Aggement
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BIVV7A shall:
(a)
by FY95 formulate and implement a plan, satisfactory to the Association, 
to write off all accounts receivable that are not collectible and to reduce accounts 
receivables to no more than four months of gross revenue by FY96;
(b)
by end of FY95 undertake a valuation of all inventories of stocks and 
spares, and sell or otherwise dispose of, a obsolete, damaged, or mismatched 
inventories of stocks and spares by end of FY96;
(c)
from time to time, take, or cause to be taken, all such measures to 
implement tariff increases, as shall be required to produce adequate revenue to cover 
full expenses;
(d) No 
change 
(e)
not make investments in fixed assets, other than under the Project, 
except for investments required under a 5-year Investment Program to be furnished to 
the Association for its approval.
Part C: 
Covenants to be Included in the BIWTC Subsidiga Loan Agreement
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree BIWTC shall:
(a)
by FY95 formulate and implement a plan, satisfactory to the Association, 
to write off all accounts receivable that are not collectible and to reduce accounts 
receivables to no more than four months of gross revenue by FY96;
(b)
by end of FY95 undertake a valuation of all inventories of stocks and 
spares, and sell or otherwise dispose of, all obsolete, damaged, or mismatched 
inventories of stocks and spares by end of FY96;
(c)
from time to time, take, or cause to be taken, all such measures to 
implement tariff increases on its ferry and passenger operations, as shall be required 
to provide funds from internal sources equivalent to at least 10% of the average of 
BIWTC's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, during each fiscal 
year;
(d)
No change 
(e) No 
change 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the 
enclosed form of confirmation and returning it to us. Subject to your confirmation as 
indicated above, this amendment will be effective as of the date of this letter.
Yours sincerely,
Paul Isenman
Director
Country Department I
South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
M. D. Shah Jahan
Page  3
Authorized Representative
Date:  September 25, 1995
