Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2232 - 1 BD 
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Third Inland Water Transport Project)
between
PEOPLE’S  REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 24, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 2232-1 BD 
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  May 24, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Third Inland Water Transport Project) dated\0bJune 17, 1991 (the 
Development Credit Agreement) as amended from time to time for the purpose of 
assisting in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
part of the Project will be carried out by Bangladesh Inland Water 
Transport Authority (BIWTA) and for such purpose the Borrower and BIWTA have entered 
into a subsidiary loan agreement (BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement) dated February 15, 
1992; 
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the rehabilitation of infrastructure damaged by 
the May-September 1998 floods (the Floods) by increasing the amount made available 
under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,600,000); 
(D)
the additional funds referred to in recital (C) shall be made available 
to BIWTA through the BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Amending Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2. 
1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (15) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below: 
"15.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on\0bJune 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
Sub-paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
"(a)
on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which 
is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from such territories;"
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
addition of a new Subsection (k) as follows: 
"(k)
‘Amending Agreement’ means this Agreement amending the Development 
Credit Agreement."
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million 
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 35,900,000), being the sum 
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Credit, with each withdrawal valued by 
the Association as of the date of such withdrawal. The Credit shall be in two 
tranches, the first tranche being an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to thirty-one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
31,300,000) (the First Tranche) and the second tranche being an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 4,600,000)."
Section 1.04. In Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, the following 
new paragraph (C) is added: 
"(c) 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
all amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account, or made subject to a special 
commitment pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall initially 
be 
charged against the First Tranche until that tranche has been exhausted, 
and 
shall thereafter be charged against the Second Tranche." 
Section 1.05. In Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Closing 
Date is amended to read June 30, 2000.
Section 1.06. A proviso is added at the end of subsection 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows: 
"; provided, however, that the commitment charge on the Second Tranche 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement." 
Section 1.07. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is revised as per 
Annex 1 to this Amending Agreement.  
Page  3
Section 1.08. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is revised as per 
Annex 2 to this Amending Agreement.
Section 1.09. A new Section III is added to Schedule 3 of the Development Credit 
Agreement reading as follows:
"Section III: Procurement for Financing Under Second Tranche 
Notwithstanding any other provisions set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement as amended, the goods, works and services 
required for items to be financed under the Second Tranche shall be procured 
from the Participating Countries only." 
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that: (a) 
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action, and the 
Amending Agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; 
(b) the BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been amended in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association; and (c) consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association have been appointed to assist BIWTA in 
carrying out the rehabilitation works of damage inflicted by the Floods. 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of Counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms, and that the 
amended BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and BIWTA, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BIWTA, respectively, 
in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.  
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written. 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Masihur Rahman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
By /s/ Frederick T. Temple
Country Director, Bangladesh
ANNEX 1 SCHEDULE 1
Page  4
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)  to be 
Financed
(1)
(a) Dredging work under
   2,100,000
30%
Part A of the Project
(b) Dredging for re-
   2,530,000
100%
habilitation of damage 
by the Floods
(2)
Goods and Works under 
  15,420,000
75%
Parts B and C of the 
Project
(3)
Equipment and Material
(a) Part D except Part D  10,800,000
100% of foreign
(5) and D (6) of the 
expenditures,
Project
100% of 
local
expenditures 
(ex-factory 
cost) and
78% of 
local
expenditures for 
other 
items
procured 
locally
(b) Part D (5) of 
  2,410,000
100% offoreign
of the Project
expenditures,
100% of 
local
expenditures(ex-
factory 
cost) and
78% of 
local
expenditures for
other 
items
procured 
locally
(4)
Consultant's services
  2,480,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
    160,000
TOTAL
 35,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  5
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
from Category (1) until an organizational unit shall have been 
established within BIWTA, with staff, resources, powers and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Association, to be responsible for all BIWTA dredging operations; 
and
(c)
from Category 3(b) until a study of the cost effective\1fness and 
suitability of alternative electronic position fixing systems has been completed in 
accordance with terms of reference satisfac\1ftory to the Association and the findings 
and recommendations of said study have been submitted to the Association. 
ANNEX 2 SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s strategy for the 
development of the inland water transport sector which includes: (a) improving 
waterway safety and environmental controls; (b) increasing inland passenger transport 
capacity;\0b(c) improving capital asset utilization; (d) reducing inland water freight 
transport costs;\0b(e) improving country boat operations; (f) improving the finances of 
BIWTA and BIWTC; and (g) improving institutional capacity for planning, policy 
formulation and training of inland vessel operators. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Deepening of Waterways
Deepening selected waterways by carrying out about 12,500,000 cubic meters of 
dredging work in sections of the Meghna-Kushiyara, Kangsa and Titas rivers and certain 
patches of Class I and Class II waterways including the access to Baghabari Port, to 
an extent adequate to ensure that the required minimum navigable depth of water is 
available in such waterways during all seasons.
Part B:
Upgrading Navigational Aids
Upgrading navigational aids for about 1,200 kilometers (km) of selected Class I 
and Class II waterways, the proposed Class II waterway from Bhairab Bazar to Chatak, 
waterway approaches to Mongla and Chittagong seaports and selected ferry routes, to 
provide secure day and night navigation on such waterways.
Part C:
Inland Pontoon Facilities
Provision of pontoon facilities and access bridges for about 175 selected 
landing stations.
Part D:
Strengthening BIWTA, BIWTC, DOS and Country Boat Owners’ Associations: 
Provision of Equipment 
1.
Strengthening BIWTA by provision of new equipment, rehabilitation of existing 
equipment and operation and maintenance of equipment including cutter suction dredges; 
dredge support equip\1fment; communications systems; and inland survey work boats and 
accommodation barges. 
2. 
Strengthening BIWTC by rehabilitation of selected BIWTC vessels in accordance 
with the BIWTC Strategic Plan; and provision of miscellaneous facilities and equipment 
for BIWTC operations. 
3.
Strengthening BIWTA by providing speed boats for safety patrols and equipment 
Page  6
for the Inland Deck Personnel Training Center of BIWTA. 
4. 
Assistance to the Country Boat Owners’ Associations to be established by BIWTA. 
5.
Strengthening BIWTA’s Hydrography Department by providing an electronic position 
fixing system and rehabilitation of equipment and installation damaged by the Floods. 
6.
Strengthening DOS by providing equipment for environment protection and control.
7.
Strengthening of BIWTA by rehabilitating their structures, jetty terminals, 
ghats, access roads, pontoons, ATN equipment and installations, hydrographics and 
dredging equipment damaged by the Floods, and provision of spares for dredging 
equipment.
Part E:
Technical Assistance 
1. 
Strengthening of BIWTA by provision of assistance to BIWTA for the 
implementation of the BIWTA Institutional Development Action Plan. 
2.
Strengthening of BIWTC by provision of assistance to BIWTC for the 
implementation of the BIWTC Strategic Plan. 
3.
Strengthening of BIWTA and DOS by provision of assistance for Project design and 
coordination. 
4.
Establishment of the Inland Ship Safety Administration within DOS. 
5.
Environmental protection and control of inland waterways by preparation for DOS 
of an environmental mapping of inland waterways as well as preparation and 
implementation of DOS regulations for environmental protection and control of inland 
waterways. 
6.
Strengthening of BIWTA’s Inland Deck Personnel Training Center.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
