OFFICIAL'
DOO0MENTS!
I
CREDIT NUMBER 2232 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Inland Water Transport Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2232 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              ii     , 1991, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the forrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Finnish
International Development Agency (FINNIDA) a grant (the FINNIDA
Grant)   in   an  amount   of  twenty   million   Finnish  Markkas
(FIM 20,000,000) to assist in financing Parts E(l), E(2), E(3) and
E(4) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the FINNIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and FINNIDA;
(C)   the Borrower intends to receive from the Government of
Japan under the Japan Grant Facility a grant (the Japanese Grant)
in an amount equivalent to nineteen million eight hundred thousand
million Yen (V 19,800,000) to assist in financing Parts D(6) and
E(5) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Japanese Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Association as administrator of said Japan
Grant Facility; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreoment.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble


﻿-2-
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "BIWTA" means the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport
Authority established under the Inland Water Transport Authority
Ordinance, 1958 (EP Ordinance No. LXXV of 1958) as amended to the
date of this Agreement (the .IWTA Charter);
(b)   "BIWTC" means the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport
Corporation established under Presidential Order No. 28, March 1972
as amended to the date of this Agreement (the BIWTC Charter);
(c)   "MOS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Shipping and
"DOS" means the Department of Shipping within MOS;
(d)   "Implementing Agencies" mean BIWTA, BIWTC and DOS, and
"Implementing Agency" means any one amongst them;
(e)   "Bangladesh  Bank" means   the Bank   established  for
carrying out the business of central banking under the Bangladesh
Bank Order 1972 (P.O. No. 127 of 1972);
(f)   "BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and BIWTA pursuant to
Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the BIWTA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g)   "BIWTC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and BIWTC pursuant to
Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the BIWTC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(h)   "Class I Waterway" means a waterway with a minimum
navigable depth of 12 feet; and "Class II Waterway" means a waterway
with a minimum navigable depth of 6 feet;
(i)   "FY" means the Borrower's financial year commencing on
July 1 of each calendar year and ending on June 30 of the following
calendar year, with each financial year being identified by the
calendar year in which it ends; and
(j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-one million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 31,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project
(except Parts D(6), E(l), E(2), E(3), E(4) and E(5)) open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; aid (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c) The commitment chage shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2001 and ending March 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2011 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-5-
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out and cause the
Implementing Agencies to carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to BIWTA for
purposes of Parts A, B, C, D(l), D(4) and D(5) of the Project, the
portion of the proceeds of the Credit required for such Parts of the
Project, under the BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include,
inter alia, those set forth in Parts A and B of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to BIWTC for purposes of
Part D(2) of the Project, the portion of the proceeds of the Credit
required for such Part of the Project, under the BIWTC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, upon terms and conditions, satisfactory to the
Association, which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in
Parts A and C of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the BIWTA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the BIWTC Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the BIWTC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the Implementing
Agencies.
(b)   The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Implementing
Agencies, to:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section as well as the
annual accounts of BIWTA and BIWTC and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-7-
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall or shall cause the Implementing
Agencies to:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from tie Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) cnable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take, and cause BIWTA to
take, necessary steps to ensure that freight tariffs in the inland
water transport sector shall not be regulated by the Borrower, BIWTA
or any agency of the Borrower and that such tariff shall be
determined solely through private contract between concerned
parties.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿-8-
(a)   BIWTA shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   BIWTC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the BIWTC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   A change shall have been made, without the prior
agreement of the Association, to the BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or the BIWTC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)   A change shall have been made, without the prior
agreement of the Association, to the following action plans referred
to in paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement:
(i)   BIWTA Operation Improvement Action Plan;
(ii) BIWTA Institutional Development Action Plan;
(iii) BIWTA Financial Recovery Action Plan;
(iv) BIWTC Strategic Plan;
(v)   BIWTC Institutional-Development Action Plan;
(vi) BIWTC Financial Recovery Action Plan;and
(vii) DOS Institutional Development Action Plan.
(e)   The BIWTA Charter or the BIWTC Charter shall have been
amended, suspended, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of the BIWTA or BIWTC to perform any of
its obligations arising from this Agreement or under the BIWTA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or under the BIWTC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement respectively.
(f)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of BIWTA or BIWTC or for the suspension of the operations thereof.
(g)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant made to the Borrower for the
financing  of   the  Project  shall   have  been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in


﻿-9-
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation or termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the events specified in paragraph (c), (d), (e),(f) or
(g) of Section 5,01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
FINNIDA Grant Agreement and the Japanese Grant Agreement (other than
those, if applicable, relating to the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(b)   the BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and BIWTA;
(c)   the BIWTC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and BIWTC;


﻿- 10 -
(d)   the Borrower, BIWTA and BIWTC shall have taken all
actions necessary for the approval of each of the action plans
referred to in paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)   the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall
have been complied with;
(f)   necessary steps shall have been taken by the Borrower,
BIWTA and BIWTC respectively for the restructuring of the long term
debt of BIWTA and BIWTC owed to the Borrower in accordance with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(g)   consultants under Parts E(2) and E(3) of the Project
have been duly appointed by BIWTC and MOS respectively;.and
(h)   Project Proformas for the carrying out of the Project
have been approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, (a) that the BIWTA Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and BIWTA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BIWTA in
accordance with its terms; and (b) that the BIWTC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
BIWTC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BIWTC in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under paragraphs
1 and 2 of Schedule 4 and Schedule 6 of this Agreement and the
provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty five years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Economic
Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of The General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Gable address:               Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD               642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka                     672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By         4    /       44
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHZDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Dredging                  2,100,000        30%
works under Part A
of the Project
(2) Goods and works           8,490,000        75%
under Parts B and C
of the Project
(3) Equipment                                  100% of foreign
and materials:                             expenditures,
100% of local
(a) Part D (except       10,500,000        expenditures
Parts D(5) and                         (ex-factory
D (6)) of the                         cost) and 78%
Project                               of local
expenditures
(b) Part D(5)             2,220,000        for other
items pro-
cured locally


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Consultants' Services       980,000        100%
under Part E(6)
of the
Project
(5) Unallocated               7,010,000
TOTAL                31,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
(b)   from Category (1) until an organizational unit shall
have been established within BIWTA, with staff, resources, powers
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, to be
responsible for all BIWTA dredging operations;
(c)   from Category 3(b) until a study of the cost effective-
ness and suitability of alternative electronic position fixing
systems has been completed in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association and the findings and recommendations
of said study have been submitted to the Association; and


﻿- 15 -
(d)   from Category (4) until the Inland Deck Personnel
Training Center has been transferred from BIWTA to DOS in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower's
strategy for the development of the inland water transport sector
which includes: (a) improving waterway safety and environmental
controls; (b) increasing inland passenger transport capacity; (c)
improving capital asset utilization; (d) reducing inland water
freight transport costs; (e) improving country boat operations; (f)
improving the finances of BIWTA and BIWTC; and (g) improving
institutional capacity for planning, policy formulation and training
of inland vessel operators.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objecti4es:
Part A:     Deepening of Waterways
Deepening selected waterways by carrying out about 10 million
cubic meters of dredging work in sections of the Meghna-Kushiyara,
Kangsa and Titas rivers and certain patches of Class I and Class II
waterways including the access to Baghabari Port, to an extent
adequate to ensure that the required minimum navigable depth of
water is available in such waterways during all seasons.
Part B:     Upgrading Navigational Aids
Upgrading navigational aids for about 1,200 kilometers (km)
of selected Class I and Class II waterways, the proposed Class II
waterway from Bhairab Bazar to Chatak, waterway approaches to Mongla
and Chittagong seaports and selected ferry routes, to provide secure
day and night navigation on such waterways.
Part C:     Inland Pontoon Facilities
Provision of pontoon facilities and access bridges for about
100 selected landing stations.
Part D:     Strengthening BIWTA, BIWTC. DOS and Country Boat Owners'
Associations: Provision of Equipment
1.    Strengthening BIWTA by provision of new equipment, rehabilita-
tion of existing equipment and operation and maintenance of


﻿- 17 -
equipment including cutter suction dredges; dredge support equip-
ment; communications systems; and inland survey work boats and
accommodation barges;
2.    Strengthening BIWTC by rehabilitation of selected BIWTC
vessels in accordance with the BIWTC Strategic Plan; and provision
of miscellaneous facilities and equipment for BIWTC operations;
3.    Strengthening DOS by providing speed boats for safety patrols
and equipment for the Inland Deck Personnel Training Center of DOS;
4.    Assistance to the Country Boat Owners' Associations to be
established by BIWTA;
5.    Strengthening BIWTA's Hydrography Department by providing an
electronic position fixing system; and
6.    Strengthening DOS by providing equipment for environment
protection and control.
Part E:     Technical Assistance
1.    Strengthening of BIWTA by provision of assistance to BIWTA
for the implementation of the BIWTA Institutional Development Action
Plan;
2.    Strengthening of BIWTC by provision of assistance to BIWTC
for the implementation of the BIWTC Strategic Plan;
3.    Strengthening of MOS by provision of assistance to MOS for
Project design and coordination by MOS;
4.    Establishment of the Inland Ship Safety Administration within
DOS;
5.    Environmental protection and control of inland waterways by
preparation for DOS of an environmental mapping of inland waterways
as well as preparation and implementation of DOS regulations for
environmental protection and control of inland waterways; and


﻿- 18 -
6.    Strengthening of DOS's Inland Deck Personnel Training Center.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1. - Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    The procurement, construction and installation of aids to
navigation under Part B and pontoon facilities under Part C of the
Project shall each be carried out under a turnkey contract. Such
contracts shall, inter alia, require the contractors to carry out
testing and adequate maintenance for at least twelve (12) months
after the installation of equipment.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in paragraph I of Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in paragraph 1 of Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance ith,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 each, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association,
provided, however, that dredging works under Part A of the Project
may be carried through force account.


﻿- 20 -
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of suppliers from at least three different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 21 -
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall  employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Monitor-
ing Unit within MOS with adequate staff, facilities and resources
in order to carry out monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1993, discuss the
progress of the Project with the Association and other entities
providing grant financing for the Project and shall promptly carry
out recommendations arising from such discussions.
3.    The Borrower shall:
(a)   carry out or cause to be carried out, in accordance with
a time schedule and in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the
following action plans with content and form satisfactory to the
Association:
(i)   BIWTA Operation Improvement Action Plan;
(ii) BIWTA Institutional Development Action Plan;
(iii) BIWTA Financial Recovery Action Plan;
(iv) BIWTC Strategic Plan;
(v)   BIWTC Institutional Development Action Plan;
(vi) BIWTC Financial Recovery Action Plan; and
(vii) DOS Institutional Development Action Plan; and
(b)   discuss annually with the Association the implementation
of each of the action plans referred to in paragraph 3 (a) above
and take prompt steps to implement recommendations arising from such
discussion.
4.    The Borrower shall cause (a) BIWTA to carry out the provisions
of Parts A and B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (b) BIWTC to
carry out the provisions of Parts A and C of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project (except Parts D(6), E(1), E(2), E(3), E(4) and E(5)) and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $1,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿-24-
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn amount    of  the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categor-
ies shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify


﻿- 25 -
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly rpon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Lssociation shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions to be Set Forth in
BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and BIWTC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement
Part A:     Terms to be Included in BIWTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and BIWTC Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree the terms and
conditions of each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include the
following:
(a)   repayment period of twenty five years, including five
years' grace period;
(b)   interest rate of eleven and one-half per cent (11.5%)
per annum on principal outstanding; and
(c)   foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower.
Part B:     Covenants to be Included in the BIWTA Subsidiary Loan
Agreement
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BIWTA shall:
(a)   by FY92 formulate and implement a plan, satisfactory to
the Association, to write off all accounts receivable that are not
collectible and to reduce accounts receivables to no more than four
months of gross revenue by FY 93;
(b)   by end of FY 92 undertake a valuation of all inventories
of stocks and spares, and sell or otherwise dispose of, all
obsolete, damaged, or mismatched inventories of stocks and spares
by end of FY93;
(c)   from time to time, take, or cause to be taken, all such
measures to implement tariff increases, as shall be required to
produce, by FY95, adequate revenue to cover full expenses;
(d)  -on the basis of forecasts to be prepared by BIWTA in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, review the adequacy of its
tariffs to meet the requirement set forth in the preceding paragraph
(c) for each current and next following fiscal year, and shall


﻿- 27 -
furnish to the Borrower and the Association for their approval, the
results of such review upon its completion; and
(e)   not make investments in fixed assets, other than under
the Project, in excess of an aggregate amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000) equivalent in any one fiscal year.
2.    For the purposes of this Part B:
(a)   the term "revenue" shall mean the sum of all gross
revenues related to BIWTA's operations, including the Borrower's
budget allocations for BIWTA's non-revenue earning operations; and
(b)   the term "full expenses" shall mean the sum of all
expenses related to BIWTA's operations including mainta.nance and
administration costs, interest and other charges on debt, deprecia-
tion, all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, and all d.vidends.
Part C:     Covenants to be Included in the BIWTC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree BIWTC shall:
(a)   by FY92 formulate and implement a plan, satisfactory to
the Association, to write off all accounts receivable that are not
collectible and to reduce accounts receivables to no more than four
months of gross revenue by FY 93;
(b)   by end of FY 92 undertake a valuation of all inventories
of stocks and spares, and sell or otherwise dispose of, all
obsolete, damaged, or mismatched inventories of stocks and spares
by end of FY93;
(c)   from time to time, take, or cause to be taken, all such
measures to implement tariff increases on its ferry and passenger
operations, as shall be required to provide, by FY 95, funds from
internal sources equivalent to at least 10% of the average of
BIWTC's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred,
during each fiscal year;
(d)   on the basis of forecasts to be prepared by BIWTC in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, review the adequacy of its
tariffs to meet the requirement set forth in the preceding paragraph
(c) for each current and next following fiscal year, and shall


﻿- 28 -
furnish to the Borrower and the Association for their approval, the
results of such review upon its completion; and
(e)   not incur any additional debt in any fiscal year unless
a reasonable forecast of BIWTC's revenue and expenditure shows that
for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred,
debt service payments shall at least be covered 1.2 times by the net
operating revenue.
2.    For the purposes of this Part C:
(a)   the term "revenue" shall mean the sum of all gross
revenues related to BIWTC's operations, including the Borrower's
budget allocations for public service obligations;
(b)   the term "funds from internal sources" shall mean the
difference between (i) the sum of BIWTC's revenue, as defined in
paragraph 2(a) above of this Part C; and (ii) the sum of all
expenses related to BIWTC's operations, including maintenance and
administration (excluding depreciation and non-cash operating
expenses), interest and other charges on debt, repayment of loans,
all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, all cash dividends,
increases in net working capital and any other cash flows other than
capital expenditures;
(c)   the term "net operating revenue" shall mean revenue from
all sources, less operating and administrating expenses including
taxes, and other charges, but before depreciation and interest
charges;
(d)   the term "debt" shall mean any debt maturing by its
terms more than twelve months after the date on which it was
incurred; and
(e)   the term "debt service payments" means the aggregate
amount of amortization, interest and other charges in respect of
debt.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


