CREDIT NUMBER 337 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Industrial Imports Program)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 4, 1972


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 337 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Industrial Imports Program)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 4, 1972


﻿AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1972, between IsLAmic
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AssocIATroN (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower is embarking on a comprehensive
economic and financial program for improving the mobiliza-
tion of resources, both domestic and foreign, for economic
development and their efficient use therefor, and to that end
has introduced measures to reform the exchange system
and to liberalize imports;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
grant financial assistance for the purpose of supporting the
successful implementation of such economic and financial
program by providing foreign exchange financing of essen-
tial imports required therefor;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to make a development credit avail-
able to the Borrower for the aforesaid purpose on the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they


﻿4
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the follow-
ing modifications thereof (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Con-
ditions) :
(a) Section 5.01is deleted;
(b) Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) be-
comes 6.02 (h);
(c) Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means Islamic Republic of
Pakistan, acting by its President."
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "I.T.C. Heading Number" means the Import Trade
Control Heading Number based on the Brussels Trade
Nomenclature, as used in the new Import Trade Control
Schedule, dated July 19, 1971, of the Borrower.
(b) "TCP" means the Trading Corporation of Pakistan,
a government owned, private limited company registered
under the Companies Act of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
var' ous currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars
($50,000,000).


﻿5
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment and to be financed under the Development Credit
Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made
on account of expenditures in the territories of any country
which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland)
or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
territories.
SECTION 2.03. Except 23 the Association shall otherwise
agree, goods and services required for the Project to be
procured through the TCP or the Ministry of Agriculture
of the Borrower and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competition and, in respect of contracts estimated to cost
$100,000 equivalent or more, in accordance with, and sub-
ject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1973 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%/) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTIoN 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable


﻿6
on each February 15 and August 13, commencing August
15, 1982 and ending February 1, 2022, each installment to
and including the installment payable on February 15, 1992
to be one-half of one per cent ( of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-
half per cent (11/)4 ) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project, or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence
and efficiency.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of
appropriate applications issue, or cause to be issued, such
import licenses as shall be required to carry out the Proj-
ect; and (ii) make available, or cause to be made available,
promptly as needed all foreign exchange which shall be re-
quired to carry out the Project.
SECTION 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the imported
goods to be financed out of the Proceeds of the Credit to
be insured, or shall cause adequate provision to be made
for the insurance thereof, against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the beie-
ficiary of such insurance to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 3.03. The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) shall enable the Associa-


﻿7
tion's accredited representatives to inspect any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Proj-
ect, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods financed out of such proceeds.
SECTION 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds
of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrving out the Project or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
-under the Development Credit Agreement, the use of the
proceed, uf the Credit, the economic and financial program
of the Borrower refer:ed to in the Preamble to this Agree-
ment and its implementation and other matters relating to
the purpose of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the


﻿8
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, ,uch information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions iii the territories of the Borrower, including its
balance of payments, and the external debt of the Borrower,
of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency of the
Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably requet concerning the use
of the proceeds of the Credit and the economic and financial
program of the Borrower referred to in the Preamble to
this Agreement and its implementation.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly in-
form each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the pur-.
pose of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either of them of its obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
oppo\rtunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿9
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restrictions,
regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable im-
media:ely together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service
charges shall become due and payable immediately, any-
thing to the contrary in the Development Credit Agree-
ment notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional event is speci-
fied, namely: that the Association, shall, at any time, have
determined after reviewing in consultation with the Bor-
rower the progress being made by the Borrower in the
implementation of its exchange reform, import liberaliza-
tion and related financial measures to promote economic
development, that the purpose for which the Credit was
granted is not likely to be achieved.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
SECTION 8.01. The date December 5, 1972 is hereby speci-
fled for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿10
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. The Secretary to the Government of Paki-
stan, Economic Affairs Division, is designated for the pur-
poses of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Economic
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,


﻿11
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
IsnAMic REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By   /s/ SULTAN M. KHAN
Authorized Representative, for
and on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s/ I. P. M. CARGILL
Vice Presideut


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the imported items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Serial      I.T.C. Heading              Name of                    (Expressed in
Number          Number                    Article                 Dollar Equivalent)
I.          13, 32           Raw vegetable mate-
(excl. heading 32.01A)   rials and extracts for
use in dyeing or tanning
II.            15             Linseed oil, coconut oil
(15.07 CDF only)         and palm oil
III. 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 38    Salt, sulphur and
(excl. headings 28.05B,  chemicals
28.12B, 28.46A, 28.56A)
IV.             31             Fertilizer (compound
or phosphatic)
V.           35, 39          Glues, resins and plastic
materials
VI.             40            Rubber, synthetic
(excl. headings          rubber and factice
40.11,40.13)
VII.             41            Raw hides and skins
VIII.             44            Industrial wood
IX.           47, 48          Paper and paper board,
(excl. headings 48.14,   pulp and paper making
48.17 and 48.18)         materials
X. 50, 51, 53, 56, 57 and 59  Silk, silk yari, wool,
(excl. heading 56.06)    man-made fibres, animal
hair, vegetable textile
materials, wadding and
felt


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Serial      I.T.C. Heading             Name of                  (Expressed in
Number         Number                   Article                Dollar Equivalent)
XI.            69            Fire brick, refractory
(excl. headings 69.04,  materials and graphite
69.05, 69.07 to 69.14)  crucibles
XII.            70            Industrial glass sheets
and plates
XIII.            73            Iron and steel
(excl. headings 73.16,
73.38)
XIV. 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80,  Copper, nickel, alumi-
81, 83 (excl. headings  ium, lead, magnesium
74.17 and 74.18, 83.04,  and beryllium, zinc, tin
83.06, 83.10, 83.12 and  and other base metals
83.14)
XV.             82            Tools and implements
(excl. headings 82.08,
82.13 and 82.14)
XVI.             84            Boilers, machinery and
mechanical appliances
XVII.             85            Electrical machinery
(excl. headings 85.14,  and equipment
85.15 and 85.16)
XVIII.             87            Commercial and indus-
(headings 87.02B and C, trial vehicles (parts for
87.04, 87.06 for vehicles  assembly)
falling within headings
87.02B and C, 87.07 and
87.14 all other headings
excluded)
TOTAL                              50,000,000


﻿14
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower;
(b) expenditures prior to July 1, 1972;
(c) expenditures under invoices for groups of items cost-
ing the aggregate of $5,000 equivalent or less;
(d) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the provision by the Borrower,
during the period from July 1, 1972 to June 30, 1973 of for-
eign exchange required for the import into the territories of
the Borrower of industrial raw and semi-finished materials,
components, spare parts and miscellaneous items of manu-
facturing equipment and fertilizers, for the purpose of sup-
porting the successful implementation of the economic and
financial program referred to in the Preamble to this
Agreement.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $100,000 or more:
(a) bids shall be obtained from not less than three of
the major suppliers from member countries of the Bank and
Switzerland; and
(b) the contract shall be awarded to the bidder whose
bid is the lowest evaluated bid.
2. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after execution of the contract and prior to the submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such
contract: (i) the details of the bids sought, (ii) the names
of the firms invited to submit bids, (iii) the summary of
the bids submitted and, in the event the lowest bid is not
accepted, the analysis thereof and the reasons for choosing
the successful bidder, and (iv) two conformed copies of
such contract.


