                                         Documentof
                                        The WorldBank

                                  FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                              ReportNo.




                           PROJECTPREPARATIONDOCUMENT

                                  FORA PROPOSEDCREDIT

                                    INTHEAMOUNT OF

                                       SDR3.5 MILLION

                               (US$5.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO

                       THE ISLAMICREPUBLICOFAFGHANISTAN

                                           FORAN

                           INVESTMENTGUARANTEEFACILITY
                             ESTABLISHEDAS A TRUST FUND

                                         BETWEEN
                   THE ISLAMICREPUBLICOFAFGHANISTANAND

           THE MULTILATERAL INVESTMENTGUARANTEEAGENCYAS
                         ADMINISTRATOR OFTHE TRUST FUND


                                         July 29,2004



FinanceandPrivateSector Development
South Asia Region
MultilateralInvestmentGuaranteeAgency


This document has a restricteddistributionandmaybeusedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebedisclosedwithoutthe World Bankauthorization

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENT

            CurrencyUnit = Afghani
                    US$1 = 44.567000AFA (30 June 2004)
                    SDRl = US$1.46949 (30 June 2004)

                    FISCALYEAR

                   March 21-March 20


      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

    ADB             Asian Development Bank
    AISA            Afghanistan Investment Support Agency
    ARTF            Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
    DFID            UKDepartmentFor International Development
    GOA             Government o f the Islamic Republic o f Afghanistan
    IDA             International Development Association
    IFC             International Finance Corporation
    MIGA            Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
    NDF             NationalDevelopment Framework
    OPIC            Overseas Private Investment Corporation
    TSS             Transitional Support Strategy



                     World Bank


 Country Director:        Alastair McKechnie
 Sector Director:         Joseph Del Mar Pernia
 Sector Manager           Simon C. Bell
 Team Leader:             Samuel Munzele Maimbo


      MultilateralInvestmentGuaranteeFacility


Director Operations:         Tessie SanMartin
Chief Counsel:               Srilal Perera

                                                                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

TABLE OF CONTENTS


A.                                                                                                                                 6

  RecentPoliticalDevelopmentsandGovernment Strategy.............................................
  Consequencesofthe Conflict for the Economy.............................................................
       BACKGROUNDAND RECENTDEVELOPMENTS.........................................
                                                                                                                                   6

  Private SectorDevelopmentandInvestment..................................................................                         6
                                                                                                                                   7

B.WorldBank Strategy.....................................................................................................
       WORLD BANK GROUP'S STRATEGYAND RESPONSE.............................                                                       10

  Rationale for Bank Group Involvement........................................................................                    10
                                                                                                                                  10
  Lessons fromPreviousWorldBank Projects                          ............................................................... 12

C.                                                                                                                                13

 ProjectDesign...............................................................................................................
 Project Objectives andDevelopment Impact................................................................
      PROJECTDESCRIPTION...................................................................................
                                                                                                                                  13

 ProjectCost andFinancing...........................................................................................              13
                                                                                                                                  15
                           ....................................................................................................
 AgreementsReached....................................................................................................
 Project Sustainability                                                                                                           15
                                                                                                                                  16

D.                                                                                                                                17
 Institutionalset-up andimplementationarrangements.................................................
      PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION.........................................................................

 Eligibility Criteria.........................................................................................................    17
                                                                                                                                  20
 ProjectBenefits  .............................................................................................................
 ProjectRisks.................................................................................................................    20
                                                                                                                                  21




                                                           ...
                                                           111


                                                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                              ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OFAFGHANISTAN
                               INVESTMENT GUARANTEE FACILITY
                                 CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY

Borrower:                             The Government o fthe Islamic Republic o f Afghanistan

Implementingagency:                   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)

Amount:                              US$ 5 million equivalent

Terms:                                IDA credit terms with 40 years maturity, including 10 years
                                      grace.


FinancingPlan:                             I                           1Local Foreign Total
                                                                                 I         I .       I
                                                                                 I         I

                                           I                                  ($US million)
                                            Government                 I         I        I         I
                                            IDA                                       5.0      5.0

                                            AsianDevelopment


                                            TA):
                                          I                           I          I  10.6  I   10.6  I

Objective and                        The objective o f the project is to assist Afghanistan in its
description:                         reconstruction efforts by stimulating foreign investment
                                     through a program o f political risk insurance - in an
                                     environment where the perception o f political risk (risks o f
                                     war and civil disturbance, expropriation, transfer restriction
                                     and breach o f contract) by foreign investors i s still very
                                     high. The proposed Investment Guarantee Facility will
                                     complement MIGA efforts in the provision o f political risk
                                     insurance by providing a vehicle for risk sharing in a
                                     country where the political risk i s currently perceived to be
                                    high. The Guarantee Facility will therefore significantly

'The    German Government, the Department for InternationalDevelopment and other donors, including
multilateral donors have expressed an interest inproviding technical assistance funds. Amounts will be
c o n f m e d prior to negotiations.


                                                    iv

                     increase the political risk insurance capacity that i s currently
                     available for Afghanistan. Inorder to fund the Facility, IDA
                     will provide a credit for US$5 millionto the Government of
                     Afghanistan to develop a political risk insurance program,
                     which MIGA will administer and implement. In addition,
                     the GOAhas authorized US$5 million o f ADB resources for
                     the Guarantee Facility and has encouraged MIGA to
                     mobilize additional donor funds.


Benefitsand risks:   By helpingto attract foreign private investment ina variety
                     o f sectors, including but not limited to: manufacturing,
                     agribusiness, banking, and smaller scale infrastructure
                     projects, the facility help will stimulate the local economy,
                     generate employment, create tax revenues, and assist in
                     technology transfer from abroad to Afghanistan

                     However, security remains a concern. If the security
                     situation deteriorates significantly, private investors may
                     shy away from Afghanistan despite the existence o f the
                     guarantee facility. Also, effective sanctioning, monitoring,
                     and legal systems are onlyjust emerging. Effective contract
                     enforcement i s essential for the increase o f private sector
                     investment.

ProjectAppraisal     In line with Operational Policy 8.50, there is no Project
Document:            Appraisal Document for this Project.

Disbursement:        The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by September
                     30,2009

Thematic Code:       Other financial andprivate sector development

Sector Code:         General finance sector

ProjectIDNo.:        PE-PO88719-LEN-BB




                                    V

              A.      BACKGROUNDAND RECENTDEVELOPMENTS

 Consequencesofthe Conflictfor the Economy

 1.     Afghanistan i s one o f the poorest and longest-suffering countries among the
members o f the World Bank.An estimated 7 million people remain vulnerable to hunger
and very large numbers are dependent on a massive inflow of food andhumanitarian aid.
Afghanistan's infrastructure and industries are in a desperate state o f disrepair; its human
resource base severely depleted, and its social capital eroded. State institutions are
hinderedby weak operational capacity.

2.      Unemployment and underemployment remain major issues for the Islamic
Republic o f Afghanistan, with rates running as high as 50 percent in Kabul and even
higher outside o f the capital. The average monthly salary in Kabul i s low, with wages
much lower outside the capital. Gross domestic product (GDP) i s estimated at $3.0
billion, and GDP per capita at about $115 per year.
3.      According to recent Government and World Bank estimates Afghanistan requires
up to $27 billion for its reconstruction over the next 7 years. This is a large amount of
funding and the Government recognizes that there may not be sufficient donor funding to
support the entire reconstruction effort. Most importantly, the government realizes that it
must show real and tangible results of economic improvement, including employment
creation, to further the prospects o f lastingpeace.

4.      The reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan will fail in the absence o f a vibrant
private sector capable o f creating employment for its citizens and sustainable long term
economic growth. Preliminary analysis o f poverty and vulnerability in Afghanistan
shows that broadly based economic growth will lead to substantial reduction inpoverty.
Three years after the fall o f the Taliban, Afghanistan's private sector i s still weak, largely
informal andunable to compete inthe world marketplace.

RecentPoliticalDevelopments and Government Strategy

5.      The events o f September 11, 2001 precipitatedwholesale changes inthe political
and military situation in Afghanistan, transforming the overall context for national
reconstruction and for World Bank support to Afghanistan. The end o f the Taliban
regime was followed by the December 5, 2001, Bonn Agreement on Provisional
Arrangements in Afghanistan which preceded the reestablishment o f permanent
government institutions. Key to the agreement among the different groups meeting in
Bonn was that the reform process will lead to the election o f a fully representative
government within a period o f about two and one half years. In January 2004, the
constitutional assembly, Loya Jirga approved a new Constitution of the country, and
President Karzai announced the date o f Presidentialelections as the fall o f the same year.




                                              6

 6.      Early in 2002, a clear strategy for the country's reconstruction was elaborated
 through it's the National Development Framework (NDF), which i s based on three major
 development objectives (pillars):
     0    HumanitarianAssistance, Humanand Social Capital;
     0    PhysicalReconstruction andNatural Resources, and
     0    Private Sector Development.

 7.      In the NDF, the government expressed strong commitment to developing a
 competitive export-oriented economy, to provide the engine o f growth and instrument o f
 social inclusionthrough the creation o f opportunities.

 8.      Within this framework a government-led Consultative Group process i s engaging
with international assistance partners and making progress in aligning reconstruction
programs with the country's development priorities and planning new programs on this
basis. Based on principles o f country-ownership and good governance, with a primary
emphasis on the role o f the private sector, the international community has welcomed the
Consultative Group process. Yet a major challenge remains in ensuring that the entire
population, particularly the poor and vulnerable, feel the benefits o f the new found
stability.

PrivateSector Developmentand Investment

9.       It is increasingly apparent that Afghanistan's prosperity and economic potential
will evolve as its government and donors work to promote open, transparent and
favorable conditions for investment. Inorder to speed-up the pace o f the reconstruction
process, the government needs to engage the private sector more aggressively. While
donor aid i s important for establishing sound conditions for a developing economy, aid
alone cannot build long-term, lasting economic growth. It i s within this context that the
Government o f Afghanistan i s giving high importance to attracting foreign direct
investors, including investors from the Afghan Diaspora.

10.      The primarygroup o fpotential foreign investors for the country currently consists
o f returning Afghan nationals who left Afghanistan as many as 25 years ago for Europe,
Australia, North America, and countries in the region. This diaspora has strong ties to
Afghanistan and wishes to play a role inreconstruction o f the country. Other countries
interested in trade and investments are: India, Iran, Pakistan, Turkey, and Uzbekistan,
each o fwhich has trade ties to the country. Moreover, U.S. and Europeancompanies will
likely show an interest when opportunities arise.          Many foreign investors view
Afghanistan as a central business `hub' and vital trade route, where the Middle East
meets Southern and South East Asia. In addition, many businesses want `first mover
advantage' in establishing a presence in Afghanistan. Preliminary findings show interest
from investors inthe areas o f : power, telecommunications, bankingand internet services,
business hotels, housing and related infrastructure, agro-business, textiles, as well as
steel, and the oil and gas industry.




                                              7

11.     While there i s real and substantial interest from foreign private investors in
Afghanistan, and strong Government encouragement o f foreign direct investment (FDI),
the political risks are equally real and substantial, and will act as a major impediment to
FDIflows to the country. Thepolitical risks emanate from the following:

     Currency transfer restriction & inconvertibility: loss from inability to convert local
    currency into foreign exchange and/or transfer foreign exchange out o f the host
    country. Although real GDP growth i s strong (23 percent in2003/2004) this growth
    i s from a very small base. The total income from opium production (at fanngate
    prices) exceeds US$l billion, equivalent to 15 percent o fthe country's drug inclusive
    GDP. Available information suggests that the current account was in deficit in
    2003/2004. This deficit has been largely funded by official transfers and IMF and
    World Bank concessional lending. The economy remains highly vulnerable to
    external shocks and dependent upon donor funding, which could hurt the country's
    reserves prospects.

    Expropriation: loss caused by host government actions that reduce or eliminate
    ownership of, control over, or rights to the insured investment; this includes
    "creeping expropriation", i.e. a series o f acts that, over time, have an expropriatory
    effect. After decades o f civil conflict, the GOAhas initiated substantial reforms
    related to the private sector andjudiciary. However, it i s only starting to define the
    legal and regulatory framework neededto encourage FDI. Laws andregulations that
    exist are largely untested. Thejudicial system i s hugely undeveloped. Courts, where
    they do exist, are knownto beineffective. Landrights remainuncertain. Difficulties
    arise between government ministries which ultimately hurt investors.

    Breach of Contract: loss resulting from the breach by the GOAo f its contractual
    obligations with the investor. Many o f the issues pertaining to the risk o f
    expropriation also could lead to the GOAnot honoring its contractual obligations
    with the private sector. Inparticular, the lack o f an established track record by the
    Government inthis respect makes this a substantial risk for foreign investors.

    War and civil disturbance: loss resulting from physical damage, destruction or
    disappearance o f assets and business interruption due to politically motivated acts o f
   war and civil disturbance (including terrorism and sabotage). The overall security
   situation remains volatile. Certain areas o f the country, e.g., the south-eastem areas
   near the Pakistan border, remain particularly dangerous, due to ongoing TalebadAl-
   Qaeda activity. Outside Kabul, many warlords continue to retainprivate militias that
   create an extremely challenging environment for foreign investors and this trend i s
   unlikely to reverse in the medium term. The potential for ethnic violence exists as a
   run-up to the September 2004 election and beyond. The International Security
   Assistance Force, mandated by the UN Security Council and now under the
   command o f NATO, will continue its engagement until the new Afghan security
   forces and army are operational.




                                            8

12.    Without insurance against these political or non-commercial risks for investment
projects, many investors cannot do business in Afghanistan and must take a `wait-and-
see' approach. Currently, only limited amounts o f political risk insurance are available
worldwide for Afghanistan.




                                         9

           B.      WORLD BANKGROUP'S STRATEGY AND RESPONSE

 World BankStrategy

 13.     Since late 2001, The World Bank has implemented a substantial program for the
 reconstruction and economic recovery o f Afghanistan. The World Bank participated in
 the 2001Needs Assessment, which provideda basis for a programo f financial assistance
 and advisory services. The Bank has been administering the AfghanistanReconstruction
 Trust Fund (ARTF) through which donor funds flow to finance recurrent costs o f
 government and public investment. The Bank has also provided 13 IDA grants and
 credits to support recovery, reconstructionand institutionaldevelopment in several o f the
 critical sectors o f the Afghanistan economy. The World Bank Board approved the
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), designedto support the NDF, inMarch2003.

 14.     The Transitional Support Strategy identifies enabling private sector development
as one o f four strategic areas o f the Bank's involvement. The TSS emphasizes that in
order to achieve a sustained economic growth and poverty reduction, a conducive
environment for the private sector needs to be established, including appropriate market-
oriented andpro-private sector policies, good govemance, and adequate infrastructure.

Rationalefor BankGroupInvolvement

 15.     The World BankGroup's participationinthis project addresses the country's high
political risk environment which i s a stumbling block for potential foreign investors and
financial institutions. Currently, MIGA i s one o f the few institutions that provides
political risk insurance cover for Afghanistan2, making it difficult for MIGA to share
risks with others. Most public insurers (the export credit agencies) currently do not wish
to operate inAfghanistan, although some have indicatedthey will on a limitedscale (e.g.,
OPIC).    Also, because o f the inherent risks, the scope o f activities that MIGA can
undertake inAfghanistan are limited.

16.     Risksharingwith other private andpublic insurers is a vital tool for any financial
institution to manage risk. MIGA does this in two major ways: firstly, through a treaty
reinsurance program, whereby a pre-agreed percentage o f every project is reinsured by
MIGA's treaty reinsurers and secondly, through facultative reinsurance, whereby the
reinsurance partners and amounts are decided on a project by project basis. While all
MIGA projects always benefit from (some minimal) treaty reinsurance, many projects
also involve risk sharing with other private and public insurers through the facultative
reinsurance program, including through MIGA's Cooperative UnderwritingProgram.

17.     Unfortunately, in the case o f Afghanistan, MIGA's ability to share risks with
others i s limited. In addition, in view o f the high level o f risk, MIGA will have to
exercise caution in order to not impair its relationship with its treaty reinsurers by
exposing them to unexpected high levels o f risk, which could hurt its ability to provide

'Afghanistan became a member o f MIGA inJuly 2003, and is, therefore, eligible for MIGA's guarantee
program


                                              10

insurance in other developing countries. The proposed IDA credit will allow MIGA to
efficiently share political risks, and, due to the proposed structure o f leveraging (further
explained in paragraph 25), the IDA credit will significantly increase the political risk
insurance capacity that i s currently available for Afghanistan.

18.      The World Bank will play a unique developmental role by providing a credit to
the GOAfor its contribution to the Investment Guarantee Facility. This will: (a) provide
adequate funding for the Facility so that it can effectively start operations immediately;
and(b) help anchor funding from other potential multilateral andbilateral institutions and
donors that could be lost if the establishment o f the Facility were delayed. Inparticular,
the Asian Development Bank (ADB) i s expected to provide a Loan from the Asian
Development Fund (ADF) for the Facility inthe amount o f US$5 million. DFID i s also
considering sponsoring the Facility. The Germany Government has agreed to provide
funding for technical assistance andimplementing costs associatedwiththisproject.

19.     The Investment Guarantee Facility will represent an important initiative in the
promotion o f private sector development in Afghanistan and alleviate investor concerns
about non-commercial risks. The project i s consistent with Bank guidelines and policies,
includingthe use o f Bank financial resources for programs that will support private sector
development. It i s also inline with the TSS objectives.

20.     The Guarantee Facility will support a leveraging mechanism that involves MIGA,
ADB, and private as well as public insurers. MIGA will match the amount in the
Guarantee Facility by making available guarantee capacity from its own capital for
Afghanistan in the amount o f US$lO million. This, in turn, will trigger co-insurance
from the ADB (in addition to its US$5 million loan), which i s prepared to provide
political risk guarantees (without counter-government guarantee) to match MIGA's
capacity for Afghanistan, i.e. a fbrther amount o f US$lO million. MIGA, in addition,
will seek to mobilize capacity from private as well as public insurers to double the total
amount of insurance available from the IDA Credit, ADB Loan, as well as MIGA and
ADB co-insurance, i.e. a Mher US$30 million. Insummary, MIGA will aim to leverage
an initial amount o f US$10 million inthe Trust Fundto a total amount for the Facility o f
US$60 million as follows:

        Guarantee Facility:    US$lO million
        MIGA                   US$lO million
        ADB PRG                US$lO million
        Private/TPublicl       US$30 million
        Total                  US$60 million




                                              11

Lessonsfrom PreviousWorld BankProjects

21.     The proposed project has design features similar to GuaranteeFacilities that IDA
undertook in Africa (Regional Trade Facilitation Project), Albania, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, and Moldova, whereby IDA has provided credits to the governments
concerned, which are then held intrust accounts in support o f guarantees issued against
political risks to private investors. It also has similarities with MIGA's Board approved
Investment Guarantee Trust Funds in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the West Bank and
Gaza, whereby the Agency administers a trust fund on behalf o f donors, against which it
issues political risk guarantees.

22.     The keylessons learnt inthe preparation andimplementationo ftheseprojectsthat
are relevant for this project are the following:

     The main lesson i s to root the project preparation into a firm understanding o f the
     target market and build on that understanding and subsequent contacts with the
     private sector, to develop a strong database o f prospective clients for the Facility.
     Experience with the Bank's Bosnia facility shows that the political guarantee facility
     concept has important scope for attracting other risk takers, including private
    political risk and credit insurers.

     The leveragingmechanism allocates the risk to the party that has the best capacity to
    mitigate it, e.g., the governments concerned. The Regional Trade Facilitation Project
     for Africa has been structured in such a way that claims would be paid out o f the
    trust account inwhich the IDA funds are disbursed, untilthe finds inthe account are
    exhausted (inother words, the trust account i s "first loss"), at which point the private
    insurers wouldbecome liable for additional claims.

    MIGA's experience in administering guarantee trust fund for Bosnia and
    Herzegovinahas beenthat a localMIGA presence (inthe host country) to implement
    the trust fund is essential to its success. This is because, without a substantial
    marketing effort, the start-up period of the facility i s likely to be sluggish. In
    addition, local presence greatly facilitates the underwritingo f a project in a complex
    conflict-affected environment, where MIGA's understanding o f country risk and the
    reputationo f investors i s significantly enhanced by having a localpresence.

    The Guarantee Facility needs to be flexible enough to accommodate a wide range o f
    eligible investments that will help private sector development in a conflict affected
    environment. The coverage o f foreign equity transactions alone is not likely to be
    sufficient, and it therefore needs to be supplemented with coverage against political
    risk of other types of investment, such as those relatedto assisting local investors to
    access loans andto import capital goods for their investments.




                                              12

                             C.        PROJECT DESCRIPTION

 Project Objectivesand DevelopmentImpact

 23.     The proposed Investment Guarantee Facility i s intended to assist Afghanistan in
 its reconstruction efforts by stimulating foreign direct investment through a program o f
 political risk insurance - in an environment where the perception o f political risk by
 foreign investors is very high. The project i s designed to stimulate private business
 activity and attract foreign private investment in a variety o f sectors, including but not
 limited to manufacturing, agribusiness, banking, and smaller scale infrastructureprojects.
 It will stimulate the local economy, generate employment, create tax revenues, and assist
 inthe transfer o fmodemtechnologies andbusinesspractices. from abroadto Afghanistan

 ProjectDesign

 24.     Under the proposed project, IDA will provide a credit to the Government of
 Afghanistan for an Investment Guarantee Facility which will be administered and
 implementedby MIGA. The Facility's capital base will be made up o f cash contributions
 from IDA and others to be disbursed into an interest bearing Trust Fund. Additional
 funding for the Facility will be providedby the Asian Development Bank (ADB)which
 will provide a Loan fiom the Asian Development Fundin the amount of US$5 million
 equivalent, and the German Government who will contribute an amount o f US$0.6
 million equivalent towards implementation and Technical Assistance o f the Facility (see
 paragraph 31 below). DFID is also considering providing funding towards the capital o f
 the Facility. The Box on page 13 provides an overview o f the proposed structure o f the
 Facility.

 25.     Investors will pay premiums and MIGA, as Administrator, would issue contracts
 o f guarantee on behalf o f the Facility. MIGA would manage this portfolio o f contracts
through to termination, including the evaluation o f claims, the payment o f valid claims
 andthe seeking o frecoveries. The modalities ofthe Facilitywith respect to MIGA's role
 as Administrator, as well as the rules o f operation are attached in the proposed
FrameworkAgreement between Afghanistan and MIGA.

26.      IDA Partial Risk Guarantees that would be issued directly were not considered in
view o f the fact that most projects to be supported by the AIGF are expected to require
coverages other than Breach o f Contract (Le. the guarantee o f sovereign contractual
obligations), and are more likely to require traditional political risk insurance coverages
o ftransfer restriction and inconvertibility, expropriation, and war and civil disturbance.

27.     In view of MIGA's strong relationship with private insurers, MIGA should be
able to attract the interest o f private insurers for well structured transactions. Inaddition,
public insurers, most o f whom currently do not provide cover for Afghanistan, may also
be encouraged to provide limitedamounts o f cover as a result o fthis initiative. However,
the situation in Afghanistan remains volatile, and therefore the "appetite" o f the private
insurance market will vary depending on the country risk situation, the nature o f the



                                                13

transactions concerned, and the sponsors that are behind them. Thus, the actual risk
 sharing between the Trust Fund and others will be decided on a project-by-project basis,
but always with the aim to support as many projects as possible with a given amount
from the Trust Fund. Inthis regard, the amounts to be used from the Trust Fundfor each
individual project will be limited to US$2 million, unless it i s otherwise agreed by the
GOA,MIGA andFacilityparticipants (Le. IDA, ADB, andparticipatingbilateral donors).
Furthermore, in order to maximize the leverage, the Trust Fund will be "first loss" to
MIGA, ADB's political risk guarantees (ADB PRG) and private and/or public insurers.
This means that ifa claim arises, the payment will be paid out o f the Trust Funduntilthe
money that has been allocated for an individual project from it (Le. the US$2 million per
project) has been exhausted, at which point MIGA, ADB and other co-insurers in a
project would be liable for additional claims.

28.      All guarantees supported bythe GuaranteeFacility, andtherefore the IDA andthe
ADB funding, will follow MIGA's regular underwritingprocedures and methodologies,
and will be albe to offer coverage against the following risks: Transfer Restriction and
Inconvertibility, Expropriation, War and Civil Disturbance and Breach o f Contract. The
funds will be used inaccordance with MIGA's Convention, OperationalRegulations and
other Agency policies, with the exceptions noted below in paragraph 32, regarding the
eligibility o f investments, which are necessary in the specific circumstances o f
Afghanistan's conflict-affected environment.

29.     Guarantees will be priced to risk, in accordance with MIGA's pricing
methodology. In order to limit the risk o f the Facility, Guarantee Contracts will have a
maximum duration o f seven years. This will also help to limit the total duration o f the
project. Other risk mitigation measures that may be considered, on a project by project
basis, relate to the possibility o f providing contract-specific amendments such as longer
waiting periods, higher deductibles, etc.

30.     Inview ofthe needfor flexibility inAfghanistan's conflict-effected environment,
it is proposed that the Guarantee Facility be able to support the following transactions
that would otherwise not be eligible under MIGA's regularpolicies:

        foreign loans without equity, to be used to finance a local equity investment or the
        importation o f critical capital goods for reconstruction, (such as tractors, health
        equipment, and school materials).      The objective i s to encourage local private
        sector development, as well as the private financing o f other transactions that are
        critical for the reconstruction;
        local loans provided in a freely convertible currency by a foreign financial
        institution in Afghanistan. The objective i s to encourage local banks to start
        lending to commercially viable enterprises inAfghanistan. This i s a highpriority
        for the GOA,which has expressed frustration with the fact that banks are not yet
        lending. One o f the obstacles for foreign banks that have started operations in
        Afghanistan to lendto local enterprises is politicalrisk.




                                             14

 33.     MIGA is not allowed to support transactions that do not involve cross-boarder
 equity investments, and, therefore, such transactions cannot be leveragedwith guarantees
 from MIGA's own capital. As a result, ifMIGA i s not involved, the private sector might
 be reluctant to provide coverage for such transactions. However, the ADB does not have
 these same restrictions, and could provide cover for foreign loans and local transactions.
 Therefore, leveraging for such transactions, albeit at a lower level, should still be
 feasible.

 34.     The coverage o f MIGA ineligible transactions, and especially the coverage o f
 local transactions, may raise some concems with respect to risk. In order to manage
 these concems, additional risk mitigationmeasures will be put inplace: (i) amounts to
                                                                               the
be used from the Trust Fundto cover MIGA ineligible transactions referredto above will
be limited to 30 percent o f the total amount o f funds in the Trust Fund, unless Facility
participants @.e.IDA, ADB, and bilateral donors), the GOAand MIGA otherwise agree;
 (ii) maximumcoveragefor individualtransactionsmaynotbelargerthanUS$1
     the
million, unless Facility participants, the GOA and MIGA otherwise agree; and (iii)
MIGA's due diligence process will be extra mindful of the risk of moral hazard when
 local transactions are involved. Coverage provided to local transactions will, moreover,
 exclude Transfer Restriction and Inconvertibility, since the risks o f conversion and/or
transfer outside the host country do not apply to the guarantee holder inthis case.

ProjectCost and Financing

35.      The Trust Fund will earn interest on disbursed IDA and ADF funds, as well as
premiumincome. Interest andpart of the premium income will remaininthe Trust Fund
to build up reserves if claims have to be paid. The cost o f underwriting, contract
administration, and claims administration for the Guarantee Facility will be bom by
MIGA. A portion (up to 25%) o f premium income generated by the Facility will be set
aside to pay for expenses related to the implementation o f the Facility, insofar as these
are in excess o f the contribution provided for implementation and Technical Assistance
by the Government o f Germany (please see paragraph 36 below). Another portion o f the
premium (up to 15%) generated by the Facility will be used to defray costs incurred by
MIGA for managingthe Facility. Inaddition, the premium generated by contracts issued
from the Trust Fund will pay for extemal audits, liquidation costs, and other unforeseen
costs.

36.      Implementation costs and TechnicalAssistance will be fundedby the Government
o f Germany, inthe amount o f US$0.6 million equivalent, for the following: (i)     funding a
consultant that MIGA will recruit for a period o f two years, to assist inimplementingthe
Facility locally; (ii) marketing costs to promote the Facility locally; and (iii)     training
costs, related to the training by the consultant o f local staff o f Afghanistan's investment
promotion agency (ASIA) to promote the Facility with foreign investors.

ProjectSustainability

37.     The use o fMIGA's underwriting policies andmethodologieswill ensure that only
those projects that are financially viable and have a positive development impact on


                                             15

Afghanistan will be underwritten under the Facility. This will help to build a viable
private sector which i s not dependent on official assistance.

38.      The availability period for the Facility (Le. the period during which contracts o f
guarantee may be issued) i s five years. Leveraging o f the Guarantee Facility with MIGA,
ADB, and private/public risk insurers will greatly enhance the sustainability of the
project.   Once security improves, and law and order are restored, and the country
implements the necessary reforms, it i s expected that MIGA and other public and private
insurers will be able to continue providing political risk insurance to Afghanistan without
the need for additional IDA or other concessional funds. Insuch circumstances, the Trust
Fundwould no longer be necessary and would be allowed to run off as issued contracts
matured.   .

Agreements Reached

39.      During project preparation, IDA, ADB and MIGA reached agreement on the
general scope, content and operating modalities o f the Facility, including criteria for
eligible investors, investments, limits o f coverage, etc. The following items were agreed:

     Scope:The World Bank, MIGA andthe ADB expect the Facility to stimulate private
     business activity and attract foreign private investment in a variety o f sectors,
     including but not limitedto manufacturing, agribusiness, banking, and smaller scale
     infrastructure projects. It i s designed to stimulate the local economy, create
     employment opportunities, generate tax revenues, and assist in the transfer o f
    moderntechnologies andbusinesspractices from abroad to Afghanistan.

    Funding: IDA and ADB will provide a credit and loan, respectively, inthe amount
    o f US$5 million each, which will be disbursed on a pro rata basis. The GOAhas
    welcomed the interest expressed inproviding additional assistance to the Facility by
    the Britishand GermanGovernments.
    Maximum Amount per Project: The Facility is primarily designed to support
    smaller projects. The maximum amount o f cover from the Guarantee Facility per
    project is US$2 million, unless the GOAand participants in the Trust Fund decide
    otherwise. Additional amounts o f insurance should be mobilized through leveraging
    withMIGA, ADB andpublic andprivate insurers' capacity.
    Implementation Arrangements: As the implementing agency for the Facility,
    MIGA will recruit an expert consultant, in accordance with World Bank Group
    recruitment guidelines, for a period o f two years. As described further inparagraph
    46, the consultant, who will reside in the World Bank's Resident Mission inKabul,
    will implement the Facility.
    Availability periodandtenor of guaranteecontracts: The funds inthe Trust Fund
    will be available for backstopping guarantees for a period o f five years after
    effectiveness  - with possible extensions to be discussed at the end o f year five.  If
    guarantees are canceled, or expire, the funds could be used to backstop subsequent
    guarantees for the duration o f the availability period. Therefore, funds in the Trust



                                              16

     Fundcould, inprinciple, be usedto support multiple transactions duringthis period.
     Assuming that the last guarantee is issued at the end of year five for a period seven
     years, the total life o f the Guarantee Facility would be 12years.

 0   First loss criteria for claims: As discussed in paragraph 26 above, in order to
     leverage the Trust Fundto the maximum extent possible, it would be "first loss", i.e.
     intheevent o fa claimthe funds inthe Trust Fundwould beusedfirst to pay out on a
     claim and the last to share inany recoveries. This i s a critical element for the project
     inview ofAfghanistan's highrisk environment.


                         D.        PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION

 Institutionalset-up andimplementationarrangements

 40.     The institutional set-up o f the project is critical to its success, as the insurance
 mechanism must be credible inthe eyes o f potential policy holders. Inview o f the need
 for an independent assessment o f the political risks inAfghanistan, and inthe selection o f
projects that meet objective criteria with respect to their commercial viability and
contribution to economic development, MIGA has been chosen to be the implementing
 agency for the Guarantee Facility. MIGA will be responsible for marketing o f the
Facility, for the selection and underwriting o f projects, structuring the insurance in order
to leverage the Facility to the greatest extent possible with MIGA's own capital as well as
with other insurers, andcontract andclaims administration.

41.        All guarantees supported by the IDA funding will follow MIGA's regular
underwriting procedures and methodologies, as well as MIGA's regular process with
respect to contract administration, claims determination, claims payments and recoveries.
The Guarantee Facility will follow MIGA's Convention, Operational Regulations and
other Agency policies, with the exceptions mentioned in paragraph 32. In addition, the
Facility will use MIGA's environmental guidelines and Board approved environmental
and social safeguard policies. For each individual project, MIGA will seek prior Host
Country Approval from the Government o f Afghanistan, as requiredunder its Convention
for all its projects world-wide. Therefore, the Government o f Afghanistan will have the
final decision on the issuance o f a guarantee. With respect to the pricing o f guarantees,
investors will be charged guarantee premiums established in accordance with MIGA's
normal procedures.

42.      MIGA will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, a Trust Fund, in U S Dollars, into which the IDA credit (as well as
ADF and other Guarantee Facility contributions) will be disbursed.           The Trust Fund
would use the administrative, accounting, financial reporting and internal control
framework maintained by the Trust FundDivision within the Accounting Department o f
the World Bank. Disbursements would take place as follows: based on the pipeline o f
projects to be guaranteed, 25 percent o f the IDA and ADF funds would be disbursed
upfront. The remainder o f the funds would be disbursedupon MIGA having received the



                                              17

 Host Country Approval from the GOA for each individual guarantee proposal.
 Disbursements from the IDA Credit, ADB Loan, and other Trust Fundparticipants would
 take place on a pro rata basis.

 43.     As the implementing agency, MIGA shall be responsible for maintaining the
 financial records and reports o f the Facility. MIGA will maintain separate records and
 ledger accounts inrespect o f the funds deposited by MIGA on behalf o f the Government
 o f Afghanistan, and provide an annual management assertion together with an attestation
 from extemal auditors conceming the adequacy o f intemal control over cash-based
 financial reporting for trust funds as a whole. Semi-annual financial monitoring reports
 on the operations o fthe Facility will also be preparedby MIGA.

 44.     The proposed financial management arrangements for the facility described above
 have been reviewed by the Bank's Financial Management staff and are considered
 adequate for the project's effective implementation. The Project will follow standard
 Afghan Government financial management policies and procedures, including using the
 Chart o f Accounts developed by the Financial Management Agent to record project
disbursements.

45.     As the implementing agency, MIGA has the sole authority to issue guarantees
from the Guarantee Facility, provided that the Host Country Approval from the
Government o f Afghanistan has beenreceived. In the case o f a claim, MIGA will have
the sole authority to mediate the claim with the Government o f Afghanistan, and in the
case o f an unresolved claim, the Agency also has the sole authority to call for the Trustee
to pay out a claim.

46.     MIGA will recruit a consultant, for a two-year period, to implementthe Guarantee
Facility inthe host country. The consultant will work out o f the World Bank's Resident
Mission in Kabul, and will have responsibilities related to the marketing, identification
and screening o f projects, the processing o f guarantees, and in contract administration
and monitoring of projects.      In addition, the implementation arrangements include a
training component, whereby AISA staff would be trained to promote the Guarantee
Facility. The MIGA consultant would have primary responsibility for these tasks,
although one training component i s expected to be provided at World Bank Group HQ.
As stated in paragraph 36, the Government of Germany has agreed to pay for the
Implementation and Technical Assistance Plan in the amount o f US$0.6 million
equivalent.

47.     To create a strong incentive for the Government o f Afghanistan to avoid actions
that would trigger claims from the Guarantee Facility, the project would include a
component for the financing o f critical imports, based on a negative list from unused
funds once the Trust Fundhas beenfully implementedand all guaranteeshave expired or
have been terminated.      The list o f eligible goods and the selection o f projects and
enterprises that would benefit from these imports would be agreed between the GOAand
IDA.




                                              18

Box 1 Organizationaldiagram of the Investment Guarantee Facility




             Gvt of Afghanistan



                      I

                      IIIIII
                      II
                      I


                      I
                      I




                                                    Impleyenting Agency
                                                    Arranger of Insurance



                                   Promotion

                                                        Investors




  1. WorldBank provides IDA Creditto Govt. ofAfghanistan(GOA). ADB provides
     an ADF Loan. DFID andthe Government of Germanyhaveindicatedthey will
     also providebilateralgrants to the Facility.
  2. MIGA is assignedthe role of ImplementingAgency for the project
  3. Money i s disbursedto a MIGA Trust Fundin accordancewith the schedule and
     proceduresstipulatedinthe IDADevelopmentCredit Agreement.
  4. Investors seekingpoliticalrisk insurance apply to MIGA for each guarantee.
     MIGA follows its normaldue diligence anddecisionmakingprocesses.
  5. AISA (the AfghanInvestment SupportAgency) has agreedto work with MIGA to
     promotethe InvestmentGuaranteeFacilityto potentialforeign investors.
  6. Once MIGA completes itsdue diligence, the GOAis notifiedo f each guarantee
     andis requiredto provideHost CountryApproval. Followingthe HCA, MIGA
     issues the guarantee to the investor, usingthe MIGA Contract o f Guarantee.
  7. Once the guarantee i s issued,the investorpaysMIGA a Premium.
  8. Ifthere i s a claim, MIGA will follow itsnormalproceduresto mediatethe claim
     with GOA.
  9. Ifunsuccessful, MIGA will payout the claim to the investor.
 10. MIGA will seek recoveryfrom the GOA.




                                           19

 EligibilityCriteria

 48.    MIGA can guarantee new, cross-border investments, as well as investments
 associated with the expansion, modernization, or financial restructuring o f existing
projects, and acquisitions involving the privatization o f state-owned enterprises. Eligible
 forms o f investments include equity, shareholder loans, and loan guarantees issued by
 equity holders, provided that the loans and loan guarantees have terms o f at least three
years. Loans to unrelated borrowers are also eligible for MIGA guarantees, provided that
 an eligible shareholder registers its investment with MIGA. Other eligible investments
 include, but are not limited to, technical assistance, management contracts, leases, and
franchising and licensing agreements, provided that the remuneration o f the investor i s
tied to a large extent to the project's operating results.       In view of the particular
circumstances inconflict-affected Afghanistan, it i s important that the Guarantee Facility
retains flexibility with respect to the types of transactions that it may support, in
particular: the coverage o f foreign loans without equity for the benefit o f a local investor
or for the import o f essential capital goods, and local loans provided by commercial
banksto localprivate projects.

49.     Every project being considered for coverage will have to meet MIGA's Board-
approved EnvironmentalGuidelinesand Safeguard Policies.

50.     With respect to the eligibility o f investors, individuals must be a national o f a
member country o f MIGA other than the country inwhich the investment is to be made,
although MIGA will also insureinvestmentsmade by a national o f Afghanistan, provided
that the hnds originate from outside, the host country and the host govemment
specifically approves the investment. Corporations or financial institutions are eligible
for coverage ifthey are either incorporated, andhave their principal place o fbusiness ina
MIGAmember country, or ifthey aremajority-ownedbynationals o fmember countries.

InvestmentEvaluation

51.     In keeping with MIGA's objective of promoting economic growth and
development, eligible investment projects will have to be financially, economically and
environmentally sound and contribute to the economic development o f the host country.
Priority will be given to smaller projects inthe financial, manufacturingand agribusiness
sectors, as well as small scale infrastructure.

ProjectBenefits

52.     The mainpurpose o f the Guarantee Facility is to help kick-start the private sector
in Afghanistan, and bring foreign investment to the country. By mitigating critical
government performance, and war and civil disturbance risk, investors will be
encouraged to invest incommercially viable projects inAfghanistan. This, inturn, should
help to create economic growth, generating employment and tax revenues for the
government. Inaddition, the Guarantee Facility will benefit from leveraging MIGA's as




                                             20

well as public and private insurers' capacity for Afghanistan, and will have an important
demonstration effect for other insurers.

Project Risks

53.      There i s a risk that the stated objectives o f the project may not be achieved, and
that there will be a lack o f investor interest inthe guarantee program, due to the following
factors: (i)worsening o f the security situation or resumption o f hostilities: although
security remains an issue inparts o f the country, the risk i s a deterioration o f security in
areas (including Kabul) that are currently considered acceptable from a security
standpoint to foreign investors; (ii)lack o f demonstrable efforts          or delays in the
implementation o f necessary reforms by the Government that are critical to foreign
investors. Inthe case o f the bankinglaw, ratificationo f legislationtook much longer than
expected. The passing o f these laws should, however, have a very positive effect on FDI;
(iii) ofcommercialopportunitiesforforeigninvestors;and(iv)lackofaccessbythe
     lack
private sector to commercial sources o f debt financing, both at the local and at the
international level. Foreign banks are reluctant to fund private investment into
Afghanistan and local banks are not (yet) lending to the private sector. Hence, some
projects may fail to materialize due to a lack o f debt funding. However, the availability
o f political risk insurance should encourage banks to start lendingto economically viable
ventures inAfghanistan.




                                              21

Map ofAfghanistan

                     lBe0m78




     22

