Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE
 
Report No.:  AB919[OPCS1] 
Project Name 
Afghanistan Investment Guarantee Facility 
Region SOUTH 
ASIA 
Sector 
Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual 
savings (100%) 
Project ID 
P088719 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington DC  20433 
United States 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S1   [w2][ ] S2  [w3][X] S3   [w4][ ] SF   [w5][ ] TBD 
(to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
July 7, 2004 
Date of Appraisal Authorization 
June 29, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board Approval 
July 29, 2004 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Government of Afghanistan realizes that it must show real and tangible results of economic 
improvement, including employment creation, to further the prospects of lasting peace.  The 
National Development Framework (NDF) of the Government of Afghanistan identifies three 
main development objectives (pillars), related to Humanitarian Assistance; Pillar 1: Human 
Social Capital; Pillar 2: Physical Reconstruction and Natural Resources; and Pillar 3: Private 
Sector Development.  The NDF clearly states Private sector investment as one of the 
government’s key national development programs.  
 
The Government also recognizes that while donor aid is important for establishing sound 
conditions for a developing economy, aid alone cannot build long-term, lasting economic 
growth.  It is increasingly apparent that Afghanistan’s prosperity and economic potential will 
evolve as its government and donors work to promote open, transparent and favorable conditions 
for investment.  In order to speed the pace of the reconstruction process, the government needs to 
engage the private sector more. It is within this context that the Government of Afghanistan is 
giving high importance to attracting foreign direct investors, including investors from the Afghan 
Diaspora.  
 
The primary group of potential foreign investors for the country currently consists of returning 
Afghan nationals who left Afghanistan as many as 25 years ago for Europe, Australia, North 
America, and countries in the Asia region.  The Diaspora has strong ties to Afghanistan and 
wishes to play a role in reconstruction of the country.  Other countries interested in trade and 
investments are: India, Iran, Pakistan, Turkey, and Uzbekistan, each of which has trade ties to the 
country.   
 
Page  2
Many foreign investors view Afghanistan as a centr
al business ‘hub’ and vital trade route, where 
the Middle East meets Southeast Asia.  In addition, many businesses want ‘first mover 
advantage’ in establishing a presence in Afghanistan. Preliminary findings show interest from 
investors in the power, telecommunications and Internet service, banking, business hotels, 
housing and related infrastructure, agro-business, textile and steel, and oil and gas industry. 
 
While there is real and substantial interest from foreign private investors in Afghanistan, and the 
Government strongly encourages foreign direct investment, the political risks are equally real 
and substantial, and will act as a major impediment to foreign investment.  The political risks 
emanate from the following:   
 
(1) the risk of renewed hostilities (including sabotage and terrorism);  
(2) the risk of expropriation (including “creeping” expropriation) due to insufficient 
recognition of private property rights in a country that, for a long time, has seen little or 
no private ownership; 
(3) transfer restriction risk, due to the fact that investors may not be allowed to repatriate 
profits or service the loans to their foreign creditors; and 
(4) breach of contract: investors engaged in projects that have contractual relationships with 
the Government of Afghanistan will be concerned about a possible repudiation or breach 
of those contracts for political reasons. 
 
Without insurance against these political or non-commercial risks for investment projects, many 
investors cannot do business in Afghanistan and must currently take a ‘wait-and-see’ approach.  
Currently, only limited amounts of political risk insurance are available worldwide for 
Afghanistan. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed Guarantee Facility is designed to assist Afghanistan in its reconstruction efforts by 
stimulating foreign investment through a program of political risk insurance – in an environment 
where the perception of political risk by foreign investors is still very high.  The World Bank 
Group and the Government of Afghanistan expect the project to stimulate private business 
activity and attract foreign private investment in a variety of sectors, including but not limited to 
manufacturing, agribusiness, banking, and smaller scale infrastructure projects.  They expect the 
project to stimulate the local economy, employment, create tax revenues, and assist in the 
transfer from abroad to Afghanistan of modern technologies and business practices. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
In order to fund the Guarantee Facility, it is proposed that IDA will provide a credit for US$5 
million to the Government of Afghanistan to develop a political risk insurance program 
administered and implemented by MIGA. In addition, the GOA has authorized US$5 million of 
ADB resources for the Guarantee Facility and has encouraged MIGA to mobilize additional 
donor funds.   
 
Page  3
In conjunction with MIGA, the proposed Guarantee Facility will cover eligible foreign 
investment against the risks of War and Civil Disturbance, Expropriation, Transfer Restriction 
and Breach of Contract.  Currently, MIGA is one of the very few institutions that is able to 
provide political risk insurance cover for Afghanistan
1
,
making it very difficult for MIGA to 
share risks with others.  This in turn limits the scope of activities that the Agency could 
undertake in Afghanistan in the next few years.  Risk sharing with other private and public 
insurers is a vital tool for any financial institution to manage risk.  MIGA does this in two major 
ways: through a treaty reinsurance program, whereby a pre-agreed percentage of every project is 
reinsured by MIGA’s treaty reinsurers (consisting of two private insurance companies) and 
through facultative reinsurance, whereby the reinsurance partners and amounts are decided on a 
project by project basis.  While all projects benefit from (some minimal) treaty reinsurance, 
many projects also involve risk sharing with other private and public insurers through the 
facultative reinsurance/coinsurance program.   
 
Unfortunately, in the case of Afghanistan, MIGA’s abilities to share risks with others are 
extremely limited.  Most public insurers (the export credit agencies) currently do not wish to 
operate in Afghanistan, although some have indicated they will on a limited scale (e.g., OPIC).   
In addition, in view of the high level of risk, MIGA will have to pay careful attention not to 
impair its relationship with its treaty reinsurers, which could hurt its ability to provide insurance 
in other developing countries.  The proposed IDA credit will allow MIGA to efficiently share 
risks, thereby significantly increasing the political risk insurance capacity that is currently 
available for Afghanistan from sources worldwide.  
 
With regard to the structure of the proposed Facility, MIGA and World Bank would follow a 
structure, which in previous cases, has been successful. The World Bank provides a credit and 
the IDA funds are disbursed to a commercial bank, acting as Trustee of the Facility.  MIGA will 
be the implementing agent of the Facility.  ADB, MIGA and World Bank lawyers, in cooperation 
with the their respective financial management and procurement staff, will ensure that the 
structural design of the facility complies with all applicable safeguard policies and procedures. 
 
As the Implementing Agency, MIGA has the sole authority to issue guarantees, backed by funds 
in the account held by the Trustee.  This requires Host Country Approval from the Government 
of Afghanistan.  In the case of a claim, MIGA will have the sole authority to mediate the claim 
with the Government of Afghanistan, and in the case of an unresolved claim, MIGA will also 
have the sole authority to call for the Trustee to pay out a claim.   
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The Project Team has examined the type, likely locations and scale of the proposed project as 
well as the nature and magnitude of its potential impacts. It has determined that no Safeguard 
policies will be applicable to the creation of the Facility.  However, it is recognized that specific 
investments that the Guarantee Facility may insure may trigger the application of Safeguard 
Policies.  These will be addressed on a case-by-case basis for each investment in accordance with 
MIGA Environmental and Social Review Procedures, and MIGA will apply its Safeguard 
Policies as it would in all other investments that MIGA considers for an investment guarantee.  
 
1
Afghanistan became a member of MIGA in July 2003, and is therefore eligible for MIGA’s guarantee program 
Page  4
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
5 
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK 
5 
 Total 
10 
 
6. Contact points 
 
Samuel Munzele Maimbo 
Title: Financial Sector Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-3115 
Fax: (202) 522-1145 
Email: 
smaimbo@worldbank.org
Monique Koning 
Lead Underwriter 
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Facility 
Tel: (202)  
Fax: (202)  
Email: 
mkoning@worldbank.org
