                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2163



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-39680)



                                         ON A

                                     CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF

                                SDR 3.5 MILLION
                        (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                    FOR THE

            AFGHANISTAN INVESTMENT GUARANTEE FACILITY



                                   April 5, 2012




Finance and Private Sector Development
Afghanistan
South Asia Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective September 2011)

                     Currency Unit = Afghani (AFN)
                         US$ 1.00 = AFN 48.39

                              FISCAL YEAR

                           March 21 – March 20



                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
AIGF     Afghanistan Investment Guarantee Facility
AISA     Afghanistan Investment Support Agency
BHF      Business Humanitarian Forum Association
BOAD     West African Development Bank
BMZ      Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development
CAFEF    Conflict Affected and Fragile Economies Facility
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
DFID     Department for International Development
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment
GoA      Government of Afghanistan
GTZ      German Organization for Technical Cooperation
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IHFD     International Home Finance and Development LLC
MIGA     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NAPCOD   New Afghanistan Project for Cotton and Oil Development
NDF      National Development Framework
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PPD      Project Preparation Document
QALP     Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio
SIDA     Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
TSS      Transitional Support Strategy

                       Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
                     Country Director: Josephine Bassinette
                      Sector Manager: Ivan Rossignol
                 Project Team Leader: Guillemette Sidonie Jaffrin
                    ICR Team Leader: Guillemette Sidonie Jaffrin
                            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
                                 Investment Guarantee Facility



                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and ThemeCodes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 11
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 12
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 13
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 15
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 16
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 17
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 18
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 20
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 20
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 21
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 22
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 24
  Annex 10. Details of Guarantees ……………………………………………………...25
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Afghanistan Investment
Country:                Afghanistan              Project Name:
                                                                           Guarantee Facility
Project ID:             P088719                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39680
ICR Date:               04/11/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 3.50M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 3.28M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 3.28M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Department for International Development UK (DFID)
 Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)
 Asian Development Bank (ADB)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/13/2004      Effectiveness:             12/17/2004        12/17/2004
Appraisal:            06/29/2004      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/29/2004      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   09/30/2009        09/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                                Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of               Moderately
                           No
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):       Unsatisfactory
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Non-compulsory pensions and insurance                                  100                    100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                    50                     50
Other financial and private sector development                          50                     50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                    Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Josephine M. Bassinette               Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Ivan Rossignol                        Simon C. Bell
Project Team Leader:       Guillemette Sidonie Jaffrin           Samuel Munzele Maimbo
ICR Team Leader:           Guillemette Sidonie Jaffrin
ICR Primary Author:        Shiori Onishi
                           Caroline J. Lambert


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Investment Guarantee Facility was intended to assist Afghanistan in its
reconstruction efforts by stimulating foreign direct investment through a program of
political risk insurance in an environment where the perception of political risk by
foreign investors was very high. The project was designed to provide a first-loss
mechanism in order to leverage additional political risk cover from the Multilateral
Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), which managed the Facility, and other insurers.




                                                 ii
  By providing political risk insurance, the project intended to stimulate private business
activity and attract foreign private investment in a variety of sectors, including but not
limited to manufacturing, agribusiness, banking, and smaller scale infrastructure projects.
It aimed to stimulate the local economy, generate employment, create tax revenues, and
assist in the transfer of modern technologies and business practices from abroad to
Afghanistan.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target   Formally      Actual Value
                                            Values (from      Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval       Target      Completion or
                                             documents)       Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Amount of foreign direct investment stimulated by AIGF
                No foreign direct
Value
                investment stimulated by
quantitative or                           US$80 million                 US$201.5 million
                AIGF at the time of board
Qualitative)
                approval
Date achieved 07/01/2004                  12/15/2010                    09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Number of jobs created through investments supported by AIGF
                No jobs generated
Value
                through investments
quantitative or                           700 jobs                      725 jobs
                supported by AIGF at the
Qualitative)
                time of board approval
Date achieved 07/01/2004                  12/15/2010                    09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                           Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                        Revised
                                              approval                    Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                            documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 : Total face value of guarantee issued
Value           No guarantee Issued at
(quantitative   the time of board        US$72 million                  US$159 million
or Qualitative) approval
Date achieved 07/01/2004                 12/15/2010                     09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %

                                            iii
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Total face value of pipeline
Value                                        Face value of
                  No pipeline at the time of
(quantitative                                pipeline: US$284              US$836 million
                  board approval
or Qualitative)                              million
Date achieved     07/01/2004                 12/15/2010                    09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                            IP          Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
 1      12/08/2004           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      0.00
 2      05/17/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      0.00
 3      11/17/2005       Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                      1.25
 4      05/16/2006       Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                      1.25
 5      11/27/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      1.25
 6      06/07/2007           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      1.25
 7      12/09/2007           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      1.25
 8      06/06/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      1.25
 9      12/12/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      1.25
 10     06/26/2009           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      2.50
 11     12/18/2009           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      2.50
 12     02/13/2011           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               2.50


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and sector background: The events of September 11, 2001 resulted in
international military intervention in Afghanistan, which in turn heralded the fall of the
Taliban regime. The Bonn Agreement on Provisional Arrangements in Afghanistan,
signed in December 2001, subsequently laid out a transition process towards a new
constitution and an elected government. The new constitution was adopted in January
2004, and presidential elections took place later in the year.

Following more than two decades of conflict, Afghanistan suffered from food insecurity,
derelict infrastructure, a narrow economic base, depleted human capital and endemic
poverty. The country’s private sector was weak and largely informal, and unemployment
and underemployment remained major issues for the country. One of the poorest
countries in the world, Afghanistan—which was estimated to require up to US$27 billion
for its reconstruction over the following seven years—depended heavily on foreign
assistance and capital.

Rationale for Bank assistance: Early in 2002, the National Development Framework
(NDF) of the Government of Afghanistan (GoA) identified three priorities: (i)
humanitarian assistance, human and social capital, (ii) physical reconstruction and natural
resources, and (iii) private sector development. The scale of the country’s funding needs,
as well as the dearth of employment opportunities and the largely informal economy,
highlighted the need for private sector investment. In March 2003, the World Bank Board
approved the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), formulated to support the NDF.

Although Afghanistan and its reconstruction offered substantial investment opportunities
for foreign investors, political risk remained a significant hurdle. At the same time,
political risk insurance for projects in Afghanistan was scarce. The country was eligible
for Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)’s guarantees, but MIGA’s ability
to share risks with other insurers was very limited, as most insurers were unwilling to
operate in the country. The Afghanistan Investment Guarantee Facility (AIGF) was
created to provide first loss political risk insurance and therefore leverage additional
cover from MIGA, Asian Development Bank (ADB), as well as public and private
insurers. The International Development Association (IDA) credit financed the GoA’s
contribution to the Facility, representing an important initiative in the promotion of
private sector development in Afghanistan.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Afghanistan Investment Guarantee Facility was intended to assist Afghanistan in its
reconstruction efforts by stimulating foreign direct investment through a program of
political risk insurance in an environment where the perception of political risk by
foreign investors is very high. The Facility hoped to attract foreign private investment in
a variety of sectors, including but not limited to manufacturing, agribusiness, banking,


                                            1
and smaller scale infrastructure projects, thereby generating employment, creating tax
revenues, and assisting in the transfer of modern technologies and business practices
from abroad to Afghanistan.

When the project was approved in July 2004, outcome indicators were not included in the
Project Preparation Document (PPD) and in the Memorandum and Recommendations of
the President.

Initial indicators were developed in May 2005 and included: (i) disbursements equivalent
to 25% of the value of the IDA contribution towards the issuance of guarantees in
FY2006, and (ii) a pipeline of definitive applications from at least four firms in FY2006.
Key indicators were revised in November 2006 in order to better align with the PDO,
which remained unchanged. New indicators are: (i) amount of foreign direct investment
stimulated by the AIGF, (ii) number of jobs created through investments supported by the
AIGF, (iii) total face value of guarantee issued, and (iv) total face value of pipeline with
definitive application.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PPD did not identify specific beneficiaries.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The creation of the Investment Guarantee Facility was the project’s single component.
The objective of the Facility was to create a leveraging mechanism that would generate
additional political risk cover. Additional insurance was to be provided by MIGA as well
as other public and private insurers mobilized through MIGA’s reinsurance program. In
order to maximize the leverage, the Facility was structured to provide a ―first-loss‖ layer:
the AIGF would cover any claims first, before co-insurers would become liable for
additional amounts not covered by the Facility. This was considered as a critical element
for the project in view of Afghanistan’s high risk environment.

The GoA funded the Facility through credits from IDA and ADB, which each committed
US$5 million, and a grant of GBP 1 million from the UK’s Department for International
Development (DFID). Contributions were disbursed in tranches into an interest-bearing
trust fund. The US$11.9 million extended to the GoA by IDA, ADB and DFID as GoA’s
contributions to the Facility was expected to translate into a total guarantee amount of
US$71.4 million.

MIGA administered and managed the Facility. As administrator, MIGA was to assess
proposed investments and associated risks, issue contracts of guarantee, collect premiums
and manage the portfolio of contracts on behalf of the Facility. In addition, MIGA was


                                             2
expected to market the Facility and mobilize additional political risk cover from public
and private insurers. Afghan Investment Support Agency (AISA) agreed to work with
MIGA to promote the Facility to potential foreign investors. Modalities were detailed in a
Framework Agreement between the GoA and MIGA.

Guarantees provided by the Facility were to be underwritten following MIGA’s regular
procedures, eligibility criteria and methodologies, and covered the risks of (i) Currency
Transfer Restrictions and Inconvertibility, (ii) Expropriation, (iii) War and Civil
Disturbance, and (iv) Breach of Contract. To tailor the project to Afghanistan’s post-
conflict environment, however, some flexibility was incorporated into the Facility, which
was authorized to support transactions not eligible under MIGA’s regular policies:

   (a) Foreign loans financing either local equity investments or imports of critical
       capital goods for reconstruction.
   (b) Local loans provided in a freely convertible currency by foreign financial
       institutions in Afghanistan. The objective was to encourage local lending, which
       was non-existent.

For the Facility to support as many projects as possible, the exposure of AIGF under any
guarantee contract was capped at US$2 million per individual project. AIGF’s exposure
for transactions ineligible under MIGA’s regular policies was capped at US$1 million per
project and 30 percent of the capital of the Facility on an aggregate basis. Exemptions to
these rules could be granted if agreed by the GoA, MIGA and the Facility’s participants.
Guarantees were to be priced to risk, in accordance with MIGA’s pricing methodology.
In order to limit the risk of the Facility, guarantee contracts were to have a maximum
duration of seven years.

1.6 Revised Components

Not Applicable.

1.7 Other significant changes

In order to maximize the leverage of the Facility, the ratio between the cover provided by
AIGF and by co-insurers had initially been set at a minimum of 1:5. In other words, for
every dollar of cover provided under the Facility, MIGA was to arrange at least US$5 of
additional insurance for the same investment. Yet, by November 2007, much of the
Facility’s capital remained uncommitted. In order to increase the level of capital
commitment, the Facility was then authorized to cover investments following a 1:1 ratio
if necessary, up to AIGF’s maximum amount of liability set for each project. MIGA,
however, was still committed to generating higher leverage for larger investments that
required additional insurance.

In February 2009—seven months before the project was scheduled to close—the GoA
formally requested that the Facility be extended for another two years. In July 2009, the
Bank agreed to extend the closing date of the credit until September 30, 2011,



                                            3
considering the pipeline of potential projects as well as AIGF’s and MIGA’s performance
and action plan to strengthen marketing.

DFID also agreed to extend the project closing date, and the Amendment of
Memorandum of Understanding was signed between MIGA and DFID in December 2009.
However, ADB declined, taking the view that (i) funds in the Facility were enough to
cover the current and expected guarantees, (ii) the investment pipeline did not justify it,
and (iii) its special funds resources were needed elsewhere. The Facility continued
operating until September 2011 with a reduced capital of US$9.4 million, as the
undisbursed portion of the ADB credit (US$2.5 million) was cancelled in May 2010.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was prepared as an emergency operation, given Afghanistan’s political and
economic situation, and was delivered within a short period of time. In line with
Operational Policy 8.50 Emergency Recovery Assistance, there was no Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) for this project. Project design was informed by IDA’s and MIGA’s
previous experience with guarantee facilities, most notably in Africa (Regional Trade
Facilitation Project) and Bosnia and Herzegovina (European Union Investment Guarantee
Trust Fund). These projects provided valuable lessons related to the importance of local
market knowledge and private sector contacts, the ―first loss‖ mechanism, the value of
maintaining a local presence particularly during the start-up phase, and the need for
flexibility to support a wider range of investments.

To assess interest in Afghanistan and shape the services offered by the Facility, extensive
consultations were held with private investors—particularly from the Afghan Diaspora—
the financial sector, and political risk insurers. Project design strived to balance what
MIGA could offer and the need for some flexibility based on Afghanistan’s post-conflict
environment and feedback from consultations.

General risks related to the security situation, as well as the investment and lending
environment, were well identified. Implementation risks such as the Afghan authorities’
ability to promote the Facility, on the other hand, were not highlighted.

As noted in section 1.2, key project outcome indicators were not defined at the project
design stage.

2.2 Implementation

Investment Environment: Project implementation suffered from a deteriorating business
environment. The deterioration of security, the weight of the informal economy, poor
governance and the slow pace of reforms, combined with the global financial crisis, led to
a severe decline in foreign investment into Afghanistan. This resulted in declining
interest in the Facility from foreign investors, as reflected in the number of applications.



                                             4
In addition, as further explained below, the difficult business environment weighed on
projects underwritten by the Facility, which contributed to decisions to cancel coverage.

The hopes that foreign investment could flourish in a variety of sectors were not realized.
As in many other post-conflict environments, the telecommunication sector did well,
while other sectors struggled, as illustrated in the AIGF’s portfolio.

Marketing: The Facility also faced marketing challenges. Although promotion alone
cannot create demand from investors, knowledge about the Facility’s services is essential
to facilitate such demand. The project became effective in December 2004, but
implementation was initially slow. A German grant of US$0.6 million through the
German Organization for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) covered the MIGA’s costs of
hiring a consultant based in Kabul to market the Facility and support its operation. The
consultant was recruited by MIGA in May 2005, and started operating in Afghanistan in
September 2005, after initial training in Washington D.C. A lack of clear and commonly
agreed marketing strategy for the Facility and poor supervision of the consultant by
MIGA headquarters who was new to political risk insurance and to Afghanistan,
hampered implementation during the first year. Misunderstandings about the role of the
consultant and his position vis-à-vis AISA affected his ability to interact with the Afghan
authorities.

By September 2006, initial shortcomings were rectified: the consultant’s responsibilities
were clarified, he received further training (by MIGA), and his performance was more
closely supervised. However, GTZ declined to provide further funding to extend the
consultant’s contract. MIGA financed the consultant until October 2007 to focus on
training AISA staff to market the Facility. The Facility’s sponsors explored alternative
sources of funding and debated whether a full-time local representative was necessary.
All the donors agreed that a local representative could improve in-country marketing, but
funding remained a constraint. In May 2009, HARAKAT, a DFID-funded facility to
promote private sector development in Afghanistan, indicated an interest in financing the
position. Terms of Reference were drafted by MIGA and a formal application for
HARAKAT funding was prepared. However, in October 2010, as the project closing date
was approaching, the Facility sponsors decided that marketing would be best conducted
from MIGA’s headquarters as well as by AISA’s staff on the ground in Kabul.

AISA, as the national Investment Promotion Agency and the official registrar for every
local and foreign investor wishing to conduct business in the country, had direct contact
with investors and thus was expected to take over the local promotion efforts and refer
interested companies to MIGA. The AIGF was an additional tool for AISA to attract
foreign direct investments (FDI) into Afghanistan by informing investors of the
availability of political risk insurance. Although AISA introduced AIGF in meetings with
investors and during investment promotion events, the Agency’s marketing performance
was not consistent. AISA failed to develop a good understanding of the Facility, in part
due to high staff turnover, and in time active local marketing activities virtually ceased.
In late 2009, MIGA appointed a former AISA staff as a local marketing agent. This,
however, also failed to translate into new business opportunities for the AIGF. It should



                                            5
be noted that political risk insurance is a very specialized and complex product, which is
more difficult to market when brokered by local marketing agents. Similar lessons were
learned when MIGA set up the West African Development Bank (BOAD) guarantee
facility in Togo or the facility for Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the Afghan context, MIGA
could have adapted better to the change of market conditions, and be more proactive in
supporting the marketing of its own product.

As noted above, the Facility was designed to guarantee transactions not typically covered
by MIGA. Yet the flexibility incorporated in the project design never became applicable
in practice in Afghanistan where formal project finance and trade credit have largely
failed to develop.

Guarantee Issuance: In spite of increasingly difficult circumstances, the Facility provided
political risk insurance to five projects, two of which obtained further cover for
expansions. Yet two projects (NAPCOD and BHF) ran into difficulty, and insurance was
later cancelled. Another project (Geo Building Technologies) failed to secure debt
financing and reduced the amount of cover initially obtained to reflect the declining value
of the investment. The details of guarantees are summarized in Tables 1 and 2 below. See
Annex 10 for the details of specific transactions.

Table 1: AIGF and MIGA Exposure as of September 30, 2011

  Projects     Guarantee       AIGF         MIGA          Total FDI      Jobs   Issue Date   Expiry Date
                              Exposure     Exposure
                                                                                  July 7,       July 6,
MTN            $156,750,005   $6,000,000   $150,750,005   $193,000,000    600
                                                                                   2011          2017
BRAC Afghan                                                                      Sept. 29,     Sept. 28,
                 $1,800,000     $300,000     $1,500,000
Bank I                                                                             2006          2013
                                                            $6,500,000    120
BRAC Afghan                                                                      Mar. 31,      Mar. 30,
                  $225,000      $112,500      $112,500
Bank II                                                                           2008          2014
Geo Building                                                                     Mar. 31,      Mar. 30,
                  $180,000       $90,000       $90,000      $2,000,000      5
Technologies                                                                      2008          2015

Total          $158,955,005   $6,502,500   $152,452,505   $201,500,000    725




                                               6
Table 2: Cancelled AIGF and MIGA Exposure

  Projects      Guarantee       AIGF         MIGA         Total FDI     Jobs   Issue Date   Expiry Date
                               Exposure     Exposure
                                                                                Feb. 24,
NAPCOD           $1,269,135      $211,522    $1,057,613   $14,100,000    180                 Cancelled
                                                                                 2006
                                                                                            Cancelled to
                                                                                June 29,
MTN             $76,500,000    $2,000,000   $74,500,000   $85,000,000    500                issue a new
                                                                                  2007
                                                                                             guarantee
Geo Building                                                                    Mar. 31,      Reduced
                 $1,560,000      $780,000     $780,000     $2,000,000      5
Technologies                                                                     2008          cover
                                                                                Sept. 25,
BHF                $429,840       $64,476     $365,364     $1,000,000     20                 Cancelled
                                                                                 2006
Total
                $ 79,758,975   $3,055,998   $76,702,977
Cancellations


In April 2011, the AIGF compensated a claim of US$572.95 under the War and Civil
Disturbance cover to the BRAC Afghanistan Bank for physical damage, following an
explosion at the Safi Hotel and shopping center in January 2010. This is so far the only
claim filed under this project.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

As previously mentioned, project outcome indicators were developed after the project
was approved, and were subsequently modified. Intermediate indicators measured the
amount of guarantee issued and the face value of the project pipeline, while project
outcomes were measured by the amount of FDI supported by the Facility and the number
of jobs created.

Although these indicators were appropriate, the project’s outcomes also included
generating taxes for the Afghan authorities and promoting technology transfer, which
were not measured. Given that the Facility together with MIGA issued a guarantee of
US$ 156.75 million for a foreign investment in telecom, the benefits in terms of tax
revenues to the government and technology transfer are substantial.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards: Under the Bank’s Operational Policy 4.01 Environmental Assessment, this
project was categorized as C: the project was likely to have minimal or no adverse
environmental impacts. The Framework Agreement states that the Facility applies
MIGA's Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies, MIGA's Environmental
Guidelines, and MIGA's Environmental and Social Review Procedures. Each project was
reviewed by MIGA for its social and environment impacts during underwriting due
diligence, and each contract of guarantee in the project carried covenants regarding social
and environmental safeguards.

Fiduciary Compliance: MIGA was chosen as the implementing agency with the sole
authority to issue guarantees from the Facility, and responsible for the fiduciary aspects


                                               7
of the Facility’s operation. The Development Credit Agreement requires MIGA to submit
annual audit reports to IDA on the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
project. The Bank waived the submission of audit reports from year to year, because there
were no guarantee claims until April 2011. Only one independent audit was undertaken in
December 2009, covering the period from August 4, 2004 to December 31, 2009. Semi-
annual unaudited financial monitoring reports were submitted by MIGA regularly, and
were reviewed by the Bank.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

MIGA continues to administer ongoing operations after the closing date. As of January
30, 2012, four guarantees remain active, and the total exposure of the Facility stands at
US$6.5 million, as presented in Table 1 above.

To support FDI in conflict-affected and fragile countries, MIGA is considering a new
program called Conflict Affected and Fragile Economies Facility (CAFEF) to be
financed by development partners. Afghanistan will have access to the new Facility. In
the design of CAFEF, MIGA incorporated lessons drawn from previous operations,
especially AIGF. CAFEF is structured similarly to the AIGF, i.e. the facility will take a
first loss cover on a covered transaction. The intent of the CAFEF is, like in the AIGF, to
use the first loss layer as catalyst to increase underwriting of political risk insurance from
MIGA and other insurers for a particular investment in a conflict-affected country or
fragile state. A number of development partners have expressed an interest to finance the
Facility (DFID, CIDA, SIDA, AusAID, and BMZ), but CAFEF has not yet been formally
approved by MIGA’s Board of Directors.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives: Provision of political risk insurance remains critical for foreign investors in
today’s context, as Afghanistan acutely needs FDI for private sector development and
economic growth. Yet, as Table 3 shows, FDI into Afghanistan has plummeted since
2008. As of 2010, it was less than half of the FDI in 2004 when the project started, and
one fourth of its peak in 2008.

Table 3: Foreign Direct Investment Flow to Afghanistan (US$ million)

    2004         2005          2006          2007          2008          2009   2010
    186           271           238           243          300           185     76
Source: Inward and outward foreign direct investment flows, UNCTADStat

The project objective remains relevant, but the deteriorating security situation has
significantly reduced investors’ confidence and critically affected FDI inflows in
Afghanistan. Foreign transactions today are mainly short term and trade related.




                                                 8
Design: According to the Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP) conducted in
May 2010, the project was well prepared and designed, following MIGA’s established
procedures. Given the financial management concerns and capacity constraints within the
government ministries, the selection of MIGA as the implementing agency was a creative
and pragmatic approach, as well as an effective measure to mitigate financial
management risk.

In terms of guarantee products, some of the Facility’s sponsors argued that the Facility’s
services should have been extended to cover local equity investments, and local investors
actually expressed interest in political risk insurance. It is however unclear how MIGA
could have properly assessed the associated risks and managed the legal as well as
logistical implications of covering local investments.

Allowing the Facility to guarantee transactions not covered under MIGA’s regular
policies was premised on expectations that Afghanistan’s financial sector would develop.
Yet, the flexibility of the Facility design by offering cover for local loans and export
credit proved ill suited to the Afghan environment, where formal project finance and
trade credit have remained embryonic.

The time and efforts spent processing the claim for BRAC Afghanistan Bank were
disproportionate compared to the small amount that was paid out. The claim was only the
sixth claim payment that MIGA had made since its inception in 1988. As the AIGF was
administered under MIGA’s Operational Regulations, MIGA’s Executive Vice President
was responsible for decisions on claims. However, given the relative infrequency of such
events, MIGA sought concurrence from the President of the Bank. A deductible or
similar system to filter small claims could have been developed for the Facility.

Implementation: MIGA was the implementing agency of the Facility. Due to the
Facility’s slow start-up, opportunities for guarantee transactions in 2005 might have been
missed. The lack of local representative and the limited ability of AISA to market the
Facility hampered the promotion of AIGF in country. The project sponsors also
expressed some frustration with MIGA’s marketing of the Facility. Yet, MIGA’s efforts
to promote services in Afghanistan were remarkable relative to its resources and efforts
deployed in other member countries. MIGA has 18 underwriters who also act as the
Agency’s business development officers covering 175 countries.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Despite declining FDI flow and Afghanistan’s deteriorating investment climate, the
AIGF met its key outcome targets of stimulating foreign investment and creating
employment opportunities.

As Table 1 shows, the total amount of FDI facilitated by the Facility and MIGA exceeded
the target of US$80 million by a wide margin, reaching US$201.5 million as of
September 2011. The Facility also exceeded its job target. Total face value of guarantees
issued by AIGF and MIGA excluding cancellations was US$159 million, compared with
the target of US$72 million.


                                            9
The target for the total face value of project pipeline at U$284 million was met and
surpassed. The face value of projects in the pipeline based on submission of preliminary
applications reached US$836 million by September 2011. However, most of the
applications did not translate into guarantees, and it is difficult to estimate how many of
these applications are for active investment projects. This is comparable to MIGA’s
business in other countries, as few applications ever turn into guarantee contracts. In
addition, although investors initially showed interest in AIGF, the Facility’s services
were deemed expensive, particularly when compared to national insurers, which can
subsidize premiums. The deteriorating security situation, compounded by the 2008 global
financial crisis, also significantly reduced investors’ appetite in Afghanistan.

Key indicators and results are summarized in Annex 2.

Although the project met its key outcome targets, some of the project sponsors appeared
disappointed by the fact that a single guarantee contract for a foreign investor in telecom
dominates the AIGF/MIGA portfolio for Afghanistan. This may be due to unrealistic
expectations about the role of political risk insurance, which supports but does not
generate foreign investment, particularly in a context of deteriorating security and
business uncertainty. As the business environment deteriorated, the type of foreign
investors still interested in Afghanistan were more likely to have high risk tolerance and
therefore unlikely to have any interest in political risk insurance. In addition, investors
from Afghanistan neighboring countries—a significant source of FDI—are not traditional
buyers of political risk insurance. This investor profile, together with the prevailing
political and security trajectory, increased the challenges of promoting political risk
insurance in Afghanistan, unlike in other countries recovering from conflict, such as
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Yet AIGF and MIGA have underwritten more political risk
cover for investments in Afghanistan than any other national insurer.

3.3 Efficiency

As of June 30, 2011, the project generated US$953,000 as premium and interest income,
while expenses accrued under this Facility were US$131,000, which were paid to MIGA
as administrative and audit fees. In addition, the Facility reimbursed US$572.94 for the
guarantee claim by BRAC.

As discussed in Section 3.2, the project met all the PDO indicators. Thus, the project
achieved its objective efficiently.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory. As discussed above, all the key outcome indicators have been
achieved, thus the project’s overall outcome rating is Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development



                                              10
Not Applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

As MIGA was the implementing agency, the project did not directly lead to institutional
change and strengthening in the country. However, AISA committed to providing
dedicated staff to market the facility in the country. The MIGA consultant provided
training to AISA personnel in marketing, but they were unable to focus on the Facility
due to other assignments. Moreover, the various AISA operational staff that were trained
and tasked with the marketing efforts in the country later left AISA, and they were never
replaced. This resulted in limited capacity building relating to political risk insurance.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not Applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

No beneficiary survey was conducted.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial. QALP2 assessment of the project pointed out that one of the
significant risks in this project is potential claims on existing contracts due to the
deteriorating security situation and political uncertainty. Four guarantees remain active as
of January 2012, and the AIGFs total exposure amounts to US$6.5 million. Although the
project was closed, the risk of potential claim remains until the expiry of the last
guarantee in July 2017.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. As this project was an emergency operation, the PPD
was prepared within a very short period of time. A joint IDA/MIGA team carried out
project preparation and the project design was informed by MIGA’s previous experience
with guarantee facilities, most notably in Africa (Regional Trade Facilitation Project) and
Bosnia and Herzegovina (European Union Investment Guarantee Trust Fund). These
projects provided valuable lessons related to the importance of local market knowledge
and private sector contacts, the ―first loss‖ mechanism, the value of maintaining a local
presence particularly during the start-up phase, and the need for flexibility to support a
wider range of investments.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. With MIGA being the implementing agency for the
Facility, the World Bank project team in Kabul supported MIGA’s work by monitoring


                                            11
progress toward achieving project outcome targets, as well as coordinating with the GoA
and other Kabul-based donors. The supervision mission was conducted and project status
reported regularly every half year throughout the project implementation period.
However, coordination between the Kabul-based Bank team and MIGA was inadequate
in terms of securing MIGA’s inputs to project supervision and undertaking timely actions
to address the challenges encountered by the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Based on the above, overall Bank Performance is
moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. The GoA explicitly requested this operation to attract FDI and
enhance private sector development and readily accepted MIGA being the implementing
agency under a Framework Agreement with MIGA. The GoA maintained its commitment
to the project throughout the project period and was supportive to MIGA’s underwriting
operations in Afghanistan. When MIGA requested the increase of AIGF insurance
coverage for MTN in July 2011, the GoA readily agreed.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. Overall, MIGA’s performance as the implementing agency for the
Facility is rated Satisfactory despite shortcomings in marketing the Facility.

The marketing activities of the AIGF in the first three years yielded good results under a
better investment and security outlook, creating a number of pipeline projects and
guarantees. Nonetheless, after the AIGF’s consultant left in October 2007, there was no
physical presence in Afghanistan, and MIGA headquarters mainly took care of operation
and marketing. This, added to AISA’s inability to effectively market the Facility, led to
the very limited marketing activities in Afghanistan. Nevertheless, MIGA continued
promoting the Facility by attending and/or participating in Afghanistan investment
forums, as well as marketing it through its website, printed material, and presentations on
business development missions and at various forums aimed at attracting private sector
investments in conflict, post-conflict, and fragile states.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
Three main lessons emerge from the project: (i) country risk, (ii) flexibility in insurance
products, and (iii) field representation for marketing.

Country Risk: Afghanistan’s environment is challenging for FDI, in particular the
worsening security environment and governance. Availability of political risk guarantee
is not enough to mitigate the concerns of foreign investors. Without minimum peace and
security, long-term investments are difficult to attract.


                                            12
Flexibility in Insurance Products: Political risk is a major constraint for foreign investors
who are interested in the country; thus providing political risk guarantee is highly
relevant for promoting FDI and enhancing private sector development. However, the
Facility only focused on cross-border political risk insurance and local loans by foreign
financial institutions. It could not cover local investments and short-term operations,
which might have had more demand. According to the Insurance Need Assessment
Survey conducted by AISA in June 2009, 76% of investors suggested that insurance be
extended to local investors as well.

Field Representation for Marketing: The AIGF marketing activities would have been
further improved by hiring a local marketing representative, familiar with local
investment and business environment as well as political risk insurance products. The
previous operation of MIGA in Bosnia and Herzegovina highlighted the importance of
having a full-time representative working on the ground to increase awareness and liaise
with investors on a continuing basis; once a special representative was placed in-country,
there was a steady flow of inquiries from foreign investors for guarantees. In addition,
local representative can help MIGA staff in headquarters to better understand the risks
involved in the country since more detailed information can be provided. This greatly
helps in the management of risks in a high-risk environment.

MIGA has incorporated some of these lessons in the proposed CAFEF, in particular: (i)
locating a field marketing staff focused on the program in Africa, and a coordinator
dedicated to CAFEF management and donor relations, and (ii) forming partnerships with
donors, export credit agencies, and private insurance companies and banks as well as
with the World Bank and International Finance Corporation (IFC).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

None

(b) Cofinanciers

The ADB published its Completion Report on the AIGF in December 2011. The ADB
has indicated that the achievement of the project’s outcome was successful, by
stimulating FDI and creating jobs through political risk guarantees despite the
deteriorating security situation and the global financial crisis. Implementation
arrangements were partly satisfactory; although the ADB’s active involvement was
sought in the later stage, coordination between the ADB and MIGA was intermittent
during the initial phase of implementation mainly due to staff changes.

DFID also issued its Project Closure Report in December 2011. The report mentioned
that, although the overall outcomes of the project were positive, the first phase of the
Facility (2004-2009) was more successful than the second phase (2009-2011). It has also
indicated that, while the project achieved the initial target in stimulating FDI through
political risk guarantees, FDI in Afghanistan fell significantly over the life of the project.



                                             13
Therefore, a link between underwriting political risk guarantees and increasing FDI
appears to be weak, particularly in terms of investment risk in conflict-affected countries.

The details are provided in Annex 8.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

None




                                            14
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
           Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                         millions)
Investment Guarantee Facility              11.9               9.4               75%
Consulting related to marketing of
                                            0.6               0.6               100%
Facility and Training AISA
Total Project Costs                        12.5              10.0               80%




(b) Financing
                                      Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                                      Percentage of
         Source of Funds              Estimate        Estimate
                                                                       Appraisal
                                    (USD millions) (USD millions)
Asian Development Bank                  5.00            2.50              50%
Department for International
                                         1.90           1.90             100%
Development
German Organization for Technical
                                         0.60           0.60             100%
Cooperation
International Development
                                         5.00           5.00             100%
Association (IDA)




                                           15
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

 Table: Project Outcomes and Key Performance Indicators

                                             Baseline
                                                              End-of-
                                               Value                         Value Achieved
     Project Outcome Indicators                            Project Target
                                             (Project                       (September 2011)
                                                               Value
                                            inception)
1. Amount of foreign direct investment      No foreign     US$80 million    US$201.5 million
stimulated by AIGF                             direct
                                            investment
                                          stimulated by
                                           AIGF at the
                                          time of board
                                             approval
2. Number of jobs created through             No jobs         700 jobs          725 jobs
investments supported by AIGF                generated
                                              through
                                           investments
                                          supported by
                                           AIGF at the
                                          time of board
                                             approval
  Intermediate Outcome Indicators
1. Total face value of guarantee issued   No guarantee     US$72 million     US$159 million
                                           Issued at the
                                          time of board
                                             approval
2. Total face value of pipeline           No pipeline at   Face value of     US$836 million
                                            the time of      pipeline:
                                               board         US$284
                                             approval         million




                                             16
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

(Not Applicable)




                                    17
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                 Names                           Title               Unit
     Lending
    Manoj Agrawal                  Consultant                       SARFM
    Anton Dobronogov               Senior Economist                 AFTP2
    Emily Harwit Whewell           Consultant                       CAFAF
    Shawkat M.Q. Hasan             Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPC
    Monique Koning                 Operations Team Manager - MIGA   MIGOP
    Samuel Munzele Maimbo          Lead Financial Sector Speciali   AFTFE
    Vikram Raghavan                Senior Counsel                   LEGES
   Supervision/ICR
   Manoj Agrawal                   Consultant                       SARFM
   Nazir Ahmad                     Research Analyst                 SASFP
   Anton Dobronogov                Senior Economist                 AFTP2
   Nabil Fawaz                     Sector Leader                    MIGOP
   Shawkat M.Q. Hasan              Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPC
   Monique Koning                  Operations Team Manager - MIGA   MIGOP
   Sheila Braka Musiime            Senior Counsel                   LEGOP
   Asha Narayan                    Financial Management Specialis   SARFM
   Richard George Andrew Nash      Counsel                          LEGJR
   Kyoo-Won Oh                     Underwriter                      MIGOP
   Kenneth O. Okpara               Sr Financial Management Specia   SARFM
   Srilal Mohan Perera             Chief Counsel                    MIGLC
   Vikram Raghavan                 Senior Counsel                   LEGES
   Mustafizul Hye Shakir           Consultant                       SASFP
   Michael R. Silverman            Consultant                       INTSC
   Paul Edwin Sisk                 Lead Financial Management Spec   SARFM
   Thomas A. Vis                   Senior Risk Management Officer   AFTFW




                                    18
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                       5                        16.82
  FY05                                       6                        28.56
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            11                        45.38
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                       3                        17.08
  FY06                                       4                        23.27
  FY07                                       1                        13.29
  FY08                                      11                        48.14
  FY09                                      20                         0.00
                          Total:            39                       101.78




                                       19
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

(Not Applicable)



Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

(Not Applicable)




                                      20
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Clause D of Schedule 3 in Development Credit Agreement requires MIGA, as the
administrator and operator of the Facility, to provide a comprehensive evaluation report
after the project close. However, it has been agreed between MIGA and the Bank to
merge MIGA's evaluation with the Bank’s ICR. MIGA has provided the Bank with the
project information and insights on the AIGF during the process of writing the ICR.




                                          21
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

1. ADB Completion Report
  (i) Project Design
At appraisal, project design and formulation were highly relevant to the development
objectives of Afghanistan as well as the ADB’s country strategy and program (2002-
2004) that supported capacity building, policy and institutional frameworks, and
infrastructure for private sector development.

In September 2009, when the ADB completed the project, the project design was relevant,
because the Facility offered political risk guarantee cover for noncommercial risks, and it
could not address issues such as deteriorating security situation, and international and
regional banks withdrawing from Afghanistan due to growing aversion to risk after the
global financial crisis. In addition, the project could not address AISA’s inability to
enhance FDI or promote political risk guarantee, MIGA’s limited marketing to investors
outside of Washington D.C., and local investors’ lack of interest in political risk
guarantee.

  (ii) Project Outcome
The achievement of the project’s outcome was successful, by stimulating FDI and
creating jobs through political risk guarantees despite the deteriorating security situation
and the global financial crisis. Substantial leverage was made for the AIGF, as MIGA
provided second loss cover, particularly for the MTN’s investment.

  (iii)Disbursements
The first disbursement from the ADB was made in May 2009, which is 50 months after
loan became effective. The delay was caused by lack of coordination between the ADB
and MIGA, and the lack of investment projects that needed political risk guarantees.

  (iv) Implementation
Implementation arrangements were partly satisfactory. Although the ADB’s active
involvement was sought in the later stage, coordination between the ADB and MIGA was
intermittent during the initial phase of implementation mainly due to staff changes.

  (v) Sustainability
The project sustainability is less likely. On the contrary to what had hoped at appraisal,
instability in Afghanistan has caused a decreased amount of FDI inflow and the
withdrawal of international banks to support FDI; thus, there are weaker prospects in
terms of further investments supported.

 (vi) Overall Assessment
Overall, the project is rated successful.




                                            22
2. DFID Completion Report

Although the overall outcomes of the project were positive, the first phase of the Facility
(2004-2009) was more successful than the second phase (2009-2011). At the first stage of
the project, the AIGF played an important role in attracting investors through political
risk insurance. However, in the second phase, the MIGA/AIGF did not adapt its
marketing under less conductive market, and the huge pipeline was not materialized
except the last guarantee underwritten for MTN in 2011.

The project achieved the initial target in stimulating FDI through political risk guarantees.
However, FDI in Afghanistan fell significantly over the life of the project. Therefore, a
link between underwriting political risk guarantees and increasing FDI appears to be
weak, particularly in terms of investment risk in conflict-affected countries.

Lack of country presence limited the partner’s responsiveness to the Afghan context and
to DFID. Marketing strategy, suitability of the products to a conflict-affected country like
Afghanistan, and on-the-ground staff dedicated to the country should be particularly
addressed in any similar facility.




                                            23
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. ―Project Preparation Document for a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 3.5
   Million (US$5.0 Million Equivalent) to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for an
   Investment Guarantee Facility Established as a Trust Fund between the Islamic
   Republic of Afghanistan and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency as
   Administrator of the Trust Fund‖, July 29,2004.

2. ―Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International
   Development Association and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency to The
   Executive Directors of the International Development Association and Directors of
   the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency on a Proposed Credit of SDR 3.5
   Million (US$5.0 Million Equivalent) to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for an
   Investment Guarantee Facility Established as a Trust Fund and Proposed Framework
   Agreement Between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the Multilateral
   Investment Guarantee Agency as Administrator of the Trust Fund‖, July 29, 2004.

3. ―Afghanistan Investment Guarantee Facility: Framework Agreement between the
   Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and Multilateral Investment
   Guarantee Agency, as Administrator of the Afghanistan Investment Guarantee
   Facility‖, August 4, 2004.

4. ―Development Credit Agreement between Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and
   International Development Association‖, August 4, 2004.

5. ―Descriptive Analysis of Insurance Need Assessment Survey in Afghanistan‖, AISA,
   June 2009.

6. ―Afghanistan Investment Guarantee Facility Trust Fund Administered by Multilateral
   Investment Guarantee Agency, Financial Statement and Independent Auditors’
   Report‖, December 31, 2009.

7. ―The Second Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-2)‖, May 2010.

8. Supervision missions’ aide-memoires, back-to-office reports and Implementation
   Status and Results reports.

9. ―Completion Report: Afghanistan Investment Guarantee Facility Project‖, Asian
   Development Bank, December 2011.

10. ―Project Closure Report for the Afghanistan Investment Guarantee Facility‖,
    Department for International Development, December 2011.




                                         24
Annex 10. Details of Guarantees

In February 2006, or 14 months after the project became effective, a first guarantee was
issued to Dagris (majority-owned by the French government) for its equity investment
into a cotton ginning and cottonseed oil production project. By the end of that year,
another two guarantees totaling US$2.23 million were covering equity investments in
BRAC Afghanistan Bank—a financial institution focusing on loans to small and medium
companies—and Baz International Pharmaceutical Company Ltd (BIPC). In addition, a
guarantee of US$76.5 million was issued to MTN (Areeba) Afghanistan in June 2007 for
its investment in a mobile phone network. The US$2 million underwritten by AIGF for
the MTN project provided substantial leverage, as MIGA, besides providing significant
extra cover, also reinsured a portion of its exposure in the project with four additional
insurers that would otherwise not have provided seven-year tenors in Afghanistan.

Subsequently, two more guarantees were issued in 2008 for an additional investment in
BRAC Afghanistan Bank and for a project sponsored by International Home Finance and
Development LLC (IHFD) to manufacture ―green‖ bricks and lease brick-making
machines.

From 2007 onwards, however, the security situation in Afghanistan worsened
significantly. Foreign investment plummeted, which resulted in diminished interest in the
Facility, and fewer applications were submitted to MIGA. In addition, some of the
investments covered by the Facility struggled because of the deteriorating security
situation and difficult business environment. Business Humanitarian Forum Association
(BHP), investor of BIPC, cancelled its guarantee in 2007, as it failed to find a technical
partner to manufacture pharmaceutical products in Afghanistan. In addition, NAPCOD
struggled to enforce its contracts with local farmers, who sold their harvest to other
buyers, and competed with another cotton ginning factory that operated illegally in the
region, which brought its operations to a standstill. Dagris’ new shareholders cancelled
the guarantee in 2008. Having failed to obtain loans to finance its project, IHFD
cancelled a part of its guarantee for Geo Building Technologies in 2009. Technical
difficulties further hampered the project, and the outstanding cover was reduced to reflect
the diminishing value of the equity investment. BRAC Bank, which struggled with bad
loans and increasing minimum capital requirements, was in the process of being sold as
the AIGF project closed.

In July 2011, a new guarantee of US$156.75 million was issued to MTN to cover the
expansion of its mobile network, replacing the earlier guarantee of US$76.5 million.
AIGF underwrote US$6 million of the guarantee after it obtained an approval from the
GoA and DFID to exceed the limit of US$2 million per project, and significant leverage
was obtained through MIGA’s additional cover and reinsurance with other providers. As
a result, the AIGF committed most of its capital, with the near full drawdown of IDA
resources.




                                            25
                       60°E                                                                                       65°E                                                                                                                70°E                                                                               75°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                         U Z B E K I STA N                                                                                 Dushanbe                                                   hob




                                                                                                    Am
                                                                                                     uD
                                                                                                          ar y                                                                                                                                                                                   Murg
                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                        TA J I K I STAN
                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                          Chardzhev                                                                                       To                                                               TAJ IK IS TA N
                                                                                                                                                                    To                                                    ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kulob                                                       To Shazud
                                                                                                                                                                 Dushanbe                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                           ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                          Qurghonteppa
                              AFGHANISTAN                                 TUR KM E N I S TA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Faisabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                               h
                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                                                               JAWZJAN                                                                    ndz
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pya
                                                                                                                                                            BALKH                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                  KUNDUZ                                                                          mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Taloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯ ¯                                              Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kunduz
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kondoz
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¯                                                                                             h
                                                                                                                                     Sheberghan
                                                                                                                                             ¯                     Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                   Sharıf
                                                                                                                                                                       ¯                                                     TAKHAR                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                                                                        Saripul                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tirich Mir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (7690 m)
                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                         Samangan
                                                                                                                                                                               ¯                                   Baghlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯                                                  K
                                                                                                                  Meymaneh
                                                             Mary                                                                                                         ¯
                                                                                                                                                                    SAMANGAN                                         ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                BAGHLAN
                                                                                                      ¯    ¯
                                                                                                    F A R YA B                                                                                                                                               u
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ndu
                                                                                                                                                                                                           z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I R      d                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯o
                                                                                                                                                                                                eQ                                    J                                         Chitral
                            To
                                                                                                                                 SAR IP
                                                                                                                                 SARIP UL                                                   y                                              n
               35°N
                        Mashad
                                                                                                            Mor
                                                                                                                  gh¯                                                             Da
                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯   ry
                                                                                                                                                                                          a-                         Bazarak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H        PAiN             ¯    ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NURISTAN
                                                                                                                    ab
                                     P
                                                                                      ¯
                                                                                    B A D G H ¯S
                                                                                              I                                                                                                          ¸ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mahmud-e Raqı
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KAPISA Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         35°N
                                          a                                                                                                                               Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                                           ¯ ¯¯                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                PARWAN                                        Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯ ¯
                                               r o             Qal‘eh-ye Now                                                                                                                        ¯                Charıkar LAGHMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KUNAR      To
                                                   p a                          e                                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                        R a n g                                                                               ¯    ¯
                                                        m i s u s                                                                                                                                                                 Mehtarlam           Mardan
                                                                                                                        Chaghcharan
                                                                                                                                 ¯                          B A M YA N                                         KABUL KABUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯                        ¯
                                                      Herat
                                                         ¯
                                                                             ır¯d
                                                                          Har¯
                                                                               u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAK IS TAN
                                                                                                                                                                                WA R D A K                         Meydan Shahr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯                       Khyber Pass
                                       ¯                                                                                                                                                                           LOGAR                NANGARHAR
                                 H E R AT                                                           GHOR                                                                                                                                                                  To Peshawar
                                                                                                                             DAY KUNDI                                                                                 Pol-e ‘Alam
                                                                                                                                 Nili                                                                                        PAKTIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ghaznı
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯              Gardız
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     us
                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                     an
                                                                                                                                                                  G H A Z N¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ind
               ISLAMIC                                                                                                                          He
                                                                                                                                                   lm                      I                                                       KOWST                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kowst          Kohat 0          50              100     150 Kilometers
               REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                         Sharan
                                                                    rah
                                                                     ¯
                                                                                                                           ¯
               OF IRAN                                            Fa
                                                                            ¯                                            URUZGAN                                                                                                                                   0                  50             100 Miles
                                                                       FA R A H                                         Tarın Kowt
                                                                                                                           ¯
                                         ut
                                      ¯r
                                     Ha
                                         ¯
                                                          Farah
                                                             ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                           P A K T¯K A
                                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                                                                                   ZABUL
                                                                                                                                                    Qalat
                                                                                                                                                       ¯
                                                                              h
                                                                            Kh¯ s
                                                                              a




                                                                                                                                               ak
                                                                                                                                             rn¯
                                                                                                                                           Ta

                          Hamun-e
                           ¯ ¯
                            Saberı
                            ˛¯ ¯
                                                                                      Lashkar Gah
                                                                                               ¯           Arghandab
                                                                                                                    Kandahar
                                                                                                                          ¯

                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AFG H ANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Zhob

                                                          Dasht-I Margo                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                 Zaranj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                               N ¯M R O Z
                                                 I    ¯                      HILMAND                       ¯
                                                                                                     KANDAHAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIVERS
                                                  Helm                                                                                                  To
                                                       and                                                                                              Quetta                                                                                                                              MAIN ROADS
               30°N
                                              Gowd-e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS
                                               Zereh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33358R1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30°N
OCTOBER 2011




                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                60°E                                         PA KI S TA N                                65°E
                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70°E
