Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  15167
PROJECT COMPLETION RFPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3089-CM)
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2576-CM)
DECEMBER 6, 1995
Country Operations Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Depretment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
Currency Equivalent
Currency unit = CFA francs *
Average Exchange Rate
(annual average; CFAF per I US$)
1987                              300.54
1988                              297.85
1989                              319.01
1990                              272.26
1991                              282.11
1992                              264.69
1993                              283.16
1994                              586.00
Fiscal Year
July I - June 30
The CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1 to CFAFI 00.
Before January 12, 1994, the ratio was FF1 to CFAF50. The French franc is currently
floating vis-a-vis the US dollar.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metnc ton (mt)                2.200 pounds  =         1,000 kg
Kilometer (Iam)        =      0.6215 miles   =        1.000 meters
Cubic meter (m3)              =       1,000 liters
Meter (m)                     =       1.09 yards
Square meter (m2)             =       10.76 square feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB                           -       Afncan Development Bank
BEAC                          -       Bank of the Central African States
CAA                           -       Caisse Autonome d'Amoruissement (External Debt Agency)
CICC                          -       Organization of Private Marketing Agents for Export Crops
CRA                           -       Administrative Reform Comm-iittee
DCE                           -       Division of Economic Controls
DGTC                          -       Direction Generale des Travaux du Cameroun (Procurement Unit)
DP                            -       Directorate of Forecasting
DPP                           -       Directorate for Projects and Programs
DRA                           -       Division of Administrative Reform
DSCN                          -       Directorate of Statistics and National Accounts
FAC                           -       Fonds d'Aide a la Cooperation (French Cooperation Fund)
ISMP                          -       Institut Superieur de Management Public (Higher Public Management
Institute)
MINASCOF                      -       Ministry of Social Affairs
MINAT                         -       Ministry of Territorial Admrinistration
MINDIC                        -       Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MhINEDUC                      -       Ministry of Education
MINNFI                        -       Ministry of Finance
MINFOPRA                      -       Ministry of the Civil Service
MINPAT                        -       Ministry of Planning and Regional Development
MIINSANTE                     -       Ministry of Health
MfINTPS                       -       Ministry of Labor and Social Security
ONCC                          -       Quality Control Institution for Export Crops
PAGE                          -       Economic Management Project
PE                            -       Public Enterprise
PEP                           -       Public Investment Program
POE                           -       Plan d'Organisation et d'Effectifs (Staffing Plan)
SAL                           -       Structural Adjustment Loan
SCB                           -       Societe Camerounaise de Banque (Commercial Bank)
SGP                           -       Secretariat de Gestion du Projet (Project Management Unit)
SNI                           -       Societe Nationale d'Investissement (Public Holding)
UDEAC                         -       Union Douaniere et Economique des Pays de l'Afrique Centrale
(Central African Customs and Economic Union)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation                               December 6, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Cameroon-
Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3089-CM)
and Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2576-CM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Cameroon Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
(Loan 3089-CM, approved in FY89 in the amount of US$150 million) and the Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC) (Credit 2576-CM, approved in FY94 in the amount of US$50 million, equivalent to the cancelled third
tranche of the SAL), prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The PCR includes Part II, prepared by the
Borrower.
The SAL supported the first phase of Cameroon's adjustment program. Its broad objectives were to
redress the substantial decline in GDP and achieve real per capita growth by 1995; enhance competitiveness
through internal adjustment measures; reorient the State from interventionist to supportive economic policies in
the private sector; and reduce the scope of government economic activity and reorient public services. In
addition to the maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework, the adjustment program included
reforms in: public resource management (improvement of budgeting practices and allocations for investment
and key social sectors); the civil service; public enterprises; financial restructuring; trade and price
liberalization; and development of productive sectors (agriculture, forestry, energy, and industry). Technical
assistance for these reforms was provided separately by an economic management project (with an outcome
that has been rated as unsatisfactory). In order to improve competitiveness, and in the absence of devaluation
of the CFA franc, the SAL relied mainly on deep cuts in public spending and on the compression of total
demand. Some of the structural reforms were adopted although with long delays and inadequate performance.
The constrained design, and weak Government commitment to the reforms, led to a worsening of the
macroeconomic framework from 1989 to 1993. GDP fell by as much as 30 percent and both external and
internal balances widened.
In January 1994, the CFA franc was devalued and, at the same time, Cameroon became eligible for
IDA financing. In February 1994, the third tranche of US$50 million of the SAL was cancelled. A successor
structural adjustment credit (the SAC), equivalent in amount and conditionality to the cancelled third tranche of
the SAL, was quickly appraised and approved. The SAC was immediately disbursed in one tranche on the
basis of a program to maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic framework following the devaluation, and of
progress made in implementing the third tranche release conditions of the SAL, with the exception of the
Forestry Code, for which a waiver was granted. The approval of a satisfactory Forestry Code was later made a
condition of effectiveness of the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), approved in June 1994.
The outcome of the SAL is rated as unsatisfactory, and that of the SAC as marginally unsatisfactory.
The institutional development impact is rated as negligible in both operations. Sustainability of the SAL and
the SAC is rated as unlikely. The PCR is of satisfactory quality.
An important lesson of the Cameroon SAL, like similar early adjustment programs in CFA countries, is
that, in the face of a significant overvaluation of the exchange rate, fiscal compression alone cannot restore
competitiveness.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface .............................................i
Evaluation Summary  ...............................................v
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity              ..    .............................................1
2.  Background               .    .............................................           I
3.  Preparation, Apraisal and Approval .............      ................................2
4.  Project Objectives and Description  .............................................3
5.  Economic Developments During Implementation .............................................. 6
6.  Project Implementation and Results  .............................................7
7.  Sustainability ......       .......................................... 11
8.  Bank Performance  .............................................. 11
9.  Borrower Performance ............................................. 12
10. Loan Documentation  ............................................. 12
11. Disbursements and Auditing  ....................            ......................... 12
12. Findings and Lessons Learned        ....................     ......................... 13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE.... 15
PART 11: BASIC DATA/STATISTICAL INFORMATION
ANNEXES
Annex I  Related Bank Loans    ..36
Annex II  Project Timetable                 ..37
Annex III      Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements                            38
Annex IV   Use of Staff Resources.                                                      39
Annex V   Status of Loan Covenants    ..41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM))
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) to the Republic of Cameroon for US$150 million and the Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC), which replaced the SAL's third tranche, when Cameroon was declared
eligible for IDA resources and no longer found creditworthy for IBRD lending (February
1994). As a member of the CFA franc zone, Cameroon could not adjust its exchange rate
to improve its competitiveness and had to rely on internal measures to reduce costs. The
program aimed at reorienting the role of the State from direct intervention in the
production of goods and services to a supporting role for private sector development. To
achieve these objectives, the program identified concrete actions in the areas of public
resource management; public enterprise reform; financial and banking reform; and
measures to promote the productive sectors (agriculture, forestry and manufacturing)
development, including trade and pricing reforms.
2.    The implementation of the program was supported by an Economic Management
Project (Ln. 3110-CM for US$9.0 million) designed to finance studies needed to
formulate and implement specific reforms (civil service and the parapublic sector) and
strengthen economic management, particularly in public investment programming, debt
management and the generation of statistical information for policy-making.
3.    The loan was approved on June 14, 1989, signed on July 17, 1989 and became
effective on November 28, 1989. The last disbursement (second tranche) was made on
April 17, 1991. The worsening macroeconomic conditions led to a significant delay in
fulfilling third tranche conditions. On January 12, 1994, the parity of the CFA franc was
changed from a rate of CFAF50/FFl to CFAF100/FF1. Following the devaluation of the
currency, and in view of Cameroon's lack of creditworthiness for IBRD lending, the
Government requested the cancellation of the IBRD balance of US$50 million of the SAL
in February 1994. Subsequently, a Structural Adjustment Credit was approved for US$50
million with the same conditions as those established for the canceled third tranche of the
IBRD SAL. The SAC was approved and signed on March 10, 1994 and disbursed on
March 14, 1994.



ii
4.    This PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division, Central Africa and
Indian Ocean Department (AF3), Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I
and III), and the Borrower (Part II). The PCR mission took place in March 1994,
immediately after disbursement of the SAC.
5.    This report is based inter alia, on the President's Report for the SAL, the
Memorandum of the President for the SAC, the legal documents of the IBRD loan and
IDA credit, the President's Report of the Economic Recovery Credit, project supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, interviews of Bank staff
involved in project implementation, and internal Bank memoranda.



iii
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Loan 3089-CM                                        US$ Million
Original       Actual         Canceled
Bank Loan Amount                             150.0          100.0          50.0
Terms:        Interest Rate:                 Standard variable interest rate
Maturity:                     17 years
Grace:                        5 years
Commitment Fee:               3/4 of 1%
Borrower:                    Government of Cameroon
Executing Agency:             Ministry of Planning and Regional Development
Institutional Development:   An Interministerial and a Technical Committee were
established to prepare and execute the project.
Credit 2576-CM                               US$ Million
Original      Actual          Canceled
IDA Credit Amount                           50.0            50.0           0.0
Terms:         Interest Rate:                3/4 of 1%
Maturity:                     40 years
Grace:                        10 years
Commitment Fee:               1/2 of 1%
Borrower:                    Government of Cameroon
Executing Agency:            Ministry of Planning and Regional Development
Institutional Development:   The committees established for the SAL were
responsible for the SAC.



iv
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Timetable of Key Events
Loan 3089-CM
(a)Project prepared by:                  Government of Caneroon with Bank assistance
(b)Presentation to the Bank:             June 1988
(c)Appraisal mission:                    July 1988
(d)Post-appraisal mission:               February-March 1989
(e)Completion of negotiations:           May 1989
(f)Board approval:                       June 14, 1989
(g)Loan agreement signed on:             July 17, 1989
(h)Actual date of effectiveness:         November 28, 1989
(i)First disbursement:                   January 29, 1990
(j)lnitial closing date:                 December 31, 1993
(k)Actual closing date:                  June 30, 1994
(I)Last SAL disbursement date:           April 17, 1991
Credit 2576-CM
(a)Project prepared by:                  Government of Cameroon with Bank assistance
(b)Presentation to the Bank:             January 1994
(c)Appraisal mission:                    February 1994
(d)Completion of negotiations:           February 1994
(e)Board approval:                       March 10, 1994
(f)Credit agreement signed on:           March 10, 1994
(g)Disbursement date:                    March 14, 1994
(h)Initial closing date:                 June 30, 1994
(i)Actual closing date:                  June 30, 1994



v
EVALUATION SUMMARY
OBJECTIVES
1.01  The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) supported the first phase of the
government's adjustment program, whose broad objectives were to redress the substantial
decline in GDP and achieve a real per capita income growth by 1995; enhance
competiveness through internal adjustment measures; reorient the role of the State away
from direct market intervention in the production of goods and services and into a
supporting role for private sector development; and reduce the scope of government
economic activity and reorient public services. The Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC),
replacing the third tranche of the SAL, which maintained the SAL's third tranche release
conditions, aimed at supporting the new macroeconomic framework put in place after the
devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994.
1.02  The SAL-supported program  had a broad coverage with specific reform
components in the areas of public resource management, placing emphasis on budget
practices and allocations for investment and key social sectors, and the budget shares for
wage and non-wage expenditures; civil service; public enterprises; financial sector;
liberalization of trade and prices; and development of productive sectors (agriculture,
forestry, manufacturing).
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.03  The basic components of the program were: (a) restructuring public finances over
the medium term through improved programming and budgeting of government resources,
better control of salaries, revamping of the administrative structure and staffing of the civil
service to increase its efficiency; and higher non-oil tax revenues; (b) restructuring of the
public enterprise (PE) and banking sectors; (c) promoting agricultural development
through progressive liberalization of the trade of major export crops (coffee, cocoa,
cotton), a redefinition of the role of the National Produce Marketing Board and
stabilization of its finances, and creation of incentives to increase food security and
promote non-traditional agricultural exports; (d) deregulating internal commerce to lower
domestic costs, and rationalizing external trade regulations and effective rates of
protection; (e) improving incentives for petroleum exploration and production; (f)
reorienting policies in the forestry, health and education sectors; and (g) establishing
specific action programs to mitigate the social costs of the adjustment program.
RESULTS
1.04 While achievements were made in selected areas, overall program results were
unsatisfactory. The macroeconomic framework, rather than improving as envisaged,
deteriorated sharply in 1989-93 as external and internal imbalances widened and real GDP
shrank by an estimated 30 percent. Implementation of program components was delayed



vi
significantly and diverged frequently from the established objectives. The main factor for
the lackluster performance was the government's lack of political will and uncertain
leadership to carry through the reform program. These factors were exacerbated by weak
public institutions, poor coordination and rivalries among ministries and agencies.
Implementing the far-reaching reform program placed a heavy burden on a weak public
administration. More importantly, it is clear now with the benefit of hindsight that the
design of the SAL was flawed. It aimed at reestablishing the competitiveness of the
economy through deflationary, internal policies alone which, without an exchange rate
adjustment, proved unrealistic. As a result, the macroeconomic framework of the SAL
program became increasingly irrelevant as the economy continued to deteriorate and the
current account balance of payments showed large deficits. The devaluation of the CFA
franc in January 1994 created the basic condition to restore macroeconomic equilibria and
enhance competitiveness.  Renewed government commitment to a stabilization and
adjustment program, with IMF support, paved the way for the release of the third tranche
under IDA terms after Cameroon was declared IDA eligible in February 1994. The
general condition of a viable macroeconomic framework was met as well as the other
specific conditions earlier established for third tranche release, with the exception of the
condition on the Forestry Code.
1.05  The January 1994 devaluation, however, while crucial for the revitalization of the
Cameroonian economy, needed to be complemented by strict fiscal and monetary
management and a series of structural measures. These supplementary measures were
supported through an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) approved on June 16, 1994.
Moreover, the reform agenda is still unfinished after the ERC, and the dialogue continues
with the authorities about additional measures to be supported through future IDA
adjustment lending.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
1.06  An accurate diagnosis of the economic prospects and of the impact of the reform
proposals is essential for a successful implementation of a SAL program. The Cameroon
SAL aimed at an in-depth restructuring of the public sector with a broad spectrum of
actions in a short period of time and, as it turned out, proved too ambitious in its
objectives. The SAL President's Report (PR) conceded that many of the proposed
reforms would require three to five years to be completed. The SAL operation, which
supported only the first phase of the government's program, was approved in June 1989
and was expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1991. This was too short a
period for effective implementation.
1.07  Second, the successful implementation of the SAL required strong government
commitment to reforms, which proved elusive. It took repeated missions and protracted
discussions to develop the SAL program, which was eventually accepted reluctantly by the
government. The weak capacity of the government administration to implement the
program was identified by the PR as a major risk. To remedy this, an Economic
Management Project for US$ 9 million was approved in parallel with the SAL.  The



vii
deteriorating economic environment led to civil unrest in 1991-92. This exacerbated the
fiscal and economic crises in a country with significant ethnic and religious differences.
1.08  Third, Cameroon's growth prospects were not properly assessed, indeed the extent
of the economic crisis at the outset was not fully appreciated. After years of steady
growth fiieled by favorable prices for its agricultural exports and increased oil production,
Cameroon suffered from three shocks in the mid-1980s. The terms of trade fell by more
than 50 percent from 1985 to 1989. Oil production started to decline from a peak of 8.9
million metric tons in 1985 to less than 6 million in 1993. Finally, the appreciation of the
CFA franc made the economy increasingly uncompetitive. Against this background, it was
not realistic to expect resumption of economic growth solely through internal adjustment.
1.09  Fourth, reforms requiring Parliamentary approval of new legislation may take
longer to achieve. The draft Forestry Code was agreed between the Executive branch and
the Bank and amended by Parliament in an unsatisfactory manner. This experience should
not, however, preclude the Bank from suggesting legislation changes to be presented to
Parliament in other structural adjustment programs, provided there is a positive
assessment of the commitment of the Executive, Parliament, and public entities involved
to implement the program. If this assessment is not positive, alternative ways of carrying
the reform should be sought, such as using pre-existing legislation, regulations or
administrative actions to accomplish the same results.






REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.     PROJECT IDENTITY
*   Project Name:           Structural Adjustment Loan/Structural Adjustment Credit
*   Loan and Credit Nos.:   Ln 3089-CM, Cr 2576-CM
•   Amounts:                US$150.0 million IBRD Loan '; US$50.0 million IDA Credit
*   RVP Unit:               Africa Region
*   Country:                Cameroon
*   Sector:                 Structural Adjustment
2.     BACKGROUND
2.01    Introduction. Cameroon has a population of 12 million, with a territory of 475,000
square kilometers; population density is about 25 per square kilometer. The population growth
rate at 3.0 percent a year is high but life expectancy at 56 years is low. Health and education
indicators are low compared with international standards. GNP per capita was about US$780 in
1993. The country is richly endowed with tropical forests, coastal fisheries, mineral resources
(petroleum, bauxite, natural gas), fertile agricultural land and a favorable climate.  The
infrastructure and communications network is well developed and, until the mid-1980s, the
financial system functioned well.
2.02    Real GDP growth averaged 2.3 percent during 1965-73 and accelerated to 9.3 percent
during 1973-80 and 7.4 percent during 1980-85. Agriculture was the main source of growth and
foreign exchange earnings until 1978, when oil production began. Oil production transformed the
economic structure; it accounted for about 15 percent of GDP, 45 percent of government
revenues, and almost two-thirds of total merchandise exports in 1984-85. Agriculture, on the
other hand, dropped from over 30 percent of GDP in the 1970s to 21 percent in 1984-85;
however, it remained a major economic sector, employing about two-thirds of the labor force and
US$50.0 million, representing the amount reserved for the third tranche of the SAL was cancelled in February 1994.



- 2 -
generating about two-fifths of exports.  Oil exports, apart from changing the structure of
production, impacted on other structural parameters of the economy. The balance of payments
which was negative in the early 1970s (about 3 percent of GDP) became highly positive in the
mid-1980s (11 percent of GDP); investments of both the public and private sectors increased,
fueled by oil revenues; gross fixed investment reached 20 percent of GDP, of which public
investments represented over 9 percent of GDP. Gross domestic savings almost doubled between
1980 and 1985, with the government accumulating large deposits in the domestic banking system
and also significant extemal reserves. This bonanza gave Cameroon a high credit rating in the
international financial markets which led to large borrowings (para. 2.04).
2.03    Since 1986, Cameroon experienced a series of adverse shocks, which led to a severe
economic crisis, which continues currently. First, external market conditions deteriorated; prices
of the major export commodities (oil, coffee, cocoa) dropped and the terms of trade deteriorated
by 55 percent during 1985-89. Second, for a variety of reasons, including the lack of an
appropriate incentives framework, oil production declined, with a severe impact on both the
external and internal imbalances of the economy. Third, export competitiveness deteriorated as a
result of the over 40 percent appreciation of the real effective exchange rate from FY85 to FY89,
on account of the depreciation of the US dollar and the Nigerian naira, coupled with a domestic
rate of inflation that exceeded those of Cameroon's main trading partners.
2.04    These shocks sent the economy into a long lasting and deep economic crisis. Real GDP
dropped by an average 3.4 percent a year from FY862 to FY89 and per capita income declined by
almost 40 percent. Internal and external imbalances became severe. Budgetary revenues fell by
about 40 percent, but current and public investment expenditures remained at previous levels,
resulting in large budget deficits. Private savings declined. Liquidity of the domestic banking
system contracted sharply and banks experienced severe losses and insolvency. The current
account balance of payments deteriorated sharply from a surplus in FY85 to a large deficit in
FY89; a parallel, large build-up of the public external debt took place leading to service
difficulties and payment arrears of US$1 billion by end-1992.
3.     PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AND APPROVAL
3.01    In early 1988, the government charged a working level committee with representatives
from all major operational ministries with the preparation of a medium-term adjustment program.
The President formalized the arrangement in December 1988. Bank missions, in conjunction with
the African Development Bank (AfDB), participated in the preparation of the letter of
development policy (Declaration of Development Strategy).
3.02    This positive start notwithstanding, and although an interministerial committee was
appointed to that effect, preparation of the SAL program encountered difficulties owing to the
lack of coordination and rivalries among key government agencies, to the absence of well
established guidelines and procedures, and to weak capacity in key government directorates.
Management of the economy was further hampered by a very weak statistical database. To
2  National accounts statistics and other economic data are presented in accordance with Cameroon's fiscal years, i.e., July I
- June 30.



- 3 -
address these difficulties, a parallel capacity building project, the Economic Management Project
(Loan 3110-CM), was designed to assist the government in implementing the structural
adjustment program. France, Canada, USAID and UNDP also provided technical assistance for
institution-building. The Economic Management Project results were unsatisfactory (PCR dated
June 24, 1994).  Despite some progress in developing building blocks for the SAL,
implementation of several project components experienced significant delays and negatively
impacted on expected improvements in economic management, more efficient programming and
budgeting of public investments, public enterprise reform, and control over external indebtedness.
3.03    The SAL was appraised in July 1988. Post-appraisal missions took place in November
1988 and February/March 1989. Negotiations were completed in May 1989. Following Board
approval on June 14, 1989, the loan was signed on July 17, 1989, and became effective on
November 28, 1989. In February 1994, as Cameroon became eligiblp for IDA financing, the
government requested the cancellation of the third tranche and its replacement by an equivalent
one-tranche SAC credit. The SAL's third tranche release conditions became preconditions of the
SAC. The SAC was appraised in February 1994, approved by the Board in March 1994 and
became effective in the same month.
4.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
4.01    Project Objectives.  The program's broad objectives were to reestablish a positive
growth rate, increase market competition and reorient the role of the State and the provision of
public services. These objectives were to be attained through: (i) restructuring public finances by
means of improved programming and budgeting of government resources, better control of
government wages, improvements in productivity and better management of the civil service, and
higher non-oil tax revenues; (ii) restructuring and rehabilitating the public enterprise and banking
sectors; (iii) increasing agricultural production by liberalizing trade of major exports (coffee,
cocoa and cotton), stabilizing the finances of the marketing boards, and introducing a pricing
policy for the 1989/90 crops geared to minimize government subsidies; (iv) deregulating intemal
commerce to lower domestic costs, deregulating foreign trade, and reducing the protection of
import substituting production; (v) improving incentives for petroleum exploration and
production; (vi) reorienting forestry, education, and health sector policies; and (vii) implementing
specific social action programs to alleviate the social costs of adjustment. Implementation of the
program was expected to require three to five years. The 18-month SAL supported the first
phase of the above program. To help the SAL achieve the expected results, the Bank financed a
well-targeted technical assistance project with clear institution building objectives (President's
Report, Economic Management Project P-5083-CM). The Bank's technical assistance project
had two objectives: (i) formulate and implement reforms in the context of the structural
adjustment program, and (ii) promote lasting, long-term improvements in policy analysis and
management of the country's economy.
4.02    Project Components. The SAL program was overly complex with six components,
namely reforms in: (i) public sector resource management, aimed at improving the mobilization
and management of public resources with measures to increase the transparency of government
finances, redress the existing imbalance between personnel and wage expenditures versus
expenditures for goods and services, upgrade management and efficiency of the civil service, and



- 4 -
improve revenue collection through a rationalization of the tax system; (ii) public enterprise (PE)
sector, including liquidation, privatization or rehabilitation of enterprises; (iii) financial and
banking sector, including the restructuring of distressed banks; emergency measures to relieve the
liquidity crisis of banks, an action plan for the crop credit system; the strengthening of prudential
regulation and loan recovery practices; the liberalization of interest rates, the improvement of
supervision by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC); the reform of central bank practices to
eliminate interest subsidies and individual bank credit ceilings and adjust BEAC's rediscount rates;
(iv) agriculture and forestry reform, aimed at achieving food security, export diversification,
rational exploitation of natural resources, and increasing rural incomes by supporting traditional
farmers and livestock owners, providing incentives for medium-sized farms, and increasing the
processing of domestic agricultural products. These objectives were to be achieved through
pricing and marketing policies, institutional reforms, and improved management of natural
resources; (v) industrial policy and trade reform, which intended to d'smantle and liberalize the
regulatory framework and improve production and export incentives through a gradual
elimination of quantitative restrictions (QR's) and rationalization of the tariff regime. On the
domestic side, the program thrust was, on one hand, to eliminate price controls for all goods and
services, with the exception of a short list of essential basic goods, and, on the other, to review
the regime regulating commerce, businesses, partnerships, labor and investments; and (vi)
reorientation of sector strategies, which covered a wide number of measures to improve
economic performance in the areas of transport taxation; airport rehabilitation; health and
education's coverage, quality and cost recovery; urban and rural water supply and urban sewage;
petroleum and mining legislation revisions; and environmental norms, including those for
industrial wastes.
4.03    Loan Conditionality for Tranche Disbursements. The SAL conditions spread over
three tranches. The first tranche conditions mostly concerned the partial removal or elimination of
restrictions covered under the industrial policy and trade reform component. Shortly after loan
approval in mid-July 1989, in November 1989, effectiveness conditions were met. The tranche
was disbursed on January 29, 1990 against statement of expenditures for eligible input contracts
supported by the required documentation in compliance with the guidelines for procurement
under IBRD loans and credits.
4.04    Second tranche conditions covered the key elements of the reform program, which
included: budgetary discipline and reallocation of resources, PE sector reform, developing a
rolling four-year PIP, moving to liquidate or restructure public and private financial institutions,
changing primary export pricing and marketing, and continuing the industrial policy and trade
reforms with a second-round of foreign trade and domestic commerce liberalization (see Annex
V, Status of Loan Covenants). The second tranche was released in April 1991 despite a weak
performance of the stabilization program and the lapsing of the IMF Stand-by arrangement.
4 05    The government made progress in complying with several of the specific conditions for
third tranche release but could not meet the general condition for a viable macroeconomic
framework given the difficulties of the macroeconomic and budgetary situation in early 1993. It
was clear at that time that no viable, credible medium-term scenario existed in the absence of a
dramatic improvement in Cameroon's competitiveness position, which included a significant
change in the relative prices of non-tradeables vis-a-vis tradeables, further structural changes and



- 5 -
a further tightening of the fiscal position. In other words, compliance with the SAL condition of a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework was not feasible without a devaluation of the currency
This position was conveyed to the government in April 1993 by a Bank supervision mission.
4.06    SAC conditions. A revised macroeconomic framework was developed following the
devaluation of the CFA from 50 to 100 CFAF/FF in January 1994 and the reformulation of the
stabilization and adjustment program supported by an 18-month Stand-by arrangement with the
IMF (approved on March 14, 1994). In view of the country's lack of creditworthiness for
borrowing on IBRD terms, Cameroon was declared eligible for IDA resources. Accordingly, the
SAL's third tranche was cancelled and replaced with a new Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC)
for the same amount (US$50 million).  Compliance with third tranche conditions became
preconditions of the SAC's one tranche release. The Bank released the SAC on the basis that the
general condition for maintaining a satisfactory macroeconomic framework had been complied
with and that significant progress had been made in implementing all structural elements of the
original SAL program, thus satisfying to some extent all specific conditions for the third tranche
release, with the exception of the one pertaining to the Forestry Code.
4.07    The Bank provided comments to the government on a draft Forestry Code which was
modified to reflect the Bank's review. The Code was sent to Parliament for approval in December
1993. Parliament revised the Code eliminating all the items previously agreed upon with the Bank
and the Government promulgated the new Code in January 1994. At that time, the government
committed itself to: (i) adopt implementation decrees satisfactory to IDA by end-June, 1994 to
reintroduce some of the provisions modified by Parliament, and (ii) resubmit a revised Code to
Parliament during its sessions in November 1994. The Bank's main objections concerned the lack
of transparency of proposed procedures for awarding logging concessions, the excessive role
envisaged for State intervention, and the perverse economic effects of the ban on log exports.
The adoption of satisfactory implementation decrees for the Forestry Code was made a condition
for effectiveness of the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), which was approved in June 1994.
4.08    As part of the emergency package of assistance to the CFA countries, upon the
devaluation of the CFAF, an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) in the amount of US$75 million
was approved in June 1994 to support the government's new economic program.  Board
presentation conditions for the ERC built on the achievements made and shortcomings in the
areas covered under the Structural Adjustment Program in particular with respect to: tax reform;
abolition or elimination of trade barriers and price controls on rice, sugar, wheat and wheat
products, and edible oils; deepening the implementation of the civil service reform by increasing
the number of ministries covered by the reform from four to eight, outlining the process for
reducing excess staff and its budgetary impact for inclusion in the 1994/95 Budget Law; adoption
of a new approach to PE reform based on accelerating the divestiture process and improving the
efficiency of those PE's remaining in Government hands; preparation of the PIP for 1994/95 -
1997/98; agreement with IDA on the priority expenditures under the government's Social Action
Program to strengthen basic health and education expenditures with emphasis in the rural areas,
employment support, and poverty monitoring, for incorporation in the 1994/95 Budget Law; and
a commitment to undertake and implement a reform of the public procurement system.



- 6 -
4.09   Project Management and Monitoring. The SAL was managed by an Interministerial
Committee established by the President.  The Secretary General of the Presidency was the
Chairman and the members included the ministers of Finance, Plan, Industry and Commerce,
Agriculture, and Civil Service, and the National Director of the BEAC. A technical committee
was responsible for monitoring the implementation of the program.  Performance was
unsatisfactory despite the technical support of the Economic Management Project (Loan 3 110-
CM). It was plagued by the very weaknesses identified during preparation of the SAL and of the
Economic Management Project. These problems played a considerable role in the SAL program's
unsatisfactory performance.
5.     EcONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS DURING IMPLEMENTATION
5.01    The Government stabilization program was supported by a Stand-By arrangement with
the IMF in 1988 and by the Structural Adjustment Loan in 1989. In the absence of a devaluation,
the so-called internal adjustment strategy required a depression of economic activity and living
standards.  The objectives of the combined stabilization and structural adjustment aimed at
correcting the internal and extemal disequilibria and restoring external competitiveness mostly
through internal deflationary policies, which placed emphasis on: (i) strengthening public finances,
including raising non-oil revenues and controlling the wage bill; (ii) restructuring/rehabilitating
public enterprises; (iii) restructuring the banking system; (iv) liberalizing and improving marketing
of the main export crops (coffee, cocoa, cotton), (v) lowering domestic costs through
deregulation of internal trade; and (vi) improving incentives for petroleum exploration.
5.02    The reforms supported by the SAL proved insufficient to compensate for the
fundamental shocks adversely affecting the Cameroonian economy. The external terms of trade
deteriorated by another 13 percent while the real effective exchange rate appreciated by about 14
percent from FY89 to FY93. Export performance of agricultural commodities worsened. The
import-substituting light manufacturing sector also experienced a decline. The current account
balance of payments deficit reached 10.5 percent of GDP in 1989. Domestic investment declined
from 16.5 percent of GDP in 1989 to about 10.5 percent in 1993, owing to the depressed state of
economic affairs, the loss of confidence of private investors, and the rising social tensions. As a
result, real GDP deteriorated steadily at a yearly rate of about 5.1 percent and real per capita
income continued to shrink resulting in a drop of 50 percent since FY86.
5.03    The fiscal problems persisted during  1989-93  despite significant reductions in
government discretionary expenditures and efforts to improve tax performance. The overall fiscal
deficit rose from 5.9 percent of GDP in FY89 to 8.4 percent in FY93, mostly on account of
higher interest payments on internal and external debt obligations and the inability to reduce wage
expenditures in step with revenue declines. The tax revenue performance was disappointing.
Efforts to increase the GDP ratio of non-oil revenues from 12 to 15 percent were unsuccessful.
On the other hand, oil revenues dropped by 25 percent during this period. The efforts to raise tax
revenues led to social and ethnic tensions and, later on, to widespread civil disobedience and
outright refusal to pay taxes or to growing tax evasion, which compounded the collection
problems of a narrowly-based tax structure with a weak tax administration. With respect to
government expenditures, the effort concentrated on cutting non-personnel current outlays and
investment expenditures; however, the large wage bill remained unchanged until end-1992. In



- 7 -
1993, it was reduced to 60 percent of its 1992 level. Despite these actions, the continuing
economic decline led to increasing financial imbalances and a grim outlook. This coupled with a
serious external debt burden and debt-servicing arrears brought the country to an unsustainable
situation.
5.04    Cameroon met only about 30 percent of its external debt obligations during FY89-FY93.
Arrears on commercial banks and bilateral official debt had accumulated since 1985 and, despite
two Paris Club (1989, 1992), net external arrears continued to accumulate. From time to time,
overdue debt payments also affected the multilateral banks; so far, only the Bretton Woods
institutions have collected debt service payments in full, but with substantial delays. At end-1993,
the external public debt stood at US$7.5 billion (90 percent of GDP), with arrears at US$1.5
billion (19 percent of GDP).
5.05    Realizing that an economic reform program exclusively focused on internal adjustment
measures was inadequate to bring about the structural changes needed, the Government of
Cameroon, along with its partner countries in the CFA zone, decided on January 12, 1994, to
realign the parity of the CFA Franc from 50 CFAF/FF to 100 CFAF/FF. To ensure the success of
the devaluation, the government adopted a new macroeconomic program whose main objective
was to enhance the country's international competitiveness and to return the economy on to a
sustainable growth path.  The underlying reform program, supported by an IMF Standby
Arrangement (approved on March 14, 1994), aimed to: (i) bring inflation to a level below 5
percent from 1995/96 onwards, following initial adjustments in relative prices; (ii) attain
sustainable real GDP growth of about 5 percent per annum from 1995/96, primarily led by
improved competitiveness and export performance; and (iii) quickly achieve primary and,
eventually, overall budget surplus to enable increased domestic savings, reduce the current
account balance deficit and finance an increasing share of domestic investments.
5.06    The political and social situation in Cameroon is fragile. Cameroon is a complex society
with significant ethnic and religious differences. With the economic decline, political tensions have
mounted as the government raised taxes in an effort to maintain its expenditures. The country
experienced civil unrest in 1991-92 which triggered the intervention of the army and aggravated
the fiscal and economic crisis. Parliamentary elections in 1992 were boycotted by some political
parties, in the Anglophone part of the country in particular, and did not result in the forming of a
broad-based government with a mandate to resolve the crisis.
6.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
6.01    While achievements were made in selected areas, the overall results of the SAL-
supported program were unsatisfactory. Cameroon's implementation of the program and actual
results were below expectations despite an improved performance at a late stage, which allowed
the Bank to release the SAC tranche that replaced the SAL's third tranche with the immediate
purpose of providing budgetary support to a country in deep financial crisis and no longer
creditworthy. The SAL results were unsatisfactory for two reasons:



-8 -
(a)   Macroeconomic Framework
The Government's objective supported by the SAL program was to reestablish the
growth of exports and GDP through internal adjustment and market reforms. While
the external environment deteriorated further, the country had no recourse to a
corrective devaluation until all members of the CFAF zone agreed to it in January
1994.  Cameroon's economy continued to decline under the internal adjustment
measures supported by the SAL.
(b)   Political and Institutional Environment
The government commitment to the program was timnid at best. The broad overhaul of
the public administration, the strengthening of public financcs, and a reduction of the
State role in the economy, which were important components of the program,
experienced significant difficulties because of weak government commitment, political
constraints which impeded the reallocation of expenditures, the clash between political
and economic interests along ethnic lines, and political unrest. These problems were
compounded by weak public institutions, corruption, rivalries among ministries, civil
service resistance to change, etc.
6.02    The SAL focused on internal adjustment measures to restore growth of exports and
GDP, while Cameroon's real effective exchange rate (REER) became grossly overvalued. The
internal adjustment strategy resulted in: a further depression of economic activity and living
standards and the reinforcement of the bias against tradeables. Under these conditions, restoring
fiscal equilibrium proved elusive. The devaluation of the CFA Franc in January 1994 removed the
single most important constraint to development. It generated a strong supply response. The
weakness in the fiscal area has remained a major problem, however.
6.03    Public Sector Resource Management. Despite a drastic cut in the wage bill in 1993,
wages and interest payments continued to absorb virtually all revenues.  Under these
circumstances, agreements on budget allocations became irrelevant as actual outlays were
significantly below requirement.
6.04   Investment Program and Budget Preparation of a rolling four-year investment program
and an improvement of procurement practices were a major objective of the SAL. The 1992/93 -
1994/95 public investment program continued to be deficient with respect to project selection
methods (absence of sector strategies, lack of investment appraisal criteria with no attention to
economic rates of return in project selection), sector allocation (23 percent of the total was
allocated for the administration), and unrealistic investment levels under existing budget
constraints since lack of domestic resources prevented the implementation of most projects. The
improvement in procurement practices was not achieved. The establishment of a centralized
contract and procurement agency (DGTC) attached to the Presidency did not improve
procurement performance.
6.05    Several factors continued to pose significant obstacles to a well-defined PIP. Project
selection continues to be weak with not enough attention paid to the evaluation and analysis of



-9-
the projects and their rates of return as well as their role in the framework of well-defined sectoral
strategies. There is still lack of coordination between the technical ministries and the Ministry of
Planning, which precludes using the computerized system financed under the Economic
Management project (PAGE). Under the SAC the government committed to strengthen
significantly the process of programming and executing current and investment expenditures and
to agree with the Bank on annual budget allocations for the PIP and social expenditures (para.
6.04).
6.06    Civil Service Reform  This SAL component progressed but at a slow pace. Short-term
actions with a budgetary impact (reduction of personnel benefits and allowances, limitations on
the wage bill) were carried out. Staffing plans have been drawn up with the PAGE's technical
assistance for eight ministries, and were adopted by end-April 1994. Of these, four key ministries
(Finance, Plan, Civil Service, and Industry and Commerce), which were selected as a first priority,
were to begin implementing their staffing plans before end-June 1994. In the context of the ERC,
the Government prepared an outline defining how excess staff would be laid-off, and the
budgetary costs and savings of the staff reductions, to be included in the 1994/95 budget. It also
agreed to (i) initiate implementation of the staffing plans for the other four ministries by
end-August 1994, (ii) adopt a revised Civil Service Statute by end-June 1994, (iii) extend the
POEs to remaining ministries, and (iv) implement a computerized system to manage payroll and
personnel administration.
6.07    Public Enterprise Refornm  Progress in implementing this component has been at a
slower pace than envisaged. The PAGE successfully completed the studies required for action in
the enterprise sector. However, legal and institutional questions delayed implementation of the
results. Diagnostic studies of 75 PE's were carried out, of which 38 PE's were slated for
rehabilitation, but only 25 had performance contracts under implementation. Privatization of 15
enterprises was decided in October 1990 but only 5 were actually privatized with three of the
remaining subject to liquidation procedures in the courts, five on sale but with no buyers found,
and two have uncertain prospects. Liquidation of 67 enterprises showed little progress. Twenty
five of these enterprises are subject to administrative liquidation, which had been delayed on
account of three causes: lack of government funds to pay the liabilities (17 enterprises),
processing delays (3 enterprises), and liquidation processing (5 enterprises). Thirty three under
the public holding company (Societe Nationale d'Investissement, SNI) are suffering from slow
judicial procedures and negligence of the liquidators. In retrospect, the SAL placed too much
emphasis on rehabilitation of PE's which required financial resources in excess of those available.
The SAL reforms of the PE sector produced results below expectations. The PE reform remains
incomplete and PEs continue to be a burden on public finances, because of inappropriate
arrangements, legislation problems, lack of government financial resources to cover the
rehabilitation costs, and an unfavorable economic environment, which made difficult both the
rehabilitation of the PEs or their privatization. In view of the shortcomings of this component, the
Government committed itself during the ERC negotiations to accelerate PE reform, with an
increased emphasis on privatization. A PE Sector Reform Policy was agreed upon with the Bank.
6.08    Petroleum Sector. This sub-component of the public enterprise reform showed little
progress under the SAL and SAC. The redefinition of the petroleum policy aimed at promoting
exploration by the international oil industry. Under the ERC, the Government agreed to liberalize



- 10 -
the petroleum sector over the next two years. The level and structure of petroleum prices was
revised in March 1994; petroleum products, with the exception of kerosene, are now subject to
the standard customs and indirect tax regime as well as the specific tax on petroleum products.
Prices will be adjusted quarterly to reflect developments in world markets.
6.09    Liberalization of Trade and Prices. This component was carried out satisfactorily. It
had two sub-components: (i) foreign trade liberalization and (ii) price deregulation. Foreign trade
liberalization entailed three stages linked to each tranche release, which were complied with for
the first two tranches. However, external conditions changed with the devaluation of the CFAF
and the government implemented an UDEAC-wide comprehensive reform including the
introduction of a turnover tax and a new tariff structure with four rates with a narrow dispersion,
gradual elimination of tax and tariff exemptions, and the abolition of all remaining quantitative
restrictions and non-tariff barriers. Export liberalization also advanced with the abolition of the
National Purchase Marketing Board for export crops (coffee and cocoa), which was replaced by
the organization of private marketing agents (CICC) and an institution in charge of quality control
(ONCC). Marketing and prices of Arabica coffee were liberalized; however, reference prices
remain for the Robusta coffee and for cocoa. Domestic price deregulation conditions were also
complied with through the lifting of a significant number of price controls, which left only 14
products and 7 services under price control. Internal trade was also further liberalized, and only
goods and services produced by public monopolies remained subject to price controls.
6.10    Financial Sector Reform. Two of the three major sub-components have been partly
carried out, namely, with the liquidation of two commercial banks (CAMBANK and BPPBC), a
development bank (BCD) and a rural development fund (FONADER); and the
restructuring/merger of another commercial bank (SCB).  However, the sub-component
concerning an action plan for restructuring the SNI was only fulfilled in part, as the Bank
continued to have fundamental reservations regarding the notion of recapitalizing, which was
included in the action plan. This was a key problem delaying the release of the SAL's third
tranche until the devaluation in January 1994. At the time, it was estimated that the importance of
the promised capital transfer from the Treasury to SNI, denominated in nominal CFA-francs in the
action plan, had been reduced significantly in real value by the devaluation of the CFA-franc.
Given the sharp drop in value of the transfer, it became less relevant and the condition was
considered met when the SAC was disbursed despite an unsatisfactory performance.lo
6.11    Labor Code Component  A new Labor Code was adopted in 1992, which provides
some progress in liberalizing the labor market. This condition was formally complied with.
6.12    Forestry Code and Tax Regime. As noted in para. 4.08, the Assembly approved the
Code in January 1994 with changes, which were judged too significant for the Code to be
considered satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank agreed to waive this condition for presentation of
the SAC to the Board under the proviso that the government would comply with commitments (i)
and (ii) detailed in para. 4.08.  These commitments should ensure greater transparency in
awarding logging concessions and a more rational management of forest resources.
6.13   Adequate Funding for Program  Execution.   This condition was subject to
interpretation and the Bank maintained that the condition would remain unfulfilled until the IMF



- 11 -
would endorse the fiscal outlook. The IMF Stand-by Arrangement for an 18-month period
agreed upon in early 1994 allowed the government to meet this condition for the SAC's
disbursement.
7.      SUSTAINABILITY
7.01    As noted in the ERC's President Report, the SAL program failed to address the key
obstacle to economic recovery, the overvaluation of the currency. In addition, Cameroon's track
record in implementing the reform program was poor. For the limited achievements under the
SAL program to be sustained, it is critical that the new stabilization and adjustment program
supported by the ERC be successful. The devaluation and the implementation of the fiscal,
monetary and structural adjustment policies in 1994 have created favorable conditions for
restoring growth but Cameroon has to implement with vigor a far reaching program of supportive
reforms to make it sustainable. Areas for reform include: fiscal policy and rationalization of
public expenditure, downsizing of public sector and privatization, and reforming the regulatory
framework to promote a supply response and private sector development. Provided that these
reforms are carried out, international financial support, including additional debt relief, will
remain critical for the sustainability of the program.
8      BANK PERFORMANCE
8.02    Expectation that a program of internal reform would restore the conditions for economic
growth without addressing the overvaluation of the currency proved wrong. Despite significant
preparatory work for the SAL through appraisal requiring about 270 staffweeks, Bank appraisal
of the economic situation and future prospects proved optimistic, against the background of the
main economic forces at work and the staff assessment of serious Government implementation
weaknesses and lack of consensus among rival ministries. The appraisal overestimated the scope
of the potential for reform in a limited time span and the govermnent's commitment. The main
objective of the program of restoring growth through structural internal reforms was not
accomplished. In fact, the economic situation worsened.
8.03    Bank supervision missions visited Cameroon frequently to monitor progress in the
implementation of the program. SAL supervision missions required 323 staffweeks but the SAC
required almost no supervision since it was a one-tranche operation. Bank missions in the initial
stages of project implementation tended to overestimate the accomplishments of both PAGE and
SAL conveying an impression of accomplishments, which exceeded actual results. The release of
the second tranche presented to the Board (April 1991) raised little, if any doubts, about the
advances of the program with a rating of overall satisfactory progress. Subsequently, after the
original closing date for third tranche release had elapsed, without the promised results, the tone
of Bank mission's reports became highly critical of Cameroonian performance. It became clear
that the macroeconomic framework was unsustainable, the program was underfunded, and
specific components were either lagging or pending.  These findings were discussed with
government officials. Despite an intense dialogue, progress continued to be slow.
8.04    Project Risks. Project risks identified at appraisal were very significant. They included:
(i) slower implementation of the reform program because of social pressures and untested



- 12 -
government implementation capacity; and (ii) reform measures not strong enough to elicit the
envisaged increase in private investment and non-oil exports or to increase domestic resource
mobilization sufficiently to reduce the budget deficit and conform import demands to projected
levels. The first risk materialized mostly because of the poor implementation capacity and lack of
government commitment to the program. The second risk also became a reality. The program as
developed was not able to help Cameroon regain its competitiveness in world markets The
economy failed to respond. The Bank's decision to move forward with the SAL program in the
face of unfavorable odds remains questionable.
9.     BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.01    The appraisal mission identified serious shortcomings in the preparation of the program
(weaknesses of key directorates, inadequate procedures, weak statistical base for macroeconomic
decision-making, etc.) which complicated the implementation of both the PAGE and the SAL.
The capacity to deliver the agreed reforms was lacking and public policy was often undermined to
serve private interests, while lack of transparency and accountability were serious problems.
Under these conditions, Cameroon's record in implementing the SAL could not be satisfactory.
Several internal factors affected adversely the implementation of the SAL: resistance of the
bureaucracy to changes, lack of progress on procurement issues in investment projects and on
budgetary oversight and expenditure accountability, administrative corruption, ministry rivalries,
etc. A worsening macroeconomic environment and its negative impact on budgetary resources
compounded the problem. Project management also was not completely satisfactory in terms
both of the government exercising its authority when conditions so required and of management
of the SAL project and its technical assistance (PAGE). By December 1993, the fundamental
structural problem of the public sector (overdimensioned, inefficient and deficit ridden public
sector; increasing inefficiencies of the central administration and the parapublic sector) had
worsened. In brief, the Borrower's performance in implementing the program was unsatisfactory.
10.    LOAN DOCUMENTATION
10.01   Program documentation and data used in the preparation of this report included legal
documents, the President's Reports of the SAL and PAGE loans, mission back-to-office reports,
supervision reports, and aide-memoires discussed with the Borrower, and internal documents and
memoranda.
10.02   The Loan Agreement and the President's Report were adequate for the implementation
and the follow-up of the program progress.  Supervision reports provided comprehensive
information about the advances of the program but initially tended to be optimistic about
implementation results. The situation was corrected in 1992 after it became clear that the SAL
and PAGE projects had encountered serious implementation problems.
11.    DISBURSEMENTS AND AUDITING
11.01   The Bank loan was not disbursed in full; the third tranche was cancelled in January 1994
and replaced by a one-tranche SAC of an equivalent amount. Disbursements of both applications
against imports were audited with satisfactory results and conforming to internationally accepted



- 13 -
standards. The Bank exercised an adequate control of the import documentation supporting
disbursement requests.
12.    FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
12.01   The first lesson concerns the accuracy of the country diagnosis and adequacy of the
remedies proposed. In Cameroon's case, the macro assessment did not conform to reality since it
underestimated the depth of the crisis, the time lag before economic reforms could produce
meaningful economic recovery, and the appropriateness and effectiveness of a program based only
on internal adjustment. Cameroon had gone from a dramatic boom to a bust and its prospects for
recovery were dim when the SAL was appraised and approved. Nevertheless, the medium-term
prospects for economic growth in the President's Report, based on the implementation of the
domestic reforms, were for arresting the economic decline in economic activity and return to an
average annual long-term growth rate of three percent by 1995, which was considered
conservative.
12.02   The second lesson concems the accurate assessment of the country's political and social
fabric to which the structural adjustment program is to be applied and the risks that political
factors may play in the implementation. In Cameroon's case, the political consequences of the
internal adjustment on a country with significant ethnic and religious differences were not fully
taken into account in the design of the program. As the economic decline deepened, civil unrest
developed, which led to a worsening of economic and fiscal conditions.
12.03   The third lesson is closely related to the previous two lessons. An inaccurate diagnosis
of economic prospects at appraisal and of the impact of reforms led to the overestimation of the
possible coverage of a SAL reform program and, furthermore, to unsatisfactory results. The
private economic agents at play are not likely to respond quickly to changes in the rules of the
game, particularly when it has to bear the full cost of the economic adjustment. On the contrary,
they may become more cautious, particularly if the reform gradually keeps changing the rules that
affect their productive environment. This increases uncertainty for potential investors, who would
tend to wait for the final outcome of the reform process.
12.04   The fourth lesson leamed is that a widespread, ambitious coverage for a SAL operation
is a recipe for inadequate or insufficient performance.  SAL's should have a more limited,
concentrated scope of actions which can be tackled successfully. SAL's should have a less
ambitious design and a more realistic timespan, particularly in a country afflicted by weak public
institutions, coordination problems, political difficulties, and social problems which would impede
compliance with the program.  This is particularly true in countries suffering a protracted
economic crisis and political unrest, and with significant public administration weaknesses. In the
Cameroonian case, the SAL went too far in assuming it was possible to achieve a major overhaul
of the public sector apparatus (both government administration and public enterprises) and
reorient the role of the State and simultaneously implement a significant reshuffling of the
economy and its operating rules in a short period of time.  The SAL operation disregarded
important revealing facts, which were evident from the outset of the program: (i) the SAL
disbursement period (June 1989/December 31, 1991) was too short to carry out the program and
the President's Report conceded that many of the reforms were likely to require three to five years



- 14 -
for implementation to be completed (para. 41); (ii) the successful implementation of the SAL
required a strong public sector implementation capacity, but the President's Report identified, as
the main risk of the program, the lack of implementation capacity, (iii) SAL appraisal and
government agreements on policies were the subject of many missions and protracted discussions
while the government was reluctant to accept the program and was not thoroughly convinced, and
(iv) the ambitious design and implementing problems were exacerbated by the country's severe
economic crisis.
12.05   The fifth lesson concerns a realistic evaluation at appraisal of actual, satisfactory results
and government ownership of the program. Problems encountered at this stage, if large or
widespread, are likely to plague the performance of the SAL. In the Cameroon SAL operation,
problems were detected at appraisal, which were expected to be solved with the economic
management project (PAGE), and which, because PAGE failed to achieve the expected results,
became obstacles to the implementation of the SAL. Among them: (i) weak government
commitment to implement or enforce the recommendations of the technical assistance; (ii) poorly
coordinated public administration, handicapped by rivalries among ministries and directorates as
well as a bureaucracy resisting change; (iii) inadequate data for decision-making; and (iv) poor
administrative arrangements to carry out the administration of the PAGE and the SAL.
12.06   The sixth lesson concerns the conditionality requiring Parliamentary approval of new
legislation. A draft law agreed with the Executive branch for presentation to Parliament may be
subject to significant changes in the legislative body so as to render it meaningless or distort the
purpose for which remedial legislation was asked for. This was the case of Cameroon's Forestry
Code. Parliament amended it and made the approved Code unsatisfactory for meeting Bank
conditionality. However, this should not be taken as a prescription for the Bank not to ask for
new legislation. What is needed is a better understanding of the political environment for passage
of legislation. Experience with other SALs, which required passage of satisfactory legislation,
supports this approach. Draft legislation with no political support would be rejected or changed
in an unsatisfactory manner in the legislative body. An alternative would be to explore ways of
accomplishing the reforms using existing legislation, regulatory decrees or administrative actions
(e.g. application decrees for the Forestry Code which was the effectiveness condition of the
ERC).



- 15 -
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
1.     INTRODUCTION
Cameroon, a Central African country endowed with diversified agricultural and mineral
resources, shares frontiers with Nigeria and Chad to the north, the Central African Republic to the east,
the Congo to the southeast, and Gabon and Equatorial Guinea to the south. During the first 25 years
following independence (1960-85) Cameroon's economy posted sustained annual growth of over 7
percent, thanks to prudent budget and financial policies. Agriculture was the main source of growth
and export receipts until 1978, when working of the oil deposits discovered off the Cameroon coast
began. The oil sector has since developed into the motor of economic growth, contributing substantial
receipts to the public finances.
Throughout the first half of the 1980s Caneroon's economic situation was marked by real
growth of over 7 percent, thanks mainly to the growing volume of public receipts generated by oil
production. This trend held steady until 1985/86, when the economy suffered a very severe external
shock characterized by collapse of the prices of oil and the major export commodities (coffee, cocoa,
cotton). This was followed by a deterioration in terms of trade of some 39 percent in relation to FY
1984/85, aggravated by a rise in the exchange rate of the CFA franc to the US dollar.
The deterioration of the economic indicators in 1986/87 was reflected in a balance of
payments current account deficit of 9.5 percent of GDP, accompanied by a central government
operations deficit of over CFAF 508 billion, or 7.6 percent of GDP. The budget deficit was financed
largely by the accumulation of payment arrears, which helped to depress economic activity, jeopardized
the functioning of the banking system and triggered a liquidity crisis.
In response to the continued slowdown in economic activity in 1987/88, the Cameroon
authorities implemented a series of stabilization measures designed in the main to cut public
expenditure and reduce the need for budget financing. The deepening of the recession highlighted the



- 16 -
economy's structural weaknesses, particularly the heavy dependence of the public enterprises on
government subsidies, a local industry sheltered from the realities of competition by a complex
protection system, a fragile and practically insolvent banking sector, and a public finances system
vulnerable to fluctuations in oil-sector activity.
The Cameroon Government accordingly decided to prepare and implement a public finances
stabilization program supported by an IMF stand-by arrangement in September 1989 and a structural
adjustment program, prepared in July 1988, cofinanced by the African Development Bank and the
World Bank. The stabilization of the public finances pursued under the IMF stand-by arrangement
could not be fulfilled, despite an effort of reduction of non-wage expenditures and investment cuts.
Economic activity continued to decline, and the economic agents evaded their tax obligations, with a
consequent fall in non-oil receipts. The structural reforms envisaged were applied both late and
selectively in a very tense political and social environment. This situation compromised achievement of
the objectives of restoring macroeconomic equilibria, improving ability to compete and stimulating
private-sector activity.
2.     PROGRAM DESIGN
2.1     Background
In order to remedy the profound economic imbalances revealed by the massive external
shocks of 1985/86, the Cameroon Government undertook a program of macroeconomic and structural
reforms beginning in FY 1987/88. These reforms were supported by the IMF in September 1988
through a stand-by arrangement and by the World Bank and the ADB Group through structural
adjustment loans (SALs). A number of friendly countries also supported this Structural Adjustment
Program (SAP).
2.2     Program Preparation and Appraisal
The SAP was prepared by the Cameroon authorities in close collaboration with staff of the
World Bank and other multilateral institutions. The procedure can be summarized as follows. The
Government submitted a request to the World Bank in June 1988. At the same time it set up working
groups, including representatives of the major ministries, under the coordination of the Ministry of
Planning and Territorial Development, to prepare a medium-term cyclical and structural reform
program. In response to the request, a joint ADB/IBRD Structural Adjustment Program preparation
mission went to Yaounde, where it collaborated with the working groups from June 30 to July 15,
1988. The technical work was carried out within six specialized committees, on the following topics:
(i) macroeconomics (with sub-committees on public finances, public investment programming,
taxation, and administrative reform; (ii) the public and parapublic sector and the banking system); (iii)
rural development (fanning, herding, fishing and forest products); (iv) industry and trade; (v) education
and health, and (vi) transportation and infrastructure. A second joint ADB/IBRD pre-appraisal mission
went to Yaounde on November 28, 1988. To resolve the coordination and steering problems that
arose during the course of these two missions, a Technical Committee for Preparation and Monitoring
of the Structural Adjustment Program--TC/SAP (Comite Technique de Preparation et de Suivi du
Programme d'Ajus-tement Structurel--CT/PAS) was created by decree of the President of the Republic
dated December 27, 1988. During the period beginning March 1989 a joint ADB/IBRD mission went



- 17 -
to Yaounde to appraise the SAP with the Cameroon authorities. Upon completion of this appraisal,
the authorities drew up a Declaration of Development and Economic Recovery Strategy (DDS) which
was approved by the World Bank and ADB.
2.3     Negotiations and Approval
The SAL negotiations between Cameroon and the World Bank took place in Washington in
May 1989. Following examination of the appraisal report, IBRD's Board of Executive Directors on
June 14, 1989 approved a loan of US$150 million in support of the SAP to Cameroon. The agreement
was signed on July 17, 1989, and the loan became effective on November 28, 1989. In February 1994,
Cameroon having become eligible for IDA financing, the Government requested cancellation of the
third SAL tranche and its replacement by an equivalent one-tranche Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC); effectively the conditions for disbursement of the third tranche becanre the conditions precedent
for signature and disbursement of the SAC. The SAC was appraised in February 1994 and approved in
March 1994 and became effective in the same month.
2.4     Program Objectives and Description
The program's main objectives were to:
-     re-establish a positive growth rate;
-     progressively reduce the constraints on competition and market efficiency;
-     reorient the role of government in the economy, scaling down its goods and services
production activities in favor of development of the private sector;
-     reorient public programs toward activities that improve the well-being of the people.
These objectives were to be achieved through measures some of which were identified during
program preparation and others during implementation of the program. These measures were to be
implemented through the following fields of action:
(a)    Public resource management
This component had two basic subcomponents: (i) restoration of budget equilibrium
through reorientation of expenditure, improvement of domestic resource mobilization
and settlement of arrears, and (ii) strengthening of investment planning, programming
and monitoring.
(b)   Civil service reform
The measures undertaken in this field were aimed first at bringing the salary bill under
control by reducing the size and cost of the civil service, and second at upgrading civil
service efficiency by preparing and implementing organization and staffing plans
(POEs) for the ministries, revising the legal framework of the civil service, and setting



- 18 -
up a system of efficient management of government personnel which would match up
the personnel management and payroll data bases.
(c)    Reforn of the public and parapublic enterprises
The purpose of the proposed measures was to implement withdrawal of government
from the productive sector by trimming its public and parapublic enterprises portfolio
and improving the performance of the enterprises retained in it, while minimizing the
social impact of this action.
(d)   Rehabilitation of the banking sector
The banking sector was to be reorganized so as to restore the banks' financial and
operational viability, overcome the system's liquidity crisis, strengthen control of the
profession and raise the profitability of the financial institutions.
(e)    Promotion of agricultural activities
The measures to be taken under this component were designed in particular to
revitalize agricultural production, progressively liberalize basic commodity prices and
marketing circuits, and upgrade the institutional and legal framework for forestry and
the environment.
(f)    Liberalization of industry and trade
The purposes of liberalizing and rationalizing the industry and trade sector were to
reduce its distortions, enhance its operational efficiency, and make it more competitive.
(g)    Social dimension of adjustment
The Social Dimension of Adjustment program was designed to correct the immediate
social impact of structural adjustment policy on the most disadvantaged and vulnerable
sections of the population. It included population, health, education, women and
development, employment, and commlLanity development modules.
2.5     Cost and Financing
The financing needs of central government operations for FY 1989/90 and 1990/91 were
estimated at CFAF 333.6 billion, including CFAF 150 billion for identified bank and public enterprise
restructuring costs.  At the time of appraisal of the program, the identified foreign exchange
contributions stood at CFAF 312.9 billion after amortization of the external debt of CFAF 174.5 billion
and rescheduling operations totaling CFAF 52.7 billion. Of this amount, CFAF 264 billion was
earmarked for projects, CFAF 22 billion derived from the STABEX funds, and CFAF 148.7 billion
was for program loans. IBRD's assistance came to CFAF 45 billion, i.e. 27.7 percent of non-project
loans.



- 19 -
3.      PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
3.1     Management of the SAP
Implementation of the Structural Adjustment Prograrn was entrusted to an Interministerial
Monitoring Committee chaired by the Secretary General of the Office of the President and composed
of the economic sector ministers, notably those of Finance, Planning, Industrial and Trade
Development and Agriculture, plus the General Director of the SNI and the National Director of the
Central Bank. The Interministerial Committee was assisted by a Technical Committee for Preparation
and Monitoring of the SAP, responsible for drawing up the working documentation, preparing the
Interministerial Committee's decisions, conducting technical liaison with the donors, and regularly
monitoring the SAP. The members of the Monitoring Committee comprised high officials of the Office
of the President of the Republic and of the central government, together with the Chairman of the
Technical Committee for Public Enterprise Rehabilitation and the Director General of the external debt
agency, the Caisse Autonome d'Amortisement. It possessed a support agency, the PAGE Project
Management Unit (Secretariat de Gestion du Projet--SGP), which at the same time acted as its
permanent secretariat. The SGP comprised an admninistrator, a bookkeeper and support staff
3.2    Implementation Status
The activities matrix appended to the "Declaration of Development and Economic Recovery
Strategy" comprised 185 measures, relating to the following components:
-     public finances;
-     civil service reform;
-     reform of the public and parapublic enterprises;
-     rehabilitation of the banking and financial sector;
-     rural sector;
-     industry and trade sector;
-     tiFansportation and infrastructure;
-     urban sector;
-     water, energy and mining sector;
-     human resources;
-     social dimension of adjustment.
An execution timetable was assigned to each of the proposed measures. The status of
execution of this activities matrix is summarized below:
Publicfinances
The activities under this component were aimed first at restoring budget equilibrium, and
second at improving public investment programming, budgeting and monitoring. Of the 27 measures
planned, 18 were implemented (behind schedule in all but 2 cases). The remaining 9 measures,
comprising the design and application of a system of three-monthly monitoring of the financial and
physical execution of all investment projects, settlement of arrears due to various public agencies, and
overhaul of the tax system, were not implemented as planned, for the following reasons:



- 20 -
(i)        conflicts of responsibility between agencies, which remained unresolved, particularly
with respect to physical and financial monitoring of investment projects and the
institution of a single identification number for all taxpayers,.
(ii)       the Government's tight cash-flow situation, which prevented the settlement of arrears
owed to public enterprises that had signed performance contracts, its suppliers and
public agencies such as CNPS and Credit Foncier, etc,
(iii)       the need for consultation and agreement first at the subregional level, with respect to
the introduction of VAT, and second at the bilateral level, concerning diplomatic
import quotas based on reciprocity.
Civil service reform
The activities under this component were aimed first at reducing the salary bill by cutting civil
service staff and second at improving civil service efficiency. A total of 17 measures were originally
included to achieve these objectives. With the exception of the "national skills inventory," execution of
all these measures has been completed or started. In addition, most of the measures undertaken under
this component have undergone substantial reprogramming.   The following measures were
implemented over the period 1987-94:
(a)    Reduction of the salary bill:
-      freeze on the financial effects of promotion,
-     reform of the "post change-over expenses" (frais de releve) system, which has
led to limitation of changes within the country, reduction of baggage transport
expenses and abolition of leave allowances for government personnel;
reduction in non-salary benefits of government personnel through:
revision of the system of family allowances, which have been reduced
from three to two units;
50-percent reduction in Article 100 allowances;
50-percent reduction in job constraints  allowances (indemnites de
sujetion);
abolition of the housing gratuity for government personnel with the
exception of mandatory service personnel (persomnel d'astreinte);
reduction in government staff housing allowances from 20 percent to 8
percent;



- 21 -
-     the government personnel salary cuts in January and November 1993, which
reduced the salary bill in December 1993 to 60 percent of its December 1992
level;
-     execution of two censuses (in 1987 and 1993) and of payroll correction
operations;
-     correction and permanent updating of the payroll data base by the Permanent
Payroll Correction Unit set up for that purpose.
The results achieved following implementation of these measures were consistent with the
effort deployed. The annual salary bill has been brought under control at CFAF 190 biUlion in
1994/95, against CFAF 300 billion in 1990/91, a reduction in nominal tenris of 37 percent.
Assessment of these results shows that the goal of reducing the salary bill has been amply
achieved.
(b)    Reduction in staff:
The following are the chief measures taken to trim civil service staff:
-     freeze on civil service recruitment:  since 1987 recruitment has been limited to
graduates of the civil service training schools; at the same time, entry into these schools
has been limited, and some of them have been closed;
-     systematic retirement of individuals who have reached the age limit;
-     standardizing of retirement ages; the retirement age of has been lowered from 60 to 65
years for contract staff in grades 9 through 12 and from 55 to 50 years for contract
staff in grades 7 and 8 and decision-makers in grades I through 6;
-     mandatory retirement after 30 years service.
These measures reduced total staff (including uniformed personnel) from 188,200 in
December 1990 to 164,946 in December 1994, a reduction of 23,254 or 12.3 percent.
(c)     Upgrading civil service efriciency:
The following are the main measures taken by the Government to upgrade civil
service efficiency:
the Strategic Organization of Ministries (Strategie d'Organisation des Ministeres--
SGOM), which led to rationalization of ministry responsibilities;
studies for the Organization and Staffing Plans (Plans d'Organisation et d'Effectifs-
POEs), aimed at rationalizing ministry staffs;



- 22 -
review of the legal framework of the civil service, which led to the adoption of a new
general civil service statute officially embodying the employment position concept,
study and setting up of the Computerized Integrated Personnel and Payroll
Management System (Systeme Infornatique de Gesfion lntegre des Personnels de
I'Etat et de la Solde--SIGIPES) designed to dovetail and payroll management.
The status of execution of these activities is as follows:
The SGOM has been frilly implemented.
POE studies are available for eight ministries:  MINFOPRA, MINNPAT, MLINFI,
MINDIC, MINEDUC, MIINSANTE, MINASCOF and MRNTPS; during the last
ministerial reorganization, the merger of MINFI and MINPAT to form MINEFI
reduced the number of these ministries to seven.
The Government has adopted the decrees organizing five of these ministries:
MINFOPRA, MINDIC, MINSANTE, MINTPS and MINEDUC. The organization
charts of MINEFI and MINASCOF are being finalized.
POE studies are in progress for three ministries:  MINAT and MNINJES by
MINFOPRA, and MINTPS by an international consultant.
The Government has adopted the General Civil Service Statute.
The Government has already put the SIGIPES into operation in four ministries:
MINFOPRA, M1NEFI, MINSANTE and MINEDUC. These four ministries account
for 46 percent of total (including uniformed) personnel and 61 percent of non-
uniformed personnel.
The following actions remain to be taken to complete these measures:
implementation of the POEs;
installation of the SIGIPES;
consolidation of the system of control and periodic correction of the payroll data base;
revision of the statutes of the vocational training schools;
revision of non-wage (fringe) expenses and benefits;
drafting of a general ministry organization strategy and of specific organization and
staffing plans for an initial group of seven ministries;



- 23 -
definition and study of a voluntary retirement incentive scheme,
revision of the civil service legal and regulatory framework.
Reform of the public and parapublic enterprises
(20 measures planned, 16 implemented, 4 not implemented)
Eleven of the 20 measures included in this component related to reduction of the burden
imposed on the public finances by the public and parapublic enterprises. The rehabilitation measures
under this heading were all implemented, particularly since they conditions of effectiveness of the
second and third loan tranches. Thus, between June 1989 and September 1992, 26 performance
contracts were concluded between the Government and the major enterprises of the "urgent" group.
These performance contracts were limited in scope, in that they did not deal with far-reaching
structural and management reforms but served the short-term aim of reestablishing a viable balance
sheet structure and, therefore, access to financial resources to avoid their closing down in the short
term. Moreover, while the performance goals were listed, the means to be deployed to achieve them
were not, in most cases, defined very precisely. For enterprises outside the "urgent" group, a start was
made on execution of the measures with the preparation of diagnostic balance sheets and rehabilitation
plans following classification by the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Public Enterprise Rehabilitation
(Comite Interminislrzel de 2ehabilitation des Entreprises Publiques). Concerning liquidation, 13
enterprises were definitively deleted from the state's portfolio at the end of 1992 and liquidators were
appointed for MEAL and WADA, as prescribed in the published matrix. Regarding privatization, a
legal framework was instituted in 1990 through the ordinance of August 1990 governing privatization
operations in Cameroon, and its enabling decree was published in October 1990. Note, however, that
two privatization operations--not pertaining to the Rehabilitation Commission--were effected, with the
withdrawal of SNI from the capital of the SCM in 1989/90 and of SOFIRECC in 1990/91.
The three lines of action aimed at minimizing the social impact of the reforms were taken into
account either in the enterprises' restructuring plans or under the DSA project. Of the six measures
designed to improve the performance of the enterprises remaining in the government portfolio, three--
pertaining to monitoring of the sector--were or are currently being executed. Revision of the statutes
and the laws pertaining to the regulation and organization of public enterprises and establishments are
currently being finalized. The adoption of a legal instrument governing capital participations was
deemed not to merit priority in view of the Government's limited resources.
Restructuring of the banking andfinancial sector
(23 measures planned, 20 implemented, 3 not implemented)
The first phase of restructuring of the banking and financial system extended over the period
August 1989 to January 1993; according to the timetable, they were to have been completed by
December 1990. The five measures relating to banks in difficulty were all executed, some behind
schedule. They concemed the liquidation of five banks (BCD, CAMEROON BANK, PARIBAS
CAMEROLN, SCB and BIAOC), the creation of two new institutions (SCB-Credit Lyonnais and
Banque Meridien BIAO Cameroun) and the rehabilitation of BICIC and SGBC. Restructuring of the
latter two institutions did not take place until mid-1992, two years after the original deadline. This
delay was due mainly to the size of these institutions and the density of their domestic networks and the



-24 -
need to update the basic data and take account of the new economic environment in general and the
sectoral environment in particular. The complexity of the case documentation and of the negotiations
with the foreign shareholders and the donors also contributed to this delay.
The system's liquidity crisis was to be resolved through the signature of settlement
agreements with government creditor enterprises and rescheduling of Central Bank claims on the
banks. Although the agreements were signed, the settlements provided for did not take place, owing to
the Government's cash-flow difficulties.  The negotiations with the Central Bank led to the
consolidation against the state of BEAC claims on the banking system totaling CFAF 200 billion. In
addition, a start was made on clearing up the status of crop loans, thanks to financing by STABEX and
France.
The creation and entry into operation of the Central African Banking Commission
(Commission Bancaire de l'Afrique Centrale) made it possible to strengthen regulation and
supervision of the profession. The revision of the interest rates structure and levels permitted some
improvement in bank margins. In October 1990 the monetary authorities decided to abolish the
preferential rates and empowered the Govemor of the BEAC to modulate the master rate whenever
the economic and monetary situation so requires. Credit capping was phased out with the conclusion
of the second IMF stand-by arrangement in December 1991. It should be noted, however, that the
proposed measures to tailor the tax system to the specificity of the activities were not carried through,
owing to their negative impact on budget receipts.
Rural sector
(22 measures planned, 20 implemented, 2 not implemented)
The scheduled measures to revitalize agricultural production centered on action to set up a
national agricultural extension system, restructure the agricultural research institutes and privatize input
supply and distribution.
The proposed actions extended beyond the original deadline.  USAID's support for
privatization of the fertilizer system made it possible to phase out the subsidies; in contrast, plant health
products continue to be subsidized.
The 14 measures pertaining to liberalization of basic commodity prices and marketing circuits
were all implemented. Thus, redressing of the agricultural subsectors was monitored closely by both
local authorities and donors in order both to limit the budgetary support risk and to rekindle exports
and boost economic activity in the rural sector. The actions taken include lowering of the producer
prices of coffee, cocoa and cotton, downward revision of the intermediation expense scales for coffee
and cocoa, and suspension of export duties on those products. A formula for distribution of any
surpluses was drawn up by the subsector. The exporter licensing procedures were revised to make
them more flexible, and domestic marketing was liberalized in the NPMB Zone (Northwest and
Southwest provinces). In addition, rehabilitation plans were drawn up for SODECOTON, which
signed a performance contract, and ONCPB, which was subsequently liquidated.
In contrast, revision of the regulations governing cooperatives, scheduled for September
1989, to reduce government involvement in cooperatives development and operation did not take



- 25 -
place until 1992. The measures designed to improve the institutional and regulatory framework for
forestry and the environment were duly taken, though far behind schedule. A new public enterprise,
ONADEF, was created by merging CENADEFOR and ONAREF. Forestry taxation was revised by
upward adjustment of market values, and a new forestry law was enacted.
Industry and trade sector
(27 measures planned, 23 implemented)
The Cameroon authorities executed all the measures provided for under this component in
conformity with the undertakings entered into with the donors, despite a few timetable slippages. The
measures concemed investment and export incentives, liberalization of trade and prices, rationalizing of
tax incentives, and revision of environmental regulations.
Thus, a new Investment Code was promulgated in November 1990. The introduction of a
single "window", the Investment Code Management Unit (Cellule de Gestion de Code des
Investissements), which will henceforth handle all formalities for access to the various regimes, greatly
lightened the administrative procedures. The free trade zone regime was created in January 1990, with
the aim of stimulating investment, employment and export receipts.
The reforms undertaken by the Govemment enabled it to phase out the quotas system and
replace it by a tariff system. The process of liberalizing prices and profit margins comprised five stages,
over the period January 1989 to October 1991. At the latter date only 14 products and 7 services were
still subject to the prior approval procedure, whereas under the old regulations all products and services
were controlled. Complementing these measures, a system of monitoring of the price trends of 27
basic commodities was set up. At the same time, the procedures for setting up and operating
commercial activities and the liberal professions were relaxed, and two ministerial orders, defining anti-
competitive practices and regulating the publishing of prices for the information of consumers, were
published in March 1991.
Concerning the rationalizing of taxation, the rates of the Domestic Production Tax (Taxe
Interieure a la Production-TIP) were simplified and set by subsector, eliminating the previous
disparities. Finally, the regulatory environment was reformed through revision of the law on the
orientation of commercial activity in August 1990 and the adoption of a new Labor Code in August
1992.
Transportation and infrastructure
(5 measures planned, 4 implemented)
All the proposed measures were implemented, though with some delay. The measures
designed to improve cost recovery comprised introduction of an axle tax which entered into effect
during FY 1991/92, tolls on certain main roads which became operational in 1993/94, the airport tax
instituted in 1992, and the freight loading levy for upgrading port infrastructures.
The budget appropriations for road maintenance were decided on by the Government in
consultation with the two banks. The falling trend of budget receipts prevented any increase, either



- 26 -
absolute or relative. Finally, the various studies proposed with the aim of improving the aviation sector
and boosting the return on airport investments were carried out.
Urban sector
(12 measures planned)
The proposed measures were aimed mainly at upgrading the institutional, financial and legal
framework for the urban sector. Their execution was monitored under the Second Urban Project.
Water, energy and mining
(21 measures planned)
The proposed water and sanitation measures centered on three objectives: provision of
drinking water supply to about 100 towns, with due regard to SNEC's profitability, drinking water
supply to village communities with suitable technology, and restart of rehabilitation activities through
appropriate institutional and legislative measures. The activities carried out in these fields did not come
up to expectations. Apart from signature of the performance contract between the Government and
SNEC in June 1989, the level of execution of which continues to be weak, no more than a timid start
has been made on execution of these measures.
In the energy field, execution of the SONEL performance contract has enabled the company
to improve its management and its services; at the same time, preparation of the gas plan is being
pursued. Finally, the oil research and extraction incentives have been reviewed in order to encourage
exploration.
Huuman resources and social dimension of adjustment
(12 measures proposed, 6 implemented or started, I not implemented, status of 5 measures not
confirmed)
A start was to be made on protection of the poor and vulnerable population groups during
implementation of the SAP through the procurement of basic equipment and supplies in the education
and health sectors. Small medical equipment and drugs were acquired and rebuilding work done on
about 10 health stations. The measures aimed at reconstituting the teaching equipment could not be
carried through, for lack of financial resources.  On the other hand, the population measures
undertaken under the DSA led to the preparation of a "Population Policy Declaration" promulgated by
the Government. Start-up and development of the activities of the National Employment Fund (Fonds
National d'Emploi) have helped to promote self-employment and re-employment of redundant staff
Concerning involvement of the poorest population groups in the economic recovery process,
the effective start-up of activities under the Community Development Project (PRODEC) in 1992/93
made it possible to finance community activities and productive mini-projects in the four pilot
provinces: Center (Centre), Coast (Littoral), Northwest and West. Unfortunately, the Women and
Development component, comprising political and institutional changes designed to facilitate full
participation by women in the development process, was not implemented, owing to administrative
sluggishness in raising the necessary financing. The Planning Capacity and Data Base subcomponents
sought to integrate the social aspects into macroeconomic strategies and monitor household



- 27 -
socioeconomic conditions. The preparatory work has been completed but start-up of the operation is
delayed by lack of financing.
3.3     Disbursement: Tranches and Conditions
The External Debt Agency (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement--CAA) was given
responsibility for monitoring the financial aspects of the SAP. To that end a special account was
opened in the CAA's name at the National Directorate of the BEAC to receive the successive loan
tranches to finance eligible expenditures .
The conditions of disbursement of the US$150 million SAL covered three equal tranches of
US$50 million each. The conditions of the first tranche were fulfilled in November 1989 but
disbursement did not take place until January 29, 1990, against the import documents for eligible
goods.
The conditions of disbursement of the second tranche were met in April 1991 and
disbursement accordingly took place.
Concerning disbursement of the third tranche, progress was made on all the specific
conditions except the general condition with respect to macroeconomic framework, and this tranche
could not be disbursed despite several extensions of the loan closing date. In April 1993 an IBRD
program supervision mission concluded that the general macroeconomic framework condition would
be fulfilled with the conclusion of a stand-by arrangement based on devaluation of the CFA franc. On
January 12, 1944, when the CFAF was devalued by 50 percent in relation to the French franc, the
Government undertook negotiation of a third IMF stand-by arrangement covering an 18-month
program; it requested that the third tranche of the SAL be canceled and replaced by an SAC for the
same amount, disbursable in a single tranche. The existence of an acceptable macroeconomic
framework and fulfillnent of all the specific requirements for disbursement of the third SAL tranche,
except for the Forestry Code, was a condition precedent of the stand-by arrangement and of
disbursement of the SAC. On March 14, 1944, with the signature of the arrangement with the IMF, all
the conditions were met and the SAC was disbursed during the same month. In June 1944 IBRD's
Executive Directors approved an economic recovery credit of US$75 million to support the
Government's new reform program.
The two disbursements that took place were delayed, and the third had to be canceled. These
slippages were due partly to the economic and sociopolitical setting, which made it difficult to
implement all the planned reforms, and partly to the situation of the public finances, which led to
payment arrears to I1BRD.
4.     PROGRAM RESULTS
4.1    Performance Criteria
The purpose of the Structural Adjustment Program was to restore the macroeconomic
equilibria and create conditions favorable to the rekindling of sustainable growth over the medium term
through internal measures based on restriction of demand and stimulation of supply. Assessment of the



- 28 -
macroeconomic results was hampered, however, by the lack of quantified performance criteria.
Moreover, the economic indicator projections given in the appraisal report covered a period extending
beyond that of the program. Thus, the transitory phase of adjustment was to extend up to 1995, and
average growth of 2.3 percent of real GDP was projected for the period 1990-95. The budget deficit
would be almost entirely absorbed, faUling to only 0.4 percent of GDP, and the balance of payments
current account would continue to show a deficit of around 5 percent of GDP taking into account the
downward trend of exports and the growth of interest payments.
4.2     Macroeconomic Results
The economy did not adjust in the desired sense during implementation of the program.
Analysis of the macroeconomic indicators reveals that the dysfunctioning of the real sector and the
public finances and external account deficits worsened. GDP shrank by over 20 percent between
program start-up in 1989/90 and 1992/93, equivalent to a fall of over 50 percent in real income since
1984/85. The gross investment rate declined from 16.5 percent of GDP at the start of the program to
less than 11 percent in 1992/93, after having attained 34.3 percent in 1986/87. Gross domestic savings
posted a similar trend, falling from 14.7 percent of GDP in 1988/89 to less than 10 percent in 1992/93.
Consumption declined by 13.2 percent in absolute value but rose in relative terms from 85.3 percent to
90.3 percent of GDP between 1988/89 and 1992/93. That the economy had not adjusted as desired is
clearly evident from this indicator.
Sectoral analysis of domestic production reveals that only the primary sector posted growth,
rising slightly (by 1.3 percent) during the reference period, thanks to the recovery of food production
which amply offset the fall posted by the export industrial agriculture sector. These results moreover
had the effect of modifying the structure of production. Thus, the primary sector's contribution to
GDP formation now stood at 28.7 percent, while that of the secondary sector declined from 29.9
percent in 1988/89 to 23.4 percent in 1992/93.. The secondary sector contracted by nearly 8 percent a
year on average over the program period, with sharp falls in industry, construction and public works.
The relative share of the tertiary sector remained stable at 46 percent of GDP; however, the very sharp
fall in mercantile services and the more moderate shrinkage in trade contrasts sharply with the great
stability of non-mercantile services.  This situation testifies to the persistence of relative price
distortions between tradable and non-tradable goods which were not corrected by the reform
measures.
Stabilization of the public finances was essential in order to lay a sound base for the structural
reforms designed to create conditions conducive to economic recovery. The goal of restoring non-oil
receipts to their historic level of 14-15 percent of GDP in order to offset the fall in oil revenues was not
achieved, despite the measures taken to broaden the tax base and reduce exemptions and immunities.
These measures brought in much less than expected, owing to the political difficulties during the period
from September 1991 to March 1992 and the resurgence of tax evasion and lack of a sense of civic
duty. Non-oil receipts remained fairly stable, at 11.3 percent of non-oil GDP in 1988/89 and 11.9
percent in 1992/93. On the expenditure side, current expenditures fluctuated within a narrow range of
14.3 to 14.8 percent of GDP during FY 1988/89 and 1992/93. The combination of these trends,
together with the build-up of arrears, militated against any improvement in the budget deficit, which
rose from 5 percent of GDP in 1988/89 to 8 percent in 1992/93 after having reached 9.5 percent
during FY 1990/91, compared with the target deficit for that year of 2.2 percent.



- 29 -
Turning to the external sector, the balance of payments continued under pressure throughout
the period. The trade balance remained in surplus because exports fell less rapidly than imports.
However, the growth in debt interest payments amply offset the slight decline in transfers, with the
result that the current account worsened, from 6.3 percent of GDP in 1988/89 to 10.3 percent in
1992/93. The increase in positive private capital inflows failed to offset the fall in public capital, and
the overall balance posted a deficit of CFAF 338 billion in 1992/93, i.e. 12.3 percent of GDP,
compared with a deficit of 3.7 percent in 1988/89. These deficits were financed essentially by special
assistance, in the form mainly of external debt rescheduling operations under the Paris Club in May
1989 and January 1992. Concerning extemal debt, Cameroon ran into difficulty in complying with its
obligations to the commercial banks from the end of 1989 and toward bilateral and multilateral official
creditors from the end of 1991. Payment arrears were built up totaling nearly CFAF 350 billion (12.7
percent of GDP) at June 30, 1993, and total outstanding debt rose from 44 percent of GDP at June 30,
1990 to 76.5 percent at June 30, 1993.
4.3     Sectoral Results
A major objective of the SAP was to produce a coherent four-year rolling Public Investment
Prograrn (PIP) as the fruit of the public projects reprogramming exercise. The overall level of the PIP
was to be determined in light of the macroeconomic projections and objectives concerning, in
particular, growth, budget deficit and outstanding debt. The intersectoral distribution of investment
was to be determined taking into account the overall development strategy whereas its intrasectoral
distribution was to be based on economic and financial rentability criteria deriving from clearly defined
sectoral strategies. The drafl public investment budget submitted to the National Assembly for
approval was also to include projects financed jointly by external donors. In addition, the recurrent
charges generated by the projects were to be included in current govermnent expenditures. In terms of
results, the setting up of the DGTC in November 1988 contributed to closer matching of the physical
and financial execution of projects forming the subject of public contracts. However, the aggregate
amount of the PIP is not determined by reference to the growth rate and outstanding government debt
goals, and does not take into account the public cash-flow constraints. Moreover, the sectoral
strategies have not yet been defined clearly, the selection criteria for intrasectoral projects are in many
cases not based on their rate of retum, and institutional problems conceming distribution of
responsibilities and coordination among technical ministries have not been resolved.
Concerning civil service reform, the activities initiated during the reform period did not have
the expected impact in enhancing civil service efficiency. The reason is that, apart from salary bill
reduction, most of the structural measures to be taken require a period of studies in order to prepare
the ground for taking and implementing decisions designed to improve the efficiency of the civil service
and administrative procedures. The freeze on the financial effects of promotion is still in force,
training-school graduates are no longer automatically integrated into the civil service, and individuals
who have reached the age limit or have completed 30 years service are effectively assumed to exercise
their right to retirement. Similarly, the periodic correcting of the payroll data base makes it possible to
limit the number of "fictitious" employees. The process of matching-up the personnel and payroll
management data bases is currently under way, in response to the findings of the study of the
Computerized Integrated Government Personnel and Payroll Management System (SIGIPES).



- 30 -
In formulating a general strategy for organization of the ministries, in January 1993 the
Government decided on rationalization of the services; on July 21, 1994, however, it proceeded to
merge the Ministry of Planning and Territorial Development, the Ministry of Finance and the services
of the Stabilization Plan into a single ministry, the Ministry of Economy and Finance.  The
Organization and Staffing Plans (POEs) have been launched and their implementation is proceeding in
step with completion of the studies by group of ministries.
The legal framework for the civil service has been revised with the adoption, in the initial
stage, of a new General Statute. A new remuneration system based on individual performance is
currently under preparation.
Concerning the rehabilitation of public and parapublic enterprises, the census identified 219
enterprises, distributed as follows in terms of implementation of the decisions relating to them: 29
enterprises are to be rehabilitated and 25 privatized; 16 belong to the SNI's residual portfolio; 11
financial establishments are in operation; 73 enterprises are to be liquidated or have disappeared, and
65 are pending, of which 28 are under diagnostic study and II belong to the oil sector.
The reforms undertaken between November 1988, the date of the presidential directives on
rehabilitation and restructuring of the public and parapublic enterprises, and the end of FY 1992/93,
concerned the restructuring of 26 enterprises with performance contracts, 9 of which are still not
operating normally. In addition, 5 performance contracts have already expired and need to be
renegotiated. Concerning liquidations, of the 79 enterprises surveyed for which a liquidation decision
has been taken, 13 have been definitively taken out of the Government's portfolio while the other 66
cases have not yet been determined. With respect to privatizations, the Government has effectively
withdrawn from 7 enterprises: 2 through definitive privatization (SOFIRECC and SCM), 3 through
partial privatization (SEPBC, SOCAMAC and CHOCOCAM) and 2 through transfer of assets and
liquidation of previous structures (OCB and COCAM). Concerning other privatization operations, 5
have not so far borne fruit.
The measures taken failed by far to achieve the objective of reducing the burden the
enterprises place on the public finances, even though the privatization operations enabled SNI to
recoup the whole of its CFAF 100 million investment in the capital of SOFIRECC and partial
privatizations netted the Government CFAF 1,092 million and asset transfers CFAF 2,781 million.
Thus, for the period 1989/90 to 1991/92 the commitments entered into by the Government under
performance contracts (injection of capital, take-over of debts, subsidies and relinquishment of creditor
balances) were valued at CFAF 460 billion.
The objective of improving the performance of the enterprises to be retained in the
Government's portfolio was not achieved, as is evident from the following indicators for the period
1989/90 to 1991/92 for the 15 major enterprises under performnance contracts. Aggregate tumover
declined slightly, from CFAF 204 billion in 1989/90 to CFAF 196 billion in 1990/91; net operating
result continued to be negative, at CFAF -52.2 billion in 1990/91, against CFAF -67.8 billion in
1989/90, and equity funds rose to CFAF 479 billion in 1991/92 but covered only 67 percent of fixed
assets. The enterprises' outstanding debt declined from CFAF 547 billion in 1989/90 to CFAF 458
billion in 1991/92. Looking at debt structure, however, at June 30, 1992 short-term  debt amounted to
CFAF 209 billion, equivalent to more than 12 months' tumover. Finally, while the number of staff fell



- 31 -
from 42,500 in June 1990 to 35,000 in June 1992, average annual salary cost rose, from CFAF 1.7
million to CFAF 1.8 mnillion, for a total wage bill of CFAF 60 billion, against 68 billion at the beginning
of the period. Finally, as part of reform of the sector, a number of specific actions designed to
rationalize the institutional environment and government participations policy remain to be taken.
The rehabilitation of the banking and financial sector was not durable, despite the efforts
accomplished by public authorities, shareholders and donors. The BEAC consolidated over CFAF 200
billion of its debtor balances against the banks, and responsibility for servicing this debt henceforth rests
with the Government. The non-performing assets of the banks in process of liquidation, and part of
those of the large restructured banks, were taken over by a specialized institution, the Societe de
Recouvrement des Creances du Cameroun-SRC (Cameroon Debtor Balances Recovery Company).
As of the end of June 1993, SRC's operations had enabled it to recover just over CFAF 40 billion out
of CFAF 640 billion in problem debts. Without reform of the legal system, however, the scope of the
recovery activities carried out both by the SRC and the banks is likely to be limited. The shareholders
have absorbed the cumulative losses pro rata to their holdings in the capital of the various institutions
and proceeded to recapitalize some of them.
Despite these reforms, the sector's activity contracted sharply, credit to the economy fell by
more than 33 percent between 1988/89 and 1992/93, and both network and personnel were
consequently downsized. This development was due to the disappearance or restructuring of major
customers, the decline in volume of economic activity, and persistent rumnors of an imminent
devaluation. The possibility of a monetary adjustment, the decline in saving consequent on the
irregular payment of civil service salaries, the increase in government payment arrears to economic
agents and the persistence of the crisis precipitated drying-up of the bank's liquid assets. At the end of
June 1993 bank deposits stood at CFAF 376.7 billion and represented only 75 percent of lending. This
situation did not affect the banks evenly, owing to the public's lack of confidence in certain financial
institutions. As a result, while a few banks possessed abundant cash resources, others often found
themselves excluded from clearing
Portfolio quality deteriorated over the reform period, despite the assumption by SRC of
CFAF 640 billion in compromised debtor balances of the banks liquidated or restructured. The
restructuring measures were based on the results of the audits performed in 1988 whereas
implementation of the reform measures was spread over three and a half years in a socioeconomic
environment unfavorable to their success. Moreover, the Government's resources were inadequate to
fulfil its commitments to the banking system promptly. Finally, the sociopolitical tensions that
prevailed during the "dead cities" period in 1991/92 seriously disrupted economic activity and
consequently impaired the banks' customers loan repayment capacity. This state of affairs compelled
the banks to set up supplemental provisions; however, the magnitude of the charges in comparison
with the banks' receipts prevented thern from setting aside the necessary resources for this purpose.
Conceming the institutional and regulatory environment, a subregional institution, COBAC,
began operation in late 1992 and immediately proceeded to carry out a fresh audit of the banks.
In the agricultural sector, the reform measures led to a major change in price and marketing
policy for coffee, cocoa and cotton. In June 1991 the ONCPB was dissolved and its domestic and
extemal marketing activities were transferred to the licensed buyers and exporters. The National



- 32 -
Cocoa and Coffee Office (Office National de Cacao et de Cafe), which replaced the ONCPB, is
responsible for quality control of exported products (and) maintaining the quality of the products data
bank. Stabilization was entirely abolished during the 1994/95 season. The licensing requirements for
buyers and exporters were relaxed. At the same time, the cocoa and coffee reference prices for the
1992/93 season set jointly by the private operators and the ONCC in light of world market data trends
made it possible to set reduced guaranteed minimum producer prices and also a formula for distribution
of any surplus among the various participants. Over the period 1988/89 to 1992/93 the producer price
of cocoa per kg fell from CFAF 420 to CFAF 200 and that of coffee from CFAF 440 to CFAF 150.
As regards restructuring of the cotton subsector, the Government agreed to assume SODECOTON
debts of CFAF 39 billion, and the producer purchase price was reduced from the initial CFAF 140/kilo
to CFAF 85 at the end of the period.
These measures had the effect of restoring the financial equilibrium of these subsectors, and
the number of licensed exporters rose from 1I to more than 70 and has today reached 180. However,
the fall in producer prices and the problem of mutual debts, which has complicated and delayed
clearing-off of the ONCPB arrears to the various participants, depressed production volume and
quality. Between 1988/89 and 1992/93 production of the major basic commodities fell by 21.9 percent
in the case of cocoa, 65% in that of coffee and 23.9 percent in that of cotton.
4.4   Social Impact of the Program
The implementation of the program had a major negative impact in social terms. In the case
of employment, the restructuring of the public enterprises and the banks, the freeze on civil service
recruitment and the slowdown in economic activity, all aggravated by political difficulties, combined to
boost the unemployment rate. In the rural areas, the reduction in the producer prices of the major
export crops following upon the restoration of these subsectors' financial equilibrium had the effect of
reducing farm incomes by 40 to 65 percent, depending on the crop. Moreover, the reduction in public
expenditure led to a deterioration in the social services, particularly health and education, with adverse
consequences for the vulnerable population groups.
With the object of alleviating these effects, the authorities, with the assistance of the World
Bank and ADB, designed and implemented a "Social Dirnension of Adjustment" program. Under this
modular program a National Employment Fund (Fonds National de l'Emploi-FAE) was set up, with
the following tasks:
-     to gather and disseminate data on training and employment opportunities;
-     to strengthen vocational training;
-     to provide support for in-house training;
-     to assist the efforts of individuals seeking to set themselves up in business;
-     to furnish consultative and financial support for the establishment and expansion of
mini-enterprises.



- 33 -
The purpose of the Community Development program module (PRODEC), designed to
fumish support for local activities, was to provide financial assistance to NGOs, community groups and
individuals. The activities of PRODEC, which is receiving support from the ADB Group, began in
1992/93 in four pilot provinces and it has financed small-scale social infrastructure works and social
services in the areas of hygiene, health, education, training and nutrition. It also encompasses support
for the management of small enterprises and small-scale institutions.
5.      ROLE OF THE BORROWER
5.1     Preparation Phase
The work of preparing the Strategy and Recovery Declaration was carried out in Yaounde in
July 1988 with the assistance of nearly 75 staff, distributed among six commissions. This set-up was
lightened in December 1988 with the creation by presidential decree of a more restricted SAP
Monitoring Committee responsible, in liaison with the ministries concemed, for drawing up the
technical documentation and preparing and implementing the decisions of the Interministerial
Supervision and Monitoring Committee. This committee, chaired successively by senior officials of the
Ministry of Planning and the Office of the President of the Republic, was composed of staff members,
appointed inlitui personae, of the Office of the President and the Finance, Planning, Trade and
Industry, Agriculture and Mining ministries. The Director General of the Autonomous Amortization
Fund (External D)ebt Agency), the Chairman of the Technical Commission of the Public Enterprises
Rehabilitation Mission and a representative of the Central Bank also sat on the Committee. The
committee worked in close collaboration with the other agencies created earlier, particularly the IMF
Programs and Agreements Monitoring Committee and the Technical Commission of the Public
Enterprises Rehabilitation Mission. It received technical support from the staff of the two banks and
the IMF in preparing the Development Strategy and Economic Recovery Declaration.
5.2     Execution Phase
Coordination of execution of the SAL at government level was entrusted to an
Interministerial Supervision Committee chaired by the Secretary General of the Office of the President
of the Republic. The committee was composed of the ministers with economic responsibilities
(Finance, Planning, Trade and Industry, and Agriculture), the Director General of the SNI and the
National Director of the BEAC. It was assisted on the technical side by two monitoring committees:
the IMF Programs and IBRD/ADB SAL committees. Implementation of the measures provided for
under the SAL was not continuous, and this was reflected in the moderate results achieved. The
adjustment program was complex and ambitious, but for lack of reliable statistical data on the various
components the measures adopted were sometimes ill adapted to the proposed reforms. Moreover,
the negotiation and simultaneous implementation of the various economic reform projects (IMF stand-
by arrangement, IBRD/ADB SAL, sectoral SAP of France and the EC) seriously tested the
Government's technical and administrative capacity. The dispersion of economic management across
several ministries and the rapid turnover in ministers also contributed to the slowness of the decision-
making process. In addition, the impetus for governmental action emanated from different sources--
the Planning Ministry, the General Secretariat of the President's Office, and the services of the Prime
Minister--in step with the changes in governmental institutions.



- 34 -
The social situation, characterized by political tensions generated by a difficult process of
democratic opening-up, caused the authorities to exercise prudence with respect to implementation of
the staff and salary reduction measures. In light of the risks involved, which they deemed to be high,
the authorities focused their attention on measures that permitted disbursement of the different tranches
of the loans negotiated with the various donors. The implementation of the program did not generate
extensive internalization of the reform process. The pockets of competence observed reflect more the
energy and dedication of individuals than any commitment on the part of the ruling political class and
development of the monitoring institutions that were set up.
6.      ROLE OF THE BANK
6.1     Preparation Phase
In response to a request made by the Cameroon authorities in June 1988, IBRD and ADB
conducted joint SAL preparation and appraisal missions in July and November 1988 and in March and
February 1989. The Bank was able in this way to provide substantial technical assistance for
preparation of the Strategy and Recovery Declaration, which served as support in the SAL
negotiations. Coordination of the activities of IBRD and IMF did not take place from the start of the
program; this generated a cost to the latter in terms of delay and hesitation in the taking of certain
decisions.
6.2     Execution Phase
Monitoring and supervision missions visited Yaounde during implementation of the program.
It should be noted that the constant changes in the IBRD staff responsible for this program seriously
hampered the dialogue with the Cameroon authorities and hindered the progress of the program. The
new responsible staff gave the impression that they were not very familiar with the documentation at
the time of their first meeting with the authorities, the effect of this was to jeopardize the ground
already gained and further delay the execution of certain measures.
For its part, the resident mission played a major role in establishing communication between
the authorities and the members of the mission and also in helping the latter to reach a full
understanding of the Cameroonian context and program and in helping the Government to fully grasp
the guidelines of the [BRD authorities.
During implernentation of the program Cameroon often found itself having to contend with
penalties as a consequence of large cumulative payment arrears to IBRD. This situation complicated
relations between IBRD and the Government, the dialogue tending to focus more on lifting of the
sanctions than on the progress of the reform process.
7.     CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
The implementation of the SAL did not enable Cameroon to halt the decline in its economy
and to create conditions conducive to sustainable rekindling of growth. The causes of this failure
included, inter alia, shortcomings in the design and implementation of the program. Cameroon is a
member of a monetary area and cannot alter its exchange rate at will. The available economic policy



- 35 -
instruments were consequently limited, and Cameroon's adjustment strategy was based entirely on
domestic measures aimed in particular at enhancing competitiveness by reducing domestic costs.
Moreover, the weaknesses of the economic data base falsified the assessment of the magnitude of the
macroeconomic imbalances and hence led to underestimation of the costs of restructuring the public
enterprises and the banks. Finally, the impression the donor community formed of the Government's
commitment contributed to the formulation of a very ambitious reform program whose duration was
too short.
The implementation shortcomings were attributable to the combined effects of a number of
factors: for the authorities, the macroeconomic imbalances derived from essentially exogenous and
temporary factors, hence their lack of commitment to implement structural economic reforms, the
Government's institutional capacity was limited and moreover incompatible with the large number of
measures to be implemented, the continued deterioration of the terms of trade and the sociopolitical
tensions aggravated and amplified the economic recession, and the resulting slippages in the execution
of the program with the IMF slowed down the external financing operations.
The following lessons can be drawn from this experience:
(i)    Cameroon belongs to a monetary area and cannot freely alter its exchange rate,
with the result that the adjustment program relied mainly on domestic measures.
(ii)   The Government was convinced that the macroeconomic di-kauilibria were temporary
phenomena which had to be financed. It accordingly focusei primarily on actions that
triggered disbursement of the various loan tranches.
(iii)   The number of measures included in the program was far too large for the institutional
and technical capacities of the Borrower, for which this was the first experience of
adjustment.
(iv)   The success of the program was compromised by the existence of a financing
discrepancy at the time of its implementation and slowing down of external assistance
disbursement.
(v)   In the absence of an awareness-arousing campaign aimed at generating a  national
consensus on the sacrifices the people were ready to make under the SAL,  pressure
groups came into being to resist implementation of the reforms,  which  the
sociopolitical tensions complicated or even delayed.
(vi)   The program objectives could not be quantified for lack of reliable economic data, and
this hampered objective assessment of the progress accomplished.



- 36 -
ANNEX I
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
PART III: BASIC DATA
RELATED BANK LOANS
Lean No.   ~ ~~~.....         ..  .....T......le... .. .Pur......  Year......u
Ln. 3110-CM      Economic               Support Government's            1989     Closed. PCR
Management Project    Reform Program              ______completed
Ln. 3206-CM      Social Dimensions of   Provide assistance to           1990     After four years of
Adjustment            Government in its attempts                unsatisfactory
to reestablish growth with    .peformance, the
Ln. 31 10-cm  Ecoequity and to help alleviate             Government has
the impact of the structural             requested cancellation
adjustment program                       of the balance of this
loan by end-June
Cr. 2576-CM       Structural Adjustment________  Support________Govemment's____1994.
Cr. 2576-CM       Structural Adjustment  Support Government's           1994      Single tranche upon
Credit                Reform Program                           compliance with
Board presentation
conditions and
subsequently
approval and signing.
Cr. 2627-CM      Economic Recovery      Support Government's new        1994     Approved in June
Credit                economic program in three                 1994. Under
key areas: public and                    supervision
parapublic sectors, incentive
framework and poverty
alleviation



- 37 -
ANNEX H
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3089-CM)
PROJECT TIMETABLE
ACTIVITY: -.- DATE: PLANNED I DATE REVISED W DATE ACTUAL
Identification &           June 1988                                                              l
Presentation to the Bank                                                                          l
Appraisal                  July 1988
Post-Appraisal             November 1988
February/March 1989                             February/March 1989
Negotiations               May 1989                                         May 1989
Board Approval             June 1989                                        June 14, 1989
Loan Signing               July 1989                                        July 17, 1989
Loan Effectiveness                                  Sept., 1989            November 28, 1989
Loan Closing               September 30, 1991       June 30, 1994           June 30, 19()4
Last Disbursement          June 1991                          --            April 17, 1991
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2576-CM)
PROJECT TIMETABLE
ACTIVIT                 ATE PLANNED : DATE REVISEDI i DATE ACTUAL:
Identification &           January 1994                       -            January 1994
Presentation to the Bank                                                                          l
Appraisal                  February 1994                                   February 1994
Negotiations               February 1994                                    February 1994
Board Approval             March 1994                                       March 10, 1994
Credit Signing             March 1994                                      March 10, 1994
Disbursement Date          March 1994         _                            March 14, 1994



- 38 -
ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
LOAN 3089-CM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                 .  ...   .   !!. .   P!:W,:. .... . .   ....
.. ......FY....F.91:    FY-92'                        Y93        Y4        F9
Appraisal Estimate 1/     50.0       100.0       150.0            ;        --
Actual                    50.0       100.0          ---- r-
Actual as % of
estimate                 100.0       100.0        66.7       66.7        66.7        66.7
Based on the region's disbursement profile
Date of First Disbursement      November 28, 1989
Initial Loan Closing Date       September 30, 1991
Actual Loan Closing Date        January 1994
Date of Last Disbursement       April 17, 1991
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
CREDIT 2576-CM
~~~~ Y              0   I:;  r ~  I     F Y 9    _ _  _ _    _ _ _ _ _   _ _
Appraisal Estimate 1/                                                    50.0
Actual                                                                   50.0
Actual as % of                                                          100.0
estimate      .                 _ .                    _
Date of Disbursement            March 14, 1994
Initial Credit Closing Date     June 30, 1994
Actual Credit Closing Date      June 30, 1994



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
USE OF STAFF RESOURCES
STAFF INPUTS
LOAN 3089-CM
STAGE OPPROJECT CYCLE.  S                       E                           STAW           S (AN TU)-:
Through Appraisal                                   n.a.                                270.4
Negotiations                                        n.a.                                 10.9
Supervision                                         n.a.                                323.0
PCR                                                 n.a                                   7.8
Totial                               . . ...  . ..                        .    . . ~d       .  .. .. .
MISSIONS
AC`TTVTY    :SAL 14...0.                       o.00   SPET::    :                      AT  G       E F-
YEAR  ?ERSONS   WW~~~~~~~~~~S ~STATUS   PROLE :
Identification           1987          2          4.5    2S                              --           --
Lending Development      1988          1          1.9    S
Prep./Pre-appraisal      1988         19         35.5    ECN, HL, 3C, 14S                --           --
Prep./Pre-appraisal      1989          4         10.4    LE, 3S                          --          --
Prep./Pre-appraisal      1990          1          0.8    S
Appraisal                1988          6          7.0    CO, C, 4S                       --          --
Post-Appraisal           1989         31        211.1    CO, ECN, LE, 2HL, 3C, 23S       --           --
Negotiation              1989         12         10.9   LE, CO, ECN, 2HL, 2C, 5S         --          --
Supervision              1989          3          0.6   3S                               --          --
Supervision              1990         19        106.0   2CO, ECN, 2HL, L, LE, 12S        --          --
Supervision              1991         20         90.5    CO, ECN, HL, L, LE, C, 14S       1           --
Supervision              1992         20         68.9    CO, ECN, LE, HL, 2L, 14S         3        P, M. T
Supervision              1993         12         46.0    A, 2CO, ECN, HL, L, 6S           3        P, M, T
Supervision              1994          6         10.2   A, ECN, 3HL, L                    3        P, M. T
PCR                      1994          2          7.8   CO,C                             --           --
T  -T  S                                        6   1.  .   ....:: .   . -.....  ..  .. .:.-..:.:..1. ... .
Specialists: CO = Country Officer; ECN  Economist; S = Specialist; A = Front Office Economist;
HL = High Level Resident Office; L = Local; C = Consultant; LE = Lawyer; RA = Research Assistant
Type of Problem:   T = Technical; M = Managerial; P = Political; Pr. = Procurement; n/s = unspecified



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
USE OF STAFF RESOURCES
STAFF INPUTS
CREDIT 2576-CM
STAGE OF PROJECT  CYCLIE.SA'WES(PAND                              TF  WES(CU
S-Ap....:C                      ..     .f     E      W
Through Appraisal                              n.a.                             18.0
Negotiations                                   n.a.                              3.0
Supervision                                    n.a.                              0.8
PCR                                            n.a                               0.2
:  .  . A   - . E  . 9  :  A @S W -   7 7 7 H.E. -. .  T E E  : . 7 7  7 E E....... ...... ...  . .  . .......-.,
TOta                                                                            22  -
MISSIONS
Aetfvi.-.. t.y'",'..,',Fi' s ca  .. .. ..   N...t.o     .pl.....' 'Typ
Identification and
Appraisal           1994          6         18.0    CO, ECN, S, L, HL, RA,       -
Negotiation         1994          3          3.0    CO, L, ECN,                  --         -
Supervision         1994          1          0.8    HL,                          --         -
PCR                 1994          2          0.2    CO, C,           .           --         -
Specialists:    CO = Country Officer; ECN = Economnist; S = Specialist; A = Front Office Economist,
HL = High Level Resident Office; L = Local; C = Consultant; LE = Law~yer;
RA = Research Assistant
Type of Problem: T = Technical; M = Managerial; P = Political; Pr. = Procurement;
n/s =unspecified



- 41 -
ANNEX V
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(LOAN 3089-CM AND CREDIT 2576-CM)
STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
LOAN                            SUBJECT           -             PATE  STATUS                  REMARKS
AGREEMENT
SECTION      _      ._l
Section 3.0 (a)   Borrower and Bank to exchange views on progress  Semi-    Complied  Done on a regular basis during
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions  annually  with    SPN missions and finalized in the
specified in Schedule 4.                                                proces-verbaux of SPN missions.
Section 3.01 (b)  Borrower to report on the progress achieved before         Complied  The Secretariat prepared progress
exchange of views required under 3.01 (a).                   with       reports on project activities in
_________  preparation for SPN missions.
Section 3.02    Procurement of goods to be finalized with loan proceeds      Complied
to be governed by provisions of Schedule 3 reflecting        with
Bank guidelines.
Section 3.03 (a)  Borrower to maintain adequate records for program          Complied  Overdue SAL audits occurred up
(b) (c)         accounts and annual audit by independent auditors.           with       to 1992. The situation improved
Furnish to the Bank certified reports of such audits and                in 1993 after an audit was redone
keep all relevant records at lest one year after the Bank               and found acceptable. No
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the              disbursement took place in 1993-
last withdrawal from the loan account took place.                       94. SAC substituted SAL's third
tranche. Audit for the SAC was
carried out and transnmtted to the
Bank in August 1994.
Schedule 4 A    Second Tranche Release:                            April     Complied  Conditions were considered
(i) adoption of 1989/90 budget with satisfactory   1991      with       satisfactorily complied with.
allocations for: public investment; health, education,                  However, this assessment was not
agriculture and road maintenance; and restructuring                     supported by actual results in the
banking and enterprise sectors;                                         case of the public investment
(ii) establishment of a rolling four-year PIP;                          program and the public enterprise
(iii) minimization of the risks of state support through                reform.
the establishment of floor producer prices for coffee,
cotton, and cocoa with pnce schedules, and a system for
sharing marketing surpluses;
(iv) implementation of measures to liberalize trade and
prices (removal of controls, QR's and monopoly
privileges);
(v) promulgation of a revised investment Code;
(vi) study of export incentives
(vii) adequate funding for the execution_of the program.  ._.



- 42 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ... . .... . . ...   .... ......-                        ...........;;-: tX-Egf-:gj.-:-:ff;C:.f;:;i:;  :::f:t:S
Schedule 4 B    Third tranche release:                     Canceled             Conditions were not fully complied
(i) adoption of 1990-91 budget with same   in                   with when Cameroon becamt: no
requirements as those of Schedule 4a (i);  February             longer creditworthy for IBRD
(ii) reform of the civil service personnel  1994.               lending and eligible for IDA
benefits and allowances; decisions taken on                     resources. The SAC replaced the
restructuring and staff reduction of the                        SAL's third tranche. Subsequently,
ministries of finance, planning, civil service,                 conditions were considered as
industry and commerce; and studies initiated for                complied with and SAC fumds were
the reorganization of three other ministries;                   released in one tranche.
(iii) further progress on measures to reform
PE's including performance contracts and action
plans;
(iv) progress in restructuring the banking
sector, the adoption of an action plan for SNI,
the adoption of an action plan to restructure or
liquidate BPPBC;
(v) redefinition of the role of the National
Produce Marketing Board;
(vi) revision of tle forestry tax regime and
Code;
(vii) further progress on foreign trade and
dometiuc commerce liberalization, including
removal of QR's, price controls, and commercial
margins system as well as a revision of the
Labor Code;
I (viii) adequate funding of the program.  I
ABBREVIATIONS
PIP              Rolling four-year public investment program
SPN              Supervision
PE               Public Enterprise
SNI              Societe Nationale d'Investissement
BPPBC            Banque de Paris et des Pays Bas-Cameroun






IMAGING
Report No:      15187
Type: PCR



