                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 27522

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (PPFB-P3540 SCL-43880)

                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$191.0 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                       FOR AN

               EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT




                                    February 23, 2004




Infrastructure Sector
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2003)

                                  Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
                                1369863.01 TL = US$ 1.00
                                      US$ 1.00 = 0.00000073 TL

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January I    -December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGM           Afforestation and Erosion Center
AMU           Adana Management Unit
AWOS          Automated Weather Observation Stations
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DDY           General Directorate of Railways
DMI           State Meteorological Institute
DSI           State Hydraulic Works
EIE           General Electorate for Electrical Power
GD    General Directorate
GDCD          General Directorate of Civil Defense
GDDA          General Directorate of Disaster Affairs
GDAEC         General Directorate of Afforestation and Erosion Control
GDF   General Directorate of Forestry
GDI   General Directorate of Insurance
GDRS          General Directorate of Rural Services
GDTRI         General Directorate of Technical Research and Implementation
GIS           Geographical Information System
GOT           Government of Turkey
HDA           Housing Development Administration
HPC           High Performance Computer
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
KGM           General Directorate of State Highways
MARA          Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
MEER          Marmara Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction Project
MPWS          Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PSR           Project Status Report
PM            Prime Minister
TCIP          Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool
TEFER         Turkey Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
WBSR          Western Black Sea Region

                                Vice President:    Shiego Katsu
                              Country Director     Andrew Vorkink
                               Sector Manager      Sumter Lee Travers
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Christoph Pusch

                                           TURKEY
                    Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            28

Project ID: P058877                                                  Project Name: EMGY FLOOD RECOVERY
Team Leader: Christoph Pusch                                         TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: EMGY FLOOD RECOVERY                                      L/C/TF Number: PPFB-P3540; SCL-43880
   Country/Department: TURKEY                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Housing construction (43%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (29%); General public administration sector (16%);
                            Irrigation and drainage (6%); Roads and highways (6%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Other urban development (P); Water resource management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/05/1998                                     Effective:                           10/13/1998
     Appraisal: 09/14/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/10/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF TURKEY/TREASURY & HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
                                           AGENCY (HDA)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Andrew N. Vorkink                              Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:                 Sumter Lee Travers                             Ricardo A. Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Christoph Pusch
ICR Primary Author:             Christoph Pusch; Sati Achath;
                                Eric Peterson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
On May 21, 1998, Turkey's Western Black Sea Region (WBSR) was affected by a flood estimated at a
recurrence interval of 200 to years or greater (depending on location), accompanied by several hundred
landslides lasting for several weeks thereafter. For the region, an area of about 37,000 square kilometers
with a population of 2.2 million, this constituted the worst flooding of the last century, with some 151
rivers over-running their embankments, and 478 settlements left wholly or partially under water. The flood
damaged private houses, public buildings (including schools, hospitals and housing), rural and urban
infrastructure, telecommunication and energy transmission systems and destroyed crops and livestock.
Total damage was estimated at about $500 million.

In response to a Government request for assistance, the Bank began preparation of an emergency flood
project. During project preparation, on June 27, 1998, a major earthquake struck southern Turkey. Around
150 people died in Adana Province and over 1,000 people were injured. Based on the information prepared
by numerous official investigation teams within three weeks of the event, 74,303 housing units suffered
collapse or damage, with total damage estimated in the range of US$ 1 billion. As a result, the Bank agreed
with the Government of Turkey (GOT) to include emergency earthquake response and recovery assistance
under the flood project, in a US$685 million multi-sectoral project, with a loan amount of US$369 million.

The objectives of the project were to assist the GOT in: (a) restoring basic infrastructure in municipalities
and rural areas affected by the flood by repairing structures and facilities of economic and social
importance; (b) providing assistance to restore housing in the earthquake affected Province of Adana; and
(c) reducing vulnerability to future floods and earthquakes.

The objectives were clearly stated, important to the country, and realistic in scale and scope. They were
also timely and appropriate to the needs of Turkey, which is a disaster-prone country. The project was not
listed in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as a priority operation for GOT as it responded to a
national emergency that occurred after the CAS discussion of September 4, 1997. However, the GOT saw
the project as a priority operation to address the flood and the earthquake emergencies, and requiring Bank
financial and technical support.

The project supported the CAS goal of sustaining private sector growth, especially in the area of increased
private sector participation in insuring against disaster risk and corporate liability of the construction
industry. Private sector development was also supported through infrastructure development, by engaging
local vendors, contractors and technical service providers to implement infrastructure restoration. The
project also supported the CAS goals for environmental and social sustainability of reforms by repairing
environmental infrastructure damages from the flood and the earthquake, restoring basic infrastructure
necessary for economic activity. Moreover, the project supported the CAS goal of poverty reduction as it
benefited the poor who were hit by the disastrous flood and earthquake. While the poverty impact of this
project was not directly measurable, it aimed to minimize the adverse effect on living conditions
experienced by those affected by the flood and the earthquake. The project was also expected to have a
significant positive impact in restoring normal living conditions to a large proportion of the population in
rural areas and affected municipalities.

The involvement of the Bank brought to the response and recovery program an organizational framework
and a clear process for identifying, selecting and implementing priority investments for municipal/rural
infrastructure and flood management. Through the emergency project, the Bank could provide critical
funding when it was most needed. By supporting expanded use of liability and house owner's insurance, the



                                                      - 2 -

Bank was able to contribute to the development of a GOT strategy to raise construction standards and to
provide long term sustainable financing for future housing reconstruction.

The project took into account the following lessons learned from previous Bank-assisted projects:

Infrastructure. Reconstruction of damaged infrastructure after a disaster is imperative but insufficient by
itself, and measures are needed to reduce the hazards of similar future disasters and to safeguard people at
risk. A second lesson was that while quick response to disaster is important, it is equally important to
identify underlying problems in the policy and institutional environments, and determine how to resolve
them in ways that result in long-term sustainable solutions to managing the risks of natural disasters.

Housing. A review of past emergency loan projects ( Columbia Popayan, Mexico Earthquake, Jamaica
Hurricane Emergency Reconstruction, El Salvador Earthquake) revealed (a) that a speedy response is
critical; and (b) that cost recovery will be difficult to achieve.

The project envisioned the following benefits:

§         Immediate benefits were the restoration of rural and municipal services and infrastructure serving
the millions of inhabitants in the WBSR and in Adana Province. Project investments would enable basic or
normal levels of operation of water supply, wastewater treatment, sewerage, and transportation systems
and buildings in the target region, and thereby improving health, safety and environmental conditions for
the affected population. Economic recovery of the affected regions and incremental tax revenues supporting
the GOT budget would result from restoration of normal industrial and agricultural activity.

§         The flood management component of the project aimed to strengthen Turkey's system for flood
preparedness and response in the WBSR. The earthquake reconstruction component of the project would
provide permanent housing for those who lost theirs due to the disaster.

§         Major long-term public benefits expected from the project included: (a) strengthening the capacity
of the government to respond rapidly to priority needs of its citizens in the face of natural disasters; (b)
restoring dysfunctional community services to pre-flood normality; (c) providing employment in the
construction industry and hydro-mechanical equipment industry; and (d) assisting in the development of a
national insurance plan to shift the burden of future reconstruction of housing and infrastructure from
individual families and the government to an insurance pool operated by private insurance companies.

The project benefited by having in place a functioning Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which had been
created for the implementation of the Erzincan Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (Loan
3511-TU). Thus, the Borrower was familiar with the implementation of Bank-supported emergency
projects. Nonetheless, because of the involvement of numerous ministries and agencies, the combination of
flood and earthquake disasters that were geographically separated, the effort to include institutional and
policy reforms, as well as the higher demands for quick action from a larger number of affected
communities, implementation was complex and demanding.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Project objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:




                                                        - 3 -

The project consisted of four components directly related to achieving the project's objectives:

Component A. Municipal and Rural Infrastructure (US$209.2 million equivalent; 30.6% of the total
project cost)

This component covered repairs to water and wastewater systems, municipal, rural, and forest roads and
bridges, irrigation facilities in more than 100 of the most damaged municipalities and villages. Over 500
specific investments were identified for various sectors.

A.1 State Highways. This sub-component covered repair and reconstruction of state highways and bridges
including earth works, small structures, fortification, pavement, repair of rock embankments, construction
of chutes, as well as construction of new bridges.

A.2 Rural Services: Drinking Water Supply, Sewerage, Irrigation Facilities, Rural Roads
and Bridges. Under this subcomponent 2,004 meters of bridges, hundreds of culverts, 1,166 km of village
road stabilization, 263 km of asphalt road, 268 facilities for drinking water supply and 12 facilities of
sewerage were to be repaired or reconstructed in the five affected provinces.

A.3 Forestry: Forest Roads. This subcomponent included the repair and reconstruction of forest roads,
bridges, culverts, and retaining walls. In order to guarantee the sustainability of the investments, technical
assistance for supervision, as well as design for culverts and bridges were provided under the project.

A.4. Municipal Roads and Bridges, Water Supply, and Sewerage. The municipal infrastructure
subcomponent covered the repair and reconstruction of waste water supply, sewerage and storm water
system, as well as roads and bridges. The structures to be rebuilt were designed to minimize damage from
future floods.

A.5 Engineering Designs and Supervision. Consulting services including engineering designs, preparation
of tender documents and construction supervision were financed under this sub-component. This included
the assessment of potential impact of the above works on the human and physical
environment, consistent with Bank environmental and social assessment procedures.

Component B. Flood Management and Hazard Reduction (US$158.6 million equivalent; 23.2% of the
total
project cost)

B.1 Flood and Landslide Risk Reduction and Mitigation. This sub-component addressed mitigation and
mitigation planning on a broad scale: (i) assessing its current mitigation activities, determining the need for
additional mitigation activities at the state level, and implementing the necessary changes in policy to make
mitigation part of the decision-making process for all state government activities; (ii) examining mitigation
at the provincial and municipal levels, and implementing pilot mitigation projects; and (iii) pursuing the
development and implementation of disaster insurance to reduce the ongoing and increasing burden of
disaster recovery on the state budget.

B.2 Modernization of the Monitoring, Forecasting, and Warning Systems This sub-component included
collection and analysis of real-time hydrological and meteorological data, to produce flood forecasts,
translation of those forecasts into specific warnings for specific locations, dissemination of these warnings,
and improved response planning at the local level. This component provided for pilot projects in several
areas in western Turkey to develop the capabilities of state and local agencies.


                                                        - 4 -

B.3 Improvement of Disaster Response Capabilities. Development of a national disaster management
information system, improvement of disaster communications and transportation capabilities, and specified
equipment for disaster response. This sub-component specifically included the communication system
needed for disaster warning dissemination required for sub-component B.2.

B.4 Repair and Improvement of Flood Protection Infrastructure. This sub-component
provided for the immediate repair of parts of this infrastructure, and the repair of other parts
after studies were completed to determine what repairs were needed. It also provided for a pilot
project to reduce sedimentation and erosion on selected watersheds and the development of
watershed basin planning studies.

Component C: Earthquake Reconstruction (US$308.3 million equivalent; 45.0% of the total project
cost)

The Earthquake Reconstruction component covered technical assistance, design, supervision, training and
investments to replace 4,000 collapsed or heavily damaged housing units in the Municipality of Adana,
1000 units in Ceyhan, and 3,800 units in the most affected rural areas:

C .1 Demolition of Damaged Units. Costs associated with the demolition and the removal of debris was
estimated at about US$ 1.0 million. Demolition and debris removal were eligible for retroactive financing
under the Bank approved guidelines for this emergency project.

C.2 Emergency Urban Housing Reconstruction.

           C. 2 a. Adana. Approximately 11,601 units were destroyed; the project financed the
construction of about 4,000 units on a site owned by Housing Development Administration (HAD).

           C.2 b Ceyhan. Approximately 1,472 units were destroyed and heavily damaged; the project
financed the construction of 1,000 units.

           C3: Emergency Rural Housing Reconstruction. Under this sub-component, 3,800 household
units were to be repaired or reconstructed.

           C 4: Consultant Services for Design, Construction Supervision and Management. C 4.1 Urban
Housing. Consultant services were required to prepare site plans, on site infrastructure, architectural and
structural design for apartment blocks and supervision of construction during implementation of the
sub-component.

           C 4.2 Rural Housing. Consultants were to prepare standard designs and provide training,
construction management and supervision. This included services to approximately 20 affected villages in
the Province of Adana.

Component D. Project Implementation Unit (US$4.8 million equivalent; 0.7% of the total project cost)

GOT entrusted the Housing Development Agency (HDA) with authority and responsibility for the
implementation of the project. The HDA was to carry out its activities under the project through the PIU,
and the Adana Management Unit (AMU), which was to be established and maintained within the HDA in
Ankara and Adana, respectively, with staff and other resources. The PIU and the AMU were to carry out


                                                     - 5 -

the project with the overall policy guidance of the Steering Committee and in close coordination with the
related Ministries/Agencies, pursuant to arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.

The PIU had the overall responsibility for managing and coordinating the implementation of the Project and
in its work was to be supported by consulting firms (the consultants) to be engaged by the HDA, through
the PIU, pursuant to arrangements satisfactory to the World Bank.

3.4 Revised Components:

As the project was being launched, Turkey experienced yet another earthquake, one of its most devastating,
in the Marmara region of Western Turkey with its epicenter approximately 55 miles southeast of Istanbul.
In response to this disaster, the GOT and the Bank agreed to amend the project's loan agreement to cover
emergency construction needs for Marmara. Under this amendment of September, 1999, US$ 62.5 million
was reallocated--about 17 percent of the original loan amount--for housing construction in the area
affected by the Marmara earthquake, as well as to provide technical assistance to the government to
prepare the launch of the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool, as follows:

         (a) Emergency Housing Units. Under the amendment, the Bank financed about 2,600 units in
urban areas in the affected region, representing some 14 percent of the previously estimated rebuilding
requirements. The total cost of reconstruction of buildings under this component, including on-site and
off-site infrastructure (water, sewerage, municipal roads) and consultant services for quality control, was
estimated to be US$56.5 million. This operation aimed to use the model successfully implemented under the
TEFER project, which supported the construction of housing built to seismic standards on sites selected for
their safety following careful geological and environmental assessment.

         (b)The Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool (TCIP). Inadequate levels of reserves against
earthquake-related losses and the lack of sufficient expertise in underwriting catastrophic insurance was
making the Turkish insurance industry reluctant to write earthquake coverage. The situation was
exacerbated by the high frequency and severity of recent catastrophic events and substandard construction
practices, which result in the low seismic resistance of apartment buildings. Another key challenge to the
development of a viable national catastrophe risk management strategy in Turkey was that the reinsurance
sector had no foundation upon which to build due to an extremely low level of insurance penetration, due in
part to Turkey's Disaster Law, which required Government to provide replacement housing at virtually no
cost to victims whose housing is collapsed or heavily damaged by natural disasters.

         In response to this situation, GOT requested Bank assistance to create the Turkish Catastrophic
Insurance Pool (TCIP), to provide standalone residential earthquake insurance to Turkish homeowners.
Accordingly, under the insurance sub-component of the project, the Loan financed technical assistance to
the General Directorate of Insurance (GDI) in preparing the launch of the TCIP, which included:

         (i) Development of a business plan, operational and risk management guidelines for the TCIP and
servicing agreements with local insurance companies; (ii) Enhancement and customization of earthquake
loss and pricing models to be produced by the insurance strategy; (iii) Design of integrated databases of
insurable residential properties and active policies; (iv) Training of future TCIP staff, and provision of
some computer and office equipment or the TCIP; (v) Preparation of communications strategies and
materials for potential lenders and investor, as well as for educating the general population about the
benefits of catastrophic property coverage; (vi) Development of a national risk management strategy and
regulatory work on revising the current catastrophic insurance legislation; and (vii) Operating costs of
component supervision and implementation. The overall costs of technical assistance for the insurance


                                                      - 6 -

sub-component was estimated at US$ 6.0 million

Preparation for a project in response to the Marmara earthquake (Marmara Emergency Earthquake
Reconstruction--MEER) began immediately after the disaster. During negotiations for the MEER project
it was agreed that activities outlined under sub-component B.3a for developing a disaster assistance
information system would be taken over and financed by the MEER project. It was decided to consolidate
these activities under the newly-created Turkey Emergency Management General Directorate (TEMAD)
within the Office of the Prime Minister. Likewise, it was decided to integrate activities for improving
disaster response capabilities (sub-component B.3b) into the search and rescue component to be developed
under the MEER project.

Further, in May 2001 the Bank and TEMAD agreed that the National Flood Mitigation Strategy under
sub-component B1 will be covered as a subcomponent to the National Disaster Mitigation Strategy to be
prepared under the MEER project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory. There was no official assessment of the project design's quality at entry by the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG). Nevertheless, the ICR review deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory. As
mentioned in Section 3.1, the project objectives were consistent with the country assistance strategy and the
government priorities and met the critical needs of the infrastructure sector and the affected population.
During preparation of the project lessons learned from previous Bank-assisted emergency projects in
Turkey and other countries were considered and incorporated into the project design. Extensive stakeholder
consultations in project preparation substantially contributed to the project's quality at entry and readiness.

The project recognized and took into account the following three risk factors which could affect project
implementation:

·        Possible use of funds for sub-optimal expenditures. This risk was addressed through a carefully
defined portfolio of activities under the Municipal and Rural Infrastructure, the Flood Management
Components and the Earthquake Reconstruction.

·        Delay in project implementation. This risk was to be reduced by Turkey's and the Bank's joint
effort to adopt straightforward solutions to project design, flow of funds, and procurement methods, and by
the PIU which had already proven effective in managing emergency programs.

·        Involvement of a large number of implementing agencies in the project. This risk was addressed
through effective coordination provided by the PIU, close project supervision by the task team, and clear
implementing agreements between PIU and the implementation agencies.

During project preparation, alternative project designs were considered: Reallocation from existing
projects was rejected due to inadequate resources and inadequate design. For Component C, providing soft
loans with highly subsidized interest rates was considered as an alternative. But given the high inflation rate
in Turkey, collection cost of these loans were higher than the principle amount. Another alternative
considered was to give the beneficiaries grants to purchase units available on the market, with the option to
obtain a larger unit by paying the difference between the grant amount and selling price of the unit. The
advantage of this option was that the beneficiaries would be able to find suitable housing in a shorter time.
Drawbacks to this option included the shortage of housing after the disaster, the difficulty of assuring the
construction quality of the available units, as well as the administration of the grant procedure itself. This


                                                      - 7 -

alternative was ultimately rejected due to Bank procedures which do not allow for indirect transfers.

Project design faced the difficulty of quickly and accurately assessing the scale of the need for housing
reconstruction; adding to this not uncommon problem of disaster response was the Turkish Disaster law,
which commits Government to provide replacement units for every family that lost theirs in the earthquake.
In identifying project scope, the Bank team and Turkish counterparts agreed to follow the approach of the
Ministry of Public Works and Settlements, which was the GOT authority responsible for coordinating
damage assessments, applying the Disaster Law and interpreting the associated complexities of eligibility.
The MPWS approach was to coordinate and collect the damage assessments made by a number of local
and national agencies under the pressure of time. The approach appeared to be thorough and
comprehensive. However, while collapsed housing is relatively easy to quantify, structures that are
moderately to heavily damaged and require demolition cannot always be identified without detailed surveys.
In addition, some beneficiaries moved away from the region and failed to make timely claims. As a result of
this and probable faulty estimating, the estimates of the number of eligible beneficiaries understandably
changed in the aftermath the earthquake. Meanwhile, design and construction implementation was on a fast
track; design contracts were signed before the Loan Effectiveness so as to be financed from the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), and construction contracts were signed 84 days later from the date of
effectiveness of the Contract.

Recognizing the potential for inaccuracies, project design cut the estimate of need for purposes of the
housing reconstruction component. Nonetheless, the number of housing units ultimately constructed was
nearly double the amount required to meet the immediate claims of eligible beneficiaries. However,
additional beneficiaries are still being identified as court cases resolve eligibility issues, and units that stood
vacant in the aftermath of the disaster are being allocated to claimants under other programs, as well as for
civil service use. While this is seen as a serious issue in project design, it is not clear whether in retrospect
the damage estimating process might have been better managed, or whether it could have realistically been
followed up by the Bank more rigorously. However, a possible safeguard against over-building might have
been a plan to build in phases, with each phase triggered by a proven need, and thus giving the flexibility to
revise the initial needs assessments while the first phases are under construction. The problem with this
approach is that if the assessments had been accurate, many families would have been pushed into the
winter of '98-'99 without shelter. This experience helped guide project design for the MEER program, in
which case the government's estimates were more realistic.

The physical design of the units is appropriate and of good quality. However, it can be criticized for lack of
variety and the initial omission of social infrastructure and site amenities. The lack of variety is the result
mainly of the Disaster Law which mandates equal accommodations for all beneficiaries. The omission of
amenities appears to have been due mainly to a determination to keep costs and construction schedules
under control, and to focus on the timely provision of construction of high quality while reserving action
on social infrastructure and site amenities. In addition, while local authorities were committed to building
the needed social infrastructure, it has lagged well behind the housing construction. GOT committed itself
to addressing social and environmental matters, but follow-up by Government and the Bank was engaged
later during implementation, and has now largely been addressed. Final corrections--notably site drainage
and critical paving--are being financed under MEER. The lack of early coordination of social and site
needs with the main construction program is a shortcoming that was largely corrected in the MEER project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:




                                                       - 8 -

The project achieved its objectives in terms of restoring basic infrastructure. All investments under the
             1


Municipal and Rural Infrastructure component, including municipal infrastructure, rural infrastructure,
forestry roads, and afforestation of 10,000 ha in the Western Black Sea region were completed.

The project was also able to provide housing with minimal delay to people who lost them and to help the
affected communities to stabilize quickly after the disaster.

For reducing vulnerability to future floods and earthquakes, the extended weather forecasting system at
DMI is in full operation and the High Performance Computer (HPC)-System has been installed. The flood
forecasting system at DSI has been also completed and the training of the nominated staff has started. All
227 VSAT stations for the DMI (State Meteorological Institute) were procured and tested. The total
number of 129 VSAT stations for DSI (Directorate of Hydraulic Works) were purchased and installed.
The training was completed.

Installation of all 206 Automated Weather Observation Stations (AWOS) stations was completed in
January 2003, and the network is already working. All planned radars were installed and the radar network
is operational since February 2003. In addition, all 129 Hydrometric Stations have also been installed. 13
flood protection schemes under Repair and Improvement of Flood Infrastructure component were
completed by September 26, 2003. With regard to the strengthening of institutional capacity to reduce
vulnerability to floods and earthquakes, most activities under this component were transferred to the MEER
project for implementation.


The project has also contributed to the restoration of the industrial and agricultural activities in the affected
area through the construction of basic infrastructure in West Black Sea Region, and housings in urban and
rural areas in Adana Province and also to an increase in tax revenues. In addition, because of the
installation and/or construction of early warning system and flood protection infrastructures, the project has
directly contributed to reduce the vulnerability to future disasters and the risk of future economical losses.
However, with the available data, it is difficult to find the percentages of economical recovery and/or
performance of tax revenues in the affected region that could be directly attributed to the project. This
would require specific data gathering and in-depth analyses.


1/-The closing date of the project was extended by 15 months for completing procurement of key items such as radars, and also
for completing flood infrastructure activities.




4.2 Outputs by components:

Component A: Municipal and Rural Infrastructure. See Section 4.1

The outputs of the component A were the following:

(i) Rehabilitation of roads.

There were total 1,446 km of municipal and rural roads rehabilitated in Karabuk, Zonguldak, Bartin, Bolu,
and Kastamonu.




                                                            - 9 -

(ii) Repair/reconstruction of bridges.

There were total 93 bridges repaired/reconstructed in the above provinces.

(iii) Rehabilitation/construction of water supply.

There were 165 water supply systems rehabilitated and constructed in municipal and rural areas of
Karabuk, Zonguldak, Bartin and Bolu.

(iv) Construction of irrigation systems.

There were 31 irrigation systems constructed in villages of Karabuk, Zonguldak and Kastamonu.

(v) Rehabilitation of sewerage systems.

There were 10 sewerage systems rehabilitated in municipalities of Karabuk, Zonguldak and Bartin, and of
2 systems in rural areas of Zonguldak.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component B1.(c): Natural Hazard Insurance

The following studies were completed:

     (i) Improvement of Natural Hazard Insurance and Disaster Funding Strategy

     (ii) Drafting the Compulsory Insurance Law and related legislation

     (iii) Establishment of the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool

     (iv) Preparation of draft TOR for TCIP Public Relations Campaign

     (v) Earthquake risk analysis model development

In addition, research, study tours, training, and workshops necessary for the establishment of Turkish
Catastrophic Insurance Pool were also conducted under this sub-component.

Component B2: Modernization of the Monitoring, Forecasting, and Warning System. See Section 4.1

Component B4: Repair and Improvement of Flood Protection Infrastructure. See Section 4.1



Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component C: Housing. 5,000 urban housing units were constructed in Adana and Ceyhan, of which
2600 were allocated to earthquake victims, and the remainder were either allocated to other agencies or held
in reserve pending court cases concerning eligibility.




                                                    - 10 -

Achievement of this component is marginally satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Note applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Modest. The project resulted in modest institutional development impact. For example, the project
financed a disaster insurance study and the recommendations of this study are being implemented under the
MEER project. In the context of dealing with natural disasters, the implementation of disaster insurance
scheme is expected to have a major long-term institutional impact. The project also directly influenced the
design of the MEER Project and has contributed to the Bank's understanding of disaster preparedness and
response, including the ECA Disaster Management Strategy.

The project also facilitated institutional strengthening of line ministries. For example, the General
Directorate of Meteorology has gained institutional experience and know-how from the project and has
started developing its own meteorological monitoring software and is even selling it to other countries'
meteorology departments. In addition to becoming familiar with procedures for the procurement of
equipment and goods, the Directorate has also strengthened its capacity to prepare long-term plans for
flood forecast warning. Likewise, the Ministry of Rural Development and Ministry of Forest which were
involved with the project have improved their infrastructure plans for flood management.

The project did not directly contribute significantly in strengthening institutional arrangements for risk
mitigation and emergency preparedness, as major activities under this component were overtaken by and
incorporated into the subsequent MEER project. In this process, the joint Bank supervision missions linked
the TEFER and MEER projects, with lessons being learned from TEFER.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The Marmara earthquake of August 17, 1999, Turkey's most devastating natural disaster in recent history,
struck as the project was being launched and delayed and restructured the implementation of several
components. There were 15,370 registered fatalities and about 600,000 became homeless. The Marmara
earthquake affected the TEFER project primarily in two ways: a) the scale of the catastrophe wholly
absorbed Turkey's political and administrative attention, limiting the institutional restructuring that was
under development under TEFER; b) it redirected the institutional restructuring and its scope, integrated it
into the MEER program, recognizing the need for a more comprehensive reform effort. The proximity of
the Marmara earthquake to Istanbul (55 miles southeast of the city) helped to galvanize GOT commitment.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

(i) Emergency repair work on flood-damaged flood control structures in Bartin was envisioned under the
TEFER loan, as part of the funding for emergency repair and up-grading of damaged flood protection
infrastructure. During design of the repair works it became clear that the flood risk in Bartin justified a



                                                      - 11 -

more comprehensive flood protection scheme in order to substantially reduce future flood damage, and that
a detailed feasibility study was required to identify solutions. This need had not been foreseen during the
preliminary identification of emergency repair needs, as the focus was on the rapid repair of flood
protection structures. It was therefore agreed to hold off on the emergency repair planned under TEFER
while Government sought financing for the recommended feasibility study. It was subsequently agreed that
this and the associated environmental and social assessment would be financed under the MEER project, at
a cost estimated at US$2 million.

(ii) Lack of coordination between DSI and other state organizations such as KGM (roads and bridges
department) delayed implementation of activities under Component B4.

(iii) Overestimation of housing reconstruction needs. It is not clear whether the PIU might have been able
to contribute to developing a more accurate estimate of housing need and avoid the excess of housing
supplied under the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The PIU had strong technical capacity for reconstruction activities, procurement, and financial
management, and focused on the delivery of physical structures, with less attention to social and
environmental aspects during the design and planning phases.


5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of the project was US$239.8 million compared with the PAD estimate of US$685.0 million.
The lower cost resulted mainly from savings because of high rate of inflation, transfer of tasks under the
institutional component to the MEER project, tight control over costs and procurement, as well as
overestimation of the damage to flood protection infrastructure. Following the Marmara earthquake of
August 1999, $62.5 million in savings was reallocated to help finance housing reconstruction in the
earthquake region.

US$120 million remained uncommitted and was cancelled at project closing. The Bank financed US$191.0
million (79.6%), and the government contributed US$48.8 million equivalent in local costs (20.3%).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. Sustainability of the project and the lessons learned for both the Borrower and the Bank is rated as
likely, especially considering that many of the activities of the project will be continued under the MEER
project. Weather forecasting is under normal operation and is expected to be sustainable as the DMI is
fully committed and its experts are dedicated to using the newly installed system. The Borrower is also
committed to flood warning system and in order to reduce flood risk, and further activities have already
been incorporated into MEER project. Roads and flood protection measures are being maintained by the
respective agencies and are sustainable. The site management system is well established and is under
normal operation. The insurance study's recommendations are being implemented under the MEER project
and an insurance pool has already been set up. The institutional strengthening is also under implementation
through the MEER project.

Regarding housing, out of 5,000 urban housing units constructed in Adana and Ceyhan, 2600 have been


                                                      - 12 -

allocated to earthquake victims. 2188 of the remaining 2,400 units are now occupied by additional
beneficiaries of TEFER and other government agencies, including 837 for civil service housing. The
remaining 212 are either being held pending court claims by potential additional earthquake beneficiaries,
for beneficiaries of other programs, returned to General Directorate of Real Estate, or reclaimed from
Rural Affairs for disposition.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The project's consistency with the government's development priorities and the Bank's
country assistance strategy was assured. A harmonious team with a good skill mix brought state-of-the-art
expertise to project design, providing for flexibility and responsiveness to local needs.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took appropriate account of the adequacy of project design
including technical, financial, economic, and institutional, as well as procurement and financial
management aspects. During appraisal, the Bank assessed adequately the project's risks and benefits. The
Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
Stakeholder consultations at community, regional, and national levels were highly productive, and initiated
a process of ownership that proved invaluable at the implementation stage.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. Over the five years of project implementation, there were 13 supervision missions, with an
average of about 2.5 missions per year.

The Bank's client relationships were cordial and productive. Review teams included specialists in social
safeguards, disaster management, disaster insurance, urban housing, flood protection infrastructure,
institutional issues, service delivery, civil works, health program, operations, logistics, financial
management, and procurement. External consultants were used for specific aspects of project components.


Aides-memoire were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and underscoring
benchmarks for actions. These alerted the government and the implementing agencies to problems with
project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The
Project Status Report (PSRs) realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement
of development objectives and project implementation. Whenever delays in implementation occurred, the
Bank's task team was able to define concrete steps and timetable for putting the project back on track and
pace. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact. The quality of advice,
and the follow-up on agreed actions were adequate. Loan covenants and remedies were enforced
effectively.




                                                      - 13 -

The carrying out of joint TEFER/MEER Bank supervision missions enabled the Bank and Borrower to
respond to challenges and opportunities for more effective resource allocation and follow-up within the
projects, notably on institutional strengthening. The resulting synergy provided the chance to deepen and
extend concepts initiated in TEFER and brought into greater focus after the Marmara earthquake.

With the decentralization of Bank functions to the Resident Mission in Turkey, the Bank was able to
provide quick response and follow-up. The staff also showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications
in implementation. They worked closely with the government and the implementing agencies, and provided
them with extensive assistance including technical advice. The Bank conducted workshops at the early
stages of implementation on specific subjects, such as procurement and disbursement. During the execution
of the project, meetings with the stakeholders such as DSI and DMI were held to follow up the performance
and bottlenecks of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal
and implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower covered the adequacy of design and all major aspects, such as, technical,
financial, economic, institutional, environmental and sociological factors, including stakeholder
commitment. Government officials and staff of the implementing agencies worked closely with the Bank's
project team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm. Given the constraints of the
emergency environment, time, cost, and existing regulations governing the provision of housing to victims,
the physical designs for urban housing are adequate, but lack sensitivity to urban design variety and the
need for basic site amenities. The Borrower is correcting the site deficiencies ex post.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The government's implementation performance was satisfactory, especially for the
reconstruction activities. It maintained its commitment consistently throughout implementation. The
Steering Committee which was responsible for the overall implementation of the project, consisted of senior
policy makers and experienced managers. The Committee was responsive in taking corrective
implementation measures, and effective in dealing with outstanding operational issues. Appropriate levels
of review and approval were usually in place; financial accountability and follow-up was observed, and
expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred; documentation was maintained properly for
periodic review. The Ministry of Finance ensured smooth funds flow to the implementing agencies. The
project did not suffer from counterpart funding problems, as GOT took timely corrective measures and
made appropriate budget provisions.

The audit reports from participating entities were generally available on or just after the due date, and had
no major accountability issues.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The performance of PIU, which coordinated the project, was satisfactory. The PIU provided
proactive follow-up to mitigate implementation bottlenecks. It was very well organized and effective in



                                                    - 14 -

dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in maintaining proper records of the project,
spending long hours as needed to meet construction schedules and cost estimates while ensuring high
construction quality. Financial management procedures were conducted in line with the Bank's guidelines.
PIU staff were receptive to Bank advice, and highly collaborative with respect to meeting demanding
benchmarks and deadlines. Performance of other implementing agencies was also satisfactory.
                                                                                     1




1/-Implementing agencies included: Adana Management Unit(AMU), General Directorate of State Highways, General
Directorate of Rural Services, General Directorate of Forestry, and municipalities, State Hydraulic Works (DSI), the
Meteorologic Institute (DMI), the General Directorate of Afforestation and Erosion Control (AGM), the General Directorate of
Technical Research and Information (GDTRI), the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA), the General Directorate of
Civil Defense (GDCD) and the General Directorate of Electrical Power (EIE), Housing Development Administration (HDA)
and the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement (MPWS)



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


·        Methodologies are needed for addressing the problem of reconciling damage and needs assessments
after a disaster, and tailoring project implementation to the refining of the needs estimate, such as by
phasing construction and instituting checkpoints for incremental stages during implementation of
construction components.

·        A strong, experienced and independent PIU familiar with Bank procedures is especially critical to
effective implementation of fast-track emergency projects; staffing should be balanced to include
experience and skills in both technical aspects as well as in institutional strengthening.

·        Construction supervision by international consultants lent credibility to reconstruction
activities--necessary in an environment of distrust of local code enforcement and construction quality.
Beneficiaries were comfortable with the quality of construction for this reason.

·        Activities that do not perform well in the early stages of the project, may perform very well later
on, as demonstrated by the successful implementation of weather forecasting system; patience, along with
careful monitoring and support is called for.

·        In order to guarantee the sustainability of the apartment blocks and its environment including the
landscaping arrangements, site and block management organizations should be established.

·        Specification and monitoring of the interfaces between different contractors and systems is
essential, as in component B2 where more than 15 different contractors from 8 different countries were
active. It became necessary to engage the many stakeholders in project implementation by ensuring
understanding of the overall goal of the project.

·        The maximum momentum in an emergency project is normally in the first few months after the
disaster. In view of this, any substantive changes that need to be introduced into the project design should
be incorporated during this period.



                                                             - 15 -

·        The design of residential sites under emergency construction should recognize that the sites will
become permanent settlements and allow for the long-term needs of beneficiaries in the broadest sense, and
allow for the higher costs of such an approach. This includes the provision or enabling of commercial
development and social facilities, as well as complete environmental services such as adequate drainage and
durable site amenities and finishes.

·        The Bank needs to develop appropriate, operationally-oriented protocols, procedures and design
criteria for responding to situations demanding large emergency construction programs, that can be applied
soon after a disaster to ensure that design meets the needs of long-term urban development, as well as the
short-term emergency needs; this would include methodologies for reviewing Borrower's estimation of
needed construction volumes, a design check list covering both technical and social/environmental criteria
to ensure comprehensiveness; governments in hazardous areas could consider developing building and site
plan prototypes that are designed and engineered and kept for use when needed.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

    A.   Borrower's comments on the ICR.

Republic of Turkey: Prime Ministry, The Undersecretariat of Treasury.

"With reference to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Turkey Emergency Flood and
Earthquake Recovery (TEFER) Project, dated January 9, 2004, I would like to inform you that we have
asked for the official comments of the implementing agencies and all have agreed with the contents of the
said report.

On this occasion, I would like to thank all the Bank staff for their invaluable contributions to the project
and hope we will have the opportunity to collaborate with the Bank in prospective projects." - Acting
Deputy Director General

    B. Borrower's Evaluation Report.

See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information


A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Christoph Pusch (Task Team Leader)
Sati Achath (Consultant)



                                                    - 16 -

Eric Peterson (Consultant)
Koshie Michel (Program Assistant)

B. List of Task Managers/Task Team Leaders of the project

Piotr Wilczynski
Christoph Pusch




                                               - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
               Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Restoration of Infrastructure in affected                                   The infrastructure in affected municipalities
municipalities and rural areas.                                             and rural areas restored in the affected area.
Preparation of hydrotechnical infrastructure,                               Most of the works under this scope were
modernization of flood management system                                    completed and the system is operational .
and Improvement of forecasting and
planning.
Restoration of Urban Housing                                                4000 houses in Adana and 1000 houses in
                                                                            Ceyhan were constructed and delivered to
                                                                            beneficiaries.
Restoration of Rural Housing                                                Totally 3131 beneficiaries completed their
                                                                            houses in rural area.


Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
               Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Component A:

1) Highway Sector

Works related to the repair, rehabilitation and                             In the provinces of Karabuk, Zonguldak,
reconstruction of the highways and their                                    Bartin, Bolu, and Kastamonu the following
relevant structures damaged by the flood.                                   works were completed:

2) Rural Service Sector                                                     - 1,446 km of municipal and rural roads were
                                                                            rehabilitated;
Works related to the repair, rehabilitation and
reconstruction of rural roads and                                           - 93 bridges were repaired/reconstructed;
infrastructure damaged by the flood.
                                                                            - 165 water supply systems were
3) Forestry Sector                                                          rehabilitated and constructed in municipal
                                                                            and rural areas;
Works related to the repair, rehabilitation and
reconstruction of forest roads and relevant                                 - irrigation systems were constructed in 31
structures damaged by the flood and the                                     villages;
procurement of equipment.
                                                                            - 12 sewerage systems were rehabilitated in
4)Municipal Infrastructure Sector                                           municipalities and villages.

Works related to the repair, rehabilitation and
reconstruction of infrastructural systems
damaged by the flood and the procurement of
equipment.


Component B:
                                                                            The institutional works related with the
The works related with the Flood Mitigation                                 National Mitigation Strategy (B1.a), Local
and Natural Hazard Reduction                                                Mitigation Planning (B1.b), Development of
                                                                            Warnings (B2.b), Improvement of Local
                                                                            Response Plans (B2.c), Development of
                                                                            Disaster Assistance Information System
                                                                            (B3.a) were cancelled from the TEFER
                                                                            project and incorporated into the institutional
                                                                            component of the MEER project.

                                                                            The following studies were completed:
                                                                            Improvement of Natural Hazard Insurance
                                                                            and Disaster Funding Strategy; Drafting the
                                                                            Compulsory Insurance Law and related
                                                                            legislation; Establishment of the Turkish
                                                                            Catastrophic Insurance Pool; Preparation of




                                                         - 18 -

                                                         draft TOR for TCIP Public Relations
                                                         Campaign; Earthquake risk analysis model
                                                         development. In addition, research, study
                                                         tours, training, and workshops necessary for
                                                         the establishment of Turkish Catastrophic
                                                         Insurance Pool were conducted. The TCIP
                                                         is financed under the MEER project.

                                                         13 flood protection schemes in West Black
                                                         Sea Flood Region were completed; 3 radars,
                                                         the equipments for VSAT System, AWOS
                                                         System, High Performance Computer
                                                         System, hydrometric system, flood
                                                         forecasting and warning systems, real time
                                                         data management software and hardware
                                                         system were provided to the relevant
                                                         Implementing Agencies, including the
                                                         training.

                                                         Additionally, 18 twin cab pick-up for DSI, 14
                                                         units complete search and rescue vehicles
                                                         and related equipment and 8 units rescue
                                                         equipment set and 3 units field kitchen and
                                                         1035 units protective suits for GDCD, 8 twin
                                                         cab pick-up and computers and office
                                                         equipment for AGM were procured.


Component C:

Reconstruction of 4000 housing units in                  5000 housing units were delivered to
Adana and 1000 housing units in Ceyhan                   beneficiaries in Adana and Ceyhan.
with relevant infrastructure

Reconstruction of rural houses in Adana and              3131 beneficiaries completed their houses
Ceyhan                                                   successfully.


1End of project




                                               - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Component A: Municipal and Rural Infrastructure            201.40           57.50               82
Component B: Flood Management and Hazard Reduction         145.70           80.30             59.1
Component C: Earthquake Reconstruction                     291.30           98.10             62.8
Component D: Project Implementation Unit                     4.50             3.90              94
Front End Fee                                                3.70

Total Baseline Cost                                        646.60          239.80
 Physical Contingencies                                     28.40
 Price Contingencies                                        10.00
                        Total Project Costs                685.00          239.80
                  Total Financing Required                 685.00          239.80


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                         N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                         120.75           135.50        35.00         257.10        548.35
                                (105.00)          (110.80)     (33.90)         (0.00)      (249.70)
2. Goods                          48.30            51.00         0.00          0.00         99.30
                                 (38.50)          (46.98)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (85.48)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        32.00          0.00         32.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (28.48)         (0.00)       (28.48)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         5.35          0.00          5.35
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (5.15)         (0.00)       (5.15)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                         169.05           186.50        72.35         257.10        685.00
                                (143.50)          (157.78)     (67.53)         (0.00)      (368.81)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          91.20            64.90       27.00           0.00        183.10
                                 (72.00)          (47.50)      (25.00)        (0.00)      (144.50)
2. Goods                          22.00            0.00        20.60           0.00        42.60
                                 (20.20)           (0.00)      (18.00)        (0.00)       (38.20)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00        14.10           0.00        14.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (8.30)         (0.00)       (8.30)

                                                - 20 -

  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                               113.20             64.90             61.70             0.00             239.80
                                          (92.20)           (47.50)           (51.30)            (0.00)          (191.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Component A: Municipal        70.10        139.10                   44.90         12.60                 64.1      9.1
and Rural Infrastructure
Component B: Flood            135.80       22.80                    62.70         17.60                 46.2      77.2
Management and Hazard
Reduction
Component C: Earthquake       156.10       152.20                   80.18         18.02                 51.4      11.8
Reconstruction
Component D: Project           4.20         0.60                     3.22         0.60                  76.7     100.0
Implementation Unit




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Supervision

              05/19/1999               5    INSURANCE SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                            INSURANCE SPECALIST (1);
                                            SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);
                                            INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                                            HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
                                            (1)
              05/01/2000               3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            ARCHITECT (1); URBAN
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              08/30/2000               6    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            HYDRAULIC ENGINEER (1);
                                            INFRASTRUCTURE EXPERT
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            PLANNING SPECIALIST (1);
                                            TECHNICAL MANAGER (1)
              10/10/2000               3    TEAM LEADER (1); COMP            S               S
                                            B4A PER AIDE-MEM. (2)
              06/01/2001               2    TASK LEADER (1); DISASTER        S               S
                                            MGMT. SPEC. (1)
              10/12/2001               2    TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL          S               S
                                            SAFEGUARDS (1)
              04/12/2002              13    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            HYDRAULIC ENGINEER (1);
                                            FLOOD WARNING (1); SOC. &
                                            ENV. SAFEGUARDS (1);
                                            EMERGENCY
                                            MANAGEMENT (1); URBAN
                                            HOUSING (1); RURAL
                                            HOUSING (1); FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1);
                                            PROCURE/OFF-SITE INFRA
                                            (1)
              11/20/2002              13    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            DISASTER INSURANCE (2);
                                            FLOOD PROT INFRA/WARN
                                            (1); SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS
                                            (1); ENV SAFEGUARDS (1);
                                            INST PILOT PROJECTS (1);
                                            URBAN HOUSING (1);
                                            PROCURE/OFF-SITE INFRA
                                            (1); FINANCIAL MGMT (1)
              04/25/2003               8    TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL          S               S
                                            SAFEGUARDS (1); URBAN &
                                            RURAL HOUSING (1);



                                             - 23 -

                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL MGMT (1);
                                            FLOOD DEFENCE INFRA(1);
                                            OPERATIONS (1)
               09/14/2003              6    TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL           S    S
                                            SAFEGUARDS (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL MGMT (1);
                                            OPERATIONS (1)

 ICR
               09/14/'03              6     TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MGMT (1);
                                            OPERATIONS (1)




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Supervision                          332.6                        1330.7
  ICR                                     8.0                          32.0
  Total                                340.6                        1362.7




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated December 2003; and

5. Project Appraisal Document for the Republic of Turkey Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery
Project, dated August 24, 1998 (Report No. 18376-TU)




                                                 - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. [Borrower's Evaluation Report]



                                           REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                                              PRIME MINISTRY


                                     (PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT)

                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)

                                                      FOR

             TURKEY EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY (TEFER)
                                                   PROJECT


INTRODUCTION

This Report is prepared for purposes of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) in accordance with
the World Bank procedures.

THE PROJECT

The Republic of Turkey has received a Loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) towards the cost of the Turkey Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project in
West Black Sea Region and Adana which is known as "TEFER".

On May 21, 1998, the West Black Sea Region (WBSR) was affected by a flood which caused numerous
landslides for several weeks thereafter. In the region an area of about 37,000 square kilometers with a
population of 2.5 million people suffered the worst flooding of the last century. Some 150 rivers overrun
their beds and embankments 478 settlements were left wholly or partially under water. As a result, the
flood damaged private houses, public buildings, rural and urban infrastructures and destroyed crops,
livestock and caused people to die.

While the flood damage was assessed by World Bank mission, the Earthquake took place in Adana and in
the nearby towns and has given huge damages to housing units in Urban and Rural areas. Upon the request
of Treasury, the World Bank agreed to include the financial need of earthquake to Flood Disaster project
and the project name become "Turkey Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project" known as
"TEFER".

After the necessary work done in regards to completion of the project evaluation, the Loan Agreement was
signed on 11 Sept. 1998 and subsequently become effective on 13 Oct. 1998. The responsibility for the
implementation of "TEFER" Project was delegated to the Housing Development Administration (HDA)
subject to a protocol dated 28 Sept. 1998 between HDA and Treasury (as GOT's borrower). The HDA has
entrusted the HDA/PIU "The Project Implementation Unit" for overall Project Implementation. In
November 1999, PIU was set up under the Prime Ministry and the title changed to PM/PIU.



                                                  - 28 -

The "TEFER" project has been in effect since 13 Oct.1998 and the Loan Agreement no. 4388-TU was
approved by Council of Ministers on Sept 11, 1998 with decree no. 98/11702, The Scope of the Project is
defined in greater details in World Bank's Project Appraisal Document dated 24 Aug. 1998.

         The Loan Agreement was revised in September 25, 2000, so as to include the construction of rural
and urban household units, basic education schools and health facilities demolished after the Marmara
earthquake in Adapazarý.

The closing date of Loan was extended until the end of September 30, 2003. US$ 120 million of unused
funds from the TEFER Loan was cancelled.

PROJECT MANAGEMENT

         The institutional framework for the execution of the TEFER is set out in the World Bank Report
No. 18376-TU. The responsibility for the overall coordination of the Project has been allocated to the
Housing Development Administration (HDA). The Housing Development Administration (HDA) has been
entrusted with the authority and responsibility for the implementation of the Project. The HDA, in turn,
HDA carried out its activities under the Project through the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and
the Adana Management Unit (AMU) established in Adana for earthquake component of the Project. Formal
terms of reference have been implemented between HDA and PIU and AMU for this purpose. PIU was
established in 1992 in Ankara and AMU was established in 1999 in Adana. AMU was closed down upon
completion of the main site activities in Adana.

The Project was also subject to the overall policy guidance of a Steering Committee comprised of various
Ministries and Agencies.

         All Ministries/Agencies in the Project were required to procure their respective works, goods and
services under the coordination of the HDA/PIU and as per the protocols signed with the HDA/PIU.
Therefore the implementation of the Project involved the HDA/PIU, amongst others, in the following range
of activities:

-        Co-ordination of all project related activities of the various Ministries/Agencies for which works,
equipment and goods formed part of the Project,

-        Maintenance and disbursement of Finances in respect of the Project Works,

-        Recruitment of Advisory Services,

-        Responsibility for the day-to-day implementation of the Project,

-        Administration of Contracts with Contractors and Consultants, etc. including review and approval
of all documents prepared for the various contracts.

Project Description

TEFER Project was financed to:

·        Restore basic infrastructure in municipalities and rural areas affected by the 1998 flood,


                                                     - 29 -

·        Restore housing in the areas affected by the 1998 earthquake, and
·        Reduce vulnerability to future natural disasters.

A detailed description of the Project on component by component basis is given below.

PROJECT COMPONENTS


Ø        COMPONENT ­ A:            MUNICIPAL AND RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE

        Scope of the Component:

Under this Component the water and wastewater systems, municipal, rural and forest roads and bridges and
irrigation facilities in more than 100 of the most damaged municipalities and villages have been repaired.

        Implementing Agencies:

The works under this component were carried out by the Implementation Agencies under the supervision of
the HDA/PIU and as per the protocols signed between the HDA/PIU and the relevant agencies. The Project
Implementation Agencies under this component were the General Directorate of Highways, the General
Directorate of Rural Services, the General Directorate of Forestry and the relevant municipalities, i.e.
Devrek, Bartýn, Yenice and Karabük Municipalities.

Sub-Components:

The details of the relevant sub-components under this component are summarized below and the details of
the works, goods and consultancy services executed under this Component were given in ANNEX A
enclosed herewith.

Sub-component A1. Highway Sector: (Annex-A / Table I Refers)

Highway sector included various works relating to the repair, rehabilitation and reconstruction of the
highways and their relevant structures damaged by the flood. For such works under the TEFER Project, a
protocol was signed with the General Directorate of Highways (KGM) on 24 November 1998.

For the execution of the works under the Protocol;

-        44 Minor civil works contracts, and
-        4 NCB type of contracts have been signed.

All works were completed and all the relevant payments were made to the respective contractors.


Sub-component A2. Rural Service Sector (Annex-A / Table II Refers)

Rural Service sector included various works relating to the repair, rehabilitation and reconstruction of rural
roads and infrastructure damaged by the flood.

For such works under the TEFER Project, a protocol was signed with the General Directorate of Rural


                                                     - 30 -

Services (GDRS) on 25 November 1998.

Under this sub-component;

i)       Civil Works

-        45 Minor civil works contracts, and
-        25 NCB type of contracts were signed.

ii)      Consultants Services

2 Consultants' Contracts were signed for the design and the construction supervision services of the bridges
in Kastamonu, Zonguldak, Bartýn and Karabük

      Sub-component A3. Forestry Sector: (Annex-A / Table III Refers)

         Forestry Sector included various works relating to the repair, rehabilitation and reconstruction of
the forest roads and relevant structures damaged by the flood and the procurement of equipment. For such
works under TEFER Project, a protocol was signed with General Directorate of Forestry (GDF) on 24
November 1998.

                Information related with the works executed and the equipment procured for the GDF are as
follows:

i) Construction Works;

   - 56 Minor Works Contracts were signed.

ii) Procurement of Goods;

The Contract for the procurement of computers for GDF was signed with BÝLTAM Mümessillik on
05.04.1999. All equipment was delivered to GDF.

iii) Consultants' Services:

Consultants Services for the design and construction supervision of three bridges/culverts;

The Consultants' Contract for the design and construction supervision of three bridges/culverts was signed
with ARK-AKSA Joint Venture and the services were completed.

Sub-component A4. Municipal Infrastructure Sector: (Annex-A / Table IV Refers)

Municipal Infrastructure Sector consisted of the Municipal Infrastructure works relating to the repair,
rehabilitation and reconstruction of the infrastructural systems damaged by the flood and the procurement
of equipment. For such works under TEFER Project, a protocol was signed with each Municipality.

The details of the works executed and the equipment procured (if any) for each Municipality are given
below:




                                                     - 31 -

A4.1 Devrek Municipality

A protocol for the works under TEFER Project was signed with Devrek Municipality on 19 November
1998.

The works under the Protocol are:

i) Construction Works;

- Repair of Sewerage System; (NCB)

The Contract for the construction works for Repair of Sewerage System was signed with CEREN Ýns.
Tic. ve San. Ltd. and the works were completed.

-       Rehabilitation of Water Supply System;

The contract for the construction works for Water Supply System was signed with ÇEVSAN A.ª. and the
works were completed.

-       Repair of Road and Bridge Construction;

        The contract for the construction work for Road and Bridge construction was signed with
KOÇKAN-ÖZARTAS Joint Venture and the works were completed.

ii) Consultants' Services:

-   Consultants Services for Rehabilitation of Sewerage System;

The Consultants' Services Contract for the preparation of designs, technical specifications and BOQs was
signed with KUYULULU Müh. Ins. Ltd. and all the necessary Works related with the Consultants'
Contract were completed.

-   Consultants' Services for Repair of Road and Bridge;

The Consultants Services Contract for the preparation of designs, technical specifications and BOQs, and
the construction supervision works was signed with EMAY Müh. Müs. A.ª and all the necessary Works
related with the Consultants' Contract were completed.

- Consultants' Services for Soil Investigation for the Bridge in Devrek;

The Consultants' Services Contract for the geotechnical investigations for the damaged bridge in Devrek
was signed with TOKER Sondaj ve Ýns. Ltd. ªti. and all the necessary Works related with the Consultants'
Contract were completed.

A.4.2 Yenice Municipality

A protocol for the works under TEFER Project was signed with Yenice Municipality on 18 November
1998.




                                                    - 32 -

The works under the Protocol are:

i) Construction Works;

- Repair of Sewerage System;

  First Package

The Construction Contract for Repair of Sewerage System was signed with ADA Ýnsaat and the works
were completed.

Second Package

The Construction Contract for the Repair of Sewerage System was signed with KUMTAª Ltd. and the
Works under this Contract were completed.

- Repair of Water Supply System;

The Construction Contract for Repair of Water Supply System was signed with SÜRMELÝ Ýnsaat and
the works were completed.

- Repair of Road;

The Construction Contract for Repair of Road was signed with GÜRSAN Makina A.ª. and the works were
completed.

ii) Consultants' Services:

-   Consultants' Services for Rehabilitation of Sewerage System ( 2nd Package);

The Consultants' Services Contract for the preparation of designs, technical specifications and BOQs for
the second package of sewerage was signed with ARTEK and all the necessary Services related with the
Consultant's Contract were completed.

-   Consultants' Services for Rehabilitation of Sewerage System ( 3rd Package);

The Consultants' Services Contract for the third package of sewerage was signed with ARTEK. All the
designs, technical specifications and BOQs for the third package of sewerage system were prepared by the
Consultant and submitted to the Municipality so as to be constructed by the Municipality's own resources.

A.4.3 Karabük Municipality

A protocol for the works under TEFER Project was signed with Karabük Municipality on 24 November
1998.

The works under the Protocol are:

i) Construction Works;




                                                   - 33 -

-    Repair of Water Supply System;

                                                First Package

The Construction Contract for construction of two Nos. of Reservoirs was signed with KÜTÜKOGLU
Ýns. Since the Contractor did not enable to fulfill the requirements of the Contract, the Municipality
terminated this Contract and re-tendered the remaining works. The construction Contract for the remaining
works was signed with the Contractor GÜRTAÞ Ltd. and the works were completed.

Second Package

The construction Contract for the second package of Water Supply System, including the connections to
the reservoirs to be constructed in the first package was signed with the Contractor ÇEVSAN A.ª. and the
works were completed.

Third Package

The construction Contract for the third package of Water Supply System, was signed with the Contractor
BAKÝ DUVAN Ýnsaat Mühendislik Müteahhitlik and the works were completed.

-  Repair of Sewerage System;

The construction Contract for the repair of Sewerage System was signed with the Contractor BAKÝ
DUVAN Ýnsaat Mühendislik Müteahhitlik and the works were completed.

- Bridge Construction;

   The Construction Contract for the Bridge Construction for the sewerage and water supply pipes and
transportation was signed with ÖZARTAª and the works were completed.

- Repair of Road;

The Construction Contract for Repair of Road was signed with GÜRSAN Makina A.ª. and the works were
completed.

A.4.4 Bartýn Municipality

A protocol for the works under TEFER Project was signed with Bartýn Municipality on 20 November
1998.

The works under the Protocol are:

i) Construction Works;

-    Rehabilitation of Stormwater Drainage System;

During the visits to the project sites together with the World Bank mission, the Municipality raised his
request related with the repair of the road adjacent to the Kozcagýz river instead of this rehabilitation work
in the Stormwater Drainage System. Under DSI Component (Bartýn 1 and Bartýn 2 components) a


                                                    - 34 -

retaining wall at the same site were constructed.

ii) Procurement of Goods;

The Contract was signed with ASLAR Otomotiv San. ve Tic. A.ª. for 1 No of Sewerage Truck and with
ÇUKUROVA Ithalat ve Ýhracat A.Þ. for 1 No of Loader with rubber tires . Both of the equipment
were delivered to the Municipality.



Ø       COMPONENT B:             FLOOD MITIGATION AND NATURAL HAZARD REDUCTION
COMPONENT
       Scope of the Component:

        This Component included to upgrade hydrotechnical infrastructure, modernize flood management
systems, improve flood forecasting and introduce measures to improve construction standards and reduce
potential losses from future natural disasters.

       Implementing Agencies:

           The works under this component were carried out by the Implementation Agencies under the
supervision of the HDA/PIU and as per the protocols signed between the HDA/PIU and the relevant
agencies. The Project Implementation Agencies under this component were the General Directorate of State
Hydraulic Works, the General Directorate of State Meteorological Institute, the General Directorate of
Electrical Power, the General Directorate of Civil Defense, the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs, the
General Directorate of Insurance, the General Directorate of Technical Research and Implementation and
the General Directorate of Aforestation and Erosion Control.

           Due to the various delays occurred under Component B, the World Bank hired a consultant firm,
namely Posch and Partners to assist and supply the technical support to the PIU and the Implementation
Agencies and the most of the works were completed under this Component.

Sub-Components;
-       National Mitigation Strategy (B.1.a),
-       Local Mitigation Planning (B.1.b),
-       Development of Warnings (B.2.b),
-       Improvement of Local Response Plan (B.2.c),
-       Development of Disaster Assistance Information System (B.3.a)
are cancelled since similar type of activities are being carried out within the context of MEER Project.
Sub-Components:

 The details of the relevant sub-components under this component are summarized below and the details of
the works, goods and consultancy services executed under this Component were given in ANNEX B
enclosed herewith.

Sub-component B1. Natural Hazard Risk Reduction and Mitigation

·       B1.(a) National Mitigation Strategy (Cancelled)

       The General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA) was the Implementation Agency for this


                                                      - 35 -

sub-component. The Protocol between the HDA/PIU and the GDDA was signed on May 31, 1999.

·       B1.(b) Local Mitigation Planning (Cancelled)

The General Directorate of Technical Research and Implementation (GDTRI) was the Implementation
Agency for this sub-component. The Protocol between the HDA/PIU and the GDTRI was signed on June
16, 1999.

·       B1.(c) Natural Hazard Insurance

        The General Directorate of Insurance (GDI) was the Implementation Agency for this
sub-component. The Protocol between the HDA/PIU and the GDI was signed on June 11, 1999.

        An Implementation Unit has been established in the General Directorate of Insurance (GDI) to
organize the works under this sub-component. The Protocol between PM/PIU and GDI was signed on June
11, 1999.

Overall progress for Sub component B1(c) is as follows;

            The contract for Consulting Services on "Improvement of Natural Hazard Insurance and
Disaster Funding Strategy" was signed between GDI and Cordis Consulting Ltd. On June 23, 2000. This
study has been completed and the consulting firm has totally been paid.

           Regarding the "Legislation for EQ insurance", GDI has completed the study of drafting the
Compulsory Insurance Law and related legislation by hiring three individual consultants.

         The contract for Consulting Services on "The Establishment of the TCIP" was signed between
GDI and Marsh San Sigorta ve Reasürans Brokerligi on November 16, 2000. The consultant has
completed this study, however, GDI has not approved the report on "Producing the Operational Guidelines
that will establish the procedures to be followed within the whole TCIP scheme". Hiring an individual
consultant to produce the operational guidelines, GDI has completed the entire study. The firm and the
individual consultant have been paid.

The study on "Preparation of draft TOR for TCIP PI Campaign" has been completed by an individual
consultant. He has been paid after the report was approved by GDI.

           The study on "EQ risk analysis model development" has been completed by an individual
consultant. He has been paid after the report was approved by GDI.

        Necessary procurement has been completed under the item of "Hardware Purchase for GDI risk
modeling".

Necessary procurement has been completed under the item of "Software Purchase for GDI risk modeling
".

Requests of GDI on "Research and Study Tours, Training and Workshops" necessary for the
establishment of Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool (TCIP) have been covered under this
sub-component.



                                                   - 36 -

          The materials procured under "TCIP Public Information Campaign" were delivered             in May
2003 and related consultants as well as suppliers were paid on time.

          Financing some of the activities that were planned to carry out under TEFER from TCIP funds,
GDI has decided to transfer some activities to be studied under MEER, such as;

·       TCIP Public Information Campaign,
·       Background Research on Housing Vulnerability Functions and Cost-effectiveness of Mitigation.

        Sub-component B2. Modernization of the Forecasting, Warning and Response Systems

·       B2.(a) Threat Recognition: Modernization of Monitoring and Forecasting Systems

            The Implementation Agencies for this sub-component were the General Directorate of State
Hydraulic Works (DSI), the General Directorate of State Meteorological Institute (DMI) and the General
Directorate of Electrical Power (EIE) and the Protocols between HDA/PIU and them were signed on
January 04, 1999, February 10, 1999 and February 10, 1999 respectively.

i)      Construction Works

The contract was signed with EBÝ A.Þ. for the extension of DMI's existing building to arrange it as
Radar Operation Center and the works were completed.

ii)     Consultancy Services

DMI signed contract with PROKON Ltd. for the preparation of design work and the supervision of DMI's
aforementioned building and the services were completed.

DMI signed the contract with Australian Bureau of Meteorology to decide on the most appropriate places
of the radars to be procured and the services were completed.

DSI signed contract on behalf of DSI, DMI and EIE with the ECOWISE Ltd. for Hydrometric Network
Review, Design and Automated Weather and Hydrometric System Design to decide the necessities of the
goods to be procured for the improvement of the existing systems in DSI, DMI and EIE and the services
were completed.

DSI signed the contract with Danish Hydraulic Institute of Water and Environment (DHI) for the Flood
Forecasting Model Development services to develop the most suitable model to be applied for the flood
forecasting and all the works and the training were completed.

iii)    Procurement of Goods

DMI signed the contract with Mitsubishi/Hazama Consortium for the procurement of 3 radars which was
originally 5, but due to the time limitation for the manufacturing period, it was decided to procure only 3.
The radars were procured and installed to the places decided after the relevant consultancy services and the
system is operational now.

DMI signed the contract with Gilat Satellite Network Ltd. on behalf of DMI and DSI for the procurement


                                                     - 37 -

of VSAT System and the system is operational now.

DMI signed the contract with Elite + LSI Spa + Alfa Ltd. Consortium for the procurement of Automated
Weather Observation Systems (AWOS) and the system is operational now.

DMI signed the contract with IBM-Italia S.p.a for the procurement Data Processing High Performance
Computer System and the system is operational now.

DSI signed the contract with ITOCHU Corporation to procure 18 twin cab pick-up for the improvement of
regional offices, also indicated in the Consultants' Report, namely Ecowise, and the goods were delivered
to DSI.

DSI signed the contracts with the relevant Suppliers in 5 lots for the procurement of hydrometric equipment
indicated in Ecowise's report and all the equipment was delivered to DSI.

DSI signed the contract with Seba Hydrometrie GmbH for the procurement of Real Time Data
Management Software and Hardware and the services were completed.

DSI signed the contracts with the relevant Suppliers in 4 lots for the procurement of flood forecasting and
warning system equipment indicated in the Consultants' Report, namely DHI, and all the equipment was
delivered to DSI.

·        B2.(b) Development of Warnings (Cancelled)

           The General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA) was the Implementation Agency for this
sub-component. The Protocol between the HDA/PIU and the GDDA was signed on May 31, 1999.

·        B2.(c) Improvement of Local Response Plans (Cancelled)

        The General Directorate of Technical Research and Implementation (GDTRI) was the
Implementation Agency for this sub-component. The Protocol between the HDA/PIU and the GDTRI was
signed on June 16, 1999.

Sub-component B3. Improvement of Disaster Response Capabilities

·        B3.(a) Development of Disaster Assistance Information System (Cancelled)

          The General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA) was the Implementation Agency for this
sub-component. The Protocol between the HDA/PIU and the GDDA was signed on May 31, 1999.

·        B3.(b) Improving Disaster Response Capability

          The General Directorate of Civil Defence (GDCD) was the implementation agency for the
realization of the works to be done under this component. The Protocol between HDA/PIU and GDCD was
signed on March 1, 1999.

           i) Procurement of Goods

            GDCD signed the contracts with the firms to purchase search and rescue equipments. The name


                                                    - 38 -

of the firms are as follows:

1-       Albert Ziegler GmbH&Co.KG (Germany)- 14 units complete search and rescue vehicles and
related equipments and 8 units rescue equipment set on palettes
2-       Alfred Karcher GmbH&Co. (Germany)- 3 units Field Kitchen and 1035 units Complete Carbon
Based NBC(Nuclear, Biological and Chemical) Protective Suits

       Sub-component B4. Repair and Improvement of Flood Protection Infrastructure

·        B4.(a) Repair and Improvement of Flood Protection Infrastructure

             The General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI) was the Implementation Agency for
this sub-component. The Protocol between the HDA/PIU and the DSI was signed on January 04, 1999.

i)       Consultancy Services

DSI signed the contract with Gibb ­ Delft ­ Temelsu Consortium for the Sediment Transport Investigation
in West Black Sea Flood Region to prepare the designs for the construction works accordingly and the
services were completed.

DSI signed the contract with Temelsu ­ Knight Piesold Consortium for the preparation of designs and the
bidding documents for the construction works to be done for the Repair and Improvement of Flood
Protection Infrastructure in West Black Sea Flood Region and the services and the construction works were
completed.

DSI signed the contract with an individual consultant for the training of DSI's personnel, supervision of
DSI's minor construction works and 4 NCB works, decision of the priority for the remaining NCB works
and checking the designs prepared by the aforementioned Consultants.

DSI signed the contracts in 6 lots with the consulting firms for the supervision of DSI's 24 NCB works and
the services were completed.

DSI signed the contract with three individual consultants, namely Project Controlling Team (one chief and
two deputies) for the coordination of aforementioned 6 consulting firms and the overall supervision of the
construction works. The services were completed.

DSI signed the contract with ENCON Ltd. for the Environmental Study of Bartýn Flood Protection Scheme
and the services were completed.

ii)      Construction Works

DSI signed the contracts with the relevant firms for the construction of 19 minor civil works and 19 NCB
works in West Black Sea Region and the works were completed.

DSI also signed the contracts with the relevant firms in 4 lots for Survey and Mapping Works for Bolu,
Bartýn, Kastamonu and Düzce groups and in 1 lot for Geotechnical and Material Investigation Works to
help in preparing the designs for the construction works for repair and improvement of flood protection
infrastructure in West Black Sea Flood Region and all studies were completed.




                                                    - 39 -

·       B4.(b) Afforestation and Erosion Control Pilot Sub-Projects

            The General Directorate of Afforestation and Erosion Control (AGM) was the Implementation
Agency for this sub-component. The Protocol between the HDA/PIU and the AGM was signed on
December 11, 1998.

i)      Construction Works

AGM signed the contracts for 57 minor works totally with the relevant firms for the afforestation and
erosion control purposes and all works were completed.

ii)     Procurement of Goods

AGM signed the contract with ITOCHU Corporation for the procurement of 8 twin cab pick-up to improve
their regional offices and the goods were delivered to AGM.

AGM signed the contracts with the relevant firms for the procurement of computers and office equipment
to improve their regional offices and all the goods were delivered to AGM.

·       B4.(c) New Flood Protection Strategies and Facilities

             The General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI) was the Implementation Agency for
this sub-component. The Protocol between the HDA/PIU and the DSI was signed on January 04, 1999.

               Since the studies to be done under this sub-component were directly related with the studies
done under other sub-components and those studies were not done or the remaining time left was not
enough to complete the studies to be done under this sub-component, DSI didn't do any studies under this
sub-component.

              The details of the works, goods and consultancy services executed under Component B were
given in ANNEX B.



Ø       COMPONENT C: EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION:

           Scope of Component:

This Component consisted of the reconstruction of housing units in Adana and Ceyhan demolished after the
earthquake experienced by Turkey in Adana caused extensive damage in Adana and Ceyhan.

Implementing Agencies:

               This Component directly executed by the HDA/PIU and AMU established under HDA/PIU
under the earthquake.

        Sub-Components:

The details of the works and consultancy services executed under Component C were given in ANNEX C
enclosed herewith.


                                                    - 40 -

           Sub-component C1. Construction of Urban Houses

             This sub-component consisted of the reconstruction of 4000 housing units in Adana and 1000
housing units in Ceyhan together with the all infrastructure works.

i)       Construction Works

HDA/PIU signed the contracts with the relevant firms in 7 lots for Adana and 2 lots for Ceyhan and all the
construction works were completed and the houses were delivered to the beneficiaries.

                The additional works related with the infrastructural works in Adana and Ceyhan will be
completed under MEER Project with necessary allocation for financing.

ii)      Consultancy Services

HDA/PIU signed the contracts with Dar Al-Handasah Consultants + Dar Mühendislik ve Müsavirlik A.ª. +
Kentkur A.ª. Joint Venture and Dorsch Consult + Ants Ltd. Joint Venture in two lots for Adana houses and
with Dorsch Consult + Ants Ltd. Joint Venture in one lot for Ceyhan houses and the services under the
signed contracts were completed.

HDA/PIU signed the contract with Onay-SU Ltd. for the preparation of designs, technical specifications
and the BOQs for the additional drainage system and paving of unpaved parking lots in Adana site.

Reconstruction of houses in Adapazarý City in Marmara Region

This Component consisted of the reconstruction of housing units in Adapazarý city in Marmara Region
demolished by the earthquake experienced by Turkey in Marmara Region in 1999.

Under this sub-component: Construction of 2572 housing units ,two schools (1 high school + 1 primary
school) and 1 health post together with all infrastructure works were also carried out in Adapazarý by the
re-allocated amount from TEFER Loan.

PM/PIU has signed the contracts with the relevant firms in 5 lots for Adapazarý and all the construction
works were completed and the houses were delivered to the beneficiaries.

PM/PIU signed Consultants' contract with NBCC-CES Joint Venture for the relevant Consultants'
Services.

          Sub-component C2. Construction of Rural Houses

       i) Construction Works

    The beneficiaries were determined by the General Directorate of Disasters (GDDA) and the names of
3903 beneficiaries given to PIU by the end of May 1999. Later, in total, names of the 395 beneficiaries
were cancelled by GDDA due to different reasons. 255 no. beneficiaries gave up their rights before signing
contract with PIU. The remaining 3253 beneficiaries signed an agreement with PIU. However, 93
beneficiaries gave up their rights after signing the contract and the agreements of the 29 beneficiaries were
cancelled by PIU since they did not perform their obligations. Finally, 3131 beneficiaries completed their


                                                     - 41 -

houses until the end of May 2000 and the Project was completed successfully.

                 ii) Consultancy Services

   Considering the area where beneficiaries are distributed, two consultants were employed, namely Yüksel
Proje Uluslararasý Anonim Þirketi for Region I and Üçer Müsavir Mühendislik Anonim Þirketi for Region
II. The beneficiaries constructed their houses under the guidance and supervision of the Consultants. The
Consultants Services completed as end of May 2000 on site and completion reports were received at the
end of June 2000.

            The details of the works and consultancy services executed under Component C were given in
ANNEX C enclosed herewith.

           FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES

Accounting and auditing

      PIU developed its own accounting and budgeting system, on the basis of acceptable accounting
principles in accordance with the International Accounting Standards and in line with the provisions of the
Loan Agreement NO. 4388-TU.

    All functions of the Accounting Department have been fully computerised. The billing system, general
edger, receivables, collections, fixed assets, inventories etc. have been computerised through a fully
integrated system.

    Financial statements consisting of balance sheet, income and expenditure account, cash flow statements
etc.. were prepared annually. Annual audits of the financial statements and the special account were
systematically carried out by the Auditor of the Treasury of the Republic of Turkey.




                                                   - 42 -

- 43 -

