Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 18376-TU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 369.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN
EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
AUGUST 24, 1998
Infrastructure Sector
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 1998)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
265,050. 00 TL= US$1.0
US$1.0 = 265,050. 00 TL
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
FISCAL YLAR: WORLD BANK
July 1-June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGM          -      Afforestation and Erosion Center
AMU          -      Adana Management Unit
CC           -      Crisis Center
CAS          -      Country Assistance Strategy
DDY          -      General Directorate of Railways
DMI          -      State Meteorological Institute
DSI          -      State Hydraulic Works
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB          -      European Investment Bank
EIE          -      General Directorate of Electrical Power
ECU          -      European Currency Unit
GDCD         -      General Directorate of Civil Defense
GD           -      General Directorate
GDDA         -      General Directorate of Disaster Affairs
GDF          -      General Directorate of Forestry
GDI          -      General Directorate of Insurance
GDAEC        -      General Directorate of Afforestation and Erosion Control
GDRS         -      General Directorate of Rural Services
GDTRI        -      General Directorate of Technical Research and Implementation
GIS          -      Geographical Information System
GOT          -      Govemment of Turkey
GPN          -      General Procurement Notice
FMR          -      Financial Management Report
HDA          -      Housing Development Administration
IBRD         -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IS           -      International Shopping
LCSM         -      Least Cost Selection Method
KGM          -      General Directorate of State Highways
MARA         -      Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
MPWS         -      Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
NCB          -      National Competitive Bidding
NGO          -      Non-Governmental Organizations
NS           -      National Shopping
PIP          -      Project Implementation Plan
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
PM           -      Prime Minister
QCBS         -      Quality and Cost Based Selection
SA           -      Special Account
SME          -      Small and Medium Enterprises
SPO          -      State Planning Organization
SOE          -      Statement of Expenses
SS           -      Summary Sheet
TEFER        -      Turkey Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
TEK          -      Turkish Electricity Authority
TOF          -      Terms of Reference
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Programme
USAID        -      U.S. Agency for Intemational Development
USTDA        -      U.S. Trade and Development Agency
WBSR         -      Western Black Sea Region
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Sector Director:   Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Task Team Leader: Piotr Wilczynski, ECSSD



Turkey
Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ................................................................                                                                                           2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators ....................................2
B. Strategic Context ................................................................                                                                                                       2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ..................................................... 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ........................................................... 3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..................................5
C. Project Description Summary ................................................................                                                                                             6
1. Project components ................................................................                                                                                       6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................6
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................                                                                           7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ........................................................ 7
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                                                                                       9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............... 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .......................................... 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................ 12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .......................................................... 12
E. Summary Project Analyses ................................................................                                                                                              13
1. Economic ................................................................                                                                                               13
2. Financial ................................................................                                                                                              13
3. Technical ................................................................                                                                                              13
4. Institutional ................................................................ 13
5. Social ................................................................                                                                                                 13
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................                                                                               13
7. Participatory approach ................................................................                                                                                 14
F. Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                                                              14
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                                                                         14
2. Critical risks ................................................................                                                                                         15
3. Possible controversial aspects ................................................................                                                                          16



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                                16
1. Effectiveness conditions ..................                                           16
H. Readiness for Implementation                ........................ 17
I. CompliancewithBankPolicies                  ........................ 17
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .18
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description .19
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .42
Annex 4.       Cost-Benefit or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary: not applicable .43
Annex 5.       Financial Summary .........................................                       44
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .45
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .47
Table B.       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .48
Table C.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds .50
Annex 7.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule .51
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File .52
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits .53
Annex 10. Countiy at a Glance .54
Map            IBRD 29769



Turkey
Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Country Department for Turkey
Date: August 24, 1998                                 Task Team Leader: Piotr Wilczynski, ECSSD
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6                Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Project ID: TR-PE-58877         Sector: Infrastructure  Program Objective Category: n/a
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan           Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ l Yes (x I No
Project Financing Data                     [x] Loan        [] Credit       [] Guarantee      [x] Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$ 369.0 million
Proposed terms:                               []   Multicurrency     [x] Single currency, specify USD
Grace period (years): 3           []   Standard Variable  [x] Fixed            Lx]  LIBOR
-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0,75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Front End Fee: 1%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                   Local         Foreign        Total
Govemment                                                         316.0                 -       316.0
Co-financiers
IBRD                                                              190.0          179.0          369
IDA                                                                  -
Other (specify)
Total         506.0          179.0         685.0
Borrower: Republic of Turkey
Responsible agencies: Treasury and Housing Development Agency
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                   FY99       FY00       FYO1/02
Annual             158.0         142.0    69.0
Cumulative            158.0          300.0   369.0
Project Implementation Period: June 8, 1998- December 31, 2001
Expected Effectiveness Date: October 1998
Expected Closing Date: June 30, 2002



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The proposed multi-sectoral project is of an emergency nature, aiming to restore basic infrastructure in
communities and rural areas affected by the flood to reconstruct and repair household units damaged by
the earthquake for currently displaced people, to make urgent repairs to the flood management system, to
reduce flood risk and vulnerability, to improve the policy framework and institutional capacity for better
flood and hazard disaster management and mitigation, concentrating on the most heavily affected regions
of Turkey, to reduce public costs of future natural disasters in terms of the burden on the central and local
budgets. The most urgent actions should be taken before the end of the construction season and the
arrival of harsh winter months.
The three principal objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Government of Turkey in:
a) restoring basic infrastructure in municipalities and rural areas affected by the flood by
repairing structures and facilities of economic and social importance
b) providing assistance to restore housing in the earthquake affected Province of Adana; and
c) reducing vulnerability to future floods and earthquakes.
Key performance indicators for participating agencies and municipalities are timely repair or replacement
of critical infrastructure to ensure public health and safety, in accordance with the priorities defined by
local, regional and national authorities. Performance indicators for national government are repair of
hydrotechnical infrastructures and introduction of an improved natural hazard mitigation system that will
limit the damages caused by future floods.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16992-TU        Date of latest CAS discussion: September 4, 1997
The project supports the CAS goal to sustain private sector growth, especially in the area of increased
private sector participation in insuring against disaster risk and corporate liability of the construction
industry. Private sector development is also supported through infrastructure development, by engaging
local vendors, contractors and technical service providers to implement infrastructure restoration. The
project also supports the CAS goals for environmental and social sustainability of reforms by repairing
environmental infrastructure damages from the flood and the earthquake, restoring basic infrastructure
necessary for economic activity. Moreover, the project supports the CAS goal of poverty reduction as it
benefits the poor hit by the disastrous flood and earthquake. While the poverty impact of this project may
not be directly measurable, the project will minimize the adverse effect on living conditions experienced
by the currently displaced people who have been affected by these natural disasters, the flood and the
earthquake. The project will have a significant positive impact in restoring normnal living conditions to a
large proportion of the population in rural areas and affected municipalities.
The project is not listed in the CAS as a priority operation for GOT as it responds to a national emergency
that occurred after the last CAS discussion. However, the GOT has indicated that the project is a priority



Page 3
operation, and has asked the Bank for financial and technical support to deal with the flood and the
earthquake emergencies.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Strategic Setting
L Flood Damages. As a result of extreme rain on May 21, 1998, the Western Black Sea Region (WBSR)
was affected by a flood with recurrence intervals estimated to range - depending on location - from 200
yea:    900 years, several hundred landslides occurred on May 21 and for several weeks thereafter.
In WBSR, an area of about 37,000 square kilometers with a population of 2.2 million suffered the worst
flooding of the last century. Some 151 rivers overran their beds and embankments; 478 settlements were
left wholly or partially under water. The flood damaged private houses, public buildings (e.g. schools,
hospitals, housing), rural and urban infrastructure, telecommunication and energy transmission systems
and destroyed crops and livestock. In spite of the magnitude of the catastrophe, it was reported that only
around 20 people died. The primary reason for the relatively low loss of life was that the heavy rainfall
occurred during daytime. Following the heavy rains numerous landslides were reported, and around
1000 families have been evacuated from around 40 settlements. Access to nearly 600 villages was
blocked. Based on investigations in the disaster areas, related government organizations prepared lists of
construction and repairs, including estimated costs. The initial total estimated cost of recovery and
reconstruction is about US$ 500 million as summarized below in Table 1.
Table 1. Estimated Total Cost of Recovery and Reconstruction Activities, as of June 1, 1998
ITEMS                                 COST (mil. $)
Emergency Aid and Cost of Relief Activities                         80
Housing and Technical Infrastructure                                60
Agriculture and Livestock                                           50
Repair and Reconstruction of Highway and Bridges                    100
Repair and Reconstruction of Rural Transportation Facilities        70
Repair of Railway                                                   20
Repair of Telecommunication Facilities                              5
Repair of Electrical Facilities                                     3
Repair and Reconstruction of Municipal Infrastructure               20
Repair and Reconstruction of Flood Control Facilities               70
Repair and Reconstruction of Public Buildings                       3
Repair and Reconstruction of Bartin Harbour                         2
Forest roads and facilities                                         17
TOTAL                                                              500
Source: Government estimates.
The TEFER project directly responds to the urgent needs in the flood affected region. It covers the repair
and reconstruction to water and wastewater systems, municipal, rural and forest roads and bridges,
irrigation facilities in more than 100 of the most damaged municipalities and villages. Over 500 specific
investments were identified for various sectors.
Flood Warning andResponse System. The floods and landslides in the WBSR demonstrated the need
for an improved warning and response system throughout Turkey. Warning techniques employed in



Page 4
many other countries are not in use here, primarily due to a lack of real-time hydrologic and
meteorological data.
The provincial and municipal emergency response plans apparently worked as they were designed, but
they respond mainly to the disaster rather than to disaster warning. The GOT indicated that the loss of
life would have been much higher had the floods and landslides occurred at night, when many more
people would have been at home.
The technical agencies (DMI, DSI and EIE) are aware of the warning technologies available, but have not
been directed to provide warnings of the type needed, and consequently have never developed the
technical capability to do so. Their current budgets do not include funds needed for the collection of real-
time data and the analysis of those data. Furthermore, there is no secure and reliable communications
system to deliver disaster warnings to the provinces or municipalities, and the local response plans are not
designed to respond to specific, localized warnings.
Land Use Controls in Areas of High Flood and Landslide Risk. The GOT has a program to map
floodplains and landslide-prone areas, and local government elements are mandated to use these maps fcr
land use planning and management. However, due to lack of funding, the production of these maps is
slow. Also, the Ministry of Public Works and Settlements, which produces these maps, is not certain that
they are used effectively at the local level.
Lack of Hazard Mitigation Planning. There is no systematic program in Turkey for disaster mitigation,
although there are several good mitigation activities being undertaken, including the adoption of
earthquake resistant building codes and land-use mapping and planning.
II. Earthquake Damage: On Saturday, June 27 - during preparation of the emergency flood project - a
major earthquake struck southern Turkey. According to Istanbul's Kandilli observatory, the Earthquake
reached 6.3 on the Richter Scale in Adana Province. In spite of the magnitude of the catastrophe, it is
reported that "only" around 144 people died in Adana Province. The primary reason for the relatively
low loss of life was that the earthquake occurred in a summer month, on a weekend during daytime.
Therefore many people were outside the buildings. Over 1,000 people were injured. Based on the
information prepared by more than 100 official investigation teams (as of July 14, 1998), 74,303
household units were collapsed, heavily or lightly damaged. According to the official estimates, 11,601
units in Adana and 1,472 units in Ceyhan have to be replaced or reconstructed. The number for
replacement and reconstruction of household units in rural areas are reported at 5,429. The total damage
is estimated in the range about US$ 1 billion.
(b) Government and International Donor Response
Government of Turkey. At 10:30am on May 21, 1998, a " Crisis Center (CC)" was established at the
Prime Minister's (PM) Office with all ministries and state agencies represented to address the flood
emergency. In the disaster area, work of rescue teams were assisted by military units. Despite breakdown
of communication and information systems, the local authorities managed the crisis rather successfully.
In addition to the government efforts, civil organizations and private citizens banded together to help in
the recovery efforts. The Turkish Red Crescent Society (Kizilay) provided aid to those living in the
disaster areas: 14,280 blankets, 2,326 tents, mobile water tanks, food was sent and 12 mobile kitchens
were serving hot food to 8,500 people daily. GOT agencies mobilized available technical sources to
repair or maintain basic transportation, telecommunication, energy and safe water supply in the disaster
area, and assess the magnitude of damage on the public works.



Page 5
On May 26, 1998, the Government informed the public that the total damage from the flood had
exceeded US$ 500 million. Bolu, Zonguldak, Bartin and Karabuk were declared "disaster areas". By
May 29, 1998, transport and communication with all municipal settlements had been re-established.
However, around 200 villages were still unreachable as of July 2.
The earthquake took place on June 27, at 16:56. Within 15 minutes after the earthquake, Crisis Centers in
both Ankara and Adana were operative. Surgeons, physicians, nurses living in Adana were prepared at
the hospitals for emergency cases and in the meantime the civil rescue team had started with their work.
At 17:30, crisis centers in all the settlement units through the province were operative too. The same
evening the Red Crescent started delivering hot meals for the earthquake victims. A large number of
cities gave donations immediately. Food, first aid equipment, medicines, vaccination sets, rescue
specialists, tents and similar needs were never subject to any shortage.
A few days later, the government remitted additional money in order to arrange provisional housing for
those who had lost their homes or whose households were heavily damaged. Starting from July 13, every
eligible family or single residents have been paid a sum of about US$ 1,300.00. Within this frame,
roughly 12,500 persons were paid for temporary settlement. During the last days of July, the most
important problems besides dealing with the lack of housing for the displaced people appeared to be
psychological disorders, reaching a very high number especially among women and children.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The objective of the multi-sectoral project is to reconstruct essential infrastructure and other facilities to
promptly restore economic activity in affected areas The project will: (i) assist the Government to
implement expeditiously the reconstruction and rehabilitation of infrastructure in the rural and urban
areas damaged by the floods; (ii) improve construction standards and planning through regulatory
instruments at the municipal and national levels to protect urban infrastructure and buildings from future
floods; (iii) introduce measures to reduce potential losses from earthquakes and floods in the future; and
(iv) increase the earthquake resistance of new buildings by adopting and enforcing building codes
through introduction of mandatory corporate liability insurance for the construction industry.
The rationale for geographic and technical focus is based on strategic choices to assist the most
extensively damaged regions of Turkey to restore essential infrastructure in the WBSR, to mitigate future
flooding, and to reduce the vulnerability to earthquakes nationwide.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
TEFER
Bank
Total Cost                 Financing   Percentage
(Incl. Taxes &                (Incl.       of
Contingencies)  Percentage  Contingencies)   Bank
Category  (US$ million)    of Total   (US$ million)  Financing
Component
A. Municipal and Rural Infrastructure  physical  209.2        30.6%         70.1        33.5%
B. Flood Management and Hazard
Reduction
1. Natural Hazard Risk Reduction and  other     1.5          0.2%          1.1       73.0%
Mitigation
2. Modemization of Forecasting,    physical    46.0          6.7%         40.0        87.0%
Warning, and Response System
3. Improvement of Disaster Response    physical  15.5        2.3%         13.5        87.0%
Capabilities
4. Repair and Improvement of Flood  physical   95.6         14.0%         81.2        85.0%
Protection Infrastructure
Subtotal                                         158.6.       23.2%         135.8      85.6%
C. Earthquake Reconstruction                     308.3        45.0%         156.1      50.6%
D. Project Implementation Unit       proj mgt     4.8          0.7%           4.2      87.0%
E. Front End Fee                                  3.7                        3.7        100%
Total Project                                    685.0        100%          369.0       100%
Figures may slightly differ due to rounding.
*  Municipal and Rural Infrastructure: TA, design, supervision, and investments to restore
infrastructure in affected municipalities and rural areas
-  Flood Management and Hazard Reduction: TA, design, supervision, and urgent investments to repair
hydrotechnical infrastructure, modernize flood management system, improve forecasting and
planning, and introduce liability and homeowner insurance
*  Earthquake Reconstruction: TA, design, supervision, and investments to reconstruct household units
in affected municipalities and rural areas, provide training and studies to reduce earthquake
vulnerability, and introduce liability and homeowner insurance and construction industry liability
insurance
*  Project Implementation Unit: PIU to help implement, inter alia, procurement and disbursement
activities associated with the project
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project:
*  National Mitigation Policy and Strategy.
*  Sustainable Financing of Hazard Risks and Recovery.
* Modernization of the Flood Monitoring, Forecasting and Warning System.
*  Upgrading Local Flood Preparedness and Response Plans.
*  Homeowners and Industry Liability Insurance.
*  Upgrading Emergency Response Capacity.



Page 7
3. Benefits and target population:
Immediate benefits are the restoration of rural and municipal services and infrastructure serving the
millions of inhabitants in the WBSR in Adana Province. Project investments would enable basic or
normal levels of operation of water supply, wastewater treatment, sewerage, and transportation systems
and buildings in the target region, and thereby improve health, safety and environmental conditions for
the affected population. First phase investments to restore damaged hydrotechnical infrastructure (e.g.,
dikes) will limit or prevent possible significant additional losses. Economic recovery of the affected
regions and incremental tax revenues supporting the GOT budget would result from restoration of normal
industrial and agricultural activity.
The flood management component of the project will contribute significant improvements to Turkey's
system for flood preparedness and response in the WBSR. This component will include investments and
technical assistance to modernize the hydrological and meteorological monitoring system, update
mapping and modeling of the project river basin areas using advanced GIS, modernize forecasting and
modeling capacity, and improve public awareness of flood risk and hazards.
The earthquake reconstruction component of the project will benefit the displaced persons who were
forced to live in tents after the disaster. This component will lead to the construction of 5,000 urban and
3,800 rural household units with improved building standards and less vulnerability to future earthquakes.
Major public benefits can also be expected from the project, including the following:
* strengthening the capacity of the government to respond rapidly to priority needs of its citizens in the
face of natural disasters;
*  restoring dysfunctional community services to pre-flood normality;
*  providing employment in the construction industry and hydromechanical equipment industry; and
•  assisting in the development of a national insurance plan to shift the burden of future reconstruction
of housing and infrastructure from the individual families and the government to private insurance
companies.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: June 8, 1998 - December 31, 2001
Administrative Arrangements: Procurement, disbursement, supervision and related administrative
services essential for smooth project implementation will be assisted by a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) in Ankara. The Government has appointed the same unit that has implemented Erzincan
Earthquake Reconstruction Project be assigned the implementation responsibility for the new project.
The Adana Management Unit (AMU) is to be established in Adana to manage the earthquake component
of the project. Policy guidance for the project will be provided by a Steering Committee comprised of
senior officials of the implementing agencies. The key implementing agencies for each technical
component are:
*  Municipal and Rural Infrastructure Component: The main implementing agencies will be the
General Directorate of State Highways, General Directorate of Rural Services, General Directorate of
Forestry, and municipalities, assisted by the PIU.
*  Flood Management and Hazard Reduction Component: The implementation will be handled by the
State Hydraulic Works (DSI), the Meteorologic Institute (DMI), the General Directorate of



Page 8
Afforestation and Erosion Control (AGM), the General Directorate of Technical Research and
Information (GDTRI), the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA), the General Directorate
of Civil Defense (GDCD) and the General Directorate of Electrical Power (EIE), assisted by the PIU.
Earthquake Reconstruction Component: The implementation responsibility will be held by the
Housing Development Administration (HDA) and the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
(MPWS), assisted by the PIU and the AMU.
The Government of Turkey has entrusted the Housing Development Administration (HDA) with
authority and responsibility for the implementation of the project. The HDA shall carry out its activities
under the project through the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Adana Management Unit
(AMU). The PIU and the AMU, will be maintained within the HDA in Ankara and Adana, respectively,
with staff and other resources. The PIU and the AMU shall assist the implementing agencies and
municipalities to carry out the Project with the overall policy guidance of the Steering Committee,
pursuant to arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
The Steering Committee is chaired by Treasury and includes representatives from the relevant Ministries
and implementing agencies, including the Ministry of Public Works and Settlements (MPWS), the
Housing Development Agency (HDA), State Hydraulic Works (DSI), the State Meteorological Institute
(DMI), General Directorate of Forestry (GDF), General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA), General
Directorate of Insurance (GDI), General Directorate of Afforestation and Erosion Control (GDAEC), the
General Directorate of Technical Research and Implementation (GDTRI), the General Directorate of
State Highways (KGM), the General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS), General Directorate of
Electrical Power (EIE), General Directorate of Civil Defense (GDCD) and the State Planning
Organization (SPO).
The organization charts presented in Annex 2 summarize the implementation arrangements. A detailed
description of the implementing arrangements for the project, components and sub-components is
provided in the Project Implementation Plan
Allocation offunds. Approximately 21% of the project budget is dedicated to the infrastructure
restoration component A, about 39% for natural hazard reduction management, about 39% for
earthquake reconstruction and about 1.2% for project management.
Custons Duties and Taxes. The World Bank funds cannot be used to finance local taxes (such as
customs duties, sales tax, income tax, etc.). The import tax due on any World Bank-financed goods would
be paid by the Government, or paid by the relevant beneficiary.
Accounts, Audit and Reporting. HDA-PIU will be responsible for the detailed design and
implementation of the financial management system for the Project on the basis of (i) sections "VII
Accounts and Audits and "VIII Reporting" of the PIP; (ii) chart of accounts to be developed for the
project, and (iii), terms of reference and implementation timetable for financial management and the
reporting system in Annex F. I and Annex F.2 of the PIP.
The Bank procedures (OP/BP 10.02) on financial management will be followed to make sure that sound
financial management systems are in place. The Project and the Special account will be audited annually
by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Supervision would be carried out by the Bank's Task Team,
which would review implementation of the project approximately on a quarterly basis during the first



Page 9
year. Supervision missions in subsequent years would be conducted two or three times per year as
appropriate, with continuous on-site advice and support from the Bank's Country Management Union in
Ankara. Supervision will examine both technical implementation and financial management of the
project. Audits of investments would be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
Bank would monitor the development of any proposed subsequent lending operations for completion of
flood management and prevention investments.
Role of Co-financiers: n/a
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project Timing: To process the project as a normal lending operation was rejected due to the need to
make funds available for urgent repairs and infrastructure investments as soon as possible, to improve
living conditions and mitigate insofar as possible damages from future flood seasons. Reallocation of
resources from other operations was considered, but funding and/or scope of tasks was found to be
inadequate for the municipal/rural infrastructure, flood management and reconstruction investments
needed.
Alternatives Considered: Reallocation from existing projects was rejected due to inadequate resources
and/or inadequate design. The approach used for Component B actually allows for and encourages
examination of all alternatives. In examination of the individual hydrotechnical structures, all alternatives
from "no action" to improvement of the structures will be determined by the analytical approach
suggested. For funding of recovery from future disasters, "no action" means not undertaking restoration,
funding from the normal operating budget, or borrowing after each disaster. The project team suggests
looking at all other possible sources of funds. Finally, the development of a national mitigation strategy
allows the GOT and its agencies to find mitigation measures that work for them while moving toward the
goal of hazard reduction.
For Component C, providing soft loans with highly subsidized interest rates was considered as an
alternative. But given the high inflation in Turkey, collection cost of these loans are higher than the
principle amount. Another alternative considered was to give the beneficiaries grants to purchase units
available on the market, and with the option to obtain a larger unit by paying the difference between the
grant amount and selling price of the unit. The advantage of this option is that the beneficiaries would be
able to find suitable housing in a shorter time. One drawback of this option is that it is very difficult to
assure the construction quality of the available units, as well as the administration of the grant procedure
itself. This alternative was rejected due to the Bank's procedures which do not allow for indirect
transfers.
Institutional/FinancialArrangements: Establishment of new regional or national flood control centers
and new hazard mitigation centers based on existing departments for flood, earthquake and other natural
disasters was rejected in favor of technical assistance to rationalize and unify existing capabilities. Direct
lending by the Bank to municipalities is not an option because of the extent of the emergency. Direct
project management and implementation by a national government ministry was rejected in favor of a
PIU due to multiple agencies involved in implementation and to benefit from the experienced PIU for
greater efficiency.



Page 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector issue                  Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
________________________________  Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed                      Erzincan Emergency           S              S
Emergency Project                  Earthquake and
Reconstruction Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HlU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from the Bank's experience.
Infrastructure
Bank-wide experience has shown that reconstruction of damaged infrastructure alone is imperative but
insufficient, and that measures are needed to reduce the risk of similar future disasters and to safeguard
people at risk. A second lesson is that, while quick response to disaster is important, it is equally
important to identify underlying problems and determine how to resolve them in ways that result in long-
term sustainable solutions. In several Bank projects sustainability of infrastructure investments was
questioned because of the projects' failure to address long-term mitigation measures. In regard to
recurrent flooding, the 1993 Bank Water Resources Policy Paper encourages the use of fiscal incentives,
control of land use and management practices, and other non-structural measures to lessen vulnerability
rather than solely investing in the "structural" works (dikes, reservoirs, floodplain storage areas such as
polders). It has been widely recognized, e.g., that the benefits of long-term disaster management versus
the costs of repeated short-term post-disaster reconstruction should be taken into account during any
emergency operation. Additionally, previous Bank-supported provincial and municipal operations have
indicated that the more successful activities have: a) covered a large number of affected communities; b)
involved highly competent local consultants and executing units; c) had access to funds that could be
shifted among competing local communities.
Housing
It is axiomatic to state that the most immediate need following a disaster is likely to be shelter, first a tent
and then a dwelling. Yet the housing components of most emergency loans have created an intensive
debate in the Bank as to what extent the Bank should finance a private good and to what extent disaster
recipients of a replacement dwelling should be required to contribute to their own relief in the form of
upfront contributions followed by repayments over time, i.e. a loan. A review of past emergency loan
projects ( Columbia Popayan, Mexico Earthquake, Jamaic Hurricane Emergency Reconstruction, El
Salvador Earthquake) does reveal the following:



Page 11
*  A speedy response is imperative. Three of the four projects disbursed rapidly and one, El Salvador,
required years before it began to disburse, long enough to doubt the emergency nature of the project.
This requirement for rapid response carries several implications. For instance, the investment that
produces the most rapid response may not be the least expensive.
* Cost recovery objectives will be difficult to achieve. It is natural for a government to wish for
contributions from individuals benefiting from disaster assistance. Any form of contribution is
difficult to achieve. A requirement for upfront contributions would deny assistance to those who
cannot contribute. The best solution seems to be to construct to an acceptable inhabitable standard
and assume that additional costs will be under-written by the beneficiary. A loan to a beneficiary
who is not required to pass an earnings test will always be a loan portfolio of dubious quality. Any
cost recovery calculation based on lending terms should further discount for future uncollectibility.
*  Cost recovery objectives of the Earthquake Component- housing. Taking into consideration past
Bank experience, the objectives of the housing component of this project are:
* Construct speedily even though cheaper less speedy solutions are possible.
F Construct to -an acceptable standard, allowing the beneficiary to complete when and if he/she
can.
X  Accept a loan as stipulated in the Disaster Law, that is 20 years with a two-year grace period,
and[ 0.0% interest.
Lessons and Priorities from Turkey's Recent Experience. Several lessons are clear from the recent
disaster events:
*  The GOT assumes full financial responsibilities for disaster recovery, including highways,
infrastructure at all levels, telecommunications, electric power transmission, housing, crop and
animal loss and agricultural damage.
*  Although there are disaster mitigation activities being implemented by the GOT, there is no national
strategy for disaster mitigation. Without a mitigation strategy, it is likely that at least some of the
recovery and restoration investments from this disaster will face the same risks.
*  Although the GOT recognizes that building codes can increase the earthquake resistance of new
buildings, and has adopted such codes, enforcement of these codes is inconsistent.
*  Although the GOT recognizes that floodplain mapping and landslide-prone area mapping will
mitigate disaster damage, such maps are not being applied to land-use management in most regions of
Turkey and enforcement of land-use management is inconsistent.
* Although the GOT knows that there is available technology for flood warning and landslide warning,
this technology is not being applied in Turkey.
* There is no element of government responsible for providing flood or landslide warnings to provinces
and municipalities in Turkey.
*  Communications failures during the flood/landslide event impeded emergency response, and would
greatly reduce the ability to provide warnings to provinces and municipalities.



Page 12
*  There is no automated disaster information system in Turkey to effectively communicate needs and
capabilities during and immediately following a disaster.
*  The hydrotechnical infrastructure damaged by the WBSR disaster provided protection in many areas,
but this infrastructure has been damaged and exposes many municipalities to increased threat until it
is repaired.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In May 1998, the GOT requested the Bank to develop on an urgent basis a project to provide financing
and technical assistance for flood recovery and protection. Based on discussions with the Treasury, the
Ministry of Forestry, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA), the GDRS, the DSI, the
KGM, GDDA, the DDY, the General Directorate of Meteorology, the EIE, the Bank and the GOT have
agreed the key points relating to the loan amount, GOT co-funding of the project, allocation of funds,
disbursement arrangements, implementing arrangements and flow of funds, main project components and
priority actions, and project preparation. In addition, the GOT will formn a Steering Committee to
supervise and accelerate the pace of project preparation. The Steering Committee is chaired by Treasury
and includes representatives from the relevant Ministries and implementing agencies, including the
Ministry of Public Works and Settlements (MPWS), the Housing Development Agency (HDA), State
Hydraulic Works (DSI), the State Meteorological Institute (DMI), the Ministry of Forestry, General
Directorate of Forestry (GDF), General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA), General Directorate of
Insurance (GDI), General Directorate of Afforestation and Erosion Control (GDAEC), General
Directorate of Technical Research and Implementation (GDTRI), General Directorate of State Highways
(KGM), General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS), General Directorate of Electrical Power (EIE),
General Directorate of Civil Defense (GDCD) and the State Planning Organization (SPO).
Within days of the earthquake in the province of Adana, the GOT requested that the Bank expand the
flood emergency recovery project to provide funding and to support recovery from the earthquake. The
GOT has demonstrated ownership of the project through sustained high level commitment of the many
agencies and regional/municipal governments concerned by rapidly appointing an experienced PIU to
assist with project preparation and implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank brings to the process of reconstruction and recovery from the historic flood of 1998 and the
earthquake in Adana an organizational framework and clear process for identifying, selecting and
implementing priority investments for municipal/rural infrastructure and flood management. The project
will help to mobilize and target other GOT resources for flood recovery and earthquake reconstruction.
Through the emergency project, the Bank can provide critical funding when it is most needed. By
supporting expanded use of liability and houseowner's insurance, the Bank is able to contribute to the
development of a GOT strategy to raise construction standards and to provide long term sustainable
financing for future housing reconstruction.



Page 13
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: Not applicable
2. Financial . Not applicable.
3. Technical:
The project's technical design is well suited to Turkey's requirements for rapid investment for repair of
rural and municipal infrastructure, flood hazard reduction and earthquake reconstruction. Specific
investment identification and cost estimates have been calculated on the basis of data compiled and
analyzed by the preparation and appraisal missions, and reflect the priorities and costs identified by local
government and technical agencies, within an acceptable margin of error for costs. Allowances are made
for physical and price contingencies consistent with rapid disbursement for infrastructure repair and
emergency planning.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
-  Municipal and Rural Infrastructure Component: The main implementing agency will be the General
Directorate of Highways, General Directorate of Rural Services, General Directorate of
Forestry, other relevant agencies, and municipalities, assisted by the PIU.
*  Flood Management and Hazard Reduction Component: The implementation will be handled by the
State Hydraulic Works (DSI), the Meteorologic Institute (DMI), the General Directorate of
Afforestation and Erosion Control (AGM), the General Directorate of Technical Research and
Information (GDTRI), the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA), the General Directorate
of Civil Defense (GDCD) and the General Directorate of Electrical Power (EIE), assisted by the PIU.
-  Earthquake Reconstruction: The implementation responsibility will be held by the Housing
Development Administration (HDA) and the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement (MPWS),
assisted by the PIU and the AMI.
b. Project management: Housing Development Administration coordinated by the PIU.
5. Social:
Positive social impacts are anticipated as a result of the restoration of basic infrastructure providing
transportation, housing, wastewater treatment, water supply, and flood protection. In the event that flood
management planning would cause relocation of settlements or changes in land use, the proposed
measures would be subject to public review consistent with Bank policy. The reconstruction of housing in
Adana province will contribute to restoring the social failure of communities damaged during last June's
earthquake.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category   [ A   [x] B   []C
Compliance with environmental requirements of Turkey and the Bank will be achieved in the following
way. In the PIU an Environmental Specialist will be hired in September 98. She or he will be responsible
for screening the specific investments eligible for financing under this operation. The list of investments
is included in Annex A of the PIP. The type of investments that are supported under Component A are
small repair works projects. Initial assessments carried out by the project team, including road and
municipal infrastructure engineers, and the Bank environmental specialist's review during appraisal
shows that no major environmental impacts are foreseen. Under Component B, dike repairs and
strengthening of the hydro-technical infrastructure are foreseen (the Project does not include any



Page 14
investments for dams). These operations do not require environmental permits or clearances since they
address hydrotechnical structures already in place. Nevertheless, environmental factors will be further
assessed at the detailed design stage for each structure that may have had environmnental flaws in its pre-
existing form, and appropriate mitigation measures incorporated as part of the modernization of flood
structures. In addition, a list of criteria has been developed to help review the list of hydro-technical
infrastructure investments. Moreover, the PIU Environmental Specialist will be responsible for reviewing
the project list and assuring that environmental requirements as stipulated in Turkish environmental law
and ordinances be followed. Compliance with those requirements by the implementing agencies will be a
condition for financing by the PIU. For Component C, a site assessment study has been carried out.
Environmental aspects related to the construction phase of this component will be incorporated in the
TORs for contractors and enforced by the PIU environmental specialist.
It is the responsibility of the Environmental Specialist working for the PIU to include environmental
aspects in TORs for contracts. Under the supervision plan an environmental specialist from the Bank will
be reviewing and providing environmental clearance for projects. This is the first instance of a Bank
emergency project for which an Environmental Specialist will be hired by the PIU to assure that
environmental aspects and compliance with environmental regulation are dealt with in accordance with
national, local and Bank requirements. Funding for the Environmental Specialist and any studies or
additional assessments that might be identified by the environmental specialist is provided under the PIU
budget, as well as in Components A, B and C.
Resettlement issues. Involuntary resettlements issues have been examined in the context of Component
C, Earthquake Reconstruction, which will provide new housing for families displaced by the Adana
earthquake. The project does not involve involuntary resettlement. Under Turkish law, only those
affected by an earthquake who request new housing to be provided by the government in another location
are eligible for housing. The families who will receive housing under the project are therefore moving
voluntarily and at their own request, not being resettled involuntarily.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: This project has been prepared in close
collaboration with GOT ministries and technical agencies, and provincial and municipal officials to
define the project, assess investments needs, prioritize actions, and develop an implementation plan.
Project concept and priority investments have been developed by local consultants in very close
cooperation with local governments. Priorities were confirmed by local councils as well as technical
agencies.
b. Other stakeholders: All stakeholder groups affected by the project have had an opportunity to
contribute to the project design through their local governments and representatives or through
involvement of the relevant technical agencies.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Factors critical to the sustainability of the project include strong motivation on the part of national,
regional and local governments to implement quickly flood and earthquake recovery and risk reduction
measures to enhance public health and safety and to limit future economic losses. For the Municipal and
Rural Infrastructure Component and reconstruction of hydrotechnical infrastructure within the Flood
Management Component, government budgetary support is needed only during the project



Page 15
implementation phase, consistent with the nature of an emergency recovery project. Government
budgetary support beyond the implementation phase for improved flood management would not
significantly exceed current expenditures for water management or flood control, as the project
emphasizes improved coordination between existing institutions and capabilities rather than creation and
maintenance of new organizations. For the Earthquake Reconstruction Component the improvement of
the quality standards and the introduction of building codes will contribute to the sustainability of the
project in the earthquake prone country. The introduction of liability and houseowner insurance will shift
the financial burden of natural disasters to insurance companies which will in turn have an incentive to
enforce supervision of new building codes and adequate training of engineers, constructors and
architects.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Use of funds for sub-optimal expenditures          M        Carefully defined and reviewed
portfolio of investments
Delay in project jimplementation                   M        Adoption of solutions to project design,
flow of funds and procurement
methods, an effective coordination by
the PIU and close project supervision
by the task team, clear implementing
agreements between the PIU and the
implementing agencies
Efficient coordination between different involved           Sufficient supervision support from
agencies                                                    Bank Task Team at initial stage to set
up procedures for effective
M        implementation; recruitment and early
activation of experienced PIU team to
support the project.
Close review during approval mission
by consultants and PIU
Overall Risk Rating     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
There are three main risks to the successful implementation of projects of this type. First is the possible use
of funds for sub-optimal expenditures. This risk is being addressed through a carefully defined portfolio of
activities. The portfolio covers activities under the Municipal and Rural Infrastructure, the Flood
Management Components and the Earthquake Reconstruction. The second risk is a delay in project
implementation. This risk is being reduced by Turkey's and the Bank's joint effort to adopt straightforward
solutions to project design, flow of funds, and procurement methods, and by the PIU which has already
proven effective in managing emergency programs. A third risk is the large number of implementing
agencies involved in the project. This risk is addressed through effective coordination provided by the



Page 16
PIU, close project supervision by the task team, and clear implementing agreements between PIU and the
implementation agencies.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
*  Exclusion of some flooded regions in order to concentrate on the WBSR. The municipal and rural
infrastructure component of the project concentrates on the WBSR as the region most heavily
damaged by the flood, excluding the replacement of agricultural inputs, livestock and lost crops.
Moreover, under Component B, severe weather forecasting for all Western Turkey (see Map) will
be modernized and upgraded, and flood forecasting will be provided in four regions of Western
Turkey (see Map).
*  The project does not include investments in the expansion or rehabilitation of the retention reservoir
system or any resettlement activities. In the event studies to be undertaken under the project
(Component B) include recommendations for changes of land use (e.g., improvement of agricultural
and other land use practices) or expansion or rehabilitation of reservoir capacity, feasibility studies,
economic, environmental and social impact assessments would be conducted according to Bank
procedures to ensure the appropriateness of such recommendations.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)    Establishment of the Steering Committee
2. Other:
(i)    The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIP.
(ii)   The Borrower shall maintain until Project completion the Steering Committee.
(iii)   The Borrower shall maintain until Project completion the PIU and assign to it
responsibility for overall Project implementation and coordination.
(iv)   The Borrower shall select consultants to assist in the operation of the PIU by November
30, 1998.
(v)    The Borrower shall recruit by March 31, 1999, a financial management specialist
acceptable to the Bank to review the design and operation of the financial management
system to be used by the PIU with respect to the Project.
(vi)   The Borrower shall complete by June 30, 1999, under a terms of reference agreed upon
with the Bank, a study of the options and modalities for recovering the costs of
reconstruction of facilities, including housing facilities, damaged as a result of natural
disasters, and a study of the feasibility and options for the introduction of mandatory
insurance of facilities in disaster-prone areas.
(vii)  The Borrower shall by September 30, 1999, review the findings and recommendations
of the cost recovery and insurance studies with the Bank with a view to preparing
proposals for the implementation of such recommendations for submission to relevant
authorities of the Borrower.
(viii)  The Borrower shall prepare a mid-term review of the Project by April 30, 2000, and
review said report with the Bank by July, 31, 2000.
(ix)   The Borrower shall have the funds flow system of the Project evaluated and shall submit
to the Bank a report on such evaluation by November 30, 1998. Said report will be
reviewed by the Borrower and the Bank within one month of submission. On the basis of
said review, the Borrower shall ensure the efficient flow of funds for the Project.



Page 17
(x)    The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Beneficiaries under
Funding Agreements (Protocols) with standard terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank.
(xi)   The PIU shall prepare quarterly project progress reports for review by the Borrower and
the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[ I The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader: Piotr Wilckynski, ECSSD
(jector Director: Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
(ountry Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6



Page 18
Annex 1
Turkey: Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                          (Goal to Bank Mission)
D   Project is not listed in CAS as it  a   Retum infrastructure facilities  O   Implementation    3   Continued strong national
responds to a national emergency     and housing to operational        completion report           and local government support
that occurred after the last CAS     conditions
discussion;
C   Supports private-sector growth (esp.
in infrastructure development);
supports environmental and social
sustainability by repairing
environmental infrastructure and
restoring basic infrastructure
necessary for economic activity
Project Development Objective:                                                                    (Objective to Goal)
O   Restore basic infrastructure in  U   Steering Committee established    U   Monthly PIU reports;    U   Continued government
municipalities and rural areas  U   Transformation from PCU to PIU   C   Reports from ongoing      commitment and
affected by the flood;          U   Implementation agreements          supervision by the field   leadership
U   Reduce vulnerability and costs to    between the PIU and               based Country
government of future floods and     implementing agencies and          Management Unit
earthquakes;  .                      municipalities                    (CMU)
U   Restoring housing in the earthquake
affected Province Adana
Outputs:                                                                                          (Outputs to Objective)
Component A                          U   within one year 50% of the flood   U   Monthly PIU reports  *   Use of funds for sub-optimal
U   63 investments for repair of state   damage in municipal and rural    U   Reports from ongoing     expenditures
highways                            infrastructure component will be   supervision by CMU     *   Delay in project
U   Restore rural services by repairing  repaired;                     U   Random audits              implementation
2,004m of bridges, 1,429km of rural  U   during the second and third years,                   .   Efficient coordination
roads, 268 drinking water supply    the remaining 43% and 70/o,                                   between different involved
facilities and 12 sewerage plants    respectively, will be repaired;                              agencies
and various irrigation facilities  U   adoption of national mitigation
U   Repair forest roads, bridges and     strategy
culverts serving 250,000 people in    U   flood hazard maps
WBSR                            U   feasibility studies for major new
3   Repair municipal roads, bridges,     flood management investments
water supply and sewerage in 4  U   flood forecasting and warning
cities and numerous villages        system
Component B                          U   35% the household units are
3   Basin Flood Protection Planning      constructed in urban and rural
O   Monitoring, Forecasting and          areas of Adana Province in FY 99
Warning System                  U   51 % the household units are
U   Flood Protection Infrastructure      constructed in FY 00
U   Flood Risk Reduction and        U   14% the household units are
Prevention Program                  constructed in FY 01
U   National Program for construction
liability and homeowner insurance
Component C
U   Demolition of damaged buildings in
Adana Province
U   Construction of 5,000 urhan and
3,800 rural housing units
Project Components/Sub-components:    Inputs: (budget for each component)                         (Components to Outputs)
(see Annex 2 for project description)                                  U   regular progress and    U   timely transformation from
U l Municipal and rural infrastructure    U   USS 67.4 million             disbursement reports        PCU to PIU and
U   Flood management and hazard                                                                        establishment of
reduction                        U   US$ 127.2 million                                             implementing agreements
O   Earthquake Reconstruction       U   USS 146.6 million
U   Project admin. and technical     U   USS  3.9 million
assistance



Page 19
Annex 2
Turkey Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery
Project Description
I   The proposed emergency project covering several affected sectors aims to: restore flood
affected basic infrastructure in communities and rural areas; reconstruct and repair
earthquake-damaged household units for currently displaced people; make urgent repairs to
the flood management system; reduce flood risk and vulnerability; improve the policy
framework and institutional capacity for better flood and hazard disaster management and
mitigation in the most heavily affected regions of Turkey; and reduce public costs of future
natural disasters in order to lighten the burden on the central and local budgets. It is
imperative that the most urgent actions are taken before the construction season ends and the
harsh winter season arrives
2.  The project consists of the following components and sub-components:
A)    Municipal and Rural Infrastructure, which includes technical assistance, design,
supervision and investments to restore municipal and rural infrastructure at the
municipal level. This component covers water supply, sewerage in municipal
and rural areas, local roads and bridges and forest roads
B)    Flood Management and Hazard Reduction, which includes technical assistance,
design, and urgent investments to upgrade hydrotechnical infrastructure;
modernize flood management systems, and improve forecasting and planning.
The Component includes natural hazard risk reduction and mitigation, insurance,
modernization of the forecasting, warning and response systems, improvement of
disaster response capabilities, and repair and improvement of flood protection
infrastructure
C)    Earthquake Reconstruction, which comprises technical assistance, design,
supervision, and investments to reconstruct household units damaged by the
earthquake
D)    Project Management and Implementation Support. This component will provide
support to ensure timely and efficient implementation of the project by
strengthening the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with additional staff and
equipment, and by providing technical expertise that will be required for this
purpose.
Background
3. As a result of extreme rain on May 21, 1998, the Western Black Sea Region (WBSR) was
affected by a devastating flood with recurrence intervals estimated to range from 200 years to
1,000 years - depending on the region . Several hundred landslides occurred on May 21 and
for several weeks thereafter. During the same week, severe floods also occurred in the other
parts of the country, including Izmir, Aydin, Manisa, Denizli and Hatay



Page 20
4. In the WBSR, an area of about 37,000 square kilometers with a population of 2.2 million, the
floods of May 21 were the worst in the last century. Some 151 rivers and streams overflowed
their banks; 478 settlements were flooded; and roads to at least 620 settlements were closed
due to flooding, erosion or landslides. Initial damage estimates included 2,000 buildings
destroyed and another 6,500 buildings damaged. The flood damaged private houses,
businesses and factories, public buildings, roads and bridges, railroads, flood protection
infrastructure (e.g., levees, bank protection works), water and sewer systems,
telecommunication systems and electrical transmission systems. The flood also damaged
crops and agricultural lands and facilities. It is believed that 20 people lost their lives. The
initial total estimated cost of recovery and reconstruction is about US$ 500 million.
5. On Saturday 27 June 1998, the Province of Adana was affected by a severe earthquake.
According to Istanbul's Kandilli Observatory, the earthquake reached 6.3 on the Richter
Scale. The U.S. Geological Survey put the preliminary magnitude at 6.2 and said the quake
shook the neighboring provinces of Mersin, Nigde and Kayseri, as well as the Mediterranean
island of Cyprus. By midday Sunday, at least 34 aftershocks were registered. A strong
aftershock (Richter Scale 5.1), followed by further shakes at Richter 4.8, 4.1, 4.2, 4.4 and
three times at 4.0, recorded on 07/04/98 at 5:15 A.M. further increased the damage to houses
and buildings. Approximately 2.6 million people live in the Adana Province, of that 1.3
million in the Municipality of Greater Adana.
6. In spite of the magnitude of the catastrophe, it is reported that "only" around 144 people died
in the whole province. The primary reason for the relatively low loss of life was that the
earthquake occurred in a summer month, on a weekend during daytime. Therefore many
people were outside the buildings. Over 1,000 people were injured but 90% of them were
able to leave the medical institutions and first aid stations after one week.
7. In addition to the damage in Adana and Ceyhan, approximately 20 small towns were heavily
affected. Considerable damages were caused because of rescue and debris cleaning
operations caused by heavy earthmoving machinery and equipment.
8. Different groups of damaged houses could be identified: in Adana, mainly old houses in the
low and medium income area were affected. No heavy damage was reported to newly
constructed buildings. In Ceyhan approximately 10 apartment buildings collapsed, which
were either not designed to construction code or not properly supervised during construction.
Official regulations require a stable construction against earthquakes of 7.5 Richter points. In
villages, mainly owner built houses were damaged.
9. There are differences between the damage to urban and rural housing. It appears that the
damage to "newly built" urban housing primarily resulted from negligence. The case of
Ceyhan illustrates this negligence in design or construction. In Adana the greatest damage
was to older structures, due to structural aging and possibly inappropriate design and
construction method.
10. The situation in rural areas is quite different from the cities. Both for older as well as new
construction, the cause of damage were primarily lack of knowledge in design as well as
inappropriate construction methods and materials. Most buildings were either built by the
residents or by local (village) contractors, neither having any familiarity with appropriate
design standards or materials for housing in a region vulnerable to earthquakes. Local
engineers indicated that in most cases non-structural cement was used for structural elements.



Page 21
Government Response
11. Government of Turkey. At 10:30 on May 21, 1998, a " Crisis Center (CC)" was established
at the Prime Minister's (PM) Office with all ministries and state agencies represented to
address the flood emergency. In the disaster area, work of rescue teams were assisted by
military units. Despite breakdown of communication and information systems, the local
authorities managed the crisis rather successfully. In addition to the government efforts, civil
organizations and private citizens banded together to help in the recovery efforts. The
Turkish Red Crescent Society (Kizilay) provided aid to those living in the disaster areas:
14,280 blankets, 2,326 tents, mobile water tanks, food was sent and 12 mobile kitchens were
serving hot food to 8,500 people daily. GOT agencies mobilized available technical sources
to repair or maintain basic transportation, telecommunication, energy and safe water supply
in the disaster area, and assess the magnitude of damage on the public works.
12. On May 26, 1998, the Government informed the public that the total damage from the flood
had exceeded US$ 500 million. Bolu, Zonguldak, Bartin and Karabuk were declared
"disaster areas". By May 29, 1998, transport and communication with all municipal
settlements had been re-established. However, around 200 villages are still unreachable as at
July 2.
13. The earthquake took place on June 27, at 16:56. Within 15 minutes after the earthquake,
Crisis Centers in both Ankara and Adana were operative. Surgeons, physicians, nurses living
in Adana were prepared at the hospitals for emergency cases and the civil rescue team had in
the meantime started with their work. At 17:30, crisis centers in all the settlement units
through the province were operative too. The same evening the Red Crescent started
delivering hot meals for the earthquake victims. A large number of cities gave donations
immediately. Food, first aid equipment, medicines, vaccination sets, rescue specialists, tents
and similar needs were never subject to any shortage.
14. The government remitted additional money in order to arrange provisional settlements for
those who had lost households or those whose households were heavily damaged. Starting
from July 13, every eligible family and single residents have received a sum of about US$
1,300. Roughly 12,500 persons received grants for temporary settlement. During the last days
of July, the most important problems besides the dealing with the re-settlement for the
displaced people appears to be psychological disorders, reaching a very high number
especially among women and children.
Overall damage assessment
15. Flood damages: Based on investigations in the disaster areas, the relevant government
organizations prepared lists of construction and repairs, including estimated costs. The initial
total estimated cost of recovery and reconstruction was about US$ 500 million. The
breakdown in sectors is given in Table 1.



Page 22
Table 1. Estimated Total Cost of Recovery and Reconstruction Activities Related to Flood
and Landslide Damages in the WBSR
ITEMS                                COSTS (mil. $)
Emergency Aid and Cost of Relief Activities                        80
Housing and Technical Infrastructure                               60
Agriculture and Livestock                                          50
Repair and Reconstruction of Highway and Bridges                   100
Repair and Reconstruction of Rural Transportation Facilities       70
Repair of Railway                                                  20
Repair of Telecommunication Facilities                              5
Repair of Electrical Facilities                                     3
Repair and Reconstruction of Municipal Infrastructure              20
Repair and Reconstruction of Flood Control Facilities              70
Repair and Reconstruction of Public Buildings                       3
Repair and Reconstruction of Bartin Harbour                         2
Forest roads and facilities                                        17
TOTAL                                                              500
Source: Government estimates
Public Works
16. The major repair and reconstruction works to repair damages caused by the flood and
landslides in WBSR were estimated by the government agencies as summarized below.
These should be regarded as preliminary estimates.
17. State highways : General Directorate of State Highways (KGM) conducted a primary study
on the damaged highways, including bridges, and initially estimated the cost of
reconstruction, repair and maintenance at US$ 100 million.
18. River dikes and embankments: General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI) is
preparing a detailed study report. The estimated cost is US$ 72 million . The agency reported
that there are no dams on the major flooding rivers, Bartin Cayi and Filyos.
19. Energy transmission lines and electric distribution network: The related agencies are TEAS
and TEDAS. It was reported that there is major damage to the distribution networks. The
estimated cost for repair and reconstruction is US$ 3 million
20. Bartin Harbour was filled with mud and debris carried by the flood. Dredging vessels were
sent from Istanbul and Samsun on May 29, 1998, and 7,800 cubic meters of mud had been
dredged as of May 31. The estimated cost of cleaning the harbour is US$ 2 million.
21. Railroads: Ankara- Karabuk Railroad was re-opened on May 31, 1998. Cankiri-Zonguldak
Railroad was damaged at 17 points resulting in closing of 4 stations on the 57 km of track
and one bridge. Reinstating works are continuing. The estimated cost for repair and
reconstruction is US$ 20 million.
22. Municipal infrastructure: Municipal infrastructure of several towns and villages is heavily
damaged. Iller Bankasi, which is responsible for municipal infrastructure, has reported the
urgent need to reconstruct about 130 kilometers of various diameter water supply pipe lines



Page 23
and several pumps at an estimated cost of US$ 3 million. The estimated cost for reinstating
the municipal infrastructure is US$ 20 million.
23. Housing: It was reported initially that a total of 2,000 houses have to be reconstructed and
6,500 repaired. The Prime Ministry estimated that US$ 60 million is needed for housing
reconstruction before the onset of cold weather next fall.
24. Telecommunications: Telecommunication lines are severely damaged in most of the disaster
area. There was no telecommunication during the first days of the disaster. Currently mobile
and GSM telephone lines are partly operational. Cable lines are not functioning in most of
the settlement areas. The estimated cost for repair and reinstallation is US$ 5 million.
25. Rural Infrastructure: During the first few days 617 villages were inaccessible due to the
damaged/destroyed rural roads, bridges, culverts and dikes. According to the initial
assessments, 94 bridges, 5,250 m retaining walls and 5,883 m culverts, and 318 drinking
water networks were destroyed in five provinces. Around 851 pieces of heavy equipment
belonging to General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS) have been working in the area
for restoration of the rural water and power supply, rebuilding transportation infrastructure
and embankments, stopping land slides, repairing sewage infrastructure. Due to these
intensive efforts, road passability was somewhat improved for 406 villages by May 29, 1998.
GDRS initially estimated that US$ 70 million is required for restoration of rural infrastructure
investments. No figure is available for irrigation infrastructure since assessments are
continuing in the field. GDRS notes that all the rural infrastructure should be restored before
winter.
26. Agriculture: The flood caused damage/loss in the following areas of agricultural sector: i)
livestock subsector: cattle, sheep and poultry deaths, loss of honey bees, ii) crop production
sub-sector: loss of field crops, hazelnut plantations, small scale vegetable gardens and
orchards, and iii) assets/equipment: destruction of plastic houses/ tunnels, barns, beehives,
some farm equipment and tractors. Additionally, nurseries, provincial and county agricultural
offices and vehicles belonging to Ministry of Agriculture (MARA) were also damaged.
MARA reported a total of US$29 million loss: around US$ 4 million for livestock, US$ 8
million for seeds/seedlings, US$16 million for orchards and farm assests/equipment, and
US$1 million for MARA assests.
27. Forestry: The flood caused severe damage to forest roads, nurseries, assets (buildings,
vehicles, some equipment) of Ministry of Forestry. It also caused loss of logs and other
forest products. The reported initial estimates for loss are: US$16 million for forest roads and
related infrastructure, US$275,000 for forest products and US$900,000 for the nursery
facilities.
28. Earthquake Damages: On Saturday, June 27 - during preparation of the emergency flood
project - a major earthquake struck southern Turkey. According to Istanbul's Kandilli
observatory the Earthquake reached 6.3 on the Richter Scale in the province. In spite of the
magnitude of the catastrophe, it is reported that "only" around 144 people died in the
Province of Adana. The primary reason for the relatively low loss of life was that the
earthquake occurred in a summer month, on a weekend during daytime. Therefore many
people were outside the buildings. Over 1,000 people were injured.
29. According to official damage reports prepared by the Ministry of Public Works in
cooperation with Governor and local Authorities, 74,344 household units were damaged by



Page 24
the earthquake. Over 100 investigation teams were assessing the damage and preparing
damage sheets. A team of independent Turkish consultants with an international reputation
hired by the Bank mission verified the damage assessment data provided by the Government.
Based on the information provided, the costs of damaged household units are calculated at
about US$ 833.7 million. Taking into consideration the additional damage to public
buildings, municipal infrastructure and manufacturing facilities, the total earthquake damage
is estimated over US $ 1 billion.
Table 2: Estimated Damage Costs for Household Units
Household Units             Amount    Average Cost      Total
per Unit       Cost
USD
Mil USD
1) Collapsed or Heavily damaged       18.502           20.000        370.0
2) Repair (medium damages)            40.594           10.000        405.9
3) Repair (light damages)             15.248            3.800         57.8
Total                   74.344    _______833.7
Project Objectives
30. The proposed project aims to restore basic infrastructure in communities and rural areas
affected by the flood and the earthquake, to make urgent repairs to the flood management
system, and to improve the policy framework and institutional capacity for better flood and
earthquake management and mitigation, concentrating on the most heavily affected regions of
Turkey. The most urgent actions should be taken before the end of the construction season
and the arrival of harsh winter months.
31. The three principal objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Government of Turkey
(GOT) in:
a) restoring basic infrastructure in municipalities and rural areas affected by the flood
by repairing structures and facilities of economic and social importance,
b) providing assistance to restore housing in the earthquake affected Province of Adana;
and
c) reducing vulnerability to future floods and earthquakes.



Page 25
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Component A. Municipal and Rural Infrastructure (US$ 67.4 million equivalent)
32. The municipal and rural infrastructure component will cover repairs to water and wastewater
systems, municipal, rural, and forest roads and bridges, irrigation facilities in more than 100
of the most damaged municipalities and villages. Over 500 specific investments were
identified for various sectors; detailed listing of specific investments for each location is
given in Annex A.
33. Criteria andpriorities. The investments included in this component were identified by
representatives of municipal and provincial governments in the five project provinces as
having the highest priority based on local needs. Technical and cost data for each investment
have been reviewed and analyzed by Turkish experts working with municipal, provincial and
national officials, the PIU, and Bank team. The following criteria have been used for
selecting investments to be financed under this component:
-  Investments are in communities located within the five flood affected Provinces
-  Only flood-related damages are eligible for infrastructure investments
-  Priority projects have been identified as such by the local communities
*  Projects that prevent health risks to the community
-  Projects with economic importance to the community (i.e. transport, essential
municipal services).
-  Projects with social importance
-  Emergency response projects completed immediately after the flood, but did not
receive any financing
* Investments which have no alternative source of funding available
=  Investments are implemented under controlled and sound construction practice, and
utilize appropriate design which protects against seismic risks
-  Investments must comply with sound financial, technical and environmental
standards
*  Investments that are likely to be implemented in a timely manner
*  Investments have cost-effective design standards
A.]   State Highways (US$ 17.1 million equivalent)
34. The sub-component A. 1 covers repair and reconstruction of state highways and bridges
including earth works, small structures, fortification, pavement, repair of rock embankments,
construction of chutes, as well as construction of new bridges. Some bridges collapsed or
were partly damaged. In addition, roads were damaged in areas where they passed next to the
stream bed. A detailed list of investments is provided in Annex A.
35. The General Directorate of State Highways (KGM) prepared a cost estimate for the repair of
the damaged highways, including bridges, immediately after the flood. The cost of
reconstruction, repair and maintenance were estimated initially at US$100 million. In a
following step, KGM provided a revised list of investments estimated to cost US$ 78.5
million. KGM, the PIU, Turkish consultants and Bank staff further analyzed and reviewed
these projects. As a result of the consultation, KGM identified 63 investments which cover



Page 26
the most urgent needs and are eligible for Bank financing. The cost for these projects is US$
17.1 million.
A.2   Rural Services: Drinking Water Supply, Sewerage, Irrigation Facilities, Rural Roads
and Bridges (US$ 38.2 million equivalent)
36. Rural areas were heavily affected by the flood and landslides. Sewerage, water supply
systems and irrigation facilities were damaged. Due to the lack of stable road construction
and sufficient culverts, rural roads slid down hillsides. Under the rural services subcomponent
2,004 meters of bridges, hundreds of culverts, 1,166 km of village road stabilization, 263 km
of asphalt road, 268 facilities for drinking water supply and 12 facilities of sewerage will be
repaired or reconstructed in the five affected provinces.
37. Physical works included were selected to satisfy the following priorities: the protection of
surface and groundwater from actual and potential sources of pollution; the provision of
adequate treatment and disinfection facilities to ensure water supply to satisfactory quality;
the rehabilitation of distribution systems to provide ready access to public water supplies; the
rehabilitation of sewerage networks to ensure satisfactory sanitary conditions in affected
areas; and the rehabilitation of sewage treatment where urgently required to maintain or
restore environmental quality. Works to be financed under the Project also include
rehabilitation and repair of water sources and water distribution networks, cleaning of the
sewage collection and drainage systems, repair or replacement of broken sewers,
rehabilitation of treatment plants, and pumping stations.
A.3   Forestry: Forest Roads (US$ 3.7 million equivalent)
38. Forest roads play a vital role in both environmentally sound management of the natural
resources and the employment of the poorest people in rural areas. More than 250,000 people
live in forest areas in the Western Black Sea Region and were affected by damaged forest
roads. The roads have been constructed for carrying out forestry activities such as plantation,
seeding, maintenance, disease and fire prevention, and erosion control. This subcomponent
includes the repair and reconstruction of forest roads, bridges, culverts, and retaining walls. In
order to guarantee the sustainability of the investments, technical assistance for supervision,
as well as design for culverts and bridges will be provided under the project.
A.4. Municipal Roads and Bridges, Water Supply, and Sewerage (US$ 5.2 million
equivalent)
39. In response to a damage survey prepared by the Bank team, local and governmental
authorities in the WBSR provided primary damage reports. Based on the survey, a team of
Turkish experts were sent to visit the most damaged municipalities in order to prepare a
damage assessment report. The results were discussed and reviewed by the PIU and Bank
staffjointly with the consultants. It was found that Karabuk, Yenice, Devrek and Bartin were
the most affected municipalities, in addition to numerous villages, which are covered under
the rural subcomponent (A.2). The municipal infrastructure subcomponent covers the repair
and reconstruction of waste water supply, sewerage and storm water system, as well as roads
and bridges. The structures to be rebuilt will be designed to minimize damages from future
floods. The municipalities will benefit from twelve investments (US$ 5.2 million) which
were identified under this subcomponent.
A.5   Engineering Designs and Supervision (US$ 3.2 million equivalent)



Page 27
40. Consulting services including engineering designs, preparation of tender documents and
construction supervision would be financed under this sub-component. This would also
include the assessment of potential impact of the above works on the human and physical
environment, consistent with Bank environmental and social assessment procedures.
4 1. Implementation. For the Municipal and Rural Infrastructure Component, the main
implementation agencies will be the municipalities and General Directorate of Highways,
General Directorate of Rural Services, and General Directorate of Forestry under an
implementation agreement with the PIU. The goods, works and services financed by the Bank
will be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Detailed procurement and
disbursement arrangements are set out in Annex D.
Component B. Flood Management and Hazard Reduction (US$ 127.2 million equivalent)
Lessons and Priorities from Turkey's Recent Experience
42. Several lessons are clear from the recent disaster events:
*  Although there are disaster mitigation activities being implemented by the GOT, there is
no national strategy for disaster mitigation. Without a mitigation strategy, it is likely that
at least some of the recovery and restoration investments from the disaster will face the
same risks.
*  The GOT assumes major financial responsibilities for disaster recovery, including
highways, infrastructure at all levels, telecommunications, electric power transmission,
housing, crop and animal loss and agricultural damage, but there is no mechanism to fund
these responsibilities.
*  Although the GOT recognizes that building codes can increase the earthquake resistance
of new buildings, and has adopted such codes, enforcement of these codes is inconsistent.
*  Although the GOT recognizes that floodplain mapping and landslide-prone area mapping
will mitigate disaster damage, such maps are not being applied to land-use management
in most regions of Turkey and enforcement of land use management is inconsistent.
* Although the GOT knows that there is available technology for flood warning and
landslide warning, this technology is not being applied in Turkey.
* There is no element of government responsible for providing warnings to provinces and
municipalities in Turkey.
*  Communications failures during the flood/landslide event impeded emergency response,
and would greatly reduce the ability to provide warnings to provinces and municipalities.
*  There is no automated disaster information system in Turkey to effectively communicate
needs and capabilities during and immediately following a disaster.



Page 28
* The hydrotechnical infrastructure damaged by the WBSR disaster provided protection in
many areas, but this infrastructure has been damaged and exposes many municipalities to
increased threat until it is repaired.
Strategy Suggested
43. These lessons indicate that a three-pronged strategy, including a clear policy and strategies
that will result in reduced flood and landslide damage in the future; a better means of
financing future disaster costs that must be borne by the GOT; and restoration of flood
protection infrastructure system.
44. National Hazard Mitigation Policy and Strategy. The GOT should establish a national
hazard mitigation policy and develop and adopt legislation to implement that policy. As a
result of that legislation, each element of government in Turkey would develop a mitigation
plan for its activities. These plans would examine each activity for opportunities to reduce
the potential for future flood damage. For example, all major and minor infrastructure,
including highways and railways would be designed and located to minimize damage from all
hazards. Land use plans would be developed to show hazardous locations, and land use
regulations would be strictly enforced. A national hazard warning and response system
would reduce the current risk to life and property. Improved methods for agriculture, forestry
and other land uses would reduce runoff, erosion and landslides. Many other mitigation
measures are possible.
45. Natural Disaster Risk Insurance. The GOT should seek ways to fund future disasters to
reduce their impact on the annual operating budget. One potential means of funding is flood
insurance.
46. Restoration of the Flood Protection Infrastructure. Many flood protection structures have
been damaged or destroyed during this disaster. Some of these probably failed due to the
magnitude of the flood event. Many failed due to erosion at the toe. Some may have had
flaws in the design or materials used. In many locations, sediment deposited during this
event significantly reduced the capacity of the river. An analysis should be done on each
structure to determine if it should be restored to its pre-flood condition, if it should be
redesigned to a higher flood protection level, or if a different approach to flood management
should be taken at that location.
Approach
47. Location of Investments. PilotAreas. This sub-component involves the introduction of
proven technologies that are, however, in part new to Turkey. Hence the various activities to
be carried out will be implemented in selected pilot areas. This will provide the practical
opportunity to train staff, develop protocols and procedures, test systems, and develop,
calibrate and test models and other analytical techniques. The technologies and lessons
learned can then subsequently be replicated in other priority areas and basins in Turkey in a
systematic manner consistent with available funding or under other, later World Bank
financed projects.
48. Pilot Programs Two types of pilot areas have been selected for this Sub-component, as
outlined below and in Map 1, to provide an adequate basis on which to develop and test the
improved monitoring, forecasting and warning systems.



Page 29
* Western Turkey -- this large area, covering the area west of a line between the eastern end
of the WBSR (# 13) and the Buyuk Menderes basin (#7), including Ankara and Istanbul
(Annex I of the PIP) will be the area in which the DMI meteorological monitoring and
forecasting system will be upgraded, and the Doppler radar stations will be installed. The
latter will provide complete coverage of the WBSR as well as adequate coverage of the
other pilot basins;
*  River Basin Areas - within the Western Turkey pilot area described above, four pilot
river basins, specifically numbers 13 (WBSR), 5 (Gediz), 7 (Buyuk Menderes), and 3
(Simov), have been selected for the upgrading of the DSI hydro-met monitoring system
and the development and testing of improved flood forecasting and warning. There is also
an AGM project for erosion control in selected basins in WBSR
Flood Management and Hazard Reduction Sub-Components
B.1   Flood and Landslide Risk Reduction and Mitigation Component (US$ 1.3 million
equivalent)
49. This sub-component addresses mitigation and mitigation planning on a broad scale. First, the
GOT will assess its current mitigation activities, deternine the need for additional mitigation
activities at the state level, and implement the necessary changes in policy to make mitigation
part of the decision-making process for all state government activities. Second, mitigation at
the provincial and municipal levels will be similarly examined, and pilot mitigation projects
will be implemented. Finally, the GOT will pursue the development and implementation of
disaster insurance to reduce the ongoing and increasing burden of disaster recovery on the
state budget.
3.2   Modernization of the Monitoring, Forecasting, and Warning Systems Component
(US$ 36.4 million equivalent)
50. This sub-component includes collection and analysis of real-time hydrological and
meteorological data, to produce disaster forecasts, translation of those forecasts into specific
warnings for specific locations, dissemination of these warnings, and improved response
planning at the local level. This component provides for pilot projects in several areas in
western Turkey to develop the capabilities of state and local agencies.
B.3  Improvement of Disaster Response Capabilities. Component (US$ 13.0 million
equivalent)
51. It includes development of a national disaster management information system, improvement
of disaster communications and transportation capabilities, and specified equipment for
disaster response. This sub-component specifically includes the communication system
needed for disaster warning dissemination required for sub-component B.2.
B.4   Repair and Improvement of Flood Protection Infrastructure Component (US$ 76.5
million equivalent)
52. In the WBSR, the flood protection infrastructure was damaged. This sub-component
provides for the immediate repair of parts of this infrastructure, and the repair of other parts



Page 30
after studies are completed to determine what repairs are needed. It also provides for a pilot
project to reduce sedimentation and erosion on selected watersheds and the development of
watershed basin planning studies.
Component C. Earthquake Reconstruction: (US$ 146.6 million equivalent)
53. Background. On Saturday, June 27 - during preparation of the emergency flood project - a
major earthquake struck southern Turkey. According to Istanbul's Kandilli observatory, the
earthquake reached 6.3 on the Richter Scale in the province. In spite of the magnitude of the
catastrophe, it was reported that "only" around 144 people died in the Province of Adana. The
primary reason for the relatively low loss of life was that the earthquake occurred in a
summer month, on a weekend during daytime. Therefore many people were outside the
buildings. Over 1,000 people were injured.
54. The Government immediately responded to the disaster and sent 9,583 tents, 5,138 blankets,
133,453 kg dry food and 1,157 units of blood to the region. According to official damage
reports prepared by the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement (MPWS) in cooperation
with Governor and local Authorities, 74,344 household units were damaged by the
earthquake. Over 100 investigation teams were assessing the damage and preparing damage
sheets. A team of independent Turkish consultants with an international reputation hired by
the Bank mission verified the damage assessment data provided by the Government. Based
on the information provided, the costs of damaged household units are calculated at about
US$ 833.7 million. Taking into consideration the additional damage to public buildings,
municipal infrastructure and manufacturing facilities, the total earthquake damage is
estimated over US $ I billion.
55. Institutional and Legal Framework. Because of the frequency and magnitude of natural
disasters, particularly earthquakes, Turkey has given a high priority to organizing critical
disaster assistance and civil defense functions. An estimated 65 percent of destroyed
buildings stem from earthquake, and 25 percent from floods and landslides. Because of the
predominance of earthquake losses, the greatest effort of the Government has gone into
strengthening its ability to respond to these disasters. While the Government has made
substantial investment in local flood protection infrastructure, it has given much less attention
to the capabilities for warning and response to flood and landslide risk and disaster.
56. Institutional arrangements for disaster response are defined in the Disaster Law No. 7269. At
the apex of the Government's mechanism for responding immediately after a disaster occurs
is the Central Coordination Committee for Disaster ("Crisis Center"), located in the Office of
the Prime Minister and Chaired by the Undersecretary for the Ministry of Public Works and
Settlements. GDDA of MPWS is the Secretariat of the Crisis Center. Members of the Crisis
Center include representatives of the concerned Directorates within the Ministries with
development responsibilities at the local level (e.g., Interior, Health, Transportation,
Agriculture and Rural Affairs), other Ministries that may have a post-disaster role (e.g.,
Foreign Affairs, Finance, Education, Defense, Labor and Social Welfare, Environment, etc.)
and the Red Crescent Society.
57. GDDA provides the operational hub for the Crisis Center, gathering information from
provincial and local Authorities, interpreting the situation and conditions, and identifying
specific needs for personnel, equipment, supplies, material, services and funds to be
mobilized through the Crisis Center. These data and recommendations are reported to the



Page 31
Crisis Center, and the response by the concerned Directorates and Ministries coordinated by
GDDA.
58. The General Directorate of Civil Defense (GDCD) of the Minister of Interior plays an
especially important role in the Government's response to disasters. GDCD has the task of
mobilizing personnel and equipment to the scene to rescue and assist people trapped,
threatened, or injured by the disaster. The GDCD has trained personnel and limited
equipment for this purpose, particularly for the case of flood and landslide disasters, and in
many cases mobilizes equipment from other agencies through the Crisis Center to carryout its
tasks (e.g, pumps from DSI). GDCD mobilizes Civil Rescue Troops from areas outside the
disaster affected Provinces, joins these teams with Provincial Civil Defense Troops, and local
Urgent Aid and Rescue Teams, according to the conditions and needs it finds in the disaster
area.
59. Disaster Law 7269 also defines the assistance that the Government provides to the victims of
natural disasters. Since 1959 and under the provisions of Disaster Law, the Government
assumed full responsibility for natural disasters. In the past, disaster recovery was financed by
the two non-budgetary funds (disaster fund and the earthquake fund), and budget allocations
as well as cost recovery from previous assistance provided to disaster victims. Sources of
funds for them, were among other things, earmarked taxes from cigarettes, alcohol etc.
However, recently these funds were brought in to the general budget and annual allocations
are made by the parliament. The budget allocation for disaster assistance is not sufficient to
cover the operating costs of the General Directorate of Disasters. Allocations for disaster
assistance are made on an as needed basis. Clearly, under the current environment the
government will continue to be responsible to provide coverage for disaster victims, which
poses a major threat to the government budget. Under Law 7269, the Ministry of Public
Works is responsible for reconstruction of housing damaged by natural disasters. The
Ministry of Public Works can request the Housing Development Administration to assist in
the reconstruction process.
60. Damage Assessment Requirements. Government assessors determine damage for each
structure for which assistance is requested. Units which have collapsed or beyond repair are
classified as heavily damaged. Structures which can be repaired for 30 % and 5% of its total
replacement cost, are classified as a medium and lightly damaged respectively.
61. Beneficiary Selection Criteria. Parallel to damage assessment and based on the following
criteria those families eligible for assistance according to Law 7269 and related regulations
are determined by a committee. The committee consists of one representative each from the
city council, ministry of public works, title registration office, provincial government and the
district official (muhtar). Current disaster law has strict provisions targeting only the needy
families affected by the disaster for assistance. To qualify for assistance families must apply
for assistance and satisfy the following criteria:
*  Families and married children of families, who are residing in units owned by their
parents, are eligible for disaster assistance.
*  Assistance is provided only to the least damaged unit, in case the family within the
municipal boundaries of principal residence owns more than one unit.
*  No assistance shall be provided to families who own an undamaged unit within the
municipal boundaries of principal residence.
*  Beneficiaries must have full title to the damaged property.



Page 32
62. In addition to the above, the following criteria are adopted for this project:
*  Assistance under this project is limited to collapsed and heavily damaged rural housing
and urban multi family units
*  Investments must be implemented under controlled and sound construction practices, and
utilize appropriate cost effective design standards which protect against future seismic
risks
* Investments must comply with environmental standards
* Investments likely to be implemented in a timely manner
63. The resettlement of families in urban areas is voluntary, no resettlement will be required in
rural areas.
64. Housing Standards. Current law does not specify the size of the unit to be provided to the
beneficiaries, however traditionally an average of 77 net m2 is considered acceptable
standard. Under the previous EQ project in Erzincan, the Bank financed cooperatives and
buildings for government employees. Based on PCU disbursement documents the average
construction cost per unit in Erzincan is approximately US$ 19,000 for buildings and
US$6,000 for infrastructure bringing the total cost to US$25,000.
65. Under the proposed loan, beneficiary contributions are sought. Moreover, appropriate and
basic finishing standards and services, which satisfy hygienic and safety requirements will be
provided. Beneficiaries are encouraged to improve the standards with their own
contributions.
66. Under this project basic finishing standards relative to those of previous disaster housing
reconstruction are adopted. Central heating, solar water heaters and kitchen appliances
valued at US$ 5,950 or approximately 23% of the total cost of the unit will be excluded from
the project for urban housing. As a result, it is expected that the building and infrastructure
construction costs financed by the Bank will not exceed US$19,800 per unit. In urban
reconstruction, to reduce the unit cost or allow beneficiary contribution, alternative
technologies and sites were considered but rejected due to likely delays in implementation,
which would conflict with the objective of rapid disbursement for this emergency project.
However, the project design allows for a significantly different approach in rural areas,
resulting in greater cost savings to the government.
67. In rural areas design, materials and technical assistance and training will be provided by the
project, finance up to $10,000 per unit.
68. Cost Recovery. There are two elements of cost recovery in the Earthquake Reconstruction
Component of this project: loans to disaster victims and beneficiary contributions. The
disaster legislation stipulates that disaster beneficiaries will repay loans in 20 years, including
a 2-year grace period with 0.0% interest. Assuming an annual inflation at 50% (the current
Bank and IMF estimate for the years 1999 and 2000), the cost recovery of the disaster loan is
approximately 5%. The second cost recovery element is voluntary beneficiary participation
in the cost of construction which is expected to average US$ 5,950 or 23% of the estimated
unit cost of construction of housing in urban Adana and Ceyhan, and US$ 4,200 or 30%
beneficiary participation in the rural housing.



Page 33
69. The composite cost recovery for the Earthquake Reconstruction Component C is estimated at
39% with inflation at 20%. With inflation at 50% and 10% cost recovery is 29% and 53%
respectively. More details of this calculation broken down into rural and urban sub-
components are provided in Annexes A and C of the PIP.
70. Progress Since Erzincan EQ Project. Although sector reforn has been slow, some progress
has been made in this regard, as listed below:
*  The earthquake building construction code related to the construction standards under
Law 3195 has been revised and currently is being enforced.
*  By-laws regulating the licensing of contractors have been modified to better screen and
regulate the contracting industry in Turkey. As a result overall improvement in
construction quality is expected.
* Earthquake maps have been revised and distributed throughout the country
* A campaign to increase public awareness about disaster preparation and safety measures
has been started and is ongoing.
* Training materials for contractors and workers at all levels have been prepared, and
training is ongoing.
* Amendments to the reconstruction Law 3194 and its by-laws for inclusion of a new
construction control system and measures of resistance against disasters are under study.
* Insurance against natural disasters is available and being utilized on a voluntary basis
throughout the country at rates that vary between 0.25 to 5.0 per 1,000, depending on the
location and type of construction.
* HDA now requires beneficiaries carry such insurance for housing constructed by the
agency.
71. Policy reforms to be supported The government will analyze the possibilities of extending
disaster insurance coverage in Turkey:
*  to cover all units financed by HDA in all of their programs such as the municipal and
cooperative programs;
* to cover all government financed construction;
* to modify the Disaster Law to require disaster insurance in order to qualify for disaster
relief; and
* to require professional liability insurance and corporate liability insurance for contractors.
72. Revisions to the Disaster Law are under consideration by the Government. The revised law
will consider:
* excluding providing relief for buildings that do not comply with building codes.
* improving cost recovery of any loan by indexing amounts borrowed to inflation.
Earthquake Reconstruction Sub-Components
73. The Earthquake Reconstruction component will cover technical assistance, design,
supervision, training and investments to replace 4,000 collapsed or heavily damaged
household units in the Municipality of Adana, 1000 household units in Ceyhan, and 3,800
household units in the most affected rural areas:
C .1 Demolition of Damaged Units (US$ 1.0 million equivalent)



Page 34
74. Costs associated with the demolition and the removal of debris is estimated at about US$ 1.0
million. Demolition and debris removal are eligible for retroactive finance under the Bank
approved guidelines for this emergency project.
C.2 Emergency Urban Housing Reconstruction: (US$ 99.0 million equivalent)
C. 2 a. Adana (US$ 79.2 million equivalent)
75. Approximately 1 1,601 units were destroyed, of which about 8,000 are estimated to eligible
for reconstruction. The Bank will finance about 4,000 units on a site owned by HDA. Total
cost of construction of buildings and infrastructure is estimated at US$ 79.2 million.
76. For reconstruction of housing several site selection options were considered. First option
examined was to rebuild destroyed units on its existing site. This option appears to be only
feasible for single family units, and therefore adopted in rural reconstruction component. For
multi family units, onsite reconstruction creates major legal problems when some owners of
multifamily units do not qualify for disaster relief. It would require years to resolve these
legal issues, and therefore would not meet the emergency loan requirements for speedy
disbursement.
77. Seven sites suitable for the development of emergency housing have been identified in Adana
by local consultants contracted by the Bank. These sites have been evaluated based inter alia
on availability of infrastructure, ownership, zoning and capacity. For each site a title search
was completed and only four out of seven sites was determined to be suitable for residential
development. Among the four sites ranked, the HDA site received the highest score, is ready
for implementation and therefore was selected for the 4,000 units to be financed under this
loan. The selected site was previously considered for another Bank project and much work
was completed towards preparation.
78. Preliminary design and engineering studies for this development is being undertaken by HDA
to enable expeditious construction of housing needed for the earthquake victims. HDA is
proposing 5 story walk-up apartments suitable for "tunnel form" construction. The proposed
tunnel form construction method is appropriate for this project because of its speed
advantages.
79. It is anticipated that small contracts of 400 - 500 units will be let to expedite completion of
construction and assure quality.
C.2 b  Ceyhan (US$ 19.8 million equivalent)
80. Approximately 1,472 units were destroyed and heavily damaged. It is estimated that 1,000
units will meet the eligibility criteria and be constructed in Ceyhan in for families affected by
the earthquake. To reduce the cost of site development it is proposed that 1,000 units be
constructed on their original sites. The cost is estimated as US$ 19.8 million. (see Table 4)



Page 35
Table 3: Estimated Construction Replacement Cost
Location    Household  Cost per Unit   Cost
Units   Basic Housing   Total
Number         $       Miu US$
Adana         4,000          19,800   79,200
Ceyhan        1,000          19,800   19,800
Rural Areas    3,800         10,000   38,000
Sum           8,800                  137,000
Packaging of Contracts
81. The construction costs of household units for Adana and Ceyhan are estimated at US$ 99.9
million. To successfully complete this work in a short period of time, the HDA should
package the work to contracts whose total value would be between US$ 15 and 20 million
each. This will have the following advantages:
X Expedite Contract Award: PIU will be able to better manage the contract award of 5 to 7
contracts as opposed to 40 contracts (assuming an average value were in the order of US$
2 to 3 million each).
* Attract Qualified Contractors: There are a number of well qualified Turkish international
contractors who have the experience, capacity, organizational and staffing skills, and
financial backing to undertake a larger volume of work in a short period of time. These
firms will have the capacity to quickly mobilize with labor and equipment. However,
these firms will only be interested if the contract value is between 450 and 600 units.
Likewise, if contract value were small, only smaller companies with lower capacity and
quality standards would be interested.
*  Better Pricing: By attracting larger companies, the project will gain from economies of
scale. Large contracts reduce the relative overhead, management, and supervision costs.
*  Better Quality of work: The larger firms are able to hire more experienced engineers and
management staff. This will ensure better work and timely completion.
C3: Emergency Rural Housing Reconstruction (US$ 38.0 million equivalent)
82. The beneficiaries under the supervision of independent consultants will undertake the
construction activities. Construction training will be provided, through which the
beneficiaries will gain qualification and experience in the construction of seismic resistant
buildings. In addition, standard designs will be provided. No modification will be made to the
standard designs without the approval of the PIU. The supervision will be provided either
through the consultants to be employed by the PIU or through the PIU staff, as appropriate.
83. The beneficiaries will purchase materials according to the technical specifications provided
by the consultants. No materials are allowed to be used without prior approval by the PIU.
84. Payments to beneficiaries will be made in increments. The first advance payment will be
made to the beneficiaries only after evidence of clear title to the land is provided by the
beneficiaries. The remaining payments will be made in stages as approved by the PIU.



Page 36
Similar methods were successfully utilized under the Bank financed Erzincan Earthquake
project (Loan 351 1-TU).
85. Under this sub-component, 3,800 household units will be repaired or reconstructed. The total
cost is estimated at US$ 38.0 million.
C 4: Consultant Servicefor Design, Construction Supervision and Management
C 4.1 Urban Housing (US$ 5.6 million equivalent)
86. Consultant services are required to prepare site plans, on site infrastructure, architectural and
structural design for apartment blocks and supervision of construction during implementation
of the Emergency Urban Housing Reconstruction sub-component.
87. The PIU will prepare with the Bank assistance consultant TORs for the social assessment
study by September 1, and will hire consultants immediately thereafter.
88. The consultants will be responsible for:
3 preparing designs for the site, on-site infrastructure and buildings in accordance with
criteria established for the project
-  assuring timely approval of designs and quality of construction
C 4.2 Rural Housing (US$ 3.0 million equivalent)
89. Consultants will prepare standard designs and provide training, construction management and
supervision. This includes services to approximately 20 affected villages in the Province of
Adana. In addition, the consultants will be responsible for design of standard units, supervise
and assure compliance that specified materials are purchased, supervise construction, and
approve payments according to progress in construction.
Component D. Project Implementation Unit (US$ 3.9 million equivalent)
90. The Government of Turkey entrusted the Housing Development Administration (HDA) with
authority and responsibility for the implementation of the project. The HDA shall carry out its
activities under the Project through the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which is the same
unit that has successfully assisted the implementation of the Erzincan Project (Loan 3511-
TU), and the Adana Management Unit (AMU), which is to be established and maintained
within the HDA in Ankara and Adana, respectively, with staff and other resources. The PIU
and the AMU shall carry out the Project with the overall policy guidance of the Steering
Committee and in close coordination with the related Ministries/Agencies, pursuant to
arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
91. The PIU will have the overall responsibility for managing and coordinating the
implementation of the Project and in its work will be supported by consulting firms (the
Consultants) to be engaged by the HDA, through PIU, pursuant to arrangements satisfactory
to the World Bank. The tasks to be carried out by the PIU are:



Page 37
(a)  Establish and equip the PIU office as soon as possible (see a tentative budget below);
(b)  Establish and equip for the Adana Management Unit (AMU) office, engage its staff;
(c)  Assemble and document all available information concerning the implementation of
the various components of the project (investment program, detailed studies, cost
estimate, existing designs and design criteria, etc.). Analyze existing information
and data for sufficiency, in order to identify data gaps and the need for additional
studies, if any, and any overlaps with ongoing/planned investment activities by other
institutions;
(d)  Prepare detailed ToRs for the Consultants, which shall incorporate scope of studies,
engineering and design requirements, preparation of bidding documents and
contracts for construction works, goods and consultancy services, and provide them
for approval by the president of HDA and the World Bank prior to signing the
contract.
(e)  Monitor compliance with Turkish and Bank environmental regulations by employing
an Environmental Specialist.
(f)   Establish the work program and the implementation schedule for each component,
and define precisely the responsibilities of each party involved including the PIU,
the Ministry/Agency, the Consultant, the World Bank, etc. Prepare a "Pert" or a
"Bar Chart" showing all these activities and the time planned for each activity;
(g)  Make direct inquiries and receive proposals from third parties for the purpose of:
*  the engagement of Consultants' services including studies, design, supervision
and control of construction;
3  construction of works; and
*  procurement of goods, including evaluation of bids, if required assistance may
be sought from Consultants.
92. Detailed implementation arrangements for each Project Component are described in a
separate Project Implementation Plan.



TURKEY EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
Chart 1: Project Components and Related Agencies
Steering
Committee
Component A              Component B             Component C              Component D
Municipal and Rural     Flood Mitigation and         Earthquake          Project Implementation
Infrastructure          Natural Hazard           Rehabilitation           Administration
Reduction
I                       I, , , I__
KGM, GDRS, GDF,          DSI, DMI, GDTRI,           HDA, MPWS             PIU          AMU
municipalities       GDDA, GDCD, GDI, EEI
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  and   AGM_       _  _  _  _   _  _
Page 38



TURKEY: EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
Chart 2: Component A
COMPONENT A: Municipal and Rural Infrastructure
State             Rural                 Forestry           Muwcipal          Engineer.
Highways          Services                                 Services          Designs
-Forest                             and
-Highways         *Drinking              Roads             * Roads           Supervis.
-and bridges      Water Supply           -Bridges          -Bridges
*Sewerage
*Culverts         -Water
*Irrigation                             supply
-Facilities           -Retaining
Walls            -Sewerage
*Rural Roads
and Bridges
Page 39



TURKEY: EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
Chart 3: Component B
COMPONENT B - Flood and Landslide Hazard Reduction
Sub-Component B.1                  Sub-Component B.2                 Sub-Component B.3                  Sub-Component B.4
Flood and Landslide Hazard            Modemization of the               Improving Response               Repair of Flood Protection
Mitigation Policy and Strategy       Forecasting, Waming and                 Capabilifies                      Infrastructure
Response Systems                                              *Repair of damaged flood protection
infrastructure
*Hazard Mitigation Policy          eModemization of the Hydro-        *Modern disaster management      eSediment Transport Studies and
*Legislative Reform                meteorological monitoring system   information system               revision of channel improvement
eDisaster Area Management and      *Improved forecasting              *Reliable communication and      criteria
Mitigation                         eModern integrated warning and    transport                         *Basin flood protection strategies
eHazard Risk Insurance Studies     response system                    *Improved Civil Defense          and plans
response capability              *Watershed reforestation and
management and erosion control
*GD Disaster Affairs                *State Hydraulic Works (DSI)      *GD Disaster Affairs               *State Hydraulic Works (DSI)
(MOPWS)                             *State Meteorological             (MOPWS)                            *GD Reforestation and
*GD Technical Research and          Institute (DMI)                   *GD Civil Defense (MOIA)           Erosion Control (MOF)
Implementation (MOPWS)              *GD - Electric Survey and                                            *GD Technical Research and
*GD Insurance (Treasury)           Administration (EIE)                                                  Implementation (MOPWS)
oGD Disaster Affairs
(MOPWS)
*GD Technical Research and
Implementation (MPOWS)
Page 40



TURKEY: EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
Chart 4: Component C
COMPONENT C - Earthquake Reconstruction
Sub-Component C.1            Sub-Component C.2           Sub-Component C.3             Sub-Component C.4
Demolition of Damaged          Emergency Urban              Emergency Rural             Consultant Service for
Units and Removal of        Housing Reconstruction      Housing Reconstruction         Design, Construction
Debris                                                                            Supervisions and
* C.2.a Adana                                                   Management
C.2.b Ceyhan                                            * C.4.a Urban Housing
*C.4.b Rural Housing
*C.4.c On and Off-Site
Infrastructure for Housing
Sites
Page 41



Annex 3
Turkey
Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(US$ Million)       Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Municipal and Rural Infrastructure                      198.2      3.2   201.4         3       31
B. Flood Management and Hazard Reduction
1. Basin Flood Protection Planning                         1.4        -      1.4        -
2. Monitoring, Forecasting and Warning                    41.9        -    41.9         -        6
3. Investment in Flood Protection Infrastructure          14.4        -    14.4         -        2
4. Flood Hazard reduction                                 29.5    58.4    88.0         66       14
Subtotal Flood Management and Hazard Reduction              87.3    58.4   145.7         40       23
C. Earthquake Rehabilitation                               190.0   101.3   291.3         35       45
D. Project Implementation Support                            4.3      0.2      4.5        3        1
E. Front End Fee                                               -      3.7      3.7      100        1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       479.7   166.8   646.5          26      100
Physical Contingencies                                    20.0      8.2    28.1        29        4
Price Contingencies                                        6.5      3.5    10.0        35        2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        506.0   179.0   685.0          26      106
* Figures may slightly differ due to rounding.
Page 42



Page 43
Annex 4
Cost-Benefit or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
[not applicable]



Page 44
Annex 5
Turkey
Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
Components by Financiers
(US$ Million)
The Government        IBRD         Total
Amount     %      Amount     %                 %
A. Municipal and Rural Infrastructure                139.1    66.5      70.1    33.5    209.2     30.6
B. Flood Management and Hazard Reduction
1. Basin Flood Protection Planning                  0.4    27.8       1.1    72.2       1.5      0.2
2. Monitoring, Forecasting and Warning              6.0    13.0      40.0    87.0      46.0      6.7
3. Investment in Flood Protection Infrastructure    2.0    13.0       13.5    87.0     15.5      2.3
4. Flood Hazard reduction                          14.3    15.0      81.2    85.0      95.6     14.0
Subtotal Flood Management and Hazard Reduction     22.8    14.4     135.8    85.6    158.6    23.2
C. Earthquake Rehabilitation                        152.3    49.4      156.1    50.6    308.3     45.0
D. Project Implementation Support                     0.6    13.0        4.2    87.0      4.8      0.7
E. Front End Fee                                        -       -        3.7   100.0      3.7      0.5
315.0   46.0      369.0    54.0    685.0    100.0



Page 45
Annex 6
Turkey: Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The procurement of goods under the project will be conducted in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1996, revised
August 1996 and September 1997". The procurement of consultants will follow the Bank's
guidelines, "Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrower, January 1997 revised September
1997". The goods, works and services not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance
with national regulations, or the regulations of the cofinancing institutions. A General
Procurement Notice will be published in the Development Business and in its issue of August 31,
1998, and in the national press.
Procurement methods (Table A). Simplified ICB will be used for procurement of goods
and technical services (for contracts estimated to cost US$2.5 million equivalent or more each)
and for civil works (for contracts estimated to cost US$5 million equivalent or more each). For
works contracts estimated to cost less than US$5 million each, National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) will be applied. International Shopping (IS) will be used for goods contracts estimated to
cost less than US$250,000 equivalent each. Civil works contracts up to US$500,000 equivalent
each will be procured using the procedures for procurement of minor works, i.e., obtaining at
least three quotations from qualified contractors. For ICB, the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents will be used. Construction materials for repairs to the damaged housing units,
estimated to cost up to US$2,500 each, will be purchased in accordance with the traditional local
purchasing practices applicable to such purchases. Force Account method will be used for the
procurement under retroactive financing of materials, machinery and commodities in the
aggregate of US$4.3 million bought immediately after the disasters.
Consultants' assignments estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract will be
procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) for which shortlists will comprise
only domestic consulting firms: assignments above US$200,000 will also be procured through
QCBS but these assignments will be advertised in the Development Business and in the national
press for expression of interest. Design and engineering services will be procured through Least
Cost Selections Method (LCSM). Individual consultants will be procured in accordance with the
procedure in Part V of the Consultant Guidelines. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals
and Forms of Contracts will be used.
Prior review thresholds (Table B). All ICB contracts for goods and works and the first
NCB contract will be subject to the Bank's prior review. The NCB draft bidding documents will
be based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Small Works and will have to be
submitted to the Bank for acceptance before their use. All consultants' contracts estimated to
cost US$200,000 or more each (for firms) and US$100,000 equivalent or more each (for
individuals), will be subject to the Bank's review. Terms of Reference for all assignments,
regardless of their value, will be reviewed by the Bank before the beginning of the selection



Page 46
process. All other contracts for goods, works and services which are not subject to prior review
are subject to post review.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds::
The loan will be disbursed over a period of 3 years. Disbursements will be made against eligible
project expenditures for goods, including technical services, works and consultants' services. As
shown in Table C, goods will be financed at 100% for imported (foreign) items, 100% for those
from ex-factory sources, and at 85% for locally purchased items. Civil works will be financed at
85%, and consultants' services at 100% (excluding taxes), operating cost will also be financed
100%. Retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after June 8, 1998 up to a limit of 20%
(i.e., US$ 73.8 million) of the loan, will be permissible to allow the immediate start of emergency
reconstruction and repair activities.
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs):
All disbursements against contracts below the following thresholds will be made against
Statement of Expenditures:
US$5.0 million for civil works
US$2.5 million for goods
US$100,000 for consulting firms contracts
US$50,000 for individual consultants contracts
For these expenditures under SOE, detailed supporting documents evidencing payments to
contractors and suppliers will be kept at the PIU. These documents would be made available for
the required audits as well as to the Bank supervision missions upon request.
All other expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be submitted on the basis of full
documentation.
Special Account
To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures, the Government would establish in a
Commercial Bank (or in the Central Bank) a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PIU
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would, upon request, make an
Authorized Allocation of US$25.0 million. Applications for the replenishment of the SA would
be submitted monthly or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever
occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be supported by the necessary
documentation, the SA bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank statement. The SA
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.



Page 47
Annex 6
Table A
TURKEY: EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
Procurement Methods (US$ million equivalent)
Category                     Procurement Methods                Total
ICB      NCB       Other    N.B.F  Cost
I  Works                         120.75    135.5    35.0   257.6  548.35
(105.0)   (110.80)  (33.97)1
2  Goods and Materials           48.30              51.00            99.30
(38.50)            (46.98)2        (85.48)
3  Consultant Services                              32.00            32.00
(28.48)3         (28.48)
4  Operating Costs                                   1.70            1.70
(1.50)4         (1.50)
5  Front-End Fee                                     3.65           3.65
(3.65)          (3.65)
Total                         169.05    135.5   123.35   257.6   685.0
(143.50)  (110.80)  (114.58)   -    (368.88)
NBF= Not Bank Financed. Figures in parenthesis are Bank-financed amounts
1/ Minor Works ($33.97m)
2/ Construction Materials (US$ 40.6 million) contracts estimated US$2,500 each to be procured
by eligible homeowner through their traditional purchasing practice. i.e. comparing prices from
different shops. IS contract of US$5.8 million, and NS contract of US$ 585 thousand
3/ QCBS ($22.00 million); LCSM ($4.22 million); and Individuals ($2.26 million)
4/ Operating costs to be incurred in accordance with biannual budget and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.



Page 48
Annex 6
TURKEY: EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
TABLE B - PROCUREMENT REVIEW
Goods and      ICB          NCB          IS            NS           Minor Works      Other methods  Percentage of loan amount subject
Civil Works                                                                                          to prior review
Procurement    G >$2.5 m    W <$5.0 m     <$2.5 m       <$0.25 m    <$0.5 m          Purchase of
thresholds:    ($38.5 m)    ($110.80 m)   ($4.22 m)     ($0.585 m)   ($33.97 m)      const. mats.
individual and   W >$5.0 m                                                           <$2,500
aggregate     ($105.0 m)                                                             ($40.6 m)
Prior Review    All         $0.450 m                                                                 $143.5 m or 38% ofthe loan
$143.5 m                                                                              amount
Consultants    QCBS         QBS          Fixed Budget  LCS          Qualifications    Individuals
Procurement    >$0.2 m                                  <$0.2 m                       <$O.100 each
method         ($22.2 m)                                ($4.22 m)                    contract
thresholds                                                                           ($2.26 m)
Prior Review    All                                     All                           Only TORs and  $26.22 m or 7%
($22.2 m)                               ($4.22 m)                     terms of
______________  _____________  ___________   em ploym ent
Expost Review   Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism: Ex-post review will be conducted by supervision missions which will include a
procurement specialist. Assistance of the procurement assistance in the Resident Mission will also be sought in conducting regular ex-
post reviews.
Brief statement
The Housing Development Administration (HAD) will have overall responsibility for project implementation, including procurement. The HAD will be
assisted by the PIU in this responsibility. The PIU already exists and has previous experience in implementing Bank-financed projects. It is being further
strengthened through additional staffing and equipment. Since several implementation agencies will be involved in project implementation, each of them,
assisted by PIU, will conduct their own procurement in accordance with agreed procedures and timetable.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country      Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by
Procurement Strategy Paper status: A CPAR has been    negotiations
prepared. (May 30, 1997)                              Yes  O   No  x



Page 49
Annex 6
TURKEY: EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
TABLE B - PROCUREMENT REVIEW CONTINUED
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of   Estimated date of     Indicate if there is    Domestic Preference for    Domestic Preference for Works, if
Project Launch     publication of General    procurement subject to    Goods               applicable
Workshop           Procurement Notice     mandatory SPN in                                 Yes r   No  .,
10/00_/98_        08/31/98                Development Business    Yes rI  No  L
Yes x
No   C
Retroactive financing                                                   Advance procurement
Yes x   No  L-i   Explain 20% for goods works and services after June  Yes Cl   No  aI Explain:
8, 1998, for contracts concluded in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement monitoring will be part of the project monitoring and evaluation system.
Project monitoring will be conducted through supervision missions and progress report. In addition, the procurement specialist in the Resident
Mission will monitor procurement implementation on a regular basis.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: NOT APPLICABLE.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project: Name: Naushad Khan,
Procurement Specialist at HQ and Ibrahim Sirer, Procurement Specialist at RM
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: Mr. Sirer, in cooperation with Mr. Khan will play an active role in the
supervision of the procurement under the project.



Page 50
Turkey: Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ Million)
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan proceeds
(US$ Million)
Loan    Financing
Amount  Percentage
1. Works                   236.85       100%
2. Goods, materials         80.00        100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-fa .tory cost);
85% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally
3. Consultant's services    22.00        100%
4. Operating Costs           1.50        90%
5. Refunding of Project      1.50        100%
Preparation Advance
6 Fee                        3.65        100%
6. Unallocated              23.50
Total                      369.00



Page 51
Annex 7
Turkey: Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PAD stage)
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PAD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              6/3/1998             6/13/1998
Appraisal mission departure                      8/3/1998              8/3/1998
Negotiations                                     8/13/1998            8/13/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/15/1998            _/_/19_
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Piotr Wilczynski                 Project Management & Implementation
Margret Thalwitz                           Quality Review
Nedret Durutan                    Agriculturalist/Rural Dev. Specialist
Walter Garvey                            Water Resources
Leslie Bond                             Water Resources
French Wetmore                            Water Resources
Olgun Ersenkal                             Infrastructure
Ahimet Gokce                             Civil Engineering
Christoph Pusch                       Environmental Engineering
Amy Evans                             Institutional Analyst
Sophie Wille                         Environmental Economist
Naushad Khan                               Procurement
Ibrahim Sirer                              Procurement
Barbara Santos                             Legal Review
Aly Abu-Akeel                              Legal Review
Alptekin Orhon                         Financial Management
Peter Doty                           Financial Management
Rohan Selvaratnam                          Operations Analyst
Saffet Atik                              Urban Planer
Ural Aba                                  Architect
Umit Ediz                                  Architect
Cirak Munis                               Civil Engineer
Zibel A Cumhur                             Civil Engineer
Furuzan Bilir                             Disbursement
Hannah Koilpillai                           Disbursement
Hulya Bayramoglu                            General Support
Ulker Karamullaoglu                         General Support



Page 52
Annex 8
Turkey: Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
Documents in the Project File*
A.    Aide Memoire (June 17,1998)
B.    Back-to-Office (June 30, 1998)
C.    Project Information Document (PID)
D.    Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
E.    Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
F.    Loan Agreement
G.    Consultant Reports
*  Municipal Infrastructure Damage Assessment
* Earthquake Damage Assessment
*Including electronic files.



Page 53
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Turkey
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                        and actual
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit No.     Year                   Borrower                             Purpose
LBRD          IDA         Cancellations      Undisbursed          Orig Frn Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 204
Active Loans
TR-PE-48852      IBRD43440        1998    TEAS                                   NATL. TRNSM. GRIT)                     270.00          0.00               0.00           270.00          2.00         0.00
TR-PE-8985       IBRD43150        1998    CESME - ALACATI UNION                  CESME W.S. & SEWER.                      13.10         0.00               0.00            13.10           .10         0.00
TR-PE-9072       IBRD42350        1998    REP. OF TURKEY                          PRIV. OF IRRIGATION                     20.00         0.00               0.00            19.50          2.60         0.00
TR-PE-9089       1BRD43550        1998    REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                      BASIC ED 1                             300.00         0.00               0.00           300.00          0.00         0.00
TR-PE-45073      IBRD40890        1997    GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY                    OIL PIPELINE ENG.                        5.00         0.00               0.00             3.50          3.00         0.00
TR-PE-9095       IBRD42010        1997    REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                      PRIM HEALTH CARE SER                    14.50         0.00               0.00            14.50          3.10         0.00
TR-PE-35759      IBRD39420        1996    GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY                    PUBLIC FINAN. MGT.                      62.00         0.00               0.00            59.47         25.37         0.00
TR-PE-38091      IBRD4048A        1996    GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY                    ROAD IMPR. & SAFETY                    150.00         0.00               0.00           142.08         18.03         0.00
TR-PE-38091      1BRD40490        1996    GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY                    ROAD IMPR. & SAFETY                    100.00         0.00               0.00            48.05         18.03         0.00
TR-PE-9076       IBRD3802A        1995    GOVERNMENT                              HEALTHII                               136.17         0.00               0.00           109.58         65.12         0.00
TR-PE-9093       1BRD38936        1995    ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND                ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY                   100.00         0.00               0.00            86.06         17.57         0.00
TR-PE-9102       IBRD3728A        1994    GOT                                     PRIVATIZATION IMPLEM                    82.81          0.00             27.25            49.20         76.44         8.46
TR-PE-9023       1BRD3567A        1993    REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                      E. ANATOLIA WATERSBE                    62.48         0.00               0.00            54.28         48.05         0.00
TR-PE-9064       IBRD3541A        1993    GOVERNMENT                              EMPLOYMENT&TRAININ                      48.82          0.00              0.00            41.73         28.88         0.00
TR-PE-9064       MBRD3541S        1993    GOVERNMENT                              EMPLOYMENT & TRAININ                    18.18         0.00               0,00              .05         28.88         0.00
TR-PE-9065       1BRD3565A        1993    MUN. OF BURSA/BUSKI                     BURSA WATER & SANITA                    85.61         0.00              20.00            46.15         20.32         2.17
TR-PE-9065       IBRD3566A        1993    MUN. OF BURSA/BUSKI                     BURSA WATER & SANITA                     7.84         0.00               0.00             6.91         20.32         2.17
TR-PE-9065       1BRD3565S        1993    MUN.OFBURSAIBUSKI                       BURSAWATER&SANITA                       31.39         0.00               0.00              .07         20.32         2.17
TR-PE-9099       IBRD3511A        1993    GOVT.OFTURKEY                           EARTHQUAKERECONSTRU                     58.90         0.00               0.00            53.77         65.76        36.96
TR-PE-9044       IBRD3472A        1992    REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                      AGRIC. RESEARCH                         34.70         0.00               0.00            24.08         28.22         .72
TR-PE-9044       MBRD3472S        1992    REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                      AGRIC. RESEARCH                         14.30          0.00              0.00              .16         28.22          .72
TR-PE-9097       MBRD3477A        1992    GOT                                     TAFORTREASURYDATA                        2.12          0.00              0.00             1.34          1.35         0.00
TR-PE-9058       MBRD3296A        1991    GOV. OF TURKEY                          TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                    42.30          0.00              0.00            16.81         16.79         0.00
TR-PE-9071       1BRD3345A        1991    TEAS/TEDAS                              TEKRESTRUCT.                            69.88          0.00              0 00            44.85         81.76         0.00
TR-PE-9071       IBRD33451        1991    TEAS,TEDAS                              TEKRESTRUCT.                            40.00          0.00              0.00            36.92         81.76         0.00
TR-PE-9029       IBRD3192A        1990    GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY                    NATIONAL EDUCATION D                    57.28         0.00               0.00            44.50         44.76         0.00
TR-PE-9029       IBRD3192S        1990    GOVERNMENTOFTURKEY                      NATIONALEDUCATIOND                      17.88         0.00               0.00              .22         44.76         0.00
TR-PE-9061       IBRD315IA        1990    ANKARAWS&SGEN.DIRECTOR                  ANKARASEWERAGE                          25.13         0.00               0.00             6.30         72.30         6.30
TR-PE-9030       IBRD3057A        1989    GOVERNMENT                              HEALTH I                                26.77         0.00               0.00             7.92          8 67         0.00
Total                                                                                                                  1,897.16         0.00              47.25          1,501.10       872           59.67
Active Loans         Closed Loans               Total
Total Disbursed (BRD and IDA):                          330.47                9,999.51               10,329.98
of which has been repaid:                              5.20                6,991.81               6,997.01
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                        1,844.70               3,017.64                4,862.34
Amount sold          :                                     0.00                   3.55                   3.55
Of which repaid                                          0.00                   3.55                    3.55
Total Undisbursed                                      1,501.10                   8.32                1,509.42
a.  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Suntmary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory. S
satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), Auguist 23. 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 54
Annex 10
TURKEY: EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
Turkey at a glance                                                                8/28197
Europe & Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central  middle.
Turkey      Asia  Income        Development diamond,
Population mid-1996 (millions)                         62.0       479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                             2.890     2,180    1,750                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               179.2      1.043    1,967                        T
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                          1.7        0.3      1.4      GNP                               Gross
Labor force (%)                                         2.1        0.5      1.8      per                              pGmary
Most recent estimate (lat6st year available since 1989)                             capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populatfon)                     ..       ..
Urban population (% of total population)                 69        65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        67         68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                48         26       41                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               ..
Access to safe water (% of populaffon)                   92         ..       78
Iliteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                       18         ..                      -   Turkey
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age populaoion)     97        97      104            --Lower-middle-income group
Male                                                  101        97      105
Female                                                94         97      101    |                                             ._
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996
GDP (billions USS)                            46.7     67.2      169.3    186.0      Eccnomic ratios
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                  17.9     16.5       24.3     23.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP              4.2     15.9       21.6     22.8             Openness of economy
Gross domestic sawngs/GDP                     11.4     13.4       19.7     19.0
Gross national savingslGDP                    14.2     14.2      20.7      20.0
Current account balance/GDP                   -3.5     -1.5       -1.4     -2.4                    /
Interest payments/GOP                          0.3      2.0       2.6       2.3     Savings                       Investment
Total debtGDP                                 10.8     38.7      43.5      42.2
Total debt service/exports                    11.3     35.0       28.1     23.9
Present value of debGDP                         ..       ..      40.8
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..    164.8                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growfh)                                                                      Turkey
GDP                                  3.1      3.9       7.2        7.2      3.8
GNP per capita                       0.4       2.1      6.5        6.2      2.3              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       17.5       8.4      6.7       12.5      4.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                   1975     1985       1995     1996      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                   35.8     20.4       14.8     14.6     40 -
Industry                                      19.9     27.1      27.1      27.5     20
Manufacturing                               12.5     17.7       18.6     19.1     10
Services                                      44.3     52.5      58.1      57.9   2     9
Private consumption                           79.1     79.8      70.6      72.3     20 i
General govemnment consumption                 9.5      6.8       9.7       8.7   1             _
Imports of goods and services                 10.7     19.0      26.2      27.2                    0GDI   -0-GDP
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%)
Agricuiture                                    0.9      1.3        1.0      5.9     40
Industry                                       3.2      4.7        7.3      7.5
Manufacturing                                3.7      5.3       11.8      7.5      20t
Services                                      4.2       3.9       6.1       7.4
Private consumption                            2.3      4.1        7.7     10.8                                    fi 9/
General govemment consumption                  3.7      3.9        4.7     14.3    -20
Gross domestic investment                      0.2      4.4      29.1       3.5     _1_
Imports of goods and services                  2.6      9.5      30.0      21.7
Gross natonal product                          2.7      4.0        8.1      79                    r        ---Imper.a
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italies are for years other than those specified.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 55
Annex 10
TURKEY: EMERGENCY FLOOD AND EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
Turkey
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                        ! 0
Consumer prices                               19.2     45.1       89.0     80.4
Implicit GDP deflator                         20.5     52.1       86.9     78.5
Government finance                                                                   50
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                                                   17.7     16.6   '     4
Current budget balance                                            -3.1     -8.9             91   92   93       4     5    96
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..        .       -4.1     -8.8             -     GDP det.   0  OPI
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                             21,636   23,082     50 0r 
Other agricultural products                                    2,097    2,476
Livestock and fishery products                                   209      230    '40000
Manufactures                                   ..       ..   18,924   19,996       305000
Total imports (cif)                             ..       ..   35,709   42,464
Food                                                             445      511      2OOO
Fuel and energy                                                3,075    3664       10000
Capital goods                                                 11,437   12,032                        I
Export price index (1987=100)                                     121       117            3   9   92   9   94   9   95
Import price index (1987=100)                                     116       109
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..       ..       104       107                  D]Exports    r Imports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                    2,018   11,119    36,581   42411       4-
Imports of goods and services                4,979   12,661    40,601   48,628
Resource balance                            -2,961   -1,542     -4,020   -6,217
2-i
Net income                                    -123   -1,455     -2,815   -2,623
Net current transfers                        1,437    1,984     4,496    4,447                    .,
Current account balance,                                                             90  91   32 i 931  94   95   96
before official capital transfers         -1,647   -1,013     -2,339   -4,393                            I       _E
Financing items (net)                         970    1,137       6,997    8,938       T                   i
Changes in net reserves                       677      -124    -4,658   -4,545
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill US$)           1,444    2,322     13,774   17,874
Conversion rate (local/US$)                   14.4    522.0    45,678   80,695
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         5,059   25,998    73,592   78,485                        A   B
IBRD                                        288    3,432      4,939    4,260                      4260 124  C
IDA                                         144       178       130      124                               669
Composit,on of total debt, 1996 (mirj. USS)
Total debt service                            377    4,600    11,476   10,823              20092       r         3773
IBRD                                         31      400      1,278    1,154                ,                    E
IDA                                           2        5          7        7               !,                   8113
Composition of net resource flows                                                               _       ..8113
Official grants                              18       115       439      400
Official creditors                          165      424      -1,190     -395
Private creditors                           -11       -14       485    2,468
Foreign direct investment                   114       99        772      704                          F
Portfolio equity                              0         0      1,108     570                         41454
World Bank program
Commitments                                 158      838        162      255       A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               108      636        422      489       B-IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         12       159       888      821       C - IMF                     G- Short-term
Net flows                                    97      477       -466      -332
Interest payments                            21      246        397      340
Net transfers                                76      231       -863      -672
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/28/97



BULGARIA                                                                                                                                                          AO,                                                      45
Sbtop                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEORGIA
GREECE                   Te,                      Plo AreBa                                       rc                                                                                      Atn
duB  l$ksnL4~~~~~~~~~~~  '~~~~"'           F'                                       ®O~~~~~~rdu  .       @raiion ft ,0ie
fresun,                               ~~~~~~Karo)
Y~~~~~~~Ionu  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARMENIA
~"  0Ca~Isiri   /     Amoasya00Omdhn
7                                                             ,Bay6iurt
40''  0Cusnaldemlo  o'  Burso0  BI'k                     ,j®t~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCUm    Tokot                      '              >'          gjrzurutttn            Ages~~zuru  eAg
BAUJAN
~~~orjic~~~~~~~~~~~~~n 5                   0                                                             0                                                      *~~~~~~~~~~~~Tncl  ISLAMIC
)  \~~~MOmOJ  OUsak  @A(yOO              Nevseitir    Koysori                                                    ®Bingbl                                        REP OF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RP O
1.                                            -                  KaramkitV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  >'Nsei  Kysr   E--   ',S.ijjvan
10  ~~~~~  -MugIa                                                                                          0Mcsros                                         Macdin   '-~~~~~~~Ak.r-y  . ty
K   -.,'                                                    -'(Mers~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~igdeAd                                         Di'-  r -k* r,-.    SiRArt
/                      cc-~~~~Koy                          B.-   I 
/                                                              K-i  ~~~~~ArstcIpsrk                Klr®mn,A-                                    I  ARAB   REP.kar
K-I-                                                                                                                Province names are ThKaomamoniproiynoe u"p;"I  s
~s'-~  I                                           I---        ,!                                                                               Tb;0 nap man produced by The Mop Design Unit of The World Ranp
CYPRUS    ,  -                                                       on ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Thi, mop  pdo-n ibpy,o the Mpr ofiq The Wo4rld Bank Arup  35y
aucpt-n of suh bn..ndarie-
-  35u -   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~cl'                        55'      ,  ,....5~~~~~~~1)                                  40'                                                           4~5'
TURKEY
EMERGENCY FLOOD AND
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT (TEFER)
Component B
WESTERN TURKEY PILOT AREA BOUNDARY                                                  ®PROVINCE CAPITALS
F''~PILOT BASINS                                                                       @ NATIONAL CAPITAL
G)  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~--PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                               1
N



