Page  1
CONFORMED COPY           
LOAN NUMBER 4388 TU
Loan Agreement
(Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 11, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4388 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 11, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 3, 1997), (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  2
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Eligibility Criteria” means the criteria agreed by the Borrower and the 
Bank and set forth in the PIP (defined hereafter) for selection for financing from the 
proceeds of the Loan of investments under Parts A, B and C of the Project;
(b)
“HDA” means the Housing Development Administration of the Borrower, or 
any successor thereto;
(c)
“Protocol” means any protocol to be entered into between HDA and a 
Project Implementation Agency (defined hereafter) pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Protocol;
(d)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the 
Project referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
(e)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within HDA and 
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Project Implementation Agency” means a municipal body or an agency of 
the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of activities under the Project and the 
term “Project Implementation Agencies” means collectively, the Project Implementation 
Agencies.
(g)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project Preparation Advance 
provided by the Bank to the Borrower in the amount of $1,500,000, pursuant to an 
exchange of letters dated September 4, 1998 and September 8, 1998 between the Borrower 
and the Bank;
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(i)
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee for the Project to be 
established in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II  
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement an amount equal to three 
hundred sixty-nine million dollars ($369,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of Turkey or in a commercial 
bank satisfactory to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this agreement.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with provisions of  Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through HDA-PIU and the Project Implementation Agencies with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, financial, 
administrative and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to each 
Project Implementation Agency under a Protocol to be entered into between HDA and each 
Project Implementation Agency, under standard terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Borrower and the Bank and which shall include, inter alia, 
provisions with respect to:  
(i)  
description of the activity to be financed under the Protocol and 
the amount 
of the proceeds of the Loan to be made available to the 
Project Implementation 
Agency for the implementation thereof;  
(ii)
the arrangement for implementation of such activity under the 
overall  
supervision of the PIU;
(iii)
undertakings of the Project Implementation Agency to maintain 
separate records 
and accounts for such activity and to furnish the PIU 
with quarterly reports 
on progress of the implementation thereof;
(iv)
the obligation of the Project Implementation Agency to undertake, 
under the 
overall supervision of the PIU, the procurement of goods and 
works under such 
activity in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
and
(v)
the technical assistance needs, if any, to be provided to the 
Project 
Implementation Agency for implementation of the 
activity.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Protocol in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
Page  4
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Protocol or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower, acting through the HDA-PIU, shall establish and 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in  a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request; and
(iv) 
(A) have the funds’ flow system for the Project evaluated by an 
appropriate 
auditing body by November 30, 1998; (B) furnish to the Bank 
a report on such 
evaluation by said auditing body by December 31, 
1998; and (C) review with the 
Bank said report within one month of 
said report’s submission to the Bank, 
and, thereafter, take all 
measures necessary to ensure the efficient flow of 
funds for the 
Project taking into account the Bank’s views on the matter.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
Page  5
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Steering Committee has been established in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of the Treasury of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek - Anakara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address:
Telex:
MALIYE
821-42285
Hazine, Ankara
(MILYE-TR) or
821-42689
(ANK-TR)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ankara, Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  6
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Aydin Karaoz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                   Amount of the
  % of
                                   Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
            (Expressed in Dollars) 
to be Financed
(1)
Works
233,300,000
100%
(2)
Goods
 80,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants'
 25,500,000
100%
services 
(4)
Operating Costs
  1,500,000
90%
(5)
Refunding of 
  1,500,000
Amount due
Project Preparation
pursuant to 
Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement 
(6)
Fee
  3,690,000
Amount due
under Section 
2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
 23,510,000
TOTAL
369,000,000
===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
Page  7
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the costs incurred on account of the 
Project, as documented by the PIU, for rentals, utilities, vehicles’ operations and 
maintenance and travel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$73,800,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after June 8, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $2,500,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less 
than $5,000,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first contract awarded on 
the basis of national competitive bidding procedures; and (c) services under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent 
each for individual consultants.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) restore basic infrastructure in 
municipalities and rural areas affected by the 1998 flood; (b) restore housing in the 
areas affected by the 1998 earthquake; and (c) reduce vulnerability to future natural 
disasters.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Municipal and Rural Infrastructure
Carrying out of investments identified under the Eligibility Criteria in 
affected municipalities and rural areas for restoration of infrastructure damaged by 
flooding.
Part B:
Flood Management and Hazard Reduction
Carrying out of investments identified under the Eligibility Criteria to upgrade 
hydrotechnical infrastructure, modernize flood management systems, improve flood 
forecasting and introduce measures to improve construction standards and reduce 
potential losses from future natural disasters.
Part C:
Earthquake Rehabilitation
Carrying out of investments identified under the Eligibility Criteria to 
reconstruct household units in affected municipalities and rural areas in the Province 
of Adana.
Part D:
Project Management and Implementation Support
(1)
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to support project 
implementation and for the operation of the PIU.
(2)
The carrying out of: (i) a study of cost recovery in relation to the 
reconstruction of facilities damaged by natural disasters; and (ii) a study of 
insurance of facilities in disaster prone areas.
* * *
Page  8
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Page  9
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April  15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each 
installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after April 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Page  10
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Prequalification of Bidders
Bidders for works included under Part C of the Project shall be prequalified as 
described in paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Rehabilitation works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $117,900,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $585,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $27,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price or unit-rate contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
Page  11
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
5.
Purchase of Construction Materials
Construction materials for repairs or rebuilding of damaged houses, estimated to 
cost up to US$2,500 equivalent per housing unit and not to exceed US $40,600,000 in 
the aggregate, shall be procured competitively from local sources.
6.
Force Account
Work for emergency repair which meets the requirements set forth in paragraph 
3.8 of the Guidelines, not to exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $4,300,000, 
may be procured in accordance with force account under arrangements satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,500,000 or more, each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more and the first contract to be procured on the basis of national 
competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Page  12
Services for carrying out design and supervision and feasibility studies, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultants Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part B of the Project, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said  paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through HDA-PIU and the Project 
Implementation Agencies in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to 
in the PIP, including the Eligibility Criteria for selection for financing from the 
proceeds of the Loan of investments under Parts A, B and C of the Project.  The 
Project Implementation Agencies shall be responsible for carrying out the respective 
parts of the Project as follows: 
Part A of the Project:
General Directorate of Highways, General Directorate 
Page  13
of Rural 
Services, General Directorate of Forestry and 
the relevant 
municipalities.
Part B of the Project:
State Hydraulic Works, State Meteorological 
Institute, General 
Directorate of Electrical Power, General 
Directorate of Civil 
Defense, General Directorate of 
Disaster Affairs, General 
Directorate of Insurance, 
General Directorate of Reforestation 
and Erosion Control 
and General Directorate of Technical Research 
and 
Implementation.
Parts C and D of the 
Project:
HDA-PIU
2.
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, until completion of the 
Project, the Steering Committee comprised of the Undersecretary of Treasury of the 
Borrower as Chairman, the President of HDA, Director of the PIU, Undersecretary of the 
State Planning Organization, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Public Works and 
Settlement of the Borrower, representatives of other relevant ministries and 
implementing agencies of the Borrower, including State Hydraulic Works, State 
Meteorological Institute, General Directorate of Forestry, General Directorate of 
Disaster Affairs, General Directorate of Insurance, General Directorate of 
Reforestation and Erosion Control, General Directorate of Technical Research and 
Implementation, General Directorate of State Highways, General Directorate of Rural 
Services, General Directorate of Electrical Power, and General Directorate of Civil 
Defense and relevant Governors and Mayors, to be responsible for facilitating actions 
required for Project Implementation at the policy level.
3.
The Borrower shall cause HDA to maintain, until completion of the Project, the 
PIU with resources and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and shall 
cause HDA to assign to the PIU responsibility for overall Project implementation and 
coordination including: 
(a)
preparation of work programs under the Project;
(b)
verification of satisfaction of the Eligibility Criteria in respect of 
all components of the work programs under the Project;
(c)
coordination of and assistance to the activities of Project 
Implementation Agencies under the Project;
(d)
management of Project finance, including maintenance of the Special 
Account and arranging for the audit thereof;
(e)
ensuring preparation of bidding and contract documents in accordance with 
agreed procurement procedures and management of procurement procedures under the 
Project; 
(f)
supervision of implementation of work programs under the Project; and
(g)
preparation and furnishing to the Bank of quarterly progress reports on 
Project 
implementation prepared in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank.
4.
By June 30, 1999, the Borrower shall ensure the preparation by the PIU and the 
furnishing to the Bank, for its concurrence, of an environmental management plan, 
setting forth the measures to be taken to deal with possible adverse environmental and 
social impact for the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure the recruitment, not later than March 31, 1999, of a 
financial management specialist acceptable to the Bank to review the design and the 
operation of the financial management system to be applied by the PIU with respect to 
the Project accounts.
6.
The Borrower shall, by December 15, 1998, employ in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 of this Agreement, consultants with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist 
Page  14
in the activities of the PIU under the Project.
7.
The Borrower shall cause the PIU: 
(a)
to complete by June 30, 1999, under a terms of reference agreed upon with 
the Bank:  (i) the study referred to in Part D (2)(i) of the Project of the options 
and modalities for recovering the costs of reconstruction of facilities, including 
housing facilities, damaged as a result of natural disasters, and (ii) the study 
referred to in Part D (2) (ii) of the Project of the feasibility and options for the 
introduction of mandatory insurance of facilities in disaster-prone areas; and
(b)
by  September 30, 1999, to review the findings and recommendations of 
said studies with the Bank with a view to preparing proposals for implementation of 
such recommendations for submission to relevant authorities of the Borrower.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the PIP 
(as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank), the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about April 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by July 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $25,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  15
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account, 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  16
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
