Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7287-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF
US$250 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
May 5, 1999
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATE
(March 1998)
Currency Unit = Dirham (DH)
US51.00 = DH 9.712
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                 African Development Bank
ADS                 Agence de Developpement Social
AFSED               Arab Fund for Social and Economnic Development
ANRT                Agence Nationale de Reglementation du Secteur des Telecommunications
BAJ                 Barnamaj al Aoulaouiyat al Ijtimaiya (Social Priorities Program)
BCP                 Banque Centrale Populaire
BNDE                Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CCAC                Casablanca Commercial Arbitration Center
CCG                 Caisse Centrale de Garantie
CDM                 Charbonnages du Maroc
CNCA                Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
CPI                 Consumer Price Index
DH                  Dirham
EN                  Entraide Nationale
EU                  European Union
FDI                 Foreign Direct Investment
FEC                 Fonds d Equipement Communal
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
IAM                 Itissalat al-Maghreb (Public Telephone Company)
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICSID               International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes
IDF                 Institutional Development Fund
IFC                 Intemational Finance Corporation
IMF                 Intemational Monetary Fund
INEJ                Institut National des Etudes Judiciaires
IPP                 Independent Power Producer
NGO                 Non-Govemmental Organization
ODEP                Office d 'Exploitation des Ports
ODI                 Office de Developpement Industriel
OFPPT               Office de la Formation Professionnelle et de la Promotion du Travail
ONCF                Office National des Chemins de Fer
ONDA                Office National des A4roports
ONE                 Office National del 'Electricite
ONEP                Office National del 'Eau Potable
ONT                 Office National du Transport
PAGER               Programme d 'Approvisionnement Groupd en Eau Potable des Populations
Rurales
PBG                 Pacte de Bonne Gestion
PERG                Programmed 'Electrification Rurale Global
PHRD                Policy and Human Resources Development
PN                  Promotion Nationale
PNCRR               Programme National de Construction des Routes Rurales
PPI                 Private Participation in Infrastructure
PRSL                Policy Reform Support Loan
PSA                 Private Sector Assessment
RAM                 Royal Air Maroc
SAL                 Structural Adjustment Loan
SEFERIF             Socitdt d 'Exploitation des Mines du Ri
TPI-SAL             Telecommunications, Post and Information Technology Sector Adjustment Loan
WTO                 World Trade Organization
Vice President:       Kemal Dervis&
Country Director:     Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:      John Page (*)
Sector Manager:       Ali Khadr
Task Team Leaders:    Ali Khadr/Axel Peuker
(*) This operation is managed by MNSED in close
cooperation with MNISHD and MNSPF



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN SUMMARY ............................................................i
PART I. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT ............................................................l..1
A.    Political Context .........................................................,,.1
B.    Economic Performance .........................................................2
C.   Economic Outlook, Risks, and Financing Requirements .......................................................4
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL REFORM PROGRAM ......................................8
A.    Overview and Key Government Objectives ..........................................   ,       .      8
B. Macroeconomic Framework                                             .9
C.    Public Sector Reform ..........................................;                                  10
D.    Private Sector Development .........................................                              14
E.    Poverty Reduction and Social Welfare .........................................                    19
PART I. THE PROPOSED LOAN ........................ 23
A.  Loan Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement .23
B. The PRSL and the Country Assistance Strategy .24
C. Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation .26
D.  Expected Areas for Follow-up Policy Reform Lending .26
E.    Disbursement and Auditing .................................                                       26
F. Cofinancing.27
G. Technical Assistance .27
H.  Environmental Aspects .................................                                             27
I.  Program Objective and Poverty Categories .27
J.  Benefits and Risks .................................                                   ,, 27
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION ......................                                                              28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:      ECONOMIC INDICATOR TABLES
ANNEX 2:      MATRIX OF POLICY OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS
ANNEX 3:      LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
ANNEX 4:      LIST OF MONITORING INDICATORS
ANNEX 5:      TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
ANNEX 6:      STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
ANNEX 7:      MOROCCO AT A GLANCE
MAP OF MOROCCO IBRD 25545
TEXT FIGURES AND TABLES
TABLE I.1:    KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1980-96 ......................................... , .2
TABLE 1.2:  KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1990-97                         .3
TABLE 1.3:  KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1998-2002                        .4
TABLE I.4:  STATUS OF CAS MACROECONOMIC BENCHMARKS                          .6
TABLE 1.5:  BUDGET FINANCING, 1997/98 - 98/99                         .8
TABLE 1.6:  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS FINANCING, 1997-99                        .8
TABLE m.1: WORLD BANK LENDING AND EXPOSURE INDICATORS .26
This report is based on the work of missions to Morocco during May to November 1998, comprising: Ferid Belhaj
(LEGMN), Denis Chaput (MNSPF), Joumana Cobein (MNSPF), Mourad Ezzine (MNSHD), Olivier Fremond
(PSDEN), Pierre Guislain (Coordinator, Programme on Private Participation in Mediterranean Infrastructure, World
Bank/EU), James Hanna (LCSFP), Timothy Irwin (PSDPP), Ali Khadr (Co-Task Team Leader, MNSED), Amine
Khene (MNSED), Fran,ois Lacasse (MNSED), Linda Likar (MNSHD), Michel Loir (MNSID), Axel Peuker (Co-
Task Team Leader, MNSPF), Maryse Pierre-Louis (MNSHD), Setareh Razmara (MNSHD), Vera Songwe
(MNCMG), Clemencia Torres (MNSPF), Rene Vaurs (MNCMG) and Paolo Zacchia (MNICMG). Further essential
contributions were made by Peter Bocock (MNSED), the Morocco Resident Mission under Olivier Godron, andthe
Morocco Country Team. Mary Lou Gomez (MNSED) and Liliane Vert (MNSPF) contributed to the production of
the document. PHRD funding is gratefully acknowledged.



KINGDoM OF MOROCCO
POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:         Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:           US$250 million equivalent (including 1% front-end fee), to be made available in
one tranche upon loan effectiveness.
Terms:            Single currency, libor-based variable interest, 20 years' maturity, including 5 years
of grace.
Objectives:       The objective of the PRSL is to advance the alternance Government's broad-based
economic and social reform program, which aims to accelerate GDP and
employment growth, and to increase access to basic services and reduce poverty.
Under this program, the Government is giving a public commitment to pursue
sound macroeconomic management, initiate public sector reform, encourage
private sector development, and address the country's social development agenda.
It has already taken key actions to bolster the program's credibility and initiate its
implementation. The program, together with Bank support through the PRSL, will
send an important signal to the investor community, and demonstrate that political
opening and economic reform are going hand-in-hand in Morocco.
Description:      The PRSL supports a wide range of actions outlined in the main text of this report
and in Annex 2 (Matrix of Policy Objectives and Actions) and Annex 3 (Letter of
Development Policy).
Benefits:         The benefits of the reform program supported by the PRSL would be considerable.
The program addresses a broad range of measures needed to enhance Morocco's
competitiveness and achieve strong, sustainable growth, while advancing the
country's important social development agenda. In addition, the preparation of the
PRSL has served to promote a dialogue and develop a partnership with the
alternance Government, and to act as a catalyst in setting out a medium-term
framework for reform in Morocco.
Risks:            The program supported by the PRSL faces four main types of risk. First, the
authorities' medium-term growth forecast hinges sensitively on ambitious
budgetary adjustment and a significant increase in private investment; a shortfall in
either would reduce GDP growth prospects. Second, political opposition to reforms
could stem from three sources: coalition partners in the Government with an
etatiste tradition; the recently elected Parliament, which may not support a program
which restricts the sphere of influence of the state; and unions and other
stakeholders adversely affected by certain aspects of the reform program. Third,
technical implementation difficulties could arise from  weaknesses in intra-
governmental coordination as well as from scarcity of expertise. Fourth, social
problems may result, in particular, from expenditure constraints, from employment
consequences of the privatization program, and/or from poor implementation of
social reform measures envisioned under the program.
These risks would be mitigated through: the Government's efforts to pursue
budgetary adjustment and improve the business environment as well as the climate



- 11 -
for private investment, supported by regular monitoring of key economic
indicators; a close policy dialogue with the Government and affected stakeholders;
a technical dialogue with all government agencies concerned and provision of
resources for technical assistance; and financing provided under the operation,
together with social measures which constitute an integral part of the Government's
reform program.
Poverty Category:  The PRSL supports a comprehensive reform program to accelerate economic
growth and improve social equity to the benefit of the poor. As part of its reform
effort, the Government intends to pursue social programs focusing on improved
education, health and infrastructure services, with emphasis on traditionally
underserved rural areas.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
To THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed quick-
disbursing Policy Reform Support Loan (PRSL) to the Kingdom of Morocco in the amount of US$250
million equivalent. This Loan would support implementation of a broad-based nmedium-term economic
and social reform program. The Loan would be a single currency loan with a variable libor-based interest
rate and a maturity of 20 years, including 5 years of grace. It would be made available in a single tranche
based on measures taken prior to Board presentation. Parallel financing of approximnately US$200 million
equivalent has been approved by the Board of Directors of the African Developmernt Bank (ADB).
PART I. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT
A. Political Context
2.    Morocco has recently achieved substantial political liberalization. Following elections in
November 1997, King Hassan II appointed Abderrahmane Youssoufi, the leading opposition figure and a
one-time exile, as Prime Minister in February 1998. Mr. Youssoufi heads a Government backed by a
seven-party center-left coalition, the Koutla, which holds 102 of the lower chamber of parliament's 325
seats. The alternance Government marks the first time in independent Morocco's 42-year history that the
opposition has had the opportunity to govern. It also marks a break from the recent succession of
technocratic, "transitional" Governments, although the alternance Government reappointed the Ministers
for Foreign Affairs, Interior, Islamic Affairs and Justice.
3.    The alternance Government exemplifies the overhaul of Morocco's political institutions, spurred
on in large measure by the King. An amended Constitution, adopted in September 1996, responded to
long-standing calls for a return to direct election by universal suffrage of memibers of the House of
Representatives, as well as for making Government more accountable to Parliament. Under the new
Constitution, Parliament is composed of a directly-elected 325-seat House of Representatives and a 270-
member upper House of Counselors (representatives of chambers of commerce, labor unions, and local
communities). The State's unity and sovereignty continue to be embodied in the Monarchy. The new
Constitution paved the way for adoption prior to the November 1997 elections of a "joint declaration of
the administration and the political parties", whereby the previous transitional Government undertook to
ensure fair and transparent elections while the political parties undertook to abide by the rules of the
electoral process and its results.
4.    The alternance Government's economic and social reform program has four broad pillars: (i)
prudent macroeconomic and fiscal management to lay the foundations for higher economic growth in the
medium term; (ii) measures to improve public sector performance; (iii) reforms to encourage private
investment and business activity; and (iv) measures to foster broad-based human and social development,
particularly in the country's least developed areas. The Government has already sent significant policy
signals underscoring a commitment to fiscal discipline. Shortly after assuming office, it took steps to
contain an otherwise widening deficit for the 1997/98 fiscal year to 3.5 percent of GDP. Its 1998/99
budget, approved by Parliament in July 1998, provided for a similar deficit level (3.6 percent of GDP),
despite initial pressures that might otherwise have raised it to nearly 5 percent of GDP. As discussed
further in Section I.C below, execution of the 1998/99 budget has remained on 1rack. The most recent
budget-for the upcoming 1999/00 fiscal year, presented to Parliament in April 1 999-again provides-for
a deficit level of around 3.6 percent of GDP. While this demonstrates Governmenit resolve in continuing
to resist widespread pressures for higher spending, it also highlights the difficulties of making significant
inroads in the Government's aim to further reduce the deficit and, in particular, change the structure of



-2 -
revenues and expenditures to bring about a substantial increase in budgetary savings over the next few
years. Finally, the alternance Government has consistently sought to reassure the domestic and
international financial and business communities of its commitment to economic liberalism, and has
shown continuity in taking forward the legislative agenda initiated by its predecessor, with good initial
results.
B. Economic Performance
5.     Following rapid growth in the latter half of the 1980s, the Moroccan economy's performance has
slowed since the early 1990s (Table L.1). In the late 1980s, growth was supported by a forceful adjustment
program that devalued the Dirham, substantially reduced trade protection, and cut the fiscal deficit. GDP
grew at an annual average rate of 4.4 percent, with non-agricultural GDP growth reaching over 6 percent
in 1988 and 1990. These rates were achieved with relatively modest investment levels (around 23 percent
of GDP), but with substantial increases in the efficiency of investment. Growth was also driven by
exports, which grew at an impressive 9 percent over the period, with a strong surge in manufacturing
exports. Meanwhile, foreign direct investment (FDI) also grew exponentially, from only US$1 million in
1986 to US$317 million in 1991.
6.     The reduction in average annual growth to well below 3 percent in the 1990s partly reflects
greater frequency of drought as well as slower growth in Morocco's principal trading partners. But it also
reflects enduring structural problems. In the absence of deep-rooted sectoral and public management
reforms, the fiscal deficit has remained around 34 percent of GDP. Meanwhile, public expenditure
patterns have become increasingly rigid (with the government wage bill, together with interest payments,
absorbing around 65-70 percent of revenues), to the detriment of public spending on infrastructure and the
social sectors. Further, since the adoption of a nominal exchange rate peg in 1991 (whereby the Dirham's
value was held fixed relative to that of a basket of trading-partner currencies), Morocco's currency has
appreciated by some 15 percent in real terms, despite a substantial decline in inflation. Together with real
depreciation in competitor economies, this appreciation has adversely affected export growth.
Table 1.1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1980-96
1980-85  1986-90  1991-96
Average Annual Growth (%/6)
GDP                               2.7     4.4      2.6
Non-Agricultural GDP              3.1     4.0      2.6
Domestic Inflation                6.8     5.8      4.3
Exports of GNFS                   3.7     8.8      5.9
Share of GDP (%)
Current Account Balance          -8.6    -0.4    -2.4
Foreign Debt                     85.5    98.7    72.6
Budgetary Revenue                21.3    21.8    24.8
Budgetary Expenditures           32.9    27.5    28.5
o/w Investment Expenditures       6.6     4.5      4.1
Fiscal Deficit                   11.6     5.7      3.7
Gross Domestic Savings           15.1    18.5    16.0
Gross Domestic Investment        25.9    22.9    21.9
7.     Structural and institutional reforms have continued to be implemented in the 1990s, but arguably
with less momentum than in the late 1980s. Tax administration has been improved, the financial sector
has been deregulated and modernized, and a limited but successful privatization program has been
implemented. Trade liberalization has also continued, most recently with the conclusion of an Association
Agreement with the European Union (EU), which calls for the elimination of tariffs for all European
industrial products over the next 12 years. The business environment for the private sector has also been



-3 -
improved, although structural constraints still inhibit firms' competitiveness, underscoring the need for
profound institutional reforms.
8.      Following 1995's historic drought, GDP growth rebounded to 12 percent in 1996 but fell again to
negative 2.2 percent in 1997, once more reflecting poor rainfall; agricultural value-added declined by 26
percent while non-agricultural growth held at around 3 percent. Tight monetary policy and low increases
in import prices helped to reduce inflation from 3 percent in 1996 to 1 percent in 1997. In the balance of
payments, the current account deficit improved to 0.3 percent of GDP (from 1.7 percent in 1996),
reflecting faster growth in phosphate and jobbing trade exports, and slower growth in imports. Even more
significantly, foreign investment more than doubled to an all-time high of almost US$1.2 billion as a
result of large direct investment by multinationals and the sale of a major state-owned enterprise.
Table 1.2: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1990-97
1991-96   1996    1997
Growth rates (%)
GDP                                2.6    12.0    -2.2
Non-Agricultural GDP               2.6      3.2      3.2
Domestic Inflation                 4.3      3.0      1.0
Exports of GNFS                    5.9      6.2      7.7
Share of GDP (%)
Current Account Balance            -2.4    -1.7    -0.3
Foreign Debt                      72.6    60.0    62.7
Budgetary Revenue                 24.8    24.2    25.2
Budgetary Expenditures            28.5    27.7    28.7
o/w Investment Expenditures        4.1      4.2      4.5
Fiscal Deficit                     3.7      3.5      3.5
Gross Domestic Savings             16.0    15.8    17.3
Gross Domestic Investment         21.9    20.3    20.7
9.      The fiscal stance has remained broadly unchanged since 1996. The overall budget deficit
stabilized at 3.5 percent of GDP in 1997/98, the same level as in the preceding fiscal year.' Both revenues
and expenditures increased by around one percentage point of GDP in 1997/98, owing in part to higher
tax revenues, the proceeds of a major electricity concession, and larger expenditure on the wage bill (from
10.8 percent of GDP in 1996/97 to 11.3 percent in 1997/98). Domestic financing of the deficit increased
from 4.9 percent of GDP in 1996/97 to 5.4 percent in 1997/98. This reflected a continuation of the
Treasury's policy of tapping the domestic market in order to reduce its exposure to foreign debt, which has
gradually declined as a share of GDP over the past few years. The Treasury also be,gan an initiative in mid-
1996 to manage external debt more actively through private and public debt-equity conversion, refinancing,
and pre-payment which has amounted to some US$900 million of external debt. Non-government
investment remained stagnant at 16 percent of GDP in 1997. Coupled with roughly stable government
investment, this placed limits on growth potential.
Morocco's fiscal year cycle (July 1-June 30), which until 1996 coincided with the calendar year, was changed to
increase the capacity for gearing the annual budget to the agricultural output cycle (knowledge of winter rainfall allows more
refined harvest projections by the time budget preparation is finalized). The budget data presented in Table I.2 are fiscal year
data, but calendar year data do not present a significantly different picture.



- 4 -
C. Economic Outlook, Risks, and Financing Requirements
Estimates for 1998 and Medium-Term Outlook
10.    The economy is estimated to have grown by 6.3 percent in 1998, reflecting a rebound of
agricultural output and steady non-agricultural growth, driven by buoyant tourist and phosphate sectors.
This solid growth has had a positive impact on private investment, resulting in an increase in the overall
investment ratio of close to one percent of GDP. The current account deficit remains very low at an
estimated 0.4 percent of GDP, and exports (including net jobbing trade exports) are estimated to have
grown at 5.6 percent in dollar terms (3.9 percent in real terms), despite the difficult world economic
situation. Inflation, estimated at 2.8 percent during 1998, has also remained very low.
11.    The 1998/99 Finance Law had provided for a deficit of 3.6 percent of GDP, roughly unchanged
relative to the preceding two years. Budgetary revenues were prudently forecast, increasing by over 7
percent relative to the 1997/98 fiscal year, owing largely to an expected 1.5 percent of GDP in one-time
revenue, including an increase in dividend payments by some public enterprises and proceeds from a
business tax amnesty. The authorized increase in budgetary expenditures (8 percent relative to 1997/98)
was driven largely by a 7.7 percent increase in the wage bill, one-time expenditures in support of the
liquidation of Charbonnages du Maroc (CdM), and the financial restructuring program of Caisse
Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA). This entailed a borrowing requirement of a little over 3 percent of
GDP, slightly lower than that for 1997/98, with the mix between domestic and external financing
programmed to shift towards the latter.
Table 1.3: Key Macroeconomic Indicators (Projected),
1998-2002
1998  1999  2000  2001   2002
Growth Rate (%)
GDP                          6.3   3.0   5.0   5.0   5.5
Non-Agricultural GDP         3.5   3.7   4.2   5.2   5.7
Domestic Inflation           2.8   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5
Exports of GNFS              3.9   6.0   7.5   8.2   8.6
Share of GDP (%)
Current Account Balance     -0.4  -0.5  -0.4  -0.5   -0.5
Foreign Debt                52.7  49.2  46.2  43.1   41.0
Budgetary Revenue           25.7  24.7  24.7  25.1   25.1
Budgetary Expenditures      29.2  28.3  27.5   27.2  27.0
olw Investment Expenditures  4.3   4.3   4.5   4.7   5.2
Fiscal Deficit              -3.5  -3.6  -2.8  -2.1   -1.9
Gross Domestic Savings      18.3  19.1   19.6  20.2  21.4
Gross Domestic Investment   21.6  22.3  22.7  23.5  24.5
12.    Preliminary estimates indicate that the execution of the 1998/99 budget will be broadly in line
with the provisions of the Finance Law. The deficit is now forecast to be slightly lower than the
authorized amount. Revenues from the fiscal amnesty have exceeded expectations, making it likely that
the overall revenue target will be amply met, while recurrent expenditures may come in at slightly under
the budgeted figure, owing to savings on domestic debt interest payments. On the financing side,
privatization receipts are likely to fall short of the targeted amount, while arrears have been repaid on a
large scale, requiring somewhat higher-than-programmed domestic (non-monetary) borrowing.
13.    Near-term economic performance is expected to remain solid, although overall growth is likely to
be limited to around 3 percent in 1999, owing largely to lower-than-average agricultural performance as a



- 5 -
result of capricious winter rainfall. (By the same token, overall growth would be expected to rebound
somewhat in the year 2000 on the assumption that agricultural performance returns to average.) Barring
unforeseen shocks, the current account in the balance of payments is expected to remain stable at around
0.5 percent of GDP in 1999. The evolution of monetary aggregates is expected to keep inflation low
(around 2.5 percent over the year) while allowing for sufficient growth in credit to underpin a continued
modest increase in private investment.
14.    No significant changes are expected in the fiscal stance during the upcoTring fiscal year (which
begins on July 1, 1999). At the time of writing, the Finance Law for the 1999/2000 fiscal year had
recently been presented to, though not yet approved by, Parliament. With a prograrnmed deficit of around
3.6 percent of GDP, roughly unchanged vis-a-vis the past two years, the draft budget holds the line on
fiscal stability-a significant accomplishment in the face of still-mounting pressures by several
government departments and groups in society to expand spending. Promnising elements in the draft
budget include increased expenditure allocations for key social programs (e.g., rural water supply).
Nevertheless, the draft budget raises two key issues of concern. The first is its increased reliance on "one-
time" revenues (e.g., concession revenues for the second GSM license), which suggests some
deterioration in the underlying deficit trend. The second, related issue is the absence of decisive measures
to strengthen recurring, especially tax, revenue sources (notably in the face of eroding trade tax revenues
as the Association Agreement with the EU unfolds), as well as to rationalize the structure of recurrent
expenditures.
15.   Beyond the near term, deep-rooted structural changes in the composition of expenditures as well
as increased budgetary savings will be critical for higher economic growth. The Government is targeting
a sustained increase in (average) annual GDP growth to reach roughly double the present level of 3
percent per year over the next 4-5 years. Higher growth would be underpinned by a gradual rise in
investment to almost one-quarter of GDP (from an estimated 21.6 percent in 1998) as well as by greater
efficiency of investment, reflected in a declining incremental capital-output :ratio (ICOR).2 Of the
projected three-percentage-point increase in the overall investment ratio, increased domestic private
investmnent is expected to contribute about 1.7 percentage points of GDP, public investment about 0.8
percentage points, and foreign direct investment (FDI) about 0.5 percentage points. Consistent with this
scenario, the budgetary stance would need to generate additional public savings of nearly 3 percent of
GDP by fiscal year 2002/03. Rising budgetary savings would enable a progressive reduction in the budget
deficit, from 3.6 percent of GDP in fiscal year 1999/2000 to below 2 percent by fiscal year 2002/03,
releasing resources for investment. In parallel, declining deficit financing requirements would gradually
reduce the public debt-to-GDP ratio and put public finances on a more solid path.
16.    The higher growth rates and investment ratios targeted over the medium term are supported by
export growth that is projected to rise to over 8 percent a year. Together with planned structural reforms
to enhance Morocco's external competitiveness, the stimulus for exports is expected to come from a
resurgence of growth in Europe, Morocco's principal market. Also projected over the medium term is
continuing low inflation, underpinned by tight monetary policy (which does however allow for adequate
growth in credit to the private sector). Low inflation would be expected to prevent any further real
appreciation of the Dirham. In addition to limiting growth in the stock of broad money to the pace of
nominal GDP growth in order to maintain price stability, monetary policy will allow continued expansion
of credit to the private sector in line with nominal GDP growth as credit to the Treasury is reduced and
foreign assets are stabilized. Additional resources to fund private investment will come from non-banking
sources, such as the stock market and non-bank financial institutions, which now constitute one of the
more sophisticated capital markets in the region. In parallel, FDI is projected to increase from 1.3 percent
of GDP in 1998 to about 1.9 percent by 2002.
2      The (non-agricultural) ICOR values of around 4.5 in the outer projection years, while smaller than those realized in the
recent past, are not unprecedented. Sirnilar figures prevailed in the late 1 980s.



-6 -
17.   As discussed in Part III below, the proposed PRSL will keep Bank lending well within the base
case lending volume envisaged under the Bank Group's 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
FY97-99 (Table 1.4). Beyond the CAS benchmarks for the base case (which on balance have been met),
recent performnance and the Government's short- and medium-term policy objectives also meet some,
though not all, of the high-case macroeconomic performance benchmarks of the CAS. In the external
accounts, the current account deficit has been reduced significantly below the high case scenario target of
2 percent. Debt service has also been declining, and is likely to out-perform the CAS target of 25 percent
of export receipts. By contrast, developments in the fiscal accounts fall somewhat short of the high case
benchmarks. The high-case scenario envisaged a reduction of the fiscal deficit of one percentage point of
GDP per year with a target of 2 percent by 2000. While the deficit has come down by about two
percentage points of GDP (from 5.5 percent of GDP in 1995), there has been little change in the overall
fiscal stance since 1996/97. In addition, the present outlook is for a postponement by at least one year of
the 2-percent deficit target compared with the CAS high-case scenario. Instrumental to this setback has
been the increase in wages for Government employees agreed with the unions in the context of the 1996
dialogue social. This led to an increase in the wage bill from 10.8 percent of GDP in 1996/97 to 11.3
percent in 1997/98, running against the CAS benchmark of a reduction of the wage bill by 2 percentage
points of GDP. The wage bill as a ratio of GDP has been roughly maintained during the 1998/99 fiscal
year, and is expected to decline somewhat to slightly below 11 percent of GDP under the 1999/2000
budget.
Table 1.4: Status of CAS Macroeconomic Benchmarks (High-Case Scenario)
Target             CAS High-Case Scenario                   Status
Current Account Deficit  Below 2% of GDP             Below I% of GDP in 1997 and 1998.
Debt-Service-to-Export Ratio  Below 25 % by 2000     25.8% in 1998; projected to decline to 20% by
2000.
Budget Deficit         2 % of GDP by 2000            Target of around 2% of GDP by 2001.
Government Wage Bill   Reduction by 2% of GDP over 3 years  Increased by 0.5 % of GDP between 1996/97
and 1997/98; maintained in 1998/99; slight
reduction expected in 1999/2000.
Riskfactors
18.   The medium-term economic outlook is subject to four main risk factors: drought, external shocks,
sluggishness in private investment, and slippage in the fiscal stance vis-a-vis the Government's intentions.
The frequency of drought appears to have increased in the 1990s, causing large year-on-year swings in
agricultural value added and overall GDP growth. Beyond 1999 (and an expected rebound in 2000, on the
assumption that agricultural output returns to trend levels), drought has not been factored in the medium-
term outlook. Its timing and intensity are inherently difficult to forecast, and its overall impact appears to
be transitory in nature and limited to the share of agriculture in GDP. Analysis of past performance
indicates that on average the impact of a single-year drought is limited to between 0.1 and 0.3 percentage
points of non-agricultural GDP (but two or more consecutive years of drought would undoubtedly have
much more lasting and damaging effects). Analysis of the budgetary impact of past droughts points to a
limited effect on absolute budget figures, although it can affect ratios expressed in terms of shares of GDP
because of fluctuations in the latter.
19.   Potentially damaging external shocks would include higher international interest rates, an
economic slowdown in Europe, and a worsening of the terms of trade. A hypothetical two-percentage-
point rise in intemational interest rates would increase service payments on external debt by around
US$200 million, equivalent to roughly 0.5 percent of GDP-thus putting additional strain on the budget,
inhibiting private investment through higher domestic interest rates induced by Govermment borrowing,
and worsening the balance of payments. Similarly, higher medium-term growth in Moroccan exports
hinges on stronger growth in Europe than in the last few years; a downtum in Europe is likely to depress
Morocco's growth prospects. However, European growth is now generally projected to be somewhat



- 7 -
stronger over the next three years following a limited recovery in France and Germany, and EU import
growth is expected to average over 6 percent a year over the medium term, well above its 1991-1997
average. Finally, Morocco's exports are still heavily dependent on phosphate rock and derivatives, which
represent more than one-third of total merchandise exports. At current volumes, for example, a 10 percent
drop in phosphate prices would reduce export earnings by some US$140 million over one year
(equivalent to roughly doubling the 1998 current account deficit). On the import side, oil and energy
products account for more than 15 percent of merchandise imports. Morocco's terms of trade are
therefore sensitive to changes in international prices for phosphates and oil, and a reversal of the
favorable (for Morocco) recent international trends for these prices could worsen balance of payments
prospects and reduce GDP growth.
20.   The Governnent's medium-term growth target also hinges sensitively on a significant increase in
private investment. Despite lower domestic interest rates over the past 18 months, private investment and
the associated demand for credit has only recently picked up. Domestic political uncertainty-one
possible explanation for the sluggishness of private investment until recently-has now subsided with the
alternance Government's establishment of a good dialogue with the business cornmunity. Nevertheless,
at least over the near term, there is some uncertainty about whether the increase in investment will be
sustained. Private entrepreneurs may exercise caution in the face, for example, of the international
financial situation, or of the gradual unfolding of trade liberalization with Europe under the Association
Agreement.
21.   Finally, medium-term growth prospects hinge critically on the Government's ability to restructure
the composition of the budget in order to allow for a sustainable increase in budgetary savings and
reduction in the fiscal deficit. Failure to implement concrete measures to bolster revenue, as well as to
reduce the wage bill and transfers to public enterprises, will limit the prospects for fiscal adjustment and
thereby for "crowding in" private investment. Risks of major fiscal slippage, capable of compromising
overall macroeconomic stability, appear limited, in view of Morocco's track record over the past decade
and the commitment of key policy-makers to maintain macroeconomic balances.
Financing Requirements and Bank Support
22.   Near-term financing requirements for the budget and the balance of payments are shown in
Tables 1.5 and I.6, respectively. Reflecting reduced Treasury borrowing from the domestic monetary
system, the financing plan for the 1998/99 budget (Table 1.5) provides for net external financing flows of
negative DH 3.6 billion, compared with negative DH 6.2 billion in 1997/98. In keeping with the
Treasury's strategy of reducing the burden of external debt service over time, the amnortization figure (DH
12 billion) for the fiscal year is estimated to include around DH 2 billion of debt-equity conversion and
pre-payment of high-cost debt. Bank support through the proposed PRSL and the first tranche of the
US$100 million Telecommunications, Post and Information Technology Sector Adjustment Loan (TPI-
SAL) should yield combined disbursements of US$300 million (DH 2.9 billion), plus ADB co-financing
for both operations of US$100 million (DH 970 million). Project financing is expected to amount to
about DH 3.3 billion over the 1998/99 fiscal year.



-8 -
Table 1.5: Budget Financing, 1997/98 - 98/99 (DH million)
FY97/98   FY98/99
Total Financing Requirement                11719      12669
Domestic Sources                           17901      16294
Privatization Proceeds                      1155        500
From Monetary System                        3258       5000
Non-bank Financing                         14895      13794
Changes in Domestic Arrears                -1407      -3000
External Financing                         -6182      -3625
Disbursements                               7150       8365
Fast Disbursing Loans                       2450       5100
o/w IBRD                                   950       2910
Project loans                               4700       3265
o/w IBRD                                   1500      1200
Amortization due                          -13332    -11990
23.    Balance of payments financing in 1998 is estimated to have included total disbursement of some
US$1.6 billion in new long-term assistance flows. The substantial increase in long-term disbursements
relative to 1997 mirrored a reduction in foreign investment flows, which were exceptionally high in 1997,
owing in part to the privatization sale of a large oil refinery. External financing also supported a slight rise
in international reserves to some 4.6 months of imports. Given overall external financing requirements,
heavy reliance on long-term assistance from multilateral sources reflects the limits on the Moroccan
Treasury's scope for raising funds on international capital markets on favorable terms. The present
outlook for 1999, both in terms of overall balance of payments financing requirements and reliance on
long-term loan sources, is broadly similar to the estimate for 1998.
Table I.6: Balance of Payments Financing, 1997-99 (US$ million)
1997        1998        1999
(estimated)  (projected)
Financing Requirements                         2,447.0     2,280.2      2322.6
Current account deficit                          112.8       128.1       204.9
Long-term amortization                         1784.0       1834.0      1888.0
Reserves Changes of Monetary Authorities         550.2       318.1       229.8
Financing sources                              2,447.0     2,280.2      2322.6
Private investment (net)                        1165.2       520.0       728.9
Long-term Disbursements                         1151.0      1553.0      1593.7
Other capital flows                              130.8       207.2         0.0
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL REFORM PROGRAM
A. Overview and Key Government Objectives
24.    The alternance Government faces a combination of challenging initial conditions and high public
expectations about improving them. In recent years, growth has been both volatile and insufficient on
average to reduce Morocco's substantial levels of unemployment (now running at 18 percent in urban
areas and up to 25 percent among educated youth). Meanwhile, social inequality-substantially driven by
large urban-rural disparities in incomes, opportunity, and basic social and infrastructure services-poses



-9 -
potentially serious socioeconomic problems. Redressing disparities in access to basic services is
complicated by budgetary rigidity, reflecting in particular the size of the civil service wage bill. And
finally, there is an urgent need to address institutional, governance and transparency issues with respect to
government and judiciary operations.
25.   The Government has responded to these challenges with a broad-based program that balances
economic and social objectives. Its goal is to maintain macroeconomic stability while both accelerating
economic growth and reducing poverty, within a framework of institutional reformr that promotes better
governance and greater transparency, which in turn will help the prospects for sustainability. The program
comprises four linked and mutually reinforcing components designed to:
*  raise the GDP growth rate, roughly doubling average annual growth over the next 5 years,
notably by generating larger budgetary savings in order to support increased investment;
*  initiate public sector reform, designed to enhance budgetary perfonnance and flexibility,
promote civil service and administrative reform, and upgrade the quality and effectiveness of
the judicial system;
*  accelerate private sector growth and investment, by further promoting privatization and
private participation in infrastructure services, and by improving the business climate and
access to finance;
*  implement a social program, focusing on improved education, health and infrastructure
services in traditionally underserved rural areas, so as to enhance welfare and reduce poverty
among the rural population, and hence address wider national social equity goals.
26.   Specific elements of the program are detailed below, in the Matrix of P'olicy Objectives and
Actions (Annex 2), and in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex 3) which the
Government intends to publicize widely in Morocco as a signal of its commitment to reform and
transparency.
B. Macroeconomic Framework
27.   Key Issues and Medium Term Objectives. Morocco needs substantially higher growth so as to
reduce unemployment and poverty, and increase access to basic services. Accelerating growth to the
Government's medium-term objective of around 6 percent per year will require an increase in gross
domestic investment of some three percentage points of GDP. To avoid undue reliance on foreign
savings, domestic, mainly public sector, savings would need to be increased so as to make room for
higher levels of both private and public investment. The Government will also need to accelerate and
deepen efficiency-enhancing structural reforms (see sections C and D below, which deal with public
sector reform and private sector development, respectively). And it will need to take steps to enhance
Morocco's international competitiveness and attractiveness to FDI. Competitiveness-supporting policies
include (i) preventing real appreciation of the Dirham, principally through a tighl: monetary policy that
will keep inflation low; (ii) pursuing trade liberalization with European and third-party trading partners to
further reduce the implicit tax on exports stemming from import tariffs; and (iii) adopting labor market
policies that help to ensure that domestic production costs remain competitive. With respect to FDI, the
Government plans to help foster an increase over the medium term from the current 1.4 percent of GDP to
1.9 percent, through measures such as the establishment of a one-stop agency for foreign investors and the
implementation of a new, consistent framework for infrastructure concessions.
28.   The cornerstone of macroeconomic policy is achievement of additional budgetary savings of
between 2.5 and 3 percentage points of GDP over the next 4-5 years, involving a modest increase in
revenues and a significant reduction in recurrent expenditures. Revenue measures, intended in part- to
compensate for the erosion of trade tax revenue as import tariffs are reduced under the EU Association
Agreement, will be based on IMF tax reform recommendations. Expenditure measures will include: (i)
limiting new public sector hirings pending civil service reform (section II.C.) so as to maintain the public



- 10-
sector wage bill at its present level in real terms and progressively reduce it by about two percentage
points of GDP by 2003/04; (ii) actions to improve public enterprise (PE) governance and financial
performance, in order to further reduce transfers to PEs (section II.D.); and (iii) a rationalization of
consumer subsidies to enable reduced budgetary outlays (section II.E.). In parallel, the Treasury plans to
continue its active management of both internal and external debt, including the use of debt conversion,
pre-payment, and refinancing to reduce the burden of its more expensive fixed-rate debt.
29.    PRSL-Related Actions Taken. Shortly after assuming office, in the face of indications at the
start of the fourth quarter of the 1997/98 fiscal year of a widening deficit, the Government adopted
expenditure-curbing measures to limit the 1997/98 deficit to an estimated 3.5 percent of GDP. The
budget for 1998/99, adopted soon after, was also consistent with the medium-term deficit reduction
strategy, containing the deficit for the current fiscal year at about the same level-3.6 percent of GDP.
Latest indications are that budget execution is broadly on track, with a slightly lower-than-projected
deficit likely.
C. Public Sector Reform
30.   Public sector reform needs to be at the heart of the Government's overall reform program. No
overarching strategy for economic and social development, however well-conceived in principle, can
deliver its expected benefits in practice in the absence of a well-functioning, cost-effective public
administration. Measures to enhance the quality, dependability and transparency of public sector
institutions and operations, and to scale back "non-core" public sector functions, are thus inextricably
linked to each of the other three components of the Government's program-macroeconomic stability and
growth, dynamic private sector development, and enhanced social provision for those most in need. This
section outlines key issues, objectives and actions already taken by the Government in three areas critical
for successful public sector reform: (i) budgetary institutions, (ii) the civil service, and (iii) the judiciary.
Budgetary Institutions
31.   Key Issues and Medium-Term Objectives. Arrangements for budget preparation and execution
have not served Morocco well in recent years. Aggregate fiscal discipline and strategic prioritization of
expenditures have not been adequately safeguarded, and efficiency and effectiveness in the use of
resources at the individual ministry and agency level has often been impeded. Specifically: (i) the annual
budget has permitted substantial earmarking of public funds through a complex array of special accounts
and annex budgets; (ii) the budget has been prepared without the benefit of a full-fledged medium-term
public expenditure and associated macroeconomic policy framework, or explicit costing and impact
analysis of proposed policies; and (iii) the expenditure management process (ranging from ex ante
authorization requirements to effective payment of suppliers) has been rigid, often creating substantial
delays. In particular, public procurement has relied on less-than-adequate competition and transparency
standards.
32.    The alternance Government has already begun to address these and other issues. To begin
clarifying the links among outcomes, outputs, inputs, and public expenditure requirements, an April 1998
directive made analysis of costs and impacts a pre-condition for presentation of new policy proposals to
the Cabinet. The Government also plans to improve financial management of public enterprises, including
provision of a clear and predictable dividend policy. The 1998/99 Finance Law provided for substantial
"special" contributions by key public enterprises, thus effectively incorporating into the budget funds
which would previously have been spent off-budget by enterprises on Govement-mandated initiatives.
33.    The Government has also taken steps to improve the expenditure management process and the
rules for public procurement (see below). Further improvements under consideration relate to
standardization of expenditures (already being implemented on a pilot basis in certain ministries-eg.,
Education and Public Works-based on setting unit cost standards for items such as a new school, a
stretch of rural road, or a basic community health care service package) and administrative
decentralization of budget execution. The Ministry of Finance has commissioned a study to formulate a



- 11 -
broader range of unit cost standards and a plan for flexible implementation; the study is expected to be
completed within a few months.
34.   PRSL-Related Actions Taken. With respect to budget preparation: a new organic budget law
has been approved by Parliament. The new law (which governs the preparation and approval of annual
budget laws beginning in fiscal year 1999/2000) inter alia reduces the incidence of extra-budgetary
accounts with earmarked revenues, and increases flexibility with respect to managing appropriations.
Further, following a provision in the 1996 Constitution, the Government has proceeded to restore a
medium-term planning framework (the "Plan", which had been discontinued in 199:2) on a more flexible
basis than in the past. Such a framework will articulate the links between, or the one hand, key
development objectives and strategies and, on the other, public expenditure needs and likely tradeoffs
among them-thereby institutionalizing a connection between annual budget appropriations and medium-
term strategic priorities. The Conseil du Gouvernement has already discussed and approved a policy paper
that provides directives for preparation of the plan. Work on the plan began under the auspices of the
Ministries of Planning and Finance in late 1998, and is expected to be completed over the summer of
1999.
35.   With respect to budget execution, the Government has prepared a comprehensive action plan,
based inter alia on a major diagnostic study completed under the Bank-financed social priorities (BAJ)
projects, designed to introduce more streamlined and transparent expenditure management and
procurement arrangements. While its introduction is expected to be phased over the next two years,
elements of the action plan already being implemented to reduce bottlenecks in budget execution include:
(i) streamlining supporting documentation requirements for appropriation transfer requests; (ii) fostering
administrative decentralization by empowering additional managers to approve expenditure proposals;
and (iii) improving expenditure management by issuing a circular reminding budget administrators of the
(streamlined) procedures for payments from working capital funds in individual departments. Other steps
already taken include issuance of tender invitations to short-listed bidders for the establishment of a
computerized integrated expenditure management system on a pilot basis. It is expected that when
implemented, the new system will significantly speed up authorization and payment procedures.
36.   Regarding procurement, the Conseil du Gouvernement has approved a decree overhauling the
public procurement system, so as to enhance transparency, accountability and competitiveness in
procurement. In particular, the decree mandates public bid-opening sessions, substantially narrows the
scope for restricted bidding or sole-sourcing, extends the period for bid submissions, and provides for
mandatory special controls and audits for contracts valued at over DH 5 mnillion. Implementing
regulations covering, for example, transparency and uniformity in pre-qualification listings of contractors
and suppliers, are also being prepared. The Bank is advising the authorities on addlitional aspects of the
implementing regulations and related matters in the context of a country procurement review.
37.   Finally, revenue administration has been strengthened by the approval by the Conseil du
Gouvernement of a new code (Code de Recouvrement) that will facilitate the collection of receivables
from taxpayers.
Civil Service and Administrative Reform
38.   Key Issues and Medium-Term Objectives. Central Government employment represents a
heavy burden on the budget. The Government wage bill (for some 760,000 budgeted positions as of end-
1997) has grown rapidly in recent years. It presently accounts for over 11 percent of GDP, exclusive of
employer contributions for health and social security. This is a large percentage by international
standards-and does not take into account the costs of an additional 135,000 (as of end-1997) public
sector employees in municipalities. Given the need to safeguard macroeconomic balances and avoid
crowding out private investment, the resources for any significant increases in expenditure on basic
services for the rural poor and growth- and equity-enhancing public investment will need to be found
from reallocation rather than from higher overall spending. But the sheer weight of wage costs,
accentuated by net new hirings and an embedded wage drift of over 3 percent a year (reflecting automatic



- 12 -
increases as a result of within-grade progression, promotion, and job reclassifications) severely restricts
the scope for such reallocation.
39.   The weight of budgetary costs is not the only problem leading to calls for civil service reform.
Rigidities in personnel management and related incentive deficiencies have made for a combination of
inadequate and cost-ineffective service delivery. Remuneration often hinges sensitively on post-specific
allowances and bonuses; coupled with regulations constraining mobility, this inhibits the redeployment of
staff across agencies, departments, or regions, leading to larger recruitment needs than would otherwise
be necessary. Restrictions on staff mobility also impede administrative decentralization and consequential
improvements in service delivery (see below). And finally, incentives for on-the-job performance (and
hence increasing service quality) are largely absent. Employees are effectively guaranteed life-time jobs,
and seniority weighs heavily in remuneration and promotions. It is estimated that within a given grade,
the fastest possible advancement takes an employee to the top of the scale after 32 years of service, only
11 years earlier than progression at the statutory minimum rate of advancement.
40.    While reform initiatives in individual ministries have been in place for some time (for example,
under the UNDP-supported National Capacity Modernization and Improvement Program, which has been
operational since 1996), the present Government has emphasized to an unprecedented degree the priority
need for a comprehensive, system-wide civil service reform program. Specific proposals are expected to
emerge from the results of a major AFSED-funded study, completion of which is expected by the summer
of 1999. The study will inter alia present detailed proposals to: (i) rationalize remuneration structures in
order to reduce obstacles to mobility stemming from the job-specificity of bonuses and allowances; (ii)
revamp incentives, notably by increasing the weight assigned to performance relative to seniority in
remuneration and promotions; and (iii) reorganize governmental structures to make more efficient use of
available human resources. Detailed implementation is expected to begin later in 1999, although a number
of initiatives have already been taken by the Government (see subsection below on PRSL-related actions
taken).
41.   A further issue concerns the high degree of administrative centralization in Government. Policy-
makers have long acknowledged the need to bring the delivery of priority services (such as those to the
rural poor) closer to users and, in parallel, to strengthen the political channels through which the "voice"
of actual and prospective users can be heard. Currently, over-centralization inhibits cost-effective service
delivery and delays implementation of public investment projects, especially in education and health care.
Meanwhile, Morocco's development over the past three decades has been skewed in favor of a few urban
areas, requiring new mechanisms for less developed communities to express their needs in the national
political arena.
42.   The Government plans to address these issues through a combination of: (i) administrative
decentralization of central Government structures; and (ii) greater participation of sub-national levels of
government (especially the new Regional Councils elected in 1998) in the administrative decentralization
process. Some ministries (Public Works and Transport, for example) have already begun to implement
limited administrative decentralization initiatives. The Government's draft charter on administrative
decentralization (Charte de D&oncentration) is intended to set out key objectives, principles, and
guidelines, as a basis for individual ministries and agencies to develop budget-neutral action plans for
spatial redeployment of staff and resources, along with effective delegation of decision-making powers
and accountability for service delivery. Implementation, based on the Charte and follow-up measures
drawn up by individual ministries and agencies, is expected to begin later in 1999.
43.   PRSL-Related Actions Taken. The Prime Minister has issued a circular establishing a
ministerial level Strategic Committee for Civil Service and Administrative Reform, to oversee the design
and implementation of a comprehensive reform program. The program's elements are to include: (i)
containing the wage bill; (ii) promoting administrative decentralization and easing restrictions on mobility
of personnel; (iii) fostering better client relations and improving services to citizens; and (iv) overhauling
incentives for Government employees. The Government has already taken steps towards realizing these
goals. It has committed itself in its Letter of Development Policy to reduce the public sector wage bill by



- 13 -
at least two percentage points of GDP over the next five years. With respect to administrative
decentralization, the Strategic Committee has already reviewed the draft Charte de Deconcentration
decree, in preparation for approval by the Conseil du Gouvernement. With respect to client orientation,
the Conseil du Gouvernement has already approved a Good Management Compact (Pacte de Bonne
Gestion, or PBG), as a first step in defining and implementing a government-wide program covering
conduct and ethics, efficient resource management, and client relations, and the Strategic Committee has
conducted a first review of mechanisms to implement key PBG provisions. Finally, a high-level
independent Commission has been appointed to develop recommendations for refornms in the areas of
personnel redeployment and remuneration and retirement systems. Although these initial steps represent
a significant start, the most difficult steps in implementing the Government's medium-term civil service
reform agenda clearly lie ahead, and the Bank will seek to maintain a close dialogue with the authorities
to ensure that the agenda moves forward.
Judicial Reform
44.   Key Issues and Medium-Term Objectives. Following substantial progress with legal and
regulatory reform, attention has also turned to enhancing the effectiveness of reform by improving the
functioning of the judicial system. Over the past two years, the King has askedi the Government to
undertake judicial reform. The judicial system has long been criticized domestically, particularly with
regard to business-related litigation, and was identified as a key constraint to private business
development in the Bank's 1994 Morocco Private Sector Assessment (PSA) as well as in the 1998 PSA
Update. Major shortcomings include a lack of: (i) efficiency and timeliness in the judicial process,
resulting in a huge backlog of cases; (ii) transparency and predictability in judicial decisions; (iii)
competence in commercial law, broadly defined; and (iv) capacity to enforce judgments.
45.   PRSL-Related Actions Taken. The Government has made judicial reform a top priority within
its overall program. To strengthen the ability of the judicial system to handle business-related cases, six
new commercial courts and three commercial courts of appeal have been established. In order to ensure
the effective operation of the new commercial court network, the Government has also (i) begun work on
a legal guide for commercial court judges and agreed on a timetable for its dissemination; (ii) harmonized
statutes governing the organization of the judiciary and magistrates with the law establishing the
commercial court network; and (iii) agreed on a timetable for completing the computerization of
commercial court operations, which is already underway. As a first step towards the possible extension of
the commercial court network, the Government has conducted an assessment of experience with the
network to date. In addition to these actions, the Government (i) plans to assess the feasibility of
enhancing the timely enforcement of business-related judicial decisions by establishing an office of judge
for the implementation of commercial decisions analogous to the existing office of judge for the
implementation of decisions in penal cases (juge d'application des peines); and (ii) is studying ways to
reduce ex post stakeholder criticism of new laws related to commercial issues by allowing the Secretaire
General du Gouvernement to create, on an ad hoc basis, legal drafting teams consisting of relevant
government officials, private sector representatives and academnics.
46.   The Government believes that alternative modes of dispute settlement, such as arbitration, can
also reduce  congestion, notably in matters of commercial litigation. A Casablanca Commercial
Arbitration Center (CCAC) has been established as a pilot vehicle for this purpose. Although the CCAC
is a non-governmental body, the Government wishes to support its activities and the broad concept of
recourse to commercial arbitration; it has therefore completed an action plan and timetable for the
preparation and adoption of a consolidated Commercial Arbitration Code that would bring together the
numerous provisions relating to arbitration that are currently scattered in Moroccan laws.
47.   More generally, in order to improve service delivery throughout the judicial system as a whole,
the Government has published a decree establishing a new organizational chart and administrative
structure for the Ministry of Justice. The new structure establishes clearer lines of responsibility and
accountability, more streamlined procedures and decision-making processes, better interaction between



- 14 -
judicial services and users, greater capacity for monitoring and evaluating judges' performance and
inspecting courts, and performance incentives for the Ministry's civil servants. As implementation
proceeds, the Ministry plans to conduct a formal impact assessment, which will be used to further
improve the system. As a first step towards ensuring the comprehensiveness and broad acceptability of
this reform process, the Government has signed an agreement with the Moroccan Bar Association
providing for a participatory approach to judicial reform.
48.    A professional and authoritative judiciary in which the public has confidence needs adequate
career development and related arrangements. The Ministry of Justice has recently initiated work (and
prepared a timetable for adoption of the relevant legislation) to create a legal framework providing for,
inter alia, the career development of notaries, professional experts in judicial matters, and court personnel
(including bailiffs, transcribers and legal translators).
49.    The quality and timeliness of the judicial process also depends critically on well-trained
personnel, including judges. Accordingly, the Government has initiated a study which will (i) critically
review current training systems for judicial staff, including training of judges by the National Judicial
Studies Institute (INEJ), and (ii) reconmmend reforms in training mechanisms, with special reference to
restructuring INEJ and fostering greater interaction with the private sector.  Joint financing and
organization of targeted seminars for judges and others in the legal profession has already been initiated
with the banking community, and the Casablanca stock miarket has expressed interest in joining similar
efforts. In addition, the Government has launched a wider study on training and career development in
the justice sector as a whole.
D. Private Sector Development
50.    The Government sees dynamic private sector development as central to achieving the country's
growth objectives. While the public sector reforms outlined in the previous section should contribute to
improving the enabling environment for the private sector, the reform program supported by the PRSL
also includes a range of actions specifically focused on encouraging the private sector. This section
describes four strategic priorities for private sector development: (i) to continue the privatization effort
effectively initiated in 1993; (ii) to promote private participation in infrastructure; (iii) to improve the
business environment for private enterprises; and (iv) to improve access to finance.
Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization
51.   Key Issues and Medium Term Objectives. Since 1993, Morocco has substantially improved the
management of public enterprises (PEs), as exemplified by the increase in PE self-financing from 36
percent in 1993 to 87 percent in 1996. It has also moved forward with privatization; of the 113 PEs
designated for privatization, 52 have been transferred to the private sector, including 125 subsidiaries.
Nevertheless, the rules governing PE management remain cumbersome and incompatible with managerial
autonomy and transparent financial management and operations. Meanwhile, the PE sector still accounts
for about 14 percent of GDP. Accordingly, the Government's medium-term objective is to undertake,
within its tenure of office, a comprehensive PE reform and privatization program.
52.    PRSL-Related Actions Taken. To this end, the Conseil du Gouvernement has approved an
action plan, detailed in its Letter of Development Policy (Annex 3), to: (i) strengthen governance and
performance of enterprises remaining in the public sector; (ii) transfer in a transparent manner the
majority of the remaining portfolio of public enterprises to the private sector; and (iii) liquidate non-
viable enterprises.
53.   PE Reform. The Government sees reforming PE governance and performance as critical, even in
the context of its commitment to the privatization program. Priority reform areas include: (i) redefining
the relations between the state and PEs, based on new "strategic" program contracts with key performanice
indicators, inspired by the performance improvements yielded in the case of the National Railways
Company; (ii) improving PE financial management, through legislation that defines reciprocal
PE/Govemment financial obligations, together with upgrading of PE financial management systems; and



- 15 -
(iii) corporatizing selected PEs by making them subject to the recently revised law governing limited
liability companies, thus helping to resolve the problems of excessive (ex ante) control by government
agencies.
54.   Liquidation. The Government has gradually changed the approach to liquidation as a potentially
necessary instrument of public enterprise reform. Until recently, even for PEs whose activities had
become obsolete, efforts were made to restructure their balance sheets and sell themn as going concerns.
These efforts were partially successful at best, and some companies had to be closed down-involving
processes that were costly (because employees had to be retrenched in compliance with domestic labor
law), and lengthy (due to an antiquated legal framework for liquidation). In 1998, the legal framework
was modernized with the introduction of commercial tribunals; the Government believes that this
measure, together with the reform of the law governing limited liability companies., should facilitate the
liquidation of non-viable PEs. It has asked the Office de Developpement Industriel (ODI) to proceed with
the liquidation of 13 companies in the remaining portfolio under the privatization list.
55.   PRSL-Related Actions Taken. The Government has begun to implement a DH 3.7 billion
package for the phased shut-down by 2001 of a non-viable coal-mining operation, CdM, which had
reported losses of DH 400 million in 1996 alone. The closure plan has been agreed by all parties
including labor unions. Initial provision of DH 667 million has been made in the 1998/99 budget to
implement the first phase of the liquidation, including the layoff and compensation of almost one third of
the 4647 employees. With respect to a second non-viable PE, SEFERIF, DH 24 million has been
allocated in the 1998/99 budget for the first phase of liquidation, affecting some 230 employees, 166 of
whom have already been laid off. However, ensuring rapid progress in other liquidations, including those
entrusted to ODI, calls for further strengthening of implementation capacity.
56.    Sale of Public Enterprises. The Government is cornmitted to divesting the remaining portfolio of
companies selected for privatization within the shortest possible timeframe. The original privatization law
was adopted by Parliament in December 1989 with strong endorsement from  the King, but
implementation began only in 1993. The law mandated the initial transfer to the private sector of 112 PEs
by December 31, 1995, and was then amended to provide for the transfer of 113 enterprises by December
31, 1998. The list of privatizable enterprises focused on firms operating in the tradable sector; it excluded
public utilities as well as phosphate companies and other firms classified as "strategic". The law
emphasized transparency and accountability, albeit at the cost of slow procedures.
57.   PRSL-Related Actions Taken. Parliament has approved new legislation that modifies and
complements the current Privatization Law (No. 39-89). The new legislation: (i) removes any deadline
constraining the implementation of the privatization program; (ii) streamlines and simplifies procedures in
order to accelerate transfers to the private sector; and (iii) allows new companies to be privatized. The
Government has also abandoned the notion of "strategic" enterprises, and considers all enterprises
operating in a competitive environment eligible for privatization.  In parallel, while the existing
privatization list has been maintained (excluding a number of PEs that are candidates for liquidation), the
principle of a global "positive" list is to be abolished and replaced with an annual identification in the
budget of firms to be privatized within a given fiscal year.
58.   It is anticipated that at least two large privatization transactions, involving a. strategic investor and
the participation of the general public, will take place every year. In addition, there will be a pipeline of
divestitures of small and medium enterprises, including those where the state holds a minority share. In
total, it is expected that privatization revenues in 1999/2000 will increase from DH 500 million to DH 3.5
billion. However, no new firms outside the existing list have as yet been slated for privatization.



- 16 -
Private Participation in Infrastructure
59.    Key Issues and Medium  Term  Objectives. In Morocco, as in developed and developing
economies worldwide, the concept of private participation in infrastructure (PPI) has recently come to the
fore as a means of: (i) expanding infrastructure provision against a background of budgetary constraints
on potentially massive new public investment needs; and (ii) improving the quality of services to
customers relative to public sector provision, based on the better management often offered by private
sector providers and/or enhanced competition. Moroccan experience with PPI has included a 30-year
concession for water and power distribution and sanitation in Casablanca, a large project (supported by a
Bank guarantee) for electric power generation at Jorf Lasfar, and the transfer to private consortia of
industrial parks in Casablanca and El Jadida under a concession scheme. In May 1998, Rabat awarded a
concession similar to that in Casablanca. Other PPI initiatives at various stages of preparation include a
new port near Tangier, new water, power distribution and solid waste collection and disposal schemes in
various cities, and new private power stations. Following enabling legislation passed in 1997, the
telecommunications sector is being opened up to private participation and competition (to be supported by
the planned Bank TPI-SAL; see section I.C.3).
60.   Despite these initiatives, PPI in Morocco continues to face significant obstacles. Much remains
to be done to increase competition in service provision. Moreover, PPI has thus far been piecemeal and, in
the absence of an overall policy framework, has been subject to poor coordination and procedural
weaknesses. Thus, while some private operators have been selected on the basis of a competitive process
(Jorf Lasfar power generation), others have been selected on the basis of direct negotiations (Casablanca
and Rabat water and power distribution). In some cases, the institutional, financial and technical
engineering was done with assistance from experienced international advisers, in other cases without
expert assistance. Projects have been plagued by long delays due to lack of consensus, lack of high-level
government commitment, opposition from entrenched interests, and poorly designed processes lacking in
transparency. Thus, the Jorf Lasfar project took over 3 years from the launch of the tender process to
financial closing, as did the Casablanca water and power concession. Though some of these delays are
inherent in early operations and should be reduced in follow-up projects, developing a coherent pipeline
of well-designed PPI initiatives will require a new and carefully designed strategy and institutional, legal
and regulatory framework-involving competition in the market for infrastructure services by introducing
new providers, or where this is not feasible,for the market by way of competitive award of concessions-
so as to avoid replacing public monopolies by private ones.
61.    PRSL-Related Actions Taken. The Govemment has taken some first steps in the area of PPI,
even though important implementation challenges to reach its objectives in this area still lie ahead. To
improve the foundations for PPI, it has initiated a comprehensive reform of the legal and institutional
framework for concessions and related PPI contracts. Specifically, it has created an inter-ministerial
working group and launched a study to develop new common cross-sectoral policies with respect to
concessions, and provide draft guidelines, regulations and/or model contractual clauses to operationalize
cross-sectorally consistent new policies for PPI.
62.   In addition, the Government has initiated work in three areas of special concern. First, the Conseil
du Gouvernement has approved a long-awaited draft law abolishing the monopoly of the Office National
du Transport (ONT) on road freight forwarding-although the abolition is deferred for two years and
ONT's regulatory functions have not been clearly separated from its commercial activities. Second, it has
initiated a study of options for increasing competition in the electricity sector, including the creation of a
wholesale market. Third, it has initiated work on a strategy for increasing competition and private
provision in rail, air, road and maritime transport services, and has set up an inter-ministerial committee
to oversee strategy preparation and to develop concrete recommendations for reform.



- 17 -
Business Environment
63.   Key Issues and Medium Term  Objectives. The private sector supply response to recent
improvements in the business environment has been disappointing. Over the past few years, private
investment has lacked dynamism, productivity has stagnated, and export growth has fallen behind the
growth in trade of Morocco's partners. Recent World Bank analysis suggests that these factors reflect the
need for specific improvements in Morocco's business environment that extend beyond ensuring good
macroeconomic management. An industrial competitiveness (mise i niveau) program, launched in 1997
and designed to upgrade firm-level technical capacity and managerial skills as well as business
development services, is still in its early stages. Meanwhile, high trade barriers inhibit competitiveness
(about one-third of non-agricultural imports remain subject to protection exceeding 31) percent, based on a
complex array of instruments-some 17 tariff bands, three import levy rates and iFive value-added tax
rates). There is no legal base for modem competition policies. In addition, burdens on private investment
and business operations were ranked top constraints on private sector development in a recent survey of
enterprises.
64.   To address these shortcomings, the Government is committed to advance the mise a niveau
program, and to create a business enviromnent conducive to private sector development, based on policies
to increase competitive pressures in the economy and promote new businesses. It is further supporting the
trade liberalization process in the context of agreements with the WTO and the EU. It also has already
taken specific PRSL-related actions in three important areas: customs administration and procedures;
competition policy; and administrative and legal requirements with respect to business establishment and
investment (see below).
65.   Trade Liberalization. Honoring WTO commitments, the Government has eliminated reference
prices and adopted the harmonized code in its 1998/99 budget. It has also begun to reduce tariffs on
agricultural products where current protection levels exceed WTO limits. With respect to the Association
Agreement with the EU, free trade in virtually all industrial products is to be phased in over 12 years
following ratification by all EU states. Overall, the Agreement covers about 50 percent of all Morocco's
dutiable imports. Pending ratification, the Government has already implemented some of the tariff
reductions in its 1998/99 and 1999/2000 budgets. Negotiations on liberalization of agricultural trade are
expected to begin in the year 2000.
66.   Customs administration. The stimulus to a competitive business environment provided by a
liberalized trade regime can be offset by cumbersome customs administration and procedures that impose
undue costs and delays on firms currently involved in international trade and deter others potentially
interested in entering the trade arena. The Government has therefore adopted a reform program to
modernize customs administration. Work is under way to increase the use of computerization and other
technology to manage critical information, such as the movement of goods, processing of declarations,
assessment of tariffs in an integrated fashion, and payment of obligations. In parallel, it is streamlining the
regime for temporary admissions, which allows exporters to import inputs free of duty. The reform
program also calls for upgrading staff skills through on-the-job training and short-term courses.
67.   PRSL-Related Actions Taken. The Conseil du Gouvernement has approved a new Customs
Code that strearnlines procedures in line with international practices. The Moroccan authorities have also
(as of January 1999) reduced the elapsed time for customs clearance to fifteen hours on average,
compared to two days in July 1998.
68.   Competition and Price Policies. The effects of promoting a competitive business environment via
tariff and customs reform need to be buttressed by a legal framework that fosters competitive domestic
business practices and that begins to reduce the scope of remaining price controls. The Government is
committed to moving decisively in this direction, as outlined below.
69.   PRSL-Related Actions Taken. The Conseil du Gouvernement has approved a new draft
competition law which is generally consistent with international best practices. It provides for consumer
protection information, along with guidelines for identifying anti-competitive behavior and market



- 18 -
concentration, and for prior notification of proposed mergers and acquisitions.  It will create a
Competition Council to administer the law in a transparent manner. Council members will be appointed
for substantial terrns, investigative and adjudication functions will be separated, and dissenting views will
be published but confidentiality of sensitive business information will be protected. The Council will
have an enforcement capacity, along with mechanisms for appeal of decisions, and will be accessible to
producers and consumers. However, the Council is dominated by government representatives-which
might weaken the its credibility in the eyes of the business community. Finally, the draft competition law
envisions a five-year transition period for the elimination of the remaining price controls on 29 products
and services, and the Government has expressed its commnitment to reduce price controls to 18
products/services in the short term.
70.    Legal and Administrative Framework. Much has recently been done to improve the legal
environment for business establishment and operation, including introduction of a simplified investment
charter, legislation governing joint stock companies, and a modern commercial code. The alternance
Government is committed to continuing this process. Together with recently approved property rights
legislation, it intends to activate the provisions of the investment charter for a "one-stop shop" for
investors and the granting of permits by default if official responses to requests are not received within
sixty days. It is also reviewing the system of permits and authorizations, and has agreed to establish
centers in local chambers of commerce to support and certify accounting and tax declarations by small
and medium-sized enterprises.
71.    PRSL-Related Actions Taken. The Conseil du Gouvernement has approved a draft law and
enabling decree creating a single agency for registry of intellectual property rights (e.g., patents and
trademarks) in the industrial and commercial sectors.
Access to Finance
72.    Key Issues and Medium Term Objectives. Major reforms have been undertaken since the late
1980s with respect to liberalization of banking activities, modernization of the banking regulatory
framework, development of capital markets, and promotion of institutional savings intermediaries such as
insurance companies and pension funds. The result has been expanded market-based bank financial
intermediation and the emergence of capital market financing and other non-bank financing alternatives.
Bank credit has grown as a percentage of GDP with no significant overall increase in the banking
system's credit risk exposure. There are now 20 private commercial banks, and some 70 finance
companies offering mainly leasing and consumer credit facilities. Government ownership of bank assets
has decreased significantly while foreign participation in bank capital has grown rapidly. Finally, stock
market activity has been energized, mainly by a series of privatizations facilitated by a more modern
market infrastructure.
73.    Nonetheless, access to finance is still a major impediment to private sector growth. It is
constrained by a number of factors, including: limited savings mobilization by the banking system;
limited term lending by banks resulting from the very short maturity of bank deposits; non-performing
loans (a manageable problem for banks but a major issue for specialized credit institutions-which are
also hampered by inefficiencies created by their dual organizational goals as public service institutions
and commercial banks); and the high proportion of government domestic borrowing from the banking
system.
74.    Meanwhile, the supply of bank finance for small businesses remains very limited. This partly
reflects high risk aversion in the absence of an adequate judicial system and technical support for secured
lending to private firms. It also reflects low risk premiums for bank lending to large enterprises, which
have reduced incentives for such borrowers to obtain alternative financing from capital market
instruments-which could otherwise have helped both to meet demand for high-grade corporate
securities and to free up bank credit for smaller enterprises. At the same time, stringent listing
requirements inhibit the access of small firms to the stock market. Hence, while stock market
capitalization has increased more than seven-fold in the last five years, there has been no initial public



- 19 -
offering of new equity securities by private non-financial enterprises during this period, in spite of highly
favorable stock market conditions.
75.    The Government recognizes the importance of improving access to finance for private sector
development, and intends to focus on three priority areas of reform. First, to increase the efficiency of the
banking system as a whole, it will pursue financial restructuring and improved governance of public
sector banks. Second, it will promote greater access to finance by small enterprises by introducing a
legislative framework for the orderly development of micro-credit activities. Third, it will seek ways to
promote more effective savings mobilization.
76.    PRSL-Related Actions Taken. The Government has already taken action in the first two areas.
With respect to restructuring public sector financial institutions, it has focused on three institutions in
particular. First, the Conseil du Gouvernement has approved draft legislation that transforms CNCA, the
rural credit institution, into a joint stock company. DH 450 million had also been allocated in the 1998/99
budget to recapitalize CNCA and write off its large portfolio of non-performing agricultural loans. There
remains, however, a tension between its public service and commercial functions. Clearly, the viability of
CNCA will need to be judged in light of the framework agreements which set out the contractual
obligations of this institution and the Government, and which are still under preparation. Second, the
Conseil du Gouvernement has approved a draft law changing the statutes of the Banque Centrale
Populaire (BCP), to allow divestiture of state-owned shares to its regional network of banks (Banques
Populaires). It is also envisioned that a minority offering will be sold to the private sector through the
stock market. However, the Government retains significant influence on BCP's corporate governance
through a Commissaire du Gouvernement that directly reports to the Ministry of Finance, which
introduces uncertainty as to whether this reform will indeed change the incentives and competitive
behavior of this important financial institution. Third, the 1998/99 budget includes DH 150 million for
rescheduling non-performing fishery sector loans in the portfolio of the Caisse Centrale de Garantie
(CCG) as the first step in a 10-year, DH 1.5 billion rescheduling program.
77.    With respect to micro-credit and savings, Parliament has approved a lavv facilitating micro-
lending activities and conditions, based on a regulatory framework that will both encourage financial
institutions to expand their lending to small and micro enterprises and promote savings mobilization from
small entrepreneurs.
E. Poverty Reduction and Social Welfare
78.    The scope for poverty reduction in Morocco is intimately linked to the other core elements of the
Government's program discussed above. Specifically, adoption of a medium-term macroeconomic
framework conducive to more rapid GDP growth (Part II.B), complemented by public sector reform (Part
II.C) and private sector development (Part II.D), will help to provide opportunities for increasing the scale
and improving the delivery of services to the poor, and for new private sector jcobs that will help to
alleviate poverty. But a range of specifically targeted interventions, as specified in the Government's
reform program, is also needed to accelerate the hitherto gradual pace of improvements in Morocco's
social indicators (including access to basic social and infrastructure services), which continue to lag
substantially behind those of comparator countries. The Government's program supported by the PRSL
emphasizes four areas of intervention designed to alleviate poverty, which is heavily concentrated in rural
areas: (i) social assistance and community development; (ii) rural water supply, electricity and roads; (iii)
education (especially in rural areas) and adult literacy; and (iv) health care.
Social Assistance and Community Development
79.    Key Issues and Medium Term Objectives. The challenge for the Governmnent with respect to
social assistance and community development is to overhaul existing mechanisms and institutions
supporting the poor, especially in rural areas, and to establish new ones to respond to currently unmet
needs.



-20 -
80.    One such existing mechanism is that of food subsidies, which currently absorb close to two
percent of GDP and six percent of Government expenditures. Moreover, subsidy expenditures
substantially serve to counteract import tariffs and thus represent effective transfers to producers rather
than consumers while distorting agricultural production patterns. Finally (with the exception of self-
targeting of coarse wheat flour), subsidies are not targeted, and only an estimated one-fifth of subsidy
expenditures reach the poor. The Government has begun assessing options for reform-albeit cautiously,
in light of the subject's potential sensitivity-including: (i) parallel reduction of tariff protection and
subsidies on food products; (ii) introduction of targeted assistance to low-income groups negatively
affected by (i) above; (iii) reallocation of budgetary funds freed up by reduced subsidy expenditures to
programs benefiting the poor (e.g., basic education and health care services in rural areas, basic
infrastructure, and public works programs).
81.    A second mechanism for poverty alleviation is the Promotion Nationale (PN), a public works
program that finances temporary jobs for unemployed unskilled workers at below-market wages to
provide low-income communities with basic infrastructure. PN exhibits serious weaknesses, however. A
large share of resources is spent on local government administrators' wage payments rather than directly
helping low-income communities. Overall, less than one-fifth of PN's budget is genuinely spent on labor-
intensive programs benefiting localities where the poor are concentrated. Options being studied by the
Government for restructuring PN include: (i) concentrating programs in low-income areas and
strengthening self-targeting mechanisms; (ii) allocating a significant share of PN financing to labor-
intensive activities and increasing the share of labor costs to over 60 percent of total costs; and (iii)
involving the private sector in PN programs.
82.    Apart from food subsidies and public works programs, most publicly-funded direct assistance to
the poor is administered by the Entraide Nationale (EN), under the auspices of the Ministry of Social
Development, often working in partnership with local charities.3 However, EN's programs are not cost
effective, and fail to reach many of the poor (of an estimated 5 million poor and vulnerable people, EN
programs reach only some 60,000). The budget for EN activities is modest (about 0.1 percent of GDP in
1996), and much of it is allocated to recurrent costs, mainly the salaries of about 6,300 persons.
Nevertheless, a restructured EN has the potential to provide more effective assistance to the poor, by
expanding its outreach and delivering fewer, better-focused programs in a more cost-effective way.
83.    Finally, no  overarching mechanism  exists for supporting participatory, community-based
development initiatives, particularly among the rural poor. Pilot programs for the development of basic
social and infrastructure services at the community level have been initiated in several regions, in many
cases administered by local NGOs, with promising results. This suggests the need for a new broad-based
national program to promote participatory development mechanisms.
84.    PRSL-Related Actions Taken. To focus attention on poverty reduction, the Government has
appointed an inter-ministerial comnmittee, chaired by the Prime Minister, to coordinate preparation and
monitor implementation of a strategy designed to increase the access of the poor to basic infrastructure
and social services, to job opportunities, and to social protection mechanisms.
85.    To enhance the effectiveness of the Entraide Nationale, the Government has prepared a report
detailing EN's long-term development strategy, and has agreed on a restructuring program for EN,
designed to better identify target groups and their needs; better focus its activities, make them more cost-
effective, and increase their beneficiary coverage; and strengthen its institutional capacity to monitor the
impact of its activities. Implementation has begun through: (i) a detailed review of necessary changes in
EN's legal status in accordance with the restructuring program; (ii) the selection of provinces in which to
3      Existing EN programs include: (i) basic literacy training and nutritional advice for mothers in Centres Socio-Educatifs;
(ii) training centers for illiterate and/or drop-out girls in Centres d 'Education et de Travail; (iii) support for shelters for (mainly
male) school-age children and orphans provided by Associations Musulmanes de Bienfaisance (AMB); (iv) pre-school centers
(garderies); (v) technical training for needy children, basic education drop-outs, and AMB orphans in Centres de Formation
Professionnelle; and (vi) food aid and training for the handicapped.



- 21 -
begin implementing the restructuring program on a pilot basis; and (iii) an assessment of EN's vocational
training activities with a view to transferring beneficiaries to programs run by the National Establishment
for Vocational Training (OFPPT).
86.   Finally, to respond to the need to support participatory, community-based development
initiatives, the Government has approved a draft law for the creation of a social development fund
(Agence de Developpement Social, ADS). The Board of Directors will include representatives from the
business and NGO communities, although half its members will be government representatives. The law
also provides for: ex post (rather than ex ante) government financial control through independent
technical and financial audits; specific emphasis on partnerships with the private sector, NGOs, and
Government in identifying target groups, assessing priority needs, designing and implementing activities,
and monitoring their impact; and decentralized project selection with community-level participation to
ensure that ADS-supported activities are demand-driven and sustainable. The Government is currently
drawing up the detailed institutional arrangements to initiate ADS operations as soon as the draft law is
approved by Parliament. These arrangements will determine the degree of operational and financial
autonomy from government, including flexibility in day-to-day management, remuneration of personnel,
and procurement regulations. The Government is fully aware that the nature of these arrangement will be
critical determinants of the effectiveness and efficiency of ADS operations. The Elank is pursuing the
dialogue on ADS arrangements and is ready to assist further as needed.
Basic Rural Infrastructure
87.   Key Issues and Medium Term Objectives. The Government has identified rapid increases in
access to basic rural infrastructure services-safe water, electricity, and roads-as a priority in its attack
on poverty. Almost two-thirds of the rural population still lacks access to safe water, compared with less
than 20 percent in urban areas. Access is disproportionately low among the rural poor, with negative
effects on health, productivity, and incentives for the schooling of children, particularly girls. Lack of
access to safe water also contributes to rural-urban migration. Rural access to electricity and roads is also
disproportionately low. Only about one-third of the rural population currently has access to electricity
(compared with well over 90 percent in urban areas), and only around 40 percent has access to an all-
weather road. While access to safe water is arguably the most critical need, bringing electricity supply to
poor rural areas can enhance labor productivity, arrest environmental degradation, facilitate the provision
of basic services, and stem rural-urban migration. Similarly, increased road access, by enhancing market
opportunities and facilitating wider access to basic social and infrastructure services for rural
communities, can play a crucial role in reducing poverty and enhancing welfare.
88.   PRSL-Related Actions Taken. The Government has committed itself to largets for access to
safe water and an associated financial plan based on its Program for Rural Potable Water Supply
(PAGER). Targets under the program call for ensuring access to safe water for 53 percent of the rural
population by 2002. Previous difficulties with financing the PAGER program have now been
substantially addressed through a recent Government decree instituting a water surcharge on urban
consumers (Taxe de Solidarite'). Proceeds of the surcharge, estimated at about DII 70 million for the
1998/99 budget year, will help fund the program. The Government has finalized the financing plan for
the PAGER Program, involving an increase in the central budget's contribution from DH 100 million in
the 1998/99 Finance Law to DH 250 million in the 1999/2000 Finance Law. The Government has also
agreed to access targets and a fnancing plan for the Rural Electrification Program (Programme
d 'Electrification Rurale; PERG), which aims to provide access to electricity connections for 80 percent of
the rural population by 2010 by increasing connections at a rate of some 100,000 households (about
600,000 individuals) each year. Finally, the Government has agreed on targets and a financing plan to
accelerate the on-going rural roads rehabilitation and reconstruction program (Programme National de
Construction des Routes Rurales; PNCRR), designed to ensure road access to some 58 percent of the
rural population by the year 2003. The agreed program involves a gradual increase of the annual
rehabilitation and construction target (from the current level of about 1300 kilometers per year). It has
been agreed that all three programs (PAGER, PERG, and PNCRR) will be monitored jointly with the
Bank on a regular basis.



-22 -
Education and Adult Literacy
89.    Key Issues and Medium term Objectives. Effective delivery of high-quality education services
is critical for building the strong human capital base that Morocco needs in order to achieve rapid
economic growth and job creation, and address domestic income disparities. Despite substantial public
spending on education (about one-fifth of budgetary resources, equivalent to 5 percent of GDP), outcomes
have been disappointing. In quantitative terms, enrollment rates for lower basic education (6 to 11 year
olds) have grown rapidly in the past five years, but are still below regional and international averages for
comparator countries. Meanwhile, serious inequities persist between urban and rural enrollment rates, and
rural girls' enrollments have traditionally been particularly low, although improvements in the past two
years have been noteworthy. Finally, the quality of general education has also eroded as a result of
inefficient teaching methods and the absence of programs for systematically adapting and upgrading
teacher skills.
90.   In addition, more than half the adult population is currently illiterate. The problem is especially
acute in rural areas (72 percent illiteracy compared with 37 percent in urban areas), and among rural
females (with estimated illiteracy rates of 89 percent compared to 60 percent for rural males).
91.    The Government is determined to improve the performance of the education sector. Its goal is to
achieve within the next five years: (i) universal lower basic education (where enrollments are currently 86
percent), a 75 percent enrollment rate in upper basic education (currently about 50 percent) and a 50
percent rate in secondary education (currently less than 25 percent); (ii) a reduction in the gender gap and
rural-urban disparities (lower basic enrollments lag at around 72 percent in rural areas); and (iii)
improvements in the quality and efficiency of education services.
92.    PRSL-Related Actions Taken. The Government and the Bank have agreed on an action plan to:
(i) extend rural schooling facilities, initially through a three-year program to construct 1500 rural
classrooms annually; (ii) introduce decentralization of administrative responsibilities for school mapping
and project implementation to regional authorities; and (iii) initiate measures aimed at increasing staff
mobility and facilitating redeployment of personnel.
93.    With respect to illiteracy, the Government plans to reduce adult illiteracy to around 20 percent by
2012. To implement its program, it has: (i) allocated DH 30 million in 1998/99 to support agreed literacy
programs; and (ii) launched a new approach to reducing illiteracy by concluding several agreements on
the implementation of specific, targeted literacy programs, including eight with NGOs in December 1998
and one framework agreement with the private sector.
Health Care
94.    Key Issues and Medium  Term  Objectives. Morocco's health budget amounts to only 1.3
percent of GDP, about half the level of spending in comparable countries. The current system also suffers
from inefficient use of resources and maldistribution between urban and rural areas. Meanwhile, less than
15 percent of the population has formal health insurance. Limited resources combined with poorly
targeted public health programs and inefficiently run hospitals have resulted in poor health indicators,
particularly for women and children in rural areas. Infant mortality accounts for 22 percent of all deaths
in the country, and is 30 percent higher in rural areas than in urban localities. 31 percent of the rural
population still lives over 10 kilometers from the nearest primary health care clinic, and only 25 percent
of pregnancies in rural areas are assisted by trained medical personnel (compared with 50 percent in urban
areas).
95.    The Government's medium-term program for upgrading health service coverage, access, and
quality emphasizes reallocation of resources towards the disadvantaged, particularly in rural areas,
general improvements in allocative efficiency, and structural reforms necessary to ensure sector-wide
efficiency and long-term financial sustainability. Specific medium-term objectives include reducing infant
and maternal mortality rates in rural areas, increasing the access of rural inhabitants to primary health care
clinics, and introducing new service financing mechanisms. Priority areas for action include: (i) reducing
rural-urban and inter-regional inequities in access to preventative and curative services; (ii) improving



- 23 -
sector efficiency, by making hospitals autonomous with respect to financial management and
administration; (iii) strengthening institutional capacity, by implementing a careflilly coordinated and
monitored decentralization strategy; (iv) ensuring long-term sector financial sustainability, by improving
the cost-effectiveness of provision of services and pharmaceuticals; and (v) reformin,g and expanding the
coverage of health insurance schemes and putting in place a national health assistance mechanism for
low-income groups.
96.   PRSL-Related Actions Taken. The Government has already taken important actions to support
its medium-term reform agenda. It has agreed on a detailed, time-bound action plan to extend health
insurance coverage and ensure the affordability of adequate health care for low-income households. It
has also approved: (i) a decree introducing user charges in hospitals and other Ministry of Health
establishments; and (ii) standardized bulk purchase procedures for pharmaceuticals. In addition, it has
taken steps to initiate a pilot redeployment program for healthcare personnel in Morocco's poorest
provinces, and prepared terms of reference for a system of health sector accounts. Meanwhile, as in other
sectors, the Ministry of Health is preparing a medium-term expenditure frameworlk to help ensure that
objectives and targets can be accurately translated into output, input, and resource requirements.
PART III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
97.   The overall objective of the PRSL is to support the Government's broad-based economic and
social reform program described in previous sections. The Government is showring a strong public
commitment to this reform program. It has agreed to widely publicize its Letter of Development Policy
(Annex 3), which elaborates on the reform agenda outlined in the Prime Minister's inaugural speech of
April 1998. The Government has also demonstrated its commitment in concrete fonn, by taking a range
of prior measures to initiate implementation of its program (Part II and Annex 2).
98.   The rationale for Bank involvement is predicated on the following factors:
*  the program's emphasis on an enabling environment for dynamic private sector growth while
also paying attention to enhancing social welfare and equity, along with Bank support
through the PRSL, will send an important signal to the investor community, and will
underscore the fact that political opening in Morocco is being accompanied by broad
socioeconomic reform with potentially substantial payoffs in terms of economic growth and
social cohesion;
*  the breadth of the program, together with  PRSL support for it, provides a catalyst for
addressing a wide range of cross-sectoral and multi-agency issues at an early stage in the
Government's term of office, improving prospects for implementation and sustainability of
comprehensive reform over the medium term; and
* the process of PRSL preparation, including the Government's willingness to draw on Bank
expertise, has helped to identify priority reforms and the means to implement them, and has
strengthened Govemment-Bank policy dialogue and partnership. Bank involvement and
concrete support may also help the Government to continue to manage domestic political and
economic pressures as it implements its program.
99.   More generally, the proposed Loan would support an expansion of private investment and help
finance the associated increase in import requirements, while helping to buttress external reserves in order
to guard against Morocco's continuing vulnerability to balance of payments shocks. Access to the Loan
in support of the initial phase of the reform program would help the Treasury reduce its call on domestic
savings. The additional external financing for the budget that would be provided under the PRSL,
coupled with containment of the overall budget deficit, would reduce the risk of putting upward pressure



-24 -
on domestic interest rates and crowding out private investment, on which the potential for higher growth
in the medium term depends.
100.  The additional medium-term financing contributed by the Loan would support a modest
expansion in imports needed to support higher domestic private investment and would also help offset
Morocco's vulnerability to exogenous shocks (Section I.C (Risk Factors)) that may be created by drought,
fluctuations in prices of phosphates (which still constitute over one-third of Morocco's merchandise
exports), and/or downturns in foreign exchange receipts from tourism and FDI, which have historically
shown considerable vulnerability to regional events outside Morocco's control. In this context, the modest
build-up in external reserves envisioned under the Government's program constitutes a prudent policy
measure. Finally, given current international financial market conditions, external financing alternatives
to the proposed Loan would be on substantially less favorable terms, reducing the potential for fiscal
consolidation and expansion of private investment.
101.  As already noted, the PSRL is proposed as a single-tranche operation. This approach is based on
the following factors:
*  it acknowledges not only Morocco's track record of solid economic management and the
Government's commitment to future reform, but also the measures already undertaken by the
Government (described in earlier sections and detailed in Annexes 2 and 3), which signal its
determination to adhere to the program; and
e  it represents a considered and positive response to the Government's request for a new
approach to Bank assistance, based on credible prior action rather than forward-looking
conditionality. It also recognizes the importance of up-front Bank support in helping to shape
the Government's medium-term reform program.
B. The PRSL and the Country Assistance Strategy
102.  Consistency with CAS objectives. The objectives of the PRSL reflect the priorities identified by
the CAS and the accompanying 1997-99 Business Compact. The PRSL addresses three priority areas
highlighted in the CAS: (i) encouraging more rapid growth and competitiveness; (ii) supporting
accelerated social and rural development; and (iii) reforming the public sector. These areas constitute the
core of the Government's economic and social reform program supported by the PRSL. Specific CAS
objectives addressed in the reform program include:
*  deficit reduction and reallocation of public expenditures, continued integration into the
global economy, deepening of financial markets, and private participation in
infrastructure;
*  resumption of public enterprise reform and privatization; initiation of dialogue on public
administration reform; and support for decentralization; and
*  shift of education expenditures towards basic schooling, improving access to basic
infrastructure services, targeting social safety net mechanisms to those most in need, and
increased public financing for basic health services.
103.  Response to CAS challenges. The main challenge identified by the CAS was that of combining
implementation of an economic and social reform program adhering to these objectives with an ongoing
process of political opening. Morocco has risen to this challenge. On the political front, the country has
witnessed a transition that goes well beyond the constitutional changes already anticipated in the CAS.
An alternance Government, for the first time constituted by a group of center-left parties which had been
in opposition for decades, and led by a Prime Minister with strong credentials at home and abroad, has
been elected and has taken office. This development is of great importance from the perspective of
governance, a key parameter for sustainable development. At the same time, Morocco has experienced
continued sound economnic management and, as noted, the alternance Government's economic and social
reform program meets major CAS objectives.



- 25 -
104.  Lending volume in relation to CAS scenarios. The proposed US$250 million PRSL and the
US$100 million TPI-SAL remain within the base case lending commitments envisioned under the
FY1997-99 Business Compact. The base case foresaw commitments of US$1 billion; the PSRL and the
TPI-SAL would bring total commitments for the period in question to around US$940 million, on target
for the base case scenario. Without the PRSL, commitments would have fallen short even of the US$780
million limit set under the low case scenario. The triggers for the base case scenario are:
*  continued improvement in macroeconomic indicators and competitiveness monitored in
close coordination with the IMF;
*  consistent progress on the implementation of priority social projects, in particular the
BAJ; and
*  progress on public enterprise reform, including a significant opening of infrastructure to
private investment.
105.  Morocco's prior performance and the current Government's short-term measures and medium-
term reform program justify lending at the level envisioned under this scenario. Wilh respect to specific
CAS benchmarks, Morocco has, on balance, clearly met those for the base case.
106.  Lending modalities in relation to CAS projections. As noted above, however, the PRSL does
reflect a shift in lending approach, from traditional investment projects towards quick-disbursing policy-
based loans: including the FY98 Contractual Savings Development Loan, policy-based lending to
Morocco over the CAS period would amount to US$400 million instead of the projected US$80 million.
107.  In addition to the specific rationale for Bank involvement in the proposed PRSL, the broader
evolution of lending towards policy-based operations is based on the following main considerations:
*  the new approach reflects and responds to Morocco's clear movement towards a more open
political system, and strong commitment to institutional and governance reform and greater
operational transparency-all factors that provide a basis for greater consensus-building for,
and improved prospects for the sustainability of, programs supported by policy-based
lending;
*  the comprehensiveness of, and political commitment underlying, the Government's overall
reform effort warrants a commensurate commitment from the Bank, which may be most
effectively and publicly demonstrated by large-scale policy-based operati.ons explicitly linked
to broad segments of the Government's program;
* as is the case with all external financing, Bank lending to Morocco is fiilly integrated in the
country's budget and expenditure management strategy, and Bank projects do not change the
budget envelope for a particular sector. In such an environment, the strong dichotomy
between investment and adjustment lending no longer applies from the country's point of
view. This suggests a need to reach agreement on multi-sector or sector-specific performance
indicators, and then designing the most appropriate mix of lending instruments, be it
investment projects, guarantees or policy-based loans.
108.  Subject to satisfactory implementation of the Government's medium-term program, the PRSL,
and other operations, the shift in focus towards programmatic, policy-based operations is likely to
continue in the future. A new CAS, to be presented to the Board by January 2000, will elaborate on the
implications of this approach for the Bank's future assistance program. The CAS will be based on
recently-initiated work on a Comprehensive Development Framework for the country.
109.  Exposure considerations.  Quick-disbursing operations entail greater exposure risk.  In
Morocco's case, following portfolio restructuring and partial cancellation of loans, Morocco's share in
IBRD's portfolio and debt outstanding has been reduced compared to the CAS projection, although other
exposure indicators are expected to exceed Bank thresholds for the coming years (see Table III.1).



- 26 -
Nonetheless, even assuming an increase in Bank base lending during FYOO-02 to US$1.2 billion
compared to US$1 billion during FY97-99, Bank exposure should remain manageable.
Table M.A: World Bank Lending and Exposure Indicators
Indicator                1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002
IBRD Debt outstanding and disbursed (USSBn)a  3.3   3.2   3.3   3.3   3.4   3.4
CAS projections                              3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD Debt Service (DS)/public DS            17.9  18.8  19.9  20.4  19.8  19.6
CAS projections                             21.2  22.5  19.2  18.9
Preferred creditor Debt Service(DS)/public DSb  30.1  33.4  31.0  33.0  32.2  35.3
CAS projections                             35.4  38.5  33.3  33.3
IBRD Debt Service/Exports of Goods & Services  5.4   4.7   4.5   3.9   3.6   3.2
CAS projections                              5.2   4.9   4.6   4.2
Share of IBRD portfolio                     3.2  3.1   3.0   3.0   2.9   2.9
a. Includes present value of guarantees.
b. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the
IMF, and the Bank for Intemational Settlements.
C. Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
110.   Prior to Board presentation, the Government has (i) taken steps to establish and maintain a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework; (ii) agreed to implement an overall medium-term economic
reform program as outlined in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 3); and (iii) carried out a series of
actions outlined in Part II and listed in Annex 2.
D. Expected Areas for Follow-up Policy Reform Lending
111.   As noted above (sections IH.A and H.B), the PRSL represents a first step towards establishing a
new, more programmatic relationship between Morocco and the Bank. This relationship and its specific
consequences for the lending program will be detailed in the upcoming Morocco CAS, but at its core is a
flexible, performance-based multi-year programming framework whose specifics will be determined on
the basis of effective implementation of existing operations, including the PRSL. Within this framework,
programmatic lending is expected to assume increasing prominence, and such lending during FY2000-02
is expected to help the Government to deepen the reform program outlined in the PRSL Letter of
Development Policy (Annex 3). In particular, in the area of public sector reform, follow-up support is
expected to focus on public expenditure management and implementation of civil service reform. In the
area of private sector development, follow-up will likely cover continued implementation of the
Government's privatization program; promotion of private participation in infrastructure; and improving
the country's business environment. In the area of social sector reform, follow-up would be directed
towards strengthening social assistance mechanisms and improved delivery of basic education and health
care services, particularly in rural areas.
E. Disbursement and Auditing
112.   Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures approved by the Board on
February 1, 1996. The Borrower will open a deposit account in USD in the Central Bank of Morocco.
Upon effectiveness, proceeds will be deposited by the Bank in this account at the request of the Borrower.
If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance
items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative list), the Bank
will require the Borrower either: (i) to return that amount to the account for use of eligible purposes; or
(ii) to refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the Loan. Although a routine audit of the account will not be required, the Bank
reserves the right to require it. The closing date for the PRSL is December 31, 1999.



-27 -
F. Cofinancing
113.  The ADB has approved a parallel two-tranche policy-based lending operation in the amount of
about US$200 million. As a matter of policy (as was the case with the parallel financing of the World
Bank's one-tranche Contractual Savings Loan), the ADB only supports two-tranche operations. The first
tranche conditions of the ADB loan match those for Board presentation of the PRSL.
G. Technical Assistance
114.  The Government has received technical assistance under a PHRD Grant for the preparation of the
PRSL.  The Ministry of Privatization is also benefiting from  an IDF grant in support of
telecommunications liberalization and privatization. Further, the Bank is planning to support a workshop
on governance and corruption in late June 1999, to be followed by seminars on small-medium enterprise
development and on the preparation and use of medium-term expenditure frameworks in the course of the
year. Other Bank technical assistance related to private sector participation in infrastructure has been
available through various Bank investment projects. Complementary technical assistance by the EU is
under discussion.
H. Environmental Aspects
115.  The PRSL has been placed in environmental category U, which does not require an
environmental assessment. While environmental policies are not a focus of this operation, they are an
integral part of the ongoing CAS discussions and will be fully addressed in that context.
I. Program Objective and Poverty Categories
116.  Since the Loan supports a comprehensive medium-term economic and social reform program in
the context of macroeconomic stability and satisfactory public expenditure policies, it falls principally
within the category of Economic Management. However, the Loan also contributes to other key program
objective categories. It supports Public Sector Management by initiating a substantial public sector reform
effort. It supports Private Sector Development through a range of measures designed to enhance the
prospects for dynamic, competitive private sector growth. And finally, it contributes to Poverty
Reduction through specific short-term actions as well as through the establishment of key principles for
the Government's poverty alleviation and social sector reform policies.
J. Benefits and Risks
117.  Benefits. The benefits of the reform program supported by the PRSL would be considerable. As
described above, the reform program addresses a broad range of issues needed to enhance Morocco's
competitiveness and achieve strong sustainable growth, while also advancing the country's still-
significant social development agenda. In addition, the preparation of the PRSL has served to promote a
dialogue and develop a partnership with the alternance Govemrnment, and to act as a catalyst in drawing up
the medium-term framework for reform in Morocco.
118.  Risks. The PRSL faces four main categories of risk. The first relates to medium-term growth
prospects; the second concerns political support for the program; the third relates to technical aspects of
program implementation; and the fourth centers around the social costs of the program supported by the
PRSL. With respect to growth prospects, the attainability of the authorities' medium-term target hinges
sensitively on significant budgetary adjustment and growth in private investment, and a shortfall in either
would reduce GDP growth prospects. Political opposition to reforms could stem froim three sources. The
new coalition Government includes parties with an etatiste tradition; these parties may be skeptical of the
benefits of a reform program grounded in fiscal discipline and re-orienting the role of the state, and seek
to promote a traditional "1960's Keynesian" model in which higher deficit spending would pave the way
for growth, and in which the public sector would not only promote access to goods and services, but



- 28 -
would also take charge of delivering them. Similarly, a recently elected Parliament vested with more
power may not fully support a program which restricts the sphere of influence of the state. Finally, unions
and other stakeholders affected by the reforms may lobby strongly against the program, leading the
Government to scale back or delay implementation of measures such as re-deploying teachers. To address
concerns from any of these sources, the Government may opt to engage in a time-consuming process of
identifying compromises which it judges palatable to all interests. This would increase the political
viability of the reform program, but at the expense of speed and depth of reforms-as exemplified in the
reform of ONT (see Section I.D. on Private Participation in Infrastructure). Technical implementation
difficulties could arise from weaknesses in intra-governmental coordination of design and application of
the reforms, as well as from scarcity of expertise in the implementation of a policy reform program
combined with slow processing of available assistance, including technical assistance. Social problems
may result, in particular, from expenditure constraints and employment consequences of the privatization
program, and/or from poor implementation of social reform measures envisioned under the program.
119.  Risk Mitigation.  Risks of shortfalls in economic growth would be mitigated by the
government's efforts to improve the business environment and the climate for private investment,
together with regular monitoring of key economnic indicators, including investment. Political acceptance
risks would be mitigated through close policy dialogue with the alternance Government, and, if
appropriate, with members of Parliament and affected stakeholders. Meanwhile, the Government itself is
making a strong effort to reach out to its constituencies, notably through public dissemination of the
program described in the Letter of Development Policy. Technical implementation risks resulting from
intra-governmental coordination problems would be mitigated by an active and open dialogue with all
government agencies concerned. With respect to technical expertise, the Government has established its
openness to and interest in hiring outside advice as needed, and the Bank will continue to provide
financial and human resources for technical assistance. As noted earlier, further technical assistance has
also been offered by the EU. Social risks associated with certain economic reform measures (e.g.,
liquidation of non-viable public enterprises) would be mitigated through financing provided under the
proposed operation and through an array of social measures which constitute an integral part of the
Government's reform program. Moreover, as endorsed in the CAS, social development is already at the
center of the Bank's policy dialogue and assistance effort.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
120.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank,
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by
Shengman Zhang
Managing Director
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 5, 1999



Annex L.A
Page 1 of 3
Morocco - Key Economic Indicators
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                      100       100      100      100      100       100      100      100      100
Agriculturea                              18.5     14.6      19.3     13.9     15.8      14.9     15.1     14.6     14.1
Industrwy                                 30.8     33.0     31.0      33.5     30.0     30.0      29.7     29.5     29.5
Servicesa                                 50.6     52.4     49.7      52.6     40.9     41.8      41.8     42.0     42.5
Total Consumption                           84.1     86.7     84.5     82.8      81.7     80.9     80.4      79.8     78.6
Gross domestic fixed                        20.6     21.4     19.4     20.7      21.1     21.8     22.2      23.0     24.0
investment
Government investment                      5.5      5.1      4.2       4.7      4.4      4.3       4.4      4.6      5.0
Private investment                        15.9     15.6      15.6     15.9     17.2      18.0     18.3     18.9      19.5
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                             25.3     27.0     25.7     28.3      27.9     28.8     29.9      31.2     32.3
Imports (GNFS)                              30.9     34.4     30.0     31.7      31.1     32.0     33.0      34.5     35.4
Gross domestic savings                      15.9     13.3     15.5      17.2     18.3     19.1      19.6     20.2     21.4
Gross national savingsC                     19.5     16.2     18.6     20.3      21.2     21.8     22.3      23.0     24.0
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                    30351    32986    36672    33514    35928    37931    40419    43070    46266
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per                 1160     1110      1290     1240     1240      1270     1309     1388      1466
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1980
prices)
Gross domestic product at               10.4%    -6.6%    12.0%    -2.2%      6.3%      3.0%     5.0%     5.0%      5.5%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                    9.9%    -6.2%    11.2%    -2.2%      7.9%      3.7%     5.5%     5.5%      6.0%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1980 prices)
Gross domestic product at                8.4%    -8.2%    10.2%    -3.7%      4.6%      1.3%     3.2%     3.2%      3.7%
market prices
Total consumption                        8.9%    -5.5%      6.5%    -7.6%      5.3%     1.2%     3.4%      3.3%     2.9%
Privateconsumption                      12.3%    -5.1%      8.3%    -5.5%      5.5%     0.5%     4.4%     4.1%      3.4%
(Continued)



Annex L.A
Page 2 of 3
Morocco - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b                            7688     8892     9433      9483    10013    10931    12090    13426    14961
Inports (GNFS)b                            9368    11339    10991    10623    11185    12129    13344    14848    16386
Resource balance                          -1680    -2447    -1559    -1139    -1172    -1198    -1254    -1422    -1426
Net current transfers                      2124     2261     2352      3202     3269      3082     3159      3061     2908
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                    -672    -1442      -346     -113      -128     -205      -147     -207     -218
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct                  555      237      258      1294      520       729      780       981      995
investment
Long-term loans (net)                      -230     -199      -340     -630      -281     -294      -118     -425     -374
Other capital (net, including               860      657      476        -2      207         0        0         0        0
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                        -513      747       -47     -550      -318     -230      -515     -349     -403
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                     -5.5%    -7.4%    -4.3%    -3.4%    -3.3%    -3.2%    -3.1%    -3.3%    -3.1%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1980 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                 4.4%    12.0%      5.3%      5.8%     1.0%      4.5%     6.6%      7.4%     6.0%
Primary                                 -1.4%      8.0%     9.8%      0.6%     3.9%     3.4%      5.5%     6.3%      5.6%
Manufactures                            -4.1%    -0.5%      1.0%      1.1%     4.4%    13.6%    14.6%    14.3%    13.4%
Merchandise imports (CIF)                 3.5%    13.5%    -4.6%       4.7%    11.9%      7.4%     6.0%      9.5%    -5.6%
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                           24.3     23.9      24.1     25.2      25.7     24.6      24.7     25.1      25.1
Curentexpenditures                         21.4     22.5      21.1     22.8      22.8     22.0      21.0     20.5      19.9
(Continued)



Annex L.A
Page 3 of 3
Morocco - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Cutrent account surplus (+)                2.9      1.4      3.0      2.4      2.8       2.6      3.7      4.6      5.2
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                        6.7      7.0      6.4      5.9      6.4       6.2      6.4      6.6      7.1
Foreign financing                         -1.6     -0.7     -1.4      -1.9     -1.0     -0.7     -0.4     -0.5     -0.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(atcurrentmarket                     70        73       62       72       71       71        72       72       72
prices)
Growth of M2(%)                            7.3      6.2     -3.6      9.2      7.6       6.0      7.7      7.7      8.1
Private sectorcredit growth!               8.7     77.1    107.0     88.0     45.8      72.5     78.1     82.9     85.5
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1980 =100)
Merchandise terms of trade index          94.5     98.4     94.0     88.8      82.9     83.9     82.1     81.4     81.8
Real effective exchange rate             108.7    112.2    113.2    114.2    116.0    116.5    116.5    116.5    116.5
(FCU/LCU)J
Consumerprice index                      5.2%     6.1%     3.0%      1.0%     2.8%     2.5%     2.5%     2.5%     2.5%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                             1.6%     8.0%      1.2%     2.0%     2.8%     2.5%     2.5%     2.5%     2.5%
(% growth rate)
a. From 1998 onwards, sector shares are estimated at factor cost and do not therefore sum to 100% of GDP at market prices.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Data refer to the Central Govemrnment Budget.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units". FCU denotes "foreign curency units". An increase in FCU/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex 1.B
Page 1 of 3
MOROCCO: RMSM-X PROJECTIONS, 1998-2002
STANDARD NATIONAL ACCOUNTS INDICATORS
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Growth Rate of GDP                         6.3%    3.0%    5.0%    5.0%    5.5%
Import (GNFS) growth                       8.6%    7.4%    8.5%    9.8%    8.8%
Export (GNFS) growth                       3.9%    6.0%    7.5%    8.2%    8.6%
As a share of GDP in local currency:
Resource Balance                          -3.3%   -3.2%   -3.1%   -3.3%   -3.1%
Exports                                  27.9%   28.8%   29.9%   31.2%   32.3%
Imports                                  31.1%  32.0%   33.0%   34.5%   35.4%
Consunption                               81.7%   80.9%   80.4%   79.8%   78.6%
Private                                  66.0%   64.9%   65.1%   65.1%   64.3%
Public                                   15.7%   16.0%   15.3%   14.7%   14.3%
Investment                                21.6%   22.3%   22.7%   23.5%   24.5%
Private                                  17.2%   18.0%   18.3%   18.9%   19.5%
Of which FDI / IDE                       1.4%    1.6%    1.6%    1.9%    1.9%
Public                                    4.4%    4.3%    4.4%    4.6%    5.0%
ICOR (non-agric)                             6.9    6.9    6.3    5.2    4.8
Gross Domestic Savings                    18.3%   19.1%   19.6%  20.2%  21.4%
Total Savings                             21.6%   22.3%   22.7%   23.5%   24.5%
Foreign Savings                           0.4%    0.5%    0.4%    0.5%    0.5%
Gross National Savings                    21.2%   21.8%   22.3%   23.0%   24.0%
Monetary System Savings                   0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
Government Savings                        2.5%    2.6%    3.4%    4.0%   4.9%
Private Savings                          18.8%   19.2%   18.9%   19.0%   19.1%
Value Added (Factor Cost) Growth Rates
Agriculture                               24.3%   -0.6%    9.3%    4.0%    4.3%
Industry                                   3.4%    3.7%    4.2%    5.0%    5.8%
Manufacturing                             3.0%    4.5%    5.5%    6.5%    6.7%
Services                                   3.7%    4.0%    3.5%    4.1%    5.7%



Annex 1.B
Page 2 of 3
MOROCCO: RMSM-X PROJECTIONS, 1998-2002
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT BUDGET (IN PERCENT OF GDP)
Actual Estimated Projection Projection Projection Projection
FY97/98 FY98/99  FY99/00  FY0O!01  FY01/02  FY02/03
Revenues
Total Current Revenues               25.1%    25.7%    24.6%      24.7%    25.1%    25.1%
Tax Revenues                       21.8%    21.9%    20.7%      22.0%     22.4%    22.5%
Direct Taxes                       6.5%     6.3%      6.2%      6.8%     7.1%      7.2%
Total Indirect Taxes              15.3%    15.6%     14.5%     15.2%     15.4%    15.3%
Taxes-International Trade          3.8%     3.6%      3.5%      3.3%     2.9%      2.3%
Others Indirect Taxes             11.5%    12.0%     10.9%     11.9%    12.4%     13.0%
Total Non Tax Revenue               3.4%      3.9%     4.0%      2.7%      2.7%      2.6%
Expenditures
Current Expenditures                  22.8%    22.8%    22.0%    21.0%    20.5%    19.9%
Wages & Salaries                   11.3%     11.2%     11.0%    10.5%     10.0%      9.5%
Other Consumption (incl. Transfers  6.3%      6.4%     6.1%      5.9%      5.9%      6.0%
& Subsidies)
Interest Payments                     5.2%     5.2%      4.9%      4.7%      4.6%     4.4%
Domestic Debt                       3.0%     3.1%      3.2%      3.2%     3.1%      3.1%
Foreign Debt                        2.2%     2.1%      1.7%      1.5%      1.5%     1.3%
Total Capital Expenditures             5.9%      6.4%     6.2%      6.4%      6.6%     7.1%
Capital Transfers                     2.1%     2.2%      2.0%      1.9%      1.9%     1.9%
Budgetary Investment                  4.5%     4.3%      4.3%      4.5%      4.7%     5.2%
Deficit                               -3.5%     -3.5%     -3.6%    -2.8%     -2.1%     -1.9%
Financing
Financing (including all grants):      3.5%      3.5%     3.6%      2.8%      2.1%      1.9%
Foreign:                              -1.9%     -1.0%     -0.7%    -0.4%     -0.5%     -0.2%
Domestic:                              5.4%      4.5%     4.3%      3.2%      2.6%     2.1%
Monetary Sector Credit                1.0%      1.4%     0.9%      1.1%      1.1%     1.0%
Domestic Borrowing from Priv. Sector    4.5%   3.1%      3.4%      2.1%      1.5%     1.0%



Annex 1.B
Page 3 of 3
MOROCCO: RMSM-X PROJECTIONS, 1998-2002
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND MONETARY INDICATORS
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Balance Of Payments
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)          -0.4%  -0.5%  -0.4%   -0.5%  -0.5%
Financing Requirements (US$ millions)
Financing Requirements                     2280.3 2322.6 2370.8 2393.0 2524.5
Current account deficit                   128.1  204.9  146.8  207.2  218.0
Long term amortizations                  1834.0 1888.0 1709.0 1837.0 1903.0
Reserves Changes of Monetary Authorities  318.2  229.8  515.0  348.8  403.5
Financing sources                          2280.3 2322.6 2370.8 2393.0 2524.5
Private investment (net)                  520.1  728.9  779.8  980.7  995.3
Long term Disbursements                  1553.0 1593.7 1591.0 1412.3  1529.2
Other capital flows                       207.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Asset Markets
Money:
Money Growth                                 7.6%   6.0%   7.7%    7.7%   8.1%
Inflation (p.a.)                             2.8%   2.5%   2.5%   2.5%   2.5%
M2/GDP                                      71.2%  71.5%  71.5%  71.6%  71.6%
Currency/M2                                 50.9%  50.9%  50.9%  50.9%  50.9%
Income-Velocity                                1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4
Nominal GDP growth                           9.3%   5.6%   7.6%    7.6%   8.1%
Credit Stocks:
Total Credit/GDP                            76.0%  75.4%  73.9%  72.8%  72.0%
Private Credit/GDP                          50.4%  50.0%  49.3%  48.9%  48.8%
Government Credit/GDP                       25.6%  25.4%  24.6%  24.0%  23.3%
Total Credit/M2                            106.7% 105.5% 103.3% 101.8% 100.7%
Real credit growth (stocks)/GDP growth      50.5%  74.4%  57.8%  70.1%  78.8%
Credit Flows:
Total Credit/GDP                             4.3%   3.4%   3.8%   4.2%   4.7%
Private Credit/GDP                           3.4%   2.3%   2.8%    3.1%   3.6%
Government Credit/GDP                        0.9%    1.2%    1.0%    1.1%   1.1%
Foreign Debt:
Total Debt/GDP                              52.7%  49.2%  46.2%  43.0%  41.0%
Treasury Debt/GDP                           37.3%  34.2%  32.4%  30.4%  29.5%
Monetary Sector/GDP                          3.7%   3.5%   3.3%   3.2%   3.2%
Other Debt/GDP                              11.7%   11.4%  10.5%   9.4%   8.3%



Annex 1.C
Page 1 of 1
MOROCCO: EXPOSURE INDICATORS, 1994-2002
Total debt outstanding and   22441 23002 21999 21001  18939 18645 18678 18515 18953
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (JS$m)a     -382  -299   -85  -607  -381  -295   319   118   587
Total debt service (TDS)      3637  3792  3160  3537  3055  2973  2743  2828  2872
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGSb                    230.4  208.2  189.2  181.3  156.7  143.2  131.6  119.1  110.8
TDO/GDP                      73.9  69.7  60.0  62.7  52.7  49.2  46.2  43.0  41.0
TDS/XGS                       37.3  34.3  27.2  30.5  25.3  22.8  19.3  18.2  16.8
ConcessionalYTDO             27.1  28.5  30.1  32.7  33.0  35.3  38.7  43.5  49.5
IBRD Exposure Indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS             15.8  16.7  19.1  17.9  18.8  19.9  20.4  19.8  19.6
Preferred creditor DS/public DS   29.4  31.9  34.9  30.1  33.4  31.0  33.0  32.2  35.3
IBRD DS/XGS                    5.9   5.7   5.2   5.4   4.7   4.5   3.9   3.6   3.2
TBRD TDO (US$m)d             3746  3966  3732  3271  3212  3281  3313  3355  3370
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)    3.2   3.6   3.4   3.2   3.1   3.0   3.0   2.9   2.9
IDA TDO (US$m)d                 35    33    32    31    29    28    27    26    24
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net
short- term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the
IM;F, and the Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 9
ANNEX 2: MATRIX OF POLICY OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS
Budgetary and macroeconomic    .  Maintain a consistent macroeconomic policy framework to  *  Adoption of measures to limit the budget deficit in
policy framework                 consolidate macroeconornic balances and increase medium-  FY 1997/98 to 3.5% of GDP in the face of initial
term GDP growth to 6% in order to reduce unemployment,   indications of a substantially higher deficit trend at
including a budgetary policy stance that ensures a gradual  the start of the fourth quarter of the fiscal year.
reduction in the deficit from 3.5% of GDP in FY 1997/98 to
around 2% of GDP by FY 2001/02.
*  Prepare measures during the transitional fiscal year 1998/99,   *  Adoption and on-track execution of the 1998/99
to be implemented in subsequent budgets, in order to ensure a  budget, which provides for containing the deficit at
sustainable increase in budgetary savings. These measures  a similar level (3.6% of GDP) to that achieved in
include, in addition to the debt management initiatives already  1997/98, within a consistent supporting
under way: (i) tax measures (per IMF recommendations); (ii)  macroeconornic framework.
measures to reduce the government wage bill by at least two
percentage points of GDP by FY 2003/04; and (iii) reductions
in transfers to public enterprises and in consumer subsidy
expenditures.
Budgetary Institutionsl
*  Budget preparation and approval  *  Put in place institutional arrangements for annual budget  *  Approval by Parliament of a new Organic Budget
preparation and approval in order to ensure better medium-  Law which, inter alia, reduces the incidence of
term strategic prioritization of public expenditures against a  extra-budgetary accounts with earmarked revenues
backdrop of aggregate fiscal discipline.                 and increases flexibility in mnanaging
appropriations.
*  Prepare annual budgets on the basis of a medium-term  *  Discussion and approval by Council of
framework, to be detailed in the forthcoming 1999-2003 plan.  Government of a policy paper to provide directives
for the preparation of the plan.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
.                                                                                   w1N R '., ''.' .    , ,    , ,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,; ,,.,,, < 1 ...................................................... ' .   '   . ...........-
Budget execution                  *   Provide for more transparent and streamlined expenditure     *   Implementation of a first set of BAJ action plan
management and procurement arrangements to foster more           measures to reduce bottlenecks in budget
efficient and effective use of resources at the ministry/agency  execution, including:
level. In particular, extend and ensure full imnplementation of  *   streamlining supporting documentation
the action plan designed to streamline budget execution               requirements for appropriation transfer
(prepared under the BAJ project on the basis of prior                requests;
diagnostic studies).                                             *   empowering additional managers to approve
expenditure proposals in order to foster
administrative decentralization; and
.   enhancing project expenditure management
through the issuance of .a circular reminding
budget administrators of the (streamlined)
procedures for payments from working capital
funds in individual departments.
*   Issuance of tender invitations to short-listed
bidders for the establishment of a computerized,
integrated public expenditure management system
on a pilot basis.
*   Approval by the Council of Government of a
decree overhauling the public procurement system
to provide for greater transparency, accountability,
and competitiveness.
*   Approval by the Council of Govermnent of a new
code (Code de Recouvrement) to facilitate the
li _________________________________________________________ j[          collection of receivables from taxpayers.
Civil Service and Administrative Reform
*   Employment levels and service    .   Define and implement a broad-ranging civil service reform      *   Issuance of circular from the Prime Minister
delivery.                             program to ensure a progressive reduction of the central          establishing a ministerial-level Strategic
government wage bill (as a share of expenditure and of GDP)      Committee for Civil Service and Administrative
while maintaining service delivery levels and improving their    Reform, to take charge of designing and
l_____________________________ j[    quality. Based on a comprehensive study nearing completion,            overseeing the implementation of a comprehensive



Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
the program will inter alia address impediments to staff  civil service reform program.
mobility across and within departments, excessive
centralization of decision-making authority, poor enforcement  *  Review and discussion by the Strategic Committee
of conduct and ethical standards, inadequate or non-existent  of a proposed "Decentralization Charter" decree,
service standards, complexity and non-uniformity of       which lays out principles of administrative
remuneration structures, and poor links between performance  decentralization, in preparation for Council of
and advancement.                                          Government approval.
Approval by the Council of Government of a
"Good Management Compact" (Pacte de Bonne
Gestion) as a first step in defining and
implementing a government-wide program
covering conduct and ethics, efficient resource
management, and client relations.
* Review and discussion by the Strategic Commnittee
of mechanisms to implement key provisions of the
"Good Management Compact" (Pacte de Bonne
Gestion).
* Appointment of an independent Commission of
VIPs to develop recommendations for reforms
concerning personnel redeployment, as well as the
remuneration and retirement systems.
Judicial Reform
Commercial dispute resolution    *  Enhance capacity to handle commercial litigation through the   *  Establishment and operation of six commercial
development of a network of specialized commercial courts  courts and three commercial courts of appeal.
and promote arbitration as an altemative mechanism for
commercial dispute resolution.                        *  Initiation of work on a legal guide for judges in
commercial courts and agreement on timetable for
its dissemination.
*  Harmonization of statutes relating to the
...........



Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
ARJk OF INTERVENTION  1                         MED1UM4Evm OBwTTeSn                                       ACTIONS TAK1EN VgWOR TO BOARD
organization of the judiciary and magistrates with
the law creating the commnercial courts.
*   Pursuit of computerization of the commercial
courts in line with agreed timnetable.
*   Assessment of commnercial court experience to
date, including quantified data on imipact on, e.g.,
caseload backlog and on cases brought, resolved,
and appealed.
*   Comipletion of an action plan and timnetable for
preparation and adoption of a consolidated
commnercial arbitration code.
*  Administration of the judiciary   *   Restructure Ministry of Justice to provide for more          *   Publication of a decree establishing a new
and service standards                streamlined decision-making and imiproved service delivery,      organizational chart and administrative structure
including the establishment of a new unit for user feedback,    for the Ministry of Justice.
*   Incentives for administrative    *   Improve incentives and conditions (including issues relating to  *   Initiation of a study and preparation of a timetable
staff of tribunals                   remuneration, career development, training, and professional     for relevant legislation to create a legal framework
status and eth-ics) in order to promote better performance and  providing for, inter alia, career development of:
service delivery among administrative staff of tribunals.       (i) notaries, (ii) professional experts in judicial
matters; and (iii) court personnel, including
bailiffs, transcribers and legal translators.
*   Training and professional        * Improve professional standards and training for judges,        *   Initiation of a study to: (i) critically review the
standards                            notably through a comprehensive restructuring of the National    present training system for judicial staff, including
Judicial Studies Institute (INEJ) to ensure greater mianagerial  INEJ's training ofjudges; and (ii) reconmmend
arid fInanCail autonomiiy, cturAriculu  ovrau,And -eatr         reformei to overhauil troininui mec,hanisms, withi
interaction with the business environment,                      particular focus on a restructuring of INEJ and
greater interaction with the private sector in
training.
*   Initiation of a broader study on training!
employment in the justice sector as a whole.
* Comprehensiveness of the         * Develop and sustain a participatory approach to legal and      *   Signature of agreement between the Ministry of



Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
judicial reform                       judicial reform through partnership with all the legal            Justice and the Moroccan Bar Association to
professions.                                                     promote a participatory approach to judicial
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _re fo rm .
Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization
*   Public Enterprise Reform and      *   Implementation of a comprehensive public enterprise reform    |    Approval by the Council of Government of an
Privatization                         and privatization program within the tenure of this              action plan, as detailed in the LDP, to: (i)
Government.                                                      strengthen governance and performance of
enterprises remaining in the public sector; (ii)
transfer in a transparent manner the mnajority of the
remaining portfolio of public enterprises to the
private sector; and (iii) liquidate non-viable
enterprises.
*   Liquidation                       *   Liquidate non-viable state-owned commercial ventures         .   Implementation of a DH 3.7 billion package for
(beginning with two mining enterprises which constitute a        phased shutdown by 2001 of CdM (Jerrada coal
significant part of the portfolio of non-viable enterprises) with  mine) which has been ratified by all relevant
adequate provision for safety net measures and settling          parties, including labor unions. Allocation of DH
fnancial liabilities.                                            667 million in the 1998/99 finance law for
implementation of the first phase, including layoff
and compensation of almost one-third of the 4647
employees.
*   Implementation of a plan to liquidate SEFERIF.
Allocation of DH 24 million in the 1998/99
Finance Law for the implementation of the first
phase (affecting some 230 employees of which 166
have already been laid off).
*   Sale of state-owned enterprises    *   Revise the legal framework for transfer of state-owned      *   Approval by the Council of Government of
commercial ventures to the private sector; accelerate sale of    legislation that modifies and complements the
residual portfolio of state-owned enterprises previously         current Privatization Law (No. 39-89), in order to
targeted for privatization; and initiate sale of other enterprises  extend the privatization program and streanline
not previously earmarked.                                        privatization procedures.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
AREA OW INTERMUnTON                 .        1IUM-ThRM OBJCR                                  A         T  .:           TO
Demonopolization and Private Participation in Infrastructure
Legal and institutional      |   Ensure that the legal, regulatory, and institutional framework   *  Initiation of a comprehensive revision of the
framework for PPI                encourages competition and efficient private participation in  concession framework. Creation of an inter-
infrastructure.                                           ministerial working group and agreement on terms
of reference and selection of consultants for a
study on the institutional framework for concession
contracts.
*  Competition in energy services    *  Define and implement specific policy measures to encourage   *  Initiation of a study to examine range of options,
greater competition in the provision of energy services.  including the creation of a wholesale market, for
introducing competition in the electricity industry.
*  Competition in transport services  a  Define and implement specific policy measures to encourage   *  Approval by the Council of Government of a draft
greater competition in the provision of transport services and  law (i) abolishing, within two years after the
improved intermodal transport.                            promulgation of the Law, ONT's monopoly on
road freight forwarding; (ii) separating ONT's
regulatory functions from its commercial activities;
and (iii) guaranteeing free and unrestricted access
to the road freight market.
*  Initiation of work on a strategy for increasing
competition and private provision in rail, air, road,
and maritime transportation services; creation of an
inter-ministerial committee to oversee preparation
of the strategy and develop concrete
recommendations for reform measures.
Business Environment
*  Customs procedures            .  Put in place a legal framework providing for greater    *  Approval by the Council of Government of a new
transparency of customs valuation procedures; further     customs code.
streamline customs clearance procedures and reduce delays.    *  Reduction of the average time required for customs
clearance to one day (compared to two days in July
1998).



Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
*   Competition policy                .   Put in place a legal framework to foster competitive business    .   Approval by the Council of Government of a new
practices, including a progressive substantial reduction in the  draft cornpetition law.
scope of remaining price controls.
|    Business establishment and asset  *   Streamline procedures for the establishment and registration  *   Approval by the Council of Government of a draft
registration                          of private businesses and their assets.                          law and enabling decree creating a single agency
for the registry of intellectual property rights (e.g.,
patents and trademarks) in the industrial and
|______________________________________________________________       conmmercial sectors.
Access to Finance                        ._.___.__._I
*   Restructuring of state-owned      *   Ensure the future financial viability and efficiency of state-    |    Approval by the Council of Government of draft
financial institutions                owned financial institutions to improve allocation of            legislation that transforms CNCA into a joint stock
resources and financing to the economy.                          company and allocation of DH 450 million in the
1998/99 budget to recapitalize CNCA and write
off non-performing agricultural loans.
.   Approval by the Council of Government of a draft
law changing BCP's statutes to allow divestiture of
state-owned shares to the regional mutual Banques
Populaires and to the private sector through the
stock exchange.
* Allocation of DH 150 million in the 1998/99
Finance Law for the CCG in order to reschedule
non-performing fisheries sector loans (DH 1.5
billion rescheduling program over a 1 0-year
period).
*   Improve mobilization of long-     *   Provide legal basis for efficient functioning of the micro-  *   Presentation to Parliament of a draft law
term resources                        credit market to increase access to finance of small and         facilitating micro-lending activities..
_______ ______ _______ ______   m edium     sized   enterprises._                              _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _
Poverty Reduction and Social Assistance
*   Poverty reduction strategy        .   Prepare and implement a detailed action plan to increase     *   Appointment of an inter-ministerial committee to
access of the poor, particularly in rural areas, to basic social  coordinate the preparation and implementation of a
l__________________________________ l      and infrastructure services.                                I    strategy to increase access of the poor to basic



Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
AREA, OF INTERVEN NION                          MID1JMA-_ERM: OBJECTIVES                              ACT... .....RI    TO'BOARD
social and infrastructure services, as well as to job
opportunities and social protection mechanisms.
*Social assistance mechanisms     *implement a comprehensive organizational and operational      *   Preparation of a document detailing the EN's long-
restructuring of the Entraide Nationale (EN) to ensure more   termn development strategy.
effective and efficient delivery of services. Underlying   *   Agreement on a restructuring programn for EN and
principles include restricting the EN's role to the identification  start of its imiplementation through: (i) a detailed
of needy groups, coordinating assistance (e.g., by defining    review of necessary changes in EN's legal status in
programs and sub-contracting their imnplementation to NGOs),   accordance with the restructuring program; (ii) the
and ensuring monitoring and evaluation,                        selection of provinces in which to begin
Strngthn exitingsafey netmechnism and efor  theimiplementing the restructuring program on a pilot
Strenthenexising afet net echausmsand efor  thebasis; and (iii) an assessmeflt of EN's vocational
present consumer subsidy system.                               training activities and transfer of trainees to
OFPPT programs.
Community Development
*Social Development Fund (ADS)  *  Put in place a publicly funded mechanism to support low-      * Approval by the Council of Government of a draft
income commnunity development initiatives, using               law creating the ADS. Initiation of work on: (i)
participatory methods of project identification and            detailed institutional ar-rangements to ensure
implementation and drawing on the capacity of NGOs.            operational autonomy; and (ii) an action plan to
begin ADS operations with a pilot programn.
Basic Infrastructure in Rural Areas
*  Water supply                     *  Increase access to potable water in rural areas from about 37%   *   Agreement with the Government on access targets
of the population presently to 53% by 2002.                    and financing plan (based in part on the recent
approval of urban water surcharges) for the
PAGER program.
  Roads                            *  Extend road access in rural areas to 58% of the population by   *   Agreement with the Government on access targets
2003, compared with around 40% presently.                      and financing plan for the rural roads program.
*  Electricity                      *Increase household access to electricity in rural areas under  *   Agreement with the Goverinment on access targets
the rural electricity supply (PERG) program to 43% of the      and financing plan for the PERG program.
______________ _____________  population   by   2003.                                     __ _  _ _  __ _  _ _  _ __  _ _  _ _  __ _  _ _  _



Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
Education
*  Access to basic education in     *   Increase access to basic education (6 to 11 year olds) to  *   Agreement with the Government on an action plan
rural areas                         achieve universal enrollment by 2002, with special             to: (i) extend rural schooling facilities, initially
concentration on rural areas, without significant increases in  through a three-year program to construct 1500
overall education expenditures, notably through redeployment   rural classrooms annually; (ii) adopt ministerial
of under-utilized staff resources at the secondary level.     instructions to decentralize decision-making in
school mapping and project implementation to
regional authorities; and (iii) initiate measures to
increase staff mobility and facilitate redeployment
of personnel.
Adult Literacy
*  Fund for adult literacy         |    Put in place a flexible, publicly funded mechanism to support   *   Creation of an adult literacy fund, with DH 30
adult literacy programs through, inter alia, NGO programs     million allocation in the 1998/99 budget, to
and professional associations with the objective of increasing  support adult literacy programs; conclusion of
the effectiveness of adult literacy programs.                  several agreements on the implementation of
specific targeted adult literacy programs, of which
eight with NGOs and one framework agreement
with the private sector.
Health
*   Basic healthcare and healthcare    *   Increase access to basic healthcare services in rural areas;  *  Agreement on a detailed, time-bound action plan
financing                           ensure greater cost-effectiveness in the provision of health   to: (i) extend health insurance coverage and ensure
care services and pharmaceuticals; extend access to health    the affordability of adequate healthcare for low-
insurance coverage, particularly for the poor and vulnerable;  income households; and (ii) initiate a pilot
improve efficiency in hospital and healthcare management;     redeployment program for healthcare personrnel in
and decentralize decision-making authority.                   BAJ provinces.
|    Enactment of a decree introducing user charges for
services rendered by hospitals and other healthcare
establishments under Ministry of Health control.
*   Adoption of standardized bulk purchase
procedures for pharnaceuticals.
*   Preparation of terms of reference for a system of
l______________l________________________________________________      health sector accounts.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 46
ANNEX 3: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(Unofficial Translation of French Version)
]Rabat, April 22, 1999
Reference: Policy Reforn Support Loan (PRSL)
Dear Mr. President,
I am pleased to communicate to you the Program of Economic and Social Reforms of the Government of the
Kingdom of Morocco. As you are aware, this Program is based on the Government's inaugural policy
statement of April 17, 1998, as well as on the Government's policy paper providing directives for the
preparation of the 1999-2003 economic and social development plan.
The attached Program will be published prior to presentation of the PRSL to the Board of Executive Directors
of your institution.
Yours truly,
[signed]
Ahmed Lahlimi Alami
Minister of General Government Affairs



Annex 3
Page 2 of 46
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL REFORM PROGRAM
December 8, 19981
l       This date refers to the date at which the Government's Program document was presented to and agreed with
the Bank during PRSL negotiations. Owing to the passage of time, the version to be published by the Government is
expected to reflect updates as needed.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 46
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ANNEX PAGE
I.   MEDIUM-TERM MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK                          4
A.   STRUCTURAL REFORMS FOR PROMOTION OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR       5
B.   STRENGTHENING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS AND PROMOTING FoREIGN
INVESTMENT                                                   6
C.   CONSOLIDATION OF MACROECONOMIC BALANCES AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE SOCIAL
SECTORS                                                      7
II.  PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM                                         9
A.   THE NEW PLAN: A MULTI-YEAR PRIORITY PROGRAMMING FRAMEWORK    9
B.   BUDGETARY INSTRUMENTS AND PROCEDURES                         10
C.  CIVIL SERVICE REFORM                                          15
D.   DECENTRALIZATION, REGIONALIZATION, AND TERRITORIAL MANAG(EMENT  17
E.   MODERNIZATION OF THE JUDICIAL SECTOR                         18
III.  PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                                  19
A.   PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM AND STATE DIVESTITURE               19
B.   DEMONOPOLIZING AND INCREASING PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION IN
INFRASTRUCTURE                                              24
C.  IMPROVING PRIVATE SECTOR COMPETITIVENESS                      27
D.  INCREASING ACCESS TO FINANCE                                  31
IV.  SOCIAL REFORM                                                33
A.   EMPLOYMENT AND THE LABOR MARKET                              34
B.   PROMOTION OF WOMEN                                           35
C.   SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY                                 36
D.   RESTRUCTURING OF ENTRAIDE NATIONALE (EN)                     36
E.   THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND                                  37
F.   RESTRUCTURING SOCIAL TRANSFERS                               39
G.  ADULT LITERACY                                               39
H.  BASIC SOCIAL SERVICES                                        40
I.   RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                         42
J.   LOW-COST HOUSING                                            45



Annex 3
Page 4 of 46
I.  MEDIUM-TERM MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
1.    The Government's priorities, as announced in its General Policy Statement to Parliament, are to
achieve high, sustained, and labor-intensive economic growth and to improve the living conditions of the
country's most disadvantaged groups. Growth will be achieved through sound macroeconomic management
and intensification and deepening of economic reforms. Economic policy will also focus on creating substantial
budgetary savings, in order to mobilize investment for alleviating poverty and fighting social exclusion, and
to free up resources needed for private sector growth.
2.    The Government's economic policy will be based on an overall strategic vision and a comprehensive
and coherent approach that calls for rehabilitation and renewal of a medium-term planning framework. This
will provide a frame of reference to enable the Government and other economic and social actors in Morocco
to evaluate future challenges and reach a more informed understanding of evolving trends.
3.    To achieve its economic policy objectives, the Government is deternined to pursue vigorous reforms.
These include accelerating the pace and raising the efficiency of economic modernization and of efforts to
resolve the country's economic and social problems.
4.   As a consequence of the planned structural reforms and the climate of transparency that the Government
is working to instill between the administration and the private sector, the latter will play a leading role in
economic growth, investment, and employment generation.
5 .    To achieve the 6 percent growth needed to reduce unemployment, investment should reach about 25
percent of GDP by 2002/03. This will make it necessary to increase national savings by a comparable amount,
mainly through continued measures to strengthen public finances, with the objective of achieving budgetary
savings on the order of 2.5 to 3 percent of GDP (depending on the level of recurrent spending needed to
simultaneously meet social needs). Achieving 6 percent growth also depends on a renewed dynamism in
exports, which will need to grow at a sustained average annual rate of 7.5 percent over the next few years.
6.    Reducing and rationalizing recurrent expenditures will result in substantial savings, which will make
it possible, in a context of deficit reduction, to boost both capital expenditures and social expenditures in the
Government's budget.
7.    This approach has already inspired the preparation of the 1998-1999 Budget Law (Loi des Finances),
which represents the first stage in the process of implementing the Government's economic and social
development strategy.
8.    The broad outlines of the medium-term macroeconomic framework were defined when the draft
Budget Law was presented to Parliament. The framework specifically addresses the need to:
* improve Morocco's business environment in order to revitalize investment and attract more
foreign capital, and thereby help develop Morocco's productive system and infrastructufe;



Annex 3
Page 5 of 46
* restructure the budget in order to forge a close link between budgetary policy and economic
growth, by strengthening public investment and making social prograrns more effective;
* control the budget deficit, in conjunction with increasing budgetary savings and active debt
rnanagement, as an indispensable measure for permanently relieving the debt burden.
A.    STRUCTURAL REFORMS FOR PROMOTION OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
9.     Private sector development will be the main force driving economic growth and job creation. In the
primary sectors, growth and job creation will be fostered by reducing the impact of climatic risks, developing
irrigated perimeters and readapting crop choices in the bour (semi-arid) zones, and gradually increasing
domestic fishing activities; as well as by reviving the mining sector, notably through the development of
international partnerships.
10.    Diversifying the economy and developing the industrial sector, particularly export-oriented industries,
will also be an important aspect of growth. The process of liberalizing trade flows with the European Union,
sustained by the mise ai niveau program, will lead industries to raise their level of investments and improve
productivity and product quality in order to consolidate their market shares. In the tertiary sector, tourism in
particular, with its still largely unexploited potential, can help to make the entire economy more dynamic.
11.    The Government is aware that achieving its growth objectives depends on intensifying and
accelerating the pace of structural reform, which will, in turn, boost economic efficienc,y and productivity. To
this end, special attention will be given to reforms that are likely to improve the compettiveness of the private
sector and increase its role in the economy.
12.    These reforms, which aim to stimulate private investment, are detailed in the following chapters. They
pertain, inter alia, to:
* and management, in order to strengthen competition and efficiency, and improve the
availability and reduce the cost of infrastructure services for economic actors (chapter 11,
section B);
* adoption of a draft competition law, in order to guarantee the free play of competition (chapter
Im, section C);
* reform of road freight transportation, in order to reduce domestic transportation costs and
widen opportunities reform of road for private operators (chapter m, section B);
*  establishment of a general framework that fosters private sector participation in infrastructure
financingsimplification of administrative procedures, in order to stimulate and strengthen
opportunities for private investment (chapter Im, section C). The Government will also give
special attention to reforming and modernizing the judiciary, particularly the commercial
courts (on the basis of the program described in chapter II, section E);



Annex 3
Page 6 of 46
* reform of the Labor Code, based on consultation with social partners, to turn it into a
modeim, clear, and equitable framework (chapter IV, section A); improvement of the legal
framework goveming the transfer of public enterprises to the private sector (chapter m,
section A); and deepening of financial sector reforms, in order to strengthen the
soundness of financial institutions and improve resource mobilization and allocation in
the economy (chapter IV, section D).
B.    STRENGTHENING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS AND PROMOTING FOREIGN
INVESTMENT
13.   Achieving 6 percent growth by 2002-03 calls for an investment rate on the order of 25 percent of GDP
in the medium term. To this end, the Government intends to take the necessary measures to attract direct
foreign investment, particularly investment that translates into new fixed capital formation in Morocco.
14.   As part of this process, the Government will take steps to set up a single administrative unit for foreign
investment promotion before passage of the next Budget Law. It also intends to continue the policy of
abolishing monopolies and involving the private sector in public service and infrastructure financing and
management, thereby improving the conditions for attracting direct foreign investment.
15.   In addition, the Government is committed to promoting investment through policies that create
favorable conditions for exports (especially of manufactured products), which need to grow at an average
annual rate of 7.5 percent. The Government will, in particular:
*   pursue stringent monetary and budgetary policies designed to hold inflationary pressures
below 3 percent per year, so as to maintain the economy's external competitiveness;
*   pursue foreign trade liberalization, so as to strengthen the competitiveness of export sectors
and ensure access by Moroccan consumers to imported goods at lowest cost;
*   promote competition in the infrastructure and transportation sectors, in order to support the
competitiveness of the Moroccan economy, especially the export-oriented sectors; and
*   adopt the new Customs Code, which will also be a key element in improving the
environment for exporters.
16.   With respect to external accounts, the objective is to maintain the balance of payments current account
deficit in the balance of payments at around 1 percent of GDP, notably through measures to stimulate exports,
consolidate the recovery of the tourist sector, and lower the interest burden on external debt.
17.   Limits on the current account deficit, combined with a sustained flow of foreign direct investment, will
free Morocco from being an indebted economy and enable it to maintain its external reserves at a secure level.



Annex 3
Page 7 of 46
C.    CONSOLIDATION OF MACROECONOMIC BALANCES AND DEVELOPMENiT OF THE SOCIAL
SECTORS
18.   The Government intends to pursue a rigorous policy to reduce the overall budget deficit (excluding
privatization receipts) from 3.6 percent of GDP in fiscal year 1998-99 to less than 2 percent of GDP by 2001-
02.
19.   To achieve the country's development objectives, it is essential to reduce recurrent expenditures.
Improving the country's savings capacity will make it possible to release adequate resources to fund public
investment and meet the financing needs of the private sector without exerting pressure on interest rates or
increasing domestic or external debt.
20.   The 1998-99 Budget Law represents a transition toward concretizing the Government's economic and
social development strategy. Although the Law was prepared in a very short time and consequently could not
fully reflect the priorities announced in the Govemment's program, it does appropriate larger amounts both
for priority social programs and sectors and for exceptional expenditures. At the same time, necessary measures
have been taken to maintain control over macroeconomic balances, notably by contain'ing the budget deficit
at an estimated 3.6 percent of GDP in fiscal year 1998-99.
21.   Beginning with the next Budget Law, the Government will take steps to alter the budget structure in
a progressive way in order to strengthen budgetary savings and thereby turn the budget into an instrument of
growth and social development. Measures to consolidate budgetary revenues and limit recurrent expenditures
will also assist in achieving this objective.
22.   The need for action on budgetary revenues is made more urgent by the fact that the rules of the World
Trade Organization and the Association Agreement with the European Union call for phased dismantling of
tariffs, which will cut customs revenues substantially.
23.   To sustain the ratio of current revenue to GDP at close to its present level, measures will be taken to,
inter alia, broaden the tax base and improve the yield of the tax system, especially by focusing on:
*  identifying and implementing measures related to the structure of direcl and indirect taxation,
while simplifying the tax system and improving investment conditions;
*  enhancing the transparency of relations between the administration and the private sector, and
continuing to improve the legal environment for business; and
* strengthening tax administration with respect to assessment and collection of taxes and duties,
especially through adoption of the draft Collection Code (Code de Recouvrement).
24.   The principal aim of limiting and rationalizing recurrent expenditures is to turn the budget into an
instrument of growth and social progress.
25.   Budgetary adjustment thus depends primarily on limiting the growth of recurrent expenditures. The
Government wage bill accounts for the bulk of these expenditures; it represents more than 11 percent of GDP,



Annex 3
Page 8 of 46
which is clearly excessive when compared with other countries at Morocco's level of development. Reform
measures will be carried out in five main areas:
*  First, fundamental administrative reform, geared to containing the growth of civil service
employment, in order to gradually reduce the weight of wage expenditures.
*  Second, cutting back the administration's overspending on materials and supplies, together
with measures to improve ethics and rationalize the use of budget appropriations. Clearly,
these measures, which are designed to help officials make optimum use of the human and
material resources available to them, should not be detrimental either to the quality of the
services rendered to the public or to preservation of the nation's patrimony.
*  Third, increases in budgetary savings through reductions in transfers to public enterprises and
establishments, after actions have been taken to improve their management and financial
position.
*  Fourth, beginning with the next Budget Law, measures to enhance the budget's social impact
by reforming social assistance programs, especially food subsidies. The reforms will improve
the targeting of resources to poor social groups and the most disadvantaged areas.
26.   Finally, efforts to achieve savings on debt service payments, through the pursuit of active debt
management, and by confining Government guarantees to public enterprises and establishments whose
financial viability is assured.
27.    Active public debt management will continue to be based on two main components:
*  debt-equity swaps: positive results have already been achieved with the French and Spanish
governments. Discussions with other partner countries have made promising progress; and
*  early repayment of high-cost debt, using new loans contracted at lower interest rates.
28.   These efforts will continue to improve budgetary balances by reducing public debt charges. Improved
budgetary balances should, in turn, be reflected in:
*  a reduction in outstanding debt stocks, and consequent reduction in both principal and interest
payrnents; and
*  a reduction in the Treasury's demand for resources from the financial market, and consequent
alleviation of pressure on interest rates.
29.   Public savings obtained in this way will create more budgetary space, thus allowing the Government
to achieve its priority objectives, notably increasing public investment. This, in turn, will help to revive
employment and remedy social shortfalls in rural and sub-urban areas. Moreover, better selection of
Government-financed investment projects, coupled with efforts to increase their efficiency, will optimize use
of the capital budget and ensure that projects have the maximum positive impact on Morocco's econoffric
growth strategy and on the well-being of the population.



Annex 3
Page 9 of 46
30.   Budget appropriations will be defined in light of the spending capacities of line ministries, the deficit
control objective, and the Treasury's financing capabilities, in order to avoid the accumulation of arrears,
which would be detrimental to suppliers and contractors and to the administration's credibility.
31.   On this point, it should be noted that the Govemment's direct investment effort will be supplemented
by the investments of local governments and public enterprises and establishments. Investment under the
responsibility of those entities amounts to more than double that under the responsibility of the Government.
Moreover, investment in public infrastructure can be expected to increase as a result of private sector
involvement.
32.   The deficit will continue to be financed in large measure through borrowing in ihe financial markets.
Increased utilization of extemal loan resources will make it possible to: (i) reduce the magnitude of negative
net extemal financing flows observed during the last few years, and (ii) limit the excessive drawdown of
domestic resources. Treasury recourse to credit will be in line with the growth objectives of monetary
aggregates required to hold inflation below 3 percent a year, and to ensure adequate growth of credit to the
private sector.
II. PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
A.    THE NEW PLAN: A MULTI-YEAR PRIORITY PROGRAMMING FRZAMEWORK
33.   The increasing openness of the Moroccan economy in a context of accelerating globalization is
generating uncertainty. This increases the need for an overall strategic vision, within a clearly defined time
frame, in order to reduce uncertainties, clarify economic and social goals, and optimize the Government's
actions in an environment characterized by scarcity of resources.
34.   Such a strategic vision requires a rehabilitation and renewal of the Plan. The new version of the Plan
will not aim to set fixed objectives or to dictate or limit behavior patterns, but will provide the Government
and social and economic actors with a shared frame of reference by which to evaluate fature challenges and
predict developments more accurately.
35.   The new Plan will be designed to enable its first-year projects and activities to be integrated into the
1999-2000 Budget Law. It will thereafter be the primary instrument for coordinating economic and social
development programs. To this end, the authorities will proceed in the short term to draw up and adopt the Law
on the High Council on National Promotion of the Plan (Conseil Superieur de la Promnotion Nationale du
Plan) and the Law on the Economic and Social Council (Conseil Economique et Social).
36.   The preparation of the next Plan will provide an opportunity to draw up an overall economic and social
development strategy based on a coherent macroeconomic framework integrated into a multi-year public
expenditure program. The essential role of the Plan will be to set forth, in specific terms, the priorities of the
economic and social development strategy and policies to support them. The Plan will thus facilitate tradeoffs
and effective monitoring of how the strategy is implemented.



Annex 3
Page 10 of 46
37.   The Plan will, inter alia, provide the framework for integrating multi-year public expenditure
programming and the preparation of the annual Budget Laws. It will thereby ensure intersectoral coherence
of investments and expenditure reallocations in line with strategic priorities, as well as proper matching
between activities provided for in the Budget Law and the policy directions outlined in the Plan.
38.   The Plan Guidelines Note adopted by the Council of Government prescribes a timetable for its
preparation and calls for multi-year programming of all public expenditures. In the first phase of Plan
preparation, a seminar will be held to present the Government's approach to planning, along with the
procedures, methods, and experiences of other countries with respect to coupling flexible planning with multi-
year budgeting. The seminar will help develop awareness among the various participants and lay the
groundwork for preparatory work on the Plan.
39.   Preparation of the Plan will involve broad-based consultations to help the Plan commissions define
medium-term activities that will embody the Government's economic and social development priorities. The
top-priority activities ultimately adopted will comprise both specific goals and the means for achieving them.
40.   Annual implementation reviews will be prepared for the Plan as a whole and, in particular, for its
priority component activities. The results will be presented to the Cabinet in summary form. Progress will also
be monitored by the identification of specific budget appropriations for priority activities when the annual
Budget Laws are presented to Parliament. Each annual evaluation will give the Government the opportunity
to update the priority programs and the resources required to implement them, within a multi-year framework.
B.    BUDGETARY INSTRUMENTS AND PROCEDURES
41.   The Government is reforming budgetary instruments and procedures, in order to:
*  strengthen the role of the budget as an instrument of economic policy, particularly by attaching
to the annual budget document a report on the economic and financial context in which it was
prepared, and integrating the budget into the overall economic and social development strategy;
*  simplify both preparation and execution of the budget by improving its nomenclature and
specifying criteria for public expenditures;
*  make budget execution and monitoring more efficient by standardizing and speeding up
procedures, from initial commitment to payment of suppliers; and
*  lower the cost of public investments and supplies by making procurement rules more transparent
and more conducive to competition among suppliers.
1.    The Organic Budget Law (Loi Organique des Finances)
42.   In the summer of 1998 Parliament approved the reform of the Organic Budget Law, which governs
the preparation, presentation, and execution of the annual Budget Law. The modifications will:



Annex 3
Page 11 of 46
*  harmonize Budget Law presentation with the most recent constitutional amenidments establishing
the second chamber of Parliament;
*  establish coherence between annual Budget Law preparation and the priority objectives of the Plan;
*  restrict the possibilities for creating special Treasury accounts during the fiscal year, and rationalize
the management of such accounts to give them greater rigor and transparency;
*  progressively abolish annex budgets, which no longer benefit the management of the relevant
agencies;
*  improve budget execution by facilitating transfers of investment appropriations; these may henceforth
be transferred among budget line items by simple order of the Minister of Finance, rather than
requiring a decree, as was the case under the previous Organic Budget Law.
43.   The enabling decree for the Organic Budget Law will shortly be submitted to the Council of
Govermment.
2.    Financial Management and Budget Execution
44.   The Government is aware of current budget execution problems, particularly commitment and payment
delays that can raise public procurement costs, delay the execution of programmed investments, and damage
the financial position of contractors.
45.   An initial set of solutions will be provided by a system of integrated expenditure management
(Gestion Integree de la Depense, GID), which will unify the computerized management systems of all the
authorities involved in the budget execution process; i.e., payment authorization officers, the Budget
Department, the Expenditure Commitment Control Department (CED), and the General Treasury of the
Kingdom (TGR). A study on the required data systems has recently been initiated. Its purposes are to: (a) set
up a system of integrated budget appropriation management for the entire public expenditure execution
process, ranging from allocation to effective spending of funds, at both the central and spatially decentralized
levels; (b) create a system that allows for better communication among the data processing systems of the
various parties involved, and for automatic monitoring of budget appropriations; and (c) rationalize and
simplify procedures.
46.   The study will cover a sample of four ministries (Public Works, Agriculture, Finance, and Cultural
Affairs) and the public expenditure management systems of certain departments in the Ministry of Finance
(Budget, CED, and TGR). It will be executed in four stages which will culminate, after about one year, in
implementation of the GID system in the four ministries. The system adopted will subsequently be extended
to all other ministries.
47.   The GID study will complement the ongoing public expenditure standardization study, which is
designed to establish, both by sector and across sectors, technical norms that will facilitate budget preparation
and expenditure rationalization.



Annex 3
Page 12 of 46
48.   Concerning improvements in public expenditure management procedures, the Government will
implement the action plan stemming from the study of public expenditure procedures carried out under the
BAJ social priorities program. Preparation of the Action Plan has now been completed. Its implementation has
been entrusted to commissions composed of representatives of the pilot ministries targeted by the study and
the Ministry of Finance departments concerned. The commissions will examine the following areas:
* appropriations programming and management;
*   appropriation commitment procedures involving the payment authorization officer and the
expenditure commitment controller;
*   settlement of public expenditures and related controls; and
*  overall revision of public expenditure legislation.
49.   The implementation of the Action Plan will be in accordance with the following timetable:
a) Measures to be completed by January 1999
* standardization of documentation in support of appropriation transfer requests, in order to
facilitate quick examination by the Budget Directorate of proposals presented by payment
authorizing officers;
*  institution of fully empowered subauthorizing officers, as part of the spatial decentralization
of public expenditure management; and
*   improved management of projects financed through the issuance of a circular drawing the
attention of authorizing officers to the instructions contained in the Finance Minister's
Memorandum of June 20, 1990 concerning payments out of working capital funds;
b) Measures to be completed by June 1999
*   dissemination of a circular from the Minister of Economy and Finance on the authorization
of spending against capital budget appropriation carryovers;
* presentation to the Council of Government of the draft enabling decree for the Organic
Finance Law providing, inter alia, that transfers of investment appropriations among budget
line items may be made by simple order of the Minister of Finance instead of requiring a
decree;
*   streamlining the process of delegating appropriations by:holding back appropriations only
in the amounts for which (preceding year) accounts are not yet consolidated;
* giving priority to the delegation of appropriations;
* standardizing supporting documents for the delegation and amendment of appropriations;



Annex 3
Page 13 of 46
*   collective delegation of appropriations.
*   developing standard specification schedules, notably following the cdraft decree on public
procurement presently being approved. Standardization will be achieved by:
*  finalizing the definitive version of the schedule of general administrative clauses
relating to contracts;
* issuing regulations governing the procedure for dealing with modifications to
specifications and supplementary work;
*  disseminating information to Government departments on standardization of the
system of prequalification and classification of construction and public works
contractors, and preparation of a similar system for consulting firms;
+  recognizing and regulating subcontracting; the pertinent provisions are included
in the draft decree on public procurement.
*  defining operating procedures for the bid appraisal commissions; these measures
are provided for in the draft decree on public procurement, and their application
will be defined in circulars; and
*  issuing regulations governing contract approval and notification time limits; these
measures will be finalized following publication of the decree on public
procurement.
c) Measures to be completed by December 1999
50.   By December 1999, the following actions will be taken to revise the content and modalities of
expenditure commitment control:
* speeding up completion of the public expenditure control study;
* simplifying support documentation for commitment of expenditures;
* preparing a nomenclature for all components of commitment support documentation;
* defining the role of Expenditure Comnmitment Control (CED) in the bid appraisal conmmissions;
* ranking CED comments;
* adherence by the CED to the regulatory approval deadline.
51.   These measures will be the subject of a study on public expenditure control, fCo which bids are now
being solicited.
d)    Before 2000
52    Measures will be adopted before 2000 to shorten payment times and standardize accounting controls.
These measures will be based on the public expenditure control study and revision of the decree on public
accounting.



Annex 3
Page 14 of 46
3.     Public Procurement
53.    The Government is determined to improve public procurement procedures, in particular through
reform of the regulations governing these procedures. This reform, designed to strengthen the rules with
respect to transparency, competition and advertising, is an integral part of the public expenditure rationalization
policy, and of the process of aligning Morocco's regulations more closely with international standards and
practices.
54.    As part of this process, in July 1998 the Council of Government approved a draft decree prescribing
the conditions and types of public procurement. The changes introduced by these regulations include, for
example:
*   the possibility of applying special conditions and forms of public procurement if they are
expressly stipulated under agreements or conventions with international agencies or foreign
governments;
-   opening all bids in public sessions;
-   abolition of discretionary awards and general use of the bid call procedure for public
procurement;
-   introduction of a bid validity time limit, which can be extended only with the bidder's agreement;
*   a requirement that the contract principal, at the bidder's request, show reasons for the rejection
of a bid;
-   publication by Government departments of projected procurement programs, on an indicative
basis, during the first quarter of each fiscal year;
*   preparation and dissemination, before the deposit of bids, of the procedures for establishing
bidders' qualifications, and the bid appraisal criteria.
55.    The draft decree will take effect six months after it is published. To ensure that it produces the
intended effect, the decree provides for the following regulatory support measures:
*   revision of the Schedule of General Administrative Clauses (CCAG) applicable to works
contracts, and preparation of CCAGs applicable to the procurement of goods and services.
Preparation of a works CCAG has already started;
*   issuance of an order by the Prime Minister setting contract price revision rules and conditions.
This order will take effect at the same time as the public procurement decree;
*   gradual extension of the uniform system of prequalification and classification of construction and
public works contractors to all Government departments. The decree instituting this system is
already in effect and allows each ministry to adopt it by means of a ministerial order in line with



Annex 3
Page 15 of 46
competition and transparency objectives. The system will be extended gradually, in accordance
with the needs of different sectors;
*   the creation, by order of the Prime Minister, of model documents to be used in the contracting
process. This order will be disseminated upon publication of the public procurement decree; and
*   reform of the Procurement Commission.
C.    CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
56.   The reform and modernization of Morocco's public administration are among the Government's prime
objectives. Such reform is a precondition for accelerating growth and reducing unernployment.
57.   The Government is firmly committed to bringing about a profound change in its relations with citizens.
An administration that intends to serve the public needs to be efficient and productive., sensitive to needs, and
quick to adapt to them. It needs to deploy its resources in a manner that directly contributes to the well-being
of the population, while fully respecting citizens' rights.
58.   These objectives of service quality, ethical behavior, efficiency, accessibility, and responsiveness must
be coupled with the urgent need to lessen personnel costs, which account for about half the Government's
recurrent expenditures. A gradual reduction in Government wage expenditures, by at least 2 percent of GDP
by 2003-04, is necessary to support a higher level of investment needed for sustainable employment growth.
Meeting this goal will require a phased approach, aimed first at stabilizing the wage bill in real terms, and
subsequently at containing Government employment within a framework of in-depth administrative reform.
The Government can no longer be an employer of last resort; rather, it will need to promote sustainable
employment growth by encouraging productive public and private investment and programs to foster job
creation in the private sector.
59.   To achieve these objectives, in October 1998 the Government established a S'trategic Committee for
Administrative Reform (Comite Strategique pour la Reforme de l'Administration) with the following
responsibilities:
*   work out a strategy, in line with the objectives in the Government's General Policy Statement,
for: (i) modernizing the administration; (ii) promoting administrative decentralization; (iii)
reviewing, within a coherent framework, the administrative procedures and rules governing the
modification of organizational structures; and (iv) adopting a new approach in the areas of
recruitment, career development, and staff motivation and qualification, to facilitate
redeployment and mobility among various sectors and consequently limit the number of
Government employees;
*   ensure monitoring of the reform programs in different sectors, based on regular self-evaluation
by Government departments, with a view to improving the management of their agencies, raising
their productivity, and creating an environment conducive to investment promotion; and
*   regularly evaluate the sectoral reform programs with respect to improvements in the quality
and efficiency of services and the resulting budgetary savings.



Annex 3
Page 16 of 46
60.   The Strategic Committee will be assisted by ad hoc working groups utilizing the country's best
expertise. Its actions will draw on the ongoing study of Public Service and Administrative Structures (Etude
de Definition sur la Fonction Publique et les Structures Administratives), which is considering, inter alia, the
rationalization of incentives, remuneration, organizational structures, and conditions of advancement in
Government employment. The Committee's work will also be based on ongoing training projects and
experiments with organizational arrangements, such as those of the National Civil Service Modernization
Program (Programme National de Modernisation de l 'Administration Publique).
61.   A priority program consisting of a number of specific measures has already been submitted to the
Strategic Committee for examination. The program, to be implemented during 1999, will comprise:
*   adoption of a Decentralization Charter that will lay down guiding principles governing
decentralization in ministries, with a view to improving citizens' access to public services. The
charter will also define the conditions of relocation of administrative units and of human
resources, within existing budget envelopes;
e   specific measures to implement the Good Management Compact recently adopted by the Council
of Government, which targets rationalization, efficiency enhancement, and modernization of
government, along with improved communication with the public;
*   preparation and implementation of measures to encourage mobility in government employment,
with a view to facilitating interministerial redeployment;
-   establishment of an institutional framework for dialogue and consultation in the field of civil
service reform; and
-  initiation of a process to simplify administrative procedures and to publicize and communicate
data and legal and administrative texts, in order to facilitate citizens' dealings with government.
62.   The preparation of reform proposals to rationalize the current system with respect to the mobility,
remuneration, and pension systems of Government employees will be entrusted to an independent commnission
composed of persons of high standing.
63.   During the next four years, in the medium-term perspective of the Plan, the Strategic Committee will
pursue civil service reform goals through the following initiatives:
* During 1999, an Action Plan will be prepared for the reform of organizational structures (including
task definitions and job descriptions), remuneration systems, recruitment, promotion and career
development conditions, arrangements for retirement and transfer (including incentives for early
retirement), as well as staff mobility and redeployment. Implementation of the Action Plan will
include draffing and adoption of the necessary legal and regulatory provisions. The plan will be
based on: (i) the conclusions of the Etude de Definition study; and (ii) the work and
recommendations of the independent commission;
* During the first half of 1999, measures will be initiated in relevant ministries to ensure full and more
efficient utilization of available human resources. This will allow a substantial reduction in
recruitment during the reform period and thereby facilitate control of the Government wage bill,



Annex 3
Page 17 of 46
prior to deployment of the full panoply of means available for its reduction in the medium term. A
Prime Minister's circular designed to optimize human resource management within the Government
has already been adopted;
*   The initiatives undertaken in 1999 for full and more efficient utilization of resources will be
supplemented by a study to define a new performance evaluation system. Application of this system
will be introduced in pilot ministries on an experimental basis prior to its adoption on a Government-
wide basis;
*   As part of monitoring the implementation of the Good Management Compact, client surveys will
be conducted in certain pilot ministries and later extended to all Governmeint departments;
*   To periodically monitor implementation progress of the deconcentration policy, indicators of the
spatial distribution of staff, skills, and budget resources will be established;
*   In line with the objective of refocusing the role of Government on its essential functions, the
Strategic Committee will take steps to identify the potential for greater outsourcing of public service
delivery, notably through subcontracting and delegated management. The C:ommittee will propose
outsourcing targets for all Government departments and supervise their attainment.
D.    DECENTRALIZATION, REGIONALIZATION, AND TERRITORIAL MdANAGEMENT
64.   Deconcentration, decentralization and regionalization are essential components of the Government's
policy of territorial management.
65.   The Govemment will, accordingly, take steps to:
 define a general framework for coherent territorial management through preparation of a national
territorial management charter and revitalization of the Interministerial Territorial Management
Committee;
* strengthen the new framework of regional entities put in place by the law of April 2, 1997 by
extending their decisionmaking authority and upgrading their human and inmancial resources; and
* extend the attributions of decentralized local authorities by reexamining the provisions of the
dahir of September 30, 1976 concerning their organization. To this end, steps will be taken to:
*  put in place systems of evaluation, a posteriori control, and budget auditing in
decentralized local authorities, in parallel with training of elected local officials;
*  rationalize local finance management. In this connection, preparation of a standardized
local authority budget nomenclature for the expenditure side has just been completed and
will be tested on about 20 local governments before being put into general use. The
nomenclature for the revenue side is nearing completion.



Annex 3
Page 18 of 46
E.    MODERNIZATION OF THE JUDICIAL SECTOR
66.   To achieve these objectives, it is essential that the Government give special attention to improving the
efficiency of both the central administration and individual jurisdictions. The judicial sector reform program
thus covers four main areas:
a) Strengthening and modernizing the management capabilities of the central administration. To this
end, the Justice Department's responsibilities and structures need to be adapted to the performance
requirements of a public service invested with a development mission. The department also needs to adopt
modern methods of preparation, execution, monitoring and evaluation, and management of the activities of
its headquarters departments.
b) Overhauling the judicial apparatus, with due regard for the rapid and far-reaching changes that are
affecting the economic and social environment ofjustice in Morocco. This will entail five main lines of action:
*   creating commercial jurisdictions by putting in place the necessary legal, human, and material
conditions for successful outcomes, and continuously monitoring the jurisdictions' activities;
*   developing a national judicial map on the basis of priority needs, constructing new jurisdictions,
and rehabilitating the premises of certain courts;
*   revising and modernizing the management system for court caseloads, promoting speedy
disposition of cases, and avoiding congestion of the courts;
*   identifying the root causes of delay in executing court decisions and devising suitable solutions
to this problem. To this end, a study of the magnitude and causes of the problem has already been
carried out by the Ministry of Justice; and
*   evaluating the cost of justice to users and examining the system of legal assistance, with the aim
of improving relations between the judicial sector and citizens. On this point, the current Budget
Law reduces the judicial tax on appeals to the Supreme Court by 50 percent.
c) Improving the skills of judicial sector personnel and putfing them to better use. The effectiveness
of such measures will depend largely on the quality of human resources in the judicial sector and on the extent
to which judges and auxiliary staff support the reform plans. It is, therefore, important that efforts focus on:
*   preparing and implementing a career development monitoring and evaluation system;
*   preparing and implementing a strategy for training magistrates, court clerks and other staff,
and penitentiary personnel; and carrying out a study on basic and continuous training
systems for these various categories of staff; and
*   studying legislative, regulatory, and budgetary means to endow the National Institute of
Judicial Studies with administrative and financial autonomy, to improve its performance,
and to enable it to become more responsive to the economic, social, and judicial
environment in which it operates, particularly in the multi-sectoral fields of business law.
d) Further improving the legislative framework applicable to business. Major steps have already been
taken to adapt Moroccan business law to the demands of globalization, trade liberalization, and the needs
associated with strengthening the competitiveness of the economy. Nevertheless, the framework continues to



Annex 3
Page 19 of 46
require further adjustment and improvement. It will be necessary to, inter alia, develop a legal framework that
promotes the use of arbitration for settling disputes, particularly in commercial matters.
67.   It is equally important to update the law with respect to the profession of notary - a profession of key
importance for the security of transactions and the sound functioning of justice.
III. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
68.   The principal objective of the Moroccan Government's economic and social policy is to create the
necessary conditions for high and sustained economic growth. Growth will, in turn, create the conditions for
employment generation and progressive reduction of the social shortfalls that have developed over the past few
decades.
69.   Achieving such growth is critically dependent on raising the level of domestic and foreign investment.
While investment is driven primarily by private initiative, the Government has a fundamental role to play in
creating an environment of trust, transparency, and predictability, and in promoting the necessary conditions
for a healthy entrepreneurial and business climate.
70.    At a time of increasing openness of economies and emergence of the information and knowledge
society, the economic and financial reformns the Government is pursuing are designed to restructure, modernize,
and raise performance levels in the various parts of Morocco's economic fabric. Only in this way will the
economy be able to meet the demands imposed by increased regional and international competition.
71.   The essential purposes of the Government's program are to create the necessary conditions for a better
performing economy, integrated into the regional and world economies and able to create new sources of
wealth and employment while maintaining economic and financial balances and constantly safeguarding social
cohesion
72.   The reforms will also address: domestic and foreign investment promotion; modernization of
legislation related to the institutional and regulatory environment for business; public enterprise reform and
privatization; infrastructure upgrading and expansion; support for overhauling productive entities; and
stimulation of the banking and financial sector. These reforms will be implemented in a framework of
consultation and discussion among the economic and social partners, to the benefit of growth and employment.
A.    PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM AND STATE DIVESTITURE
73.    The Government's policy of rehabilitating and overhauling the public sector has two objectives
To privatize public establishments and enterprises (PEEs), and to promote increased private
sector participation in the management of public services, especially where competition can
increase the efficiency of such services. In the case of noncompetitive activities, efficiency will
be fostered by setting up an institutional framework designed to limit monopoly power and to
give reasonable guarantees to private investors; and, by so doing,
* To refocus the role of the state on the priority social sectors.



Annex 3
Page 20 of 46
74.    To achieve these goals, the Government has drawn up an Action Plan built around:
*   reform of the PEE sector; and
*   transfer of public enterprises to the private sector.
75.   The Government's policy of rehabilitating and overhauling the public sector has two objectives:
*   To privatize public establishments and enterprises (PEEs), and to promote increased private
sector participation in the management of public services, especially where competition can
increase the efficiency of such services. In the case of noncompetitive activities, efficiency will
be fostered by setting up an institutional framework designed to limit monopoly power and to
give reasonable guarantees to private investors; and, by so doing,
*   To refocus the role of the state on the priority social sectors.
76.    To achieve these goals, the Government has drawn up an Action Plan built around:
* reform of the PEE sector; and
*   transfer of public enterprises to the private sector.
I.    Reform of the Public Establishments and Enterprises (PEE) Sector
77.   The objectives of this reform are to improve PEE performance and reduce transfers from the
Government to PEEs; and to raise the returns from the public portfolio.
78.    Achieving these objectives calls for measures to:
* put in place modern management tools (general and accounting) and well-functioning and
transparent information systems in the PEEs;
* energize PEE boards of directors and confer added responsibilities on their members;
* implement the findings of the study on reform of financial control, with a view to adapting the
control system to the PEEs' socioeconomic environment and to their changing structures;
* transform certain public establishments that engage in industrial and commercial activities into
limited liability companies (societes anonymes). This conversion would have to be preceded by
institutional reform of the sector to introduce effective competition among the various public and
private economic operators, after steps have been taken to separate commercial from the so-called
regulatory functions; and
* adapt PEEs to the new competitive environment and improve their relations with the state,
notably by continuing the policy of selective performance contracting. To this end, Morocco's
experience in this area will be evaluated to identify new options and more suitable contracting
formulas. The evaluation report will be completed by the end of June 1999.
79.    The Government has already initiated a broad-ranging program of institutional and operational
restructuring of PEEs affected by liberalization and by the abolition of monopolies, particularly those in the
infrastructure sectors.



Annex 3
Page 21 of 46
80.   Within this framework, the Government has a plan for the phased closure of the Jerrada Mine by 2001.
This plan, which will cost an estimated DH 3.7 billion, has been ratified by all parties concerned, including
the unions. The 1998-99 Budget Law has allocated DH 667 million for the first phase of the plan. A plan has
also been put into effect for the phased liquidation of SEFERIF and transfer of its activities to the private
sector. The 1998-99 Budget Law has allocated DH 24 million for the first phase of this plan.
81.   To ensure rehabilitation of the PEE sector, the process of liquidating nonviable public enterprises will
be continued. In the case of PEE subsidiaries, liquidation will be carried out by the parent companies by
decision of their boards of directors. This will be accompanied by a settlement of their debts and other
appropriate arrangements.
2.     Speeding Up the Transfer of Public Enterprises
82.    The public sector comprises state-owned public establishments and limited liability companies, held
either directly by the Public Treasury (first degree) or indirectly by public enterprises or local governments
(second degree).
83.   The end-1 997 inventory listed 707 entities, including the residual portfolio of privatizable entities. The
following is the breakdown by juridical status:
*   130 EPAs (Administrative Category Public Establishments);
* 58 EPICs (Industrial and Commercial Category Public Establishments) 100 percent owned by
the state or a local government; and
* 519 SAs (limited liability companies) owned wholly or partly by the Government or public
establishments.
84.   The breakdown of the 519 SAs by capital structure (ownership) is as follows:
*   100 % public ownership             50
*   50- 100 % public ownership 103
*   20 - 50 % public ownership         80
*   less than 20 % public ownership   286
85.   The SAs are managed in accordance with the rules of limited liability companies and commercial law,
for which a modern legislative framework was put in place in 1995. The 366 SAs with less than 50 percent
public shareholding are managed directly by the private shareholders.
86.   Altogether, the Government participates directly in 253 and indirectly in 454 PEEs.
87.   An ambitious privatization program was launched in Morocco at the beginning of the 1990s, which
has enabled the state to divest from 54 enterprises and hotels out of an initial portfolio of 113 entities. The
Government's privatization policy is an integral part of an overall economic policy of state divestiture and
economic liberalization. The Government intends to pursue this policy in a spirit of equity, seeking to broadeaL
the Moroccan public's participation in the fruits of development and involve it in the economic growth effort.
In this context, the Government seeks through the privatization program to:



Annex 3
Page 22 of 46
*   promote development of the financial market, deepen it through the opening up of the capital of
public companies, and reduce risk through their transparent and autonomous management;
*   facilitate access to ownership by developing shareholding, while ensuring the transparency and
standardization of transfer operations;
*   encourage foreign investment by opening up the capital of large companies to foreign holdings in
international financial markets, and seeking strategic international shareholders in the case of
activities that require technology transfer and/or an external market;
*   improve public enterprise (PEE) management, efficiency, and competitiveness to enable PEEs to
participate in upgrading the domestic economy generally, in the context of opening Morocco to the
world economy; and
*   strengthen the PEE portfolio by liquidating economically nonviable enterprises.
88.    To achieve these objectives, the Government has introduced legal and institutional modifications
shown to be necessary by national and international experience with privatization. These modifications also
address the need to institute common standards of management and coherence of vision with respect to the
public sector.
89.   A draft amendment to Law 39-89 of 1989 has just been submitted to the Council of Government with
a view to its early approval by Parliament. The amendment seeks to convert Law 39-89 into a stable and
permanent framework law by abolishing its time limit, which gave it only provisional status. In addition, the
amendment extends the scope of the law to all PEEs beyond the initial list appended to the 1989 law, paving
the way for adding new candidates for privatization. Finally, the draft amendment provides for withdrawal of
about 30 enterprises included in the list appended to the law, owing to the liquidation of some of these and the
merger of certain others, and to the need to correct certain inconsistencies in the text of the original law.
90.    Since passage of the original law in 1989, experience has shown that attaching the list of enterprises
to be transferred has had a demoralizing effect on those enterprises. To avoid this risk, and in observance of
the constitutional provisions that require legislative authorization to transfer public enterprises to the private
sector, the identification of new enterprises to be privatized will be done by an act of parliament, whenever
firms are prepared for privatization.
91.   The enabling texts of the privatization law have also been amended to make them more flexible while
strengthening the rules governing transparency and equity. In pursuit of the objective of increasing popular
participation, the new texts extend the discount granted to employees of a company to be privatized to the
retirees of that company.
92.   Four further amendments have been made in the area of procedures:
* in the case of transfers on the stock exchange, the change relates to the possibility of setting the final
transfer price on the basis of a market survey (book building), on the condition that it not be lower
than the price set by the Valuation Authority (Organisme d 'Evaluation);
* in the case of tenders, it is proposed that choice of the awardee may be based on an assessment of
the bidders' technical capacities as well as their financial bids;



Annex 3
Page 23 of 46
*   in the case of direct negotiations, the decree designating the acquirer is replaced by public
announcement of the choice of the procedure for transferring the shareholdings in question; and
*   finally, with respect to preemptive rights, a provision is introduced to set a deadline and a price for
exercising these rights.
93.    This legal text will be submitted to the Council of Government shortly.
94.   Implementation of the Government's strategy with respect to public holdings is entrusted to the
Ministry for the Public Sector and Privatization, within a framework of consultation and discussion with the
ministerial departments concerned. This will ensure broad-based consultation and promote policy consistency
and convergent action by the various Government departments working in this area.
95.    This Ministry will be provided with the necessary human and material resources to perform its
functions.
96.    To speed up the process of privatization, the Government intends to take a series of short and medium-
term actions.
a) Short-term actions
*   Divestiture modalities for the National Economic Development Bank ('Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique), the Popular Central Bank (Banque Centrale Populaire), and the sugar
miills will be examined, under auspices of interrninisterial commissions set up for this purpose, with
the aim of enabling the Government to reach a decision by the end of the year;
* The Government will adopt a strategy for the privatization of Itissalat-al-Maghrib. To this end, an
audit of Itissalat-al-Maghrib will be carried out and a financial adviser recruited to prepare for
implementation of the privatization transaction in the short term. In addition, the Government will
soon issue an international call for bids for the award of a second GSM mobile phone license;
*   An interministerial commission has been set up by the ministries of Finance and Privatization to
formulate recommendations with respect to new enterprises identified in the 1999-2000 Budget Law
as being ready for transfer to the private sector. In addition, the Government will proceed with the
sale, during the current fiscal year, of at least two enterprises of significant economic importance;
*   An inventory of minority shareholdings (companies with less than 15 percent Government
ownership) is currently being prepared with a view to their transfer to the private sector, following
enactment of the amendments to Law 39-89;
*   ODI's subsidiary enterprises that were on the privatization list but are now scheduled instead for
liquidation have been entrusted to ODI. A commission will be set up to examine the liabilities of
these enterprises to prepare for their liquidation; and
*   Two hotels will be transferred to the private sector.



Annex 3
Page 24 of 46
b) Objectives for the period to 2002
97.    The Government will take the following measures by the year 2002:
*   transfer to the private sector all enterprises eligible for privatization and contained in the list
appended to Law 39-89, as amended, and liquidate those removed from the list;
*   cede substantially all the Government's minority shareholdings in limited liability companies;
*   liquidate the majority of public enterprises identified as nonviable; and
*   add each year, on the occasion of the Budget Law, at least two new companies to be privatized.
B.    DEMONOPOLIZING AND INCREASING PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION IN
INFRASTRUCTURE
98.   In the area of infrastructure, the Government intends to encourage private investment in order to speed
up the process of providing Morocco with modern infrastructure. Promotion of private participation in
infrastructure will also support the expansion of Morocco's private sector, attract foreign investors, and
promote competition with a view to raising efficiency in production.
99.  The challenge of raising standards of infrastructure provision, both to improve the competitiveness of
the economy and to open up access to and from rural areas, calls for a substantial financial effort. In view of
the pressure on the national budget to meet multiple needs, especially in the social sectors, the Govemment
has undertaken a far-reaching study of ways to involve the private sector in infrastructure project financing and
management, in order to upgrade and expand the infrastructure essential for Morocco's economic
development.
100.  To this end, the Government will put in place a legal, regulatory, and institutional framework that
encourages competition, transparency, and efficiency with respect to private participation in infrastructure.
101.  The Government has already initiated a study on setting up an institutional and regulatory framework
to regulate private participation in infrastructure and public services management. Pending the establishment
of this framework, the opening of public service provision to the private sector will be pursued whenever the
requirements of transparency, competition, and success come together.
102.  This process of liberalization and demonopolization will affect, in particular, the road freight transport,
rail transport, electricity generation, highway, port, airport, and water and sanitation sectors.
103.  In parallel, the Government will carry out institutional, operational, and financial restructuring of the
PEEs operating in these sectors.



Annex 3
Page 25 of 46
1.    Road Freight Transport
104.  The Government's policy will be to improve the sector's competitiveness through progressive
liberalization and by setting up a legal frarmework tailored to the new context.
105.  Measures fostering liberalization of the sector have already been initiated. They include:
*   regularizing the status of the under-8 tons TLW (total loaded weight) truck fleet, allowing it to freely
undertake public freight transport;
*   generalized application by ONT (Office National des Transports) of the practice of Direct Treaty
(Traite Direct; direct canvassing of clients by authorized carriers) to all Moroccan cities, with the
possibility of returning under load without passing through the local agency;
*   reduction by 50 percent of the Direct Treaty commissions charged by ONT; and
*   authorization of domestic transport by Moroccan international road transport enterprises.
106.  To consolidate these gains, the Government proposes to adopt a law amending the dahir of November
12, 1963 as it relates to vehicle freight transport. The amendment will comprise, inter alia:
*   abolition of the chartering monopoly currently vested in ONT, effective frorn the date of enactment
of the law, and redefinition of ONT's functions toward the medium-term objective of separating
regulatory from commercial functions;
*   free access to the road freight transport market, in accordance with established criteria; and
*   abolition of quotas in public freight transport.
2.    Highways
107   In light of recent experience, the Govemment will finalize new ways to promtote the development of
private highway concessions. The granting of concessions for new sections of the highway network will favor
private participation through calls for bids.
3.     Ports
108.  The Govermment's strategy hinges on measures to adapt ports to new economic and technical
requirements, and to make use of new forms of operation and financing that expand private involvement in
both management and service provision. The recommendations stemming from the ongoing study will be taken
into account. With regard to port concessions, this policy is illustrated by the construction and operation under
concession of the Atlantic port of Tangiers, negotiations for which began on July 28, 1998, with bidders
selected through an intemational call for bids. More generally, private sector management of resort ports will
be encouraged, as exemplified by the concession for the operation of the port in Agadir and neighboring
developed sites.



Annex 3
Page 26 of 46
4.    Air Transport
109.  The Government's policy is designed to prepare the sector for deregulation now that the European
Union (EU) has started to gradually liberalize its air space.
110.  The three parties in the sector - the administration, the services provider (ONDA), and the national
carrier (RAM) - have all implemented a number of specific regulatory, organizational, training, and
restructuring measures designed to refocus and improve skills, make regulations more flexible, enhance service
quality, and upgrade air transport safety and regularity of service.
111.  In view of the importance of air traffic between Morocco and EU countries, in February 1998 the
Government requested air transport negotiations with the EU with a view to concluding an agreement
integrating Morocco into European air space and an "open skies" agreement, similar to that of other non-EU
countries. Such agreements would allow the regulatory restrictions on all aspects of air transport contained in
the current bilateral agreements to be lifted.
112.  Domestically, the creation of a private regional company, Regional Air Lines, has ended the defacto
monopoly enjoyed until now by the national company, Royal Air Maroc.
113.  Charter activities were completely liberalized some time ago. The administration intervenes only to
ensure that flights conform to international air safety standards.
5.     Rail Transport
114.  The Government intends to implement the recommendations of the study on institutional restructuring
of the rail sector, in accordance with the Minister of Transport's strategy letter of September 25, 1996.
115.  The purposes of this restructuring will be to make rail transport more competitive, improve quality,
reduce the cost of rail services, and liberalize the sector by increasing competition among transport modes and
enterprises.
116.  In addition, expansion of the network will be allowed under private concessions. The first operation
opening up the sector to private concession holders will be the construction and operation of the Taourirt-
Nador rail line (120 km). This will make possible the development of railway infrastructure in the northern
provinces.
6.    Water
117.  Inmediately following the enactment of the 1995 Water Law, preparatory work to set up river basin
agencies was initiated; in particular, regulatory instruments were enacted and the necessary technical and
financial studies were carried out.



Annex 3
Page 27 of 46
118.  The Government intends to continue preparation work for startup of the Oum Er Rbia River Basin
Agency, together with technical studies for other such agencies and the drafting of legal instruments necessary
for application of the Water Law.
119.  Concerning water distribution, electric power distribution, and sanitation, two concessions have been
granted in Casablanca and in Rabat. The Government would like to develop such arrangements in other cities.
7.    Energy
120.  The Government intends to pursue its new liberalization policy, and has already authorized
independent electricity generation of more than 1300 MW at Jorf Lasfar.
121.  As part of the introduction of natural gas into the national energy balance, the Government will
proceed, in particular, with the construction of a combined cycle electric power station at Tahaddart in the
Tangiers region, in partnership with the private sector. The use of natural gas will be encouraged by putting
in place concessions for regional distribution, and expanded through the establishment of a transportation
concession in the Atlantic coast regions.
122.  In parallel, steps will be taken to:
*   adapt energy sector legislation to recent developments in the sector. This will involve, in particular,
creating the legal instruments needed for phased liberalization of the sector and adjustment of the
relationships among the various participants to the rules of competition ancl consumer protection.
This action will cover all branches of the energy sector: oil, electric pewer, natural gas, and
renewable energy sources;
*   complete the work of restructuring public enterprises operating in the sector, to adapt them to the
new sectoral and regulatory context that will be put in place.
123.  Finally, a study on demonopolization and private participation in the field of electric power will be
launched to examine ways of providing the country with the most competitive electric energy.
C.    IMPROVING PRIVATE SECTOR COMPETITIVENESS
124.  The programs undertaken under the Government's general policy of liberalization and promotion of
the private sector cover the following areas:
1.    Enterprise Upgrading
125.  An enterprise upgrading program has been prepared in association with the private sector to help
strengthen the Moroccan economy as it opens up to the international economic environment and begins to
operate in free trade zones with the European Union, the European Free Trade Association, Egypt, Jordan,
Tunisia, and other countries and regions.



Annex 3
Page 28 of 46
126.   This program comprises general, sectoral and enterprise-specific support measures. The measures are
designed to align the competitiveness and efficiency parameters of the Moroccan economy with those of
competitor countries, and thereby enable private enterprise to develop in a competitive environment. All of
these actions are being coordinated with the private sector.
127.   The general measures will:
* encourage investment through the development of startup services and infrastructure, particularly
the establishment of industrial parks in partnership with the private sector;
*   foster on-the-job vocational training through projects financed by various financing agencies;
* restructure the quality standards system and adapt it to the current economic setting, in partnership
with the private sector.
128.   The aim of the sectoral measures is to:
* set up Industrial Technical Centers to assist enterprises in various sectors of industry with upgrading;
* strengthen professional associations and chambers of commerce.
129.  The upgrading program also includes measures to restructure enterprises, modernize their plant
equipment, and improve their organization and management methods. As part of this process, a specific three-
part financing mechanism has been put in place covering venture capital, a guarantee fund, and lines of credit.
2.     Fiscal Policy
130.   As noted in chapter I on the macroeconomic framework, the Government's objective is to maintain
macroeconomic stability and promote private sector growth. To this end, the Government's fiscal policy is built
around three major principles:
* increasing the transparency of Government-private sector relations;
* improving the efficiency of revenue administration; and
* enlarging the fiscal base.
3.     The trade system and encouragement of exports
131.  The Government has adopted a policy of liberalizing its foreign trade flows under: (i) the free trade
agreement with the EU, signed on February 26, 1996, which will put in place a Morocco-EU free trade zone
by 2010; and (ii) its commitments with respect to the World Trade Organization (WTO).
132.  Under the agreement with the EU, Morocco will gradually abolish all duties, and taxes with equivalent
effect, on all EU industrial goods. Nearly 60 percent of total Moroccan imports will be affected by this tariff
dismantling process, which will be implemented over a period of 12 years on the basis of three lists of
products:
* a first list of products, comprising in particular capital goods, for which customs duties and taxes
with equivalent effect are to be abolished upon entry into effect of the agreement;



Annex 3
Page 29 of 46
* a second list, essentially comprising industrial raw materials not produced locally and spare parts,
for which customs duties and taxes with equivalent effect are to be abolished in stages over a period
of three years following entry into effect of the agreement;
* a third list, consisting of the most sensitive locally manufactured industrial products, for which
customs duties and taxes with equivalent effect are to be abolished in stages, following a three-year
grace period, over a period of nine years.
133.  To provide support for industrial trade liberalization and to dampen the shock that will be caused by
the competitiveness differential between Moroccan and EU products, the agreement provides for economic
and financial cooperation measures (in the context of the MEDA program), with a view to restructuring and
upgrading Morocco's industrial fabric.
134.  On June 19, 1997, Morocco also signed an agreement for the phased establishment of a free trade zone
with the European Free Trade Association, based on a mechanism identical to that provided for in the
association agreement with the EU. Morocco has also signed free trade agreements with Arab countries,
notably Egypt, Jordan, and Tunisia. A study has been launched to determine the economic and fiscal impact
of extending the free trade regime to other countries. The findings of the study will provide guidance for the
Government in fornulating its foreign trade policy.
135.  Under the WTO agreement, Morocco has undertaken to cap the customs duty on industrial products
at 40 percent, to which is added a fiscal import levy (prelevementfiscal e I 'importation, PFI) of 15 percent.
For agricultural products, Morocco is required to carry out tariff reductions of 24 percent over 10 years
beginning in 1995; i.e., 2.4 percent per year. For textiles and clothing, the WTC) agreement facilitates
integration by progressively subjecting trade in textile products and clothing to GATr rules and constraints.
With respect to services, Morocco has made substantial offers on basic telecommunications, financial services,
and maritime transportation.
136.  In parallel with the liberalization of the trade regime and in conformity with its WTO comnmitments,
the Government has undertaken a broad-ranging program to adapt national legislation to new multilateral rules
and constraints. Under this program, a draft Customs Code will be submitted for approval to the Council of
Government, with a view to providing Morocco, and particularly the export sector, with a modem code geared
to the growing openness of the economy, to intemational standards, and to the expectations of the business
community. This new code aims, inter alia, to relax customs clearance formalities and. improve procedures in
order to reduce delays.
137.  In addition, on July 4, 1998, the Government adopted new customs valuation procedures following
Morocco's adoption of the WTO agreement. The Government also plans to pursue simplification of the
temporary admissions scheme. To this end, the 1998-99 Budget Law provides for settling outstanding legal
disputes with customs. It should, however, be noted that customs clearance time has already been reduced to
one day.



Annex 3
Page 30 of 46
4.     Competition and consumer protection policy
138.  The Government plans to strengthen competition and consumer protection by establishing a legal and
economic framework that embodies the rules of free competition, with the ultimate goal of creating a dynamic,
efficient, and competitive environment. The key instrument will be a law on competition and consumer
protection that takes due account of international experience.
139.  The draft law provides specifically for:
* punishment of anti-competitive practices;
* requirements with respect to transparency, information, and loyalty to customers and consumers;
* creation of an appropriate institutional framework, including a Competition Council;
* communication and training with a view to disseminating a competition culture.
140.  As part of the price liberalization process started in 1982, Morocco has already reduced the list of
regulated products and services from 200 to 29. The Government's program envisages liberalization in the
short term of 1 1 products and services, and in the medium term of 14 others of a social nature.
5.     Encouraging investment
141.  To encourage private investment, the Government will seek to create a climate of confidence and
transparency, in order to improve the economic visibility of private businesses and allow them to carry out their
operations efficiently and expeditiously. The Government is being guided in this effort by two main priorities:
*   to create an administrative agency with responsibility for making initial contacts and providing
information, guidance, and assistance to investors, both domestic and foreign, as well as for
promoting investment;
-   to implement the provisions of Title Im of the Investment Charter relating to streamlining the
management of industrial zones in certain provinces and prefectures and relaxing administrative
procedures pertaining to investment.
142.  To simplify procedures for undertaking economic activity, and to give new impetus to local and
regional investment, the Government has undertaken the following measures:
*   creation of a committee representing all the departments concerned, in order to simplify and clarify
the procedures for granting permits;
*   support for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) by setting up approved accounting management
centers (Centres de Gestion de Comptabilite Agree, CGCAs) within professional associations. A
pilot operation is about to be launched in Casablanca, Rabat, and Khouribga.
*   setting up a simplified accounting system for merchants;



Annex 3
Page 31 of 46
* establishment of a procedure for delivery of negative certificates in real time, making it possible to
provide certificates the same day in Casablanca and within 24 hours at the headquarters of the
various provincial delegations of the Department responsible for trade and industry (the DPCI).
143.  To make procedures for establishing and registering a private enterprise more flexible, the Government
will also adopt two draft laws. These relate to: (i) industrial property; and (ii) setting up a single agency for
the central registration of trade and industrial property.
144.  In addition, the Government will carry out a project for the phased creation of arbitration centers
within chambers of commerce, industry, and services. It has selected the chamber of the Wilaya of Rabat-Sale
for implementation of the first pilot commercial arbitration center, and that experience will be extended and
generalized to the other chambers of commerce in Morocco.
D.    INCREASING ACCESS TO FINANCE
145.  Over the last decade, Morocco's financial system has undergone far-reaching reforms aimed at:
increasing the mobilization of domestic savings, diversifying the sources of financing for businesses,
revitalizing financial intermediation, and attracting foreign capital. The reforms have covered the banking
sector, the securities market, and the money and foreign exchange markets.
146.  The Government now intends to accelerate the pace of reforms in light of the need to mobilize savings
to raise the level of investment and to finance the upgrading of the productive foundation and basic
infrastructure.
147.  The Government's reform policy for the financial sector is focused on two main areas: mobilization
of all forms of savings; and access by enterprises, especially SMEs, to sources of financing. In addition, state-
owned financial institutions are being reformed in line with the above.
1.    Mobilization of savings
148.  The Government intends to increase the mobilization of domestic and international savings to achieve,
in the medium to long term, a savings rate of about 25 percent of GDP. To this end, it has undertaken a series
of reform measures, including:
149.  The Government intends to increase the mobilization of domestic and international savings to achieve,
in the medium to long term, a savings rate of about 25 percent of GDP. To this end, it has undertaken a series
of reform measures, including:
* contractual savings development, which covers the insurance and pension sectors as well as the
nonbank financial intermediary (Caisse de Dep6t et de Gestion) and the postal savings institution
(Caisse d 'Epargne Nationale). The capital markets infrastructure will be improved through the reform
of the legal and regulatory framework and portfolio management on behalf of third parties;



Annex 3
Page 32 of 46
* small savings mobilization by means of revitalizing the role of the postal savings institution (Caisse
d 'Epargne Nationale);
* enhancing the transparency, security, and integrity of capital markets. The modernization of the
securities exchange market will contribute to this effort, as will the start-up of operations of Maroc
Clear, the central depositary. Efforts undertaken in this field will be followed up to ensure that the
Casablanca financial market becomes one of the most dynamic emerging capital markets of the
southern Mediterranean and Africa;.
*   diversifying the range of financial instruments adapted to the needs of investors and issuers.
Particular efforts will be made to encourage development of the bond market and to put in place the
legal framework for securitization of mortgage assets. These efforts will contribute to developing the
housing sector, and will foster infrastructure financing; and
*   increasing the liquidity of capital markets and the mobilization of international savings through
foreign direct investment.
2.     Access to business financing
150.  The Government plans to foster access to business financing, especially for SMEs, by making
available a wide range of financial products at accessible terms. Actions will include:
*   strengthening the soundness of the banking system, and promoting competition and openness in the
sector. The Government will ensure compliance with prudential regulations by the entire profession,
and will introduce a new accounting standard for financial institutions that will provide a better
picture of current banking activities. Further, special efforts will be made to improve the management
of state-owned financial institutions (see below);
*   improving access to credit by small entrepreneurs who cannot provide collateral and, as a result, are
excluded from bank financing. The Government intends to enact the necessary legal and regulatory
framework to develop and promote a microcredit program, which will provide credit of up to DH
50,000 each to small entrepreneurs; and
* setting up a guarantee fund, credit lines, and instruments for venture capital financing.
3.     Reform of state-owned financial institutions
151.   A set of reforms has been put in place relating to state-owned financial institutions:
Caisse Nationale de Cridit Agricole (CNCA)
152.   The objectives of the reform are to:



Annex 3
Page 33 of 46
*   revise CNCA's bylaws to convert it into a limited liability company and ultimately into an
autonomously managed and competitive bank. The new bylaws will provide a framework for
agreement between the Government and CNCA concerning CNCA's public service mandate and the
conditions for accomplishing this role;
*   set up a Govemment-CNCA program contract to: (a) separate, in the balance sheet and operating
income statements, CNCA's commercial activity from its public service mandate; (b) define a more
stringent financing policy; (c) intensify portfolio recovery and restructuring measures; (d) reduce
operating costs and capital investments; and (e) pursue efforts to significantly raise net banking
income.
* increase, in the short term, CNCA's equity by DH 250 million. The Government is also considering
a budgetary allowance of DH 200 million to offset the over-indebtedness of CNCA's customers.
Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH)
*  CIH's hotel portfolio will be restructured in view of its anticipated privatization.
Caisse Centrale de Garantie (CCG)
* The Government intends to improve CCG's balance sheet by using the Treasury's guarantee scheme to
assume the debt of the fisheries and other sectors.
Fonds d'Equipement Communal (FEC)
U Under the 1998-99 Budget Law, the equity of the FEC will be strengthened to facilitate, in the medium
term, its conversion to a limited liability company.
Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP)
* The Government intends to adopt new bylaws with the objective of opening up BCP's capital to the
regional cooperative banks (banques populaires regionales) and to the private sector through the stock
exchange market.
IV. SOCIAL REFORM
153.  In its statement of April 17, 1998, the Government declared that social development is its top priority,
and resolved to undertake a deep-rooted reform of Moroccan society. The priorities for reform are:
employment, public health, basic education, adult literacy, equity for women, and the reduction of social
inequalities and exclusion. Actions will be directed first toward the most disadvantaged population groups,
especially in rural and sub-urban areas.
154.  To these ends, the Government is preparing a comprehensive, integrated social development strategy
that aims to create the necessary synergies among the social development actors to avoid over-spending and
to enable them to respond efficiently to the real needs of the populations concerned.



Annex 3
Page 34 of 46
155.  This strategy is based on:
*   expanding access of the poor to"basic social services, particularly basic education, basic health,
potable water, rural electrification, rural roads and tracks, and social housing;
*   combating unemployment, social disparities, and exclusion by creating employmnent and income
opportunities; and
*   reforming the social protection and safety net systems.
156.  The strategy targets three population groups:
*   groups living below the poverty threshold, especially in rural and sub-urban areas who, with the help
of vocational, economic, and social programs, would in time be able to generate enough income to
cover their needs;
*   low-income groups who need institutionalized social protection to guarantee their future and that of
their families;
*   marginalized or excluded groups in need of direct social assistance, such as disadvantaged women
and children, the handicapped, and the elderly.
157.  Inplementing the social development strategy calls for:
*   spatial and intersectoral reallocation of social expenditures to give priority to the poorest areas and
provinces and the most vulnerable population groups. To this end, the 1998-99 Budget Law provides
for appreciable increases in the budgets of ministries with social responsibilities. The share of the
general national budget allocated to the social sectors was raised from 41 percent in 1997-98 to 44
percent in 1998-99;
*   contribution by all segments of society, including the private sector and NGOs;
*   restructuring of implementation mechanisms, notably Entraide Nationale (the State Social
Assistance Agency), and reexamination of transfer mechanisms in the areas of food and health;
* creation of the Social Development Fund (Agence de Developpement Social), as an instrument to
help reduce poverty and exclusion and respond directly to the needs of disadvantaged population
groups through comrnmunity development and effective grassroots involvement.
A.    EMPLOYMENT AND THE LABOR MARKET
158.  Employment is the cornerstone of the Government's social policy. The Government will mobilize all
the means at its disposal to encourage job creation, notably through the rekindling of economic growth and
the implementation of proactive measures to promote employment.



Annex 3
Page 35 of 46
159.  The preparation of the strategy to promote employment is nearing completion. I[t will provide a frame
of reference for the different parties involved in the labor market and set out priority objectives. In addition,
the strategy will indicate the methods and measures necessary for its implementation, notably rationalizing the
use of resources available to fund employrment policy initiatives.
160.  The major components of this strategy include: creating a labor market intermediation agency;
developing incentives for employers to create jobs for higher education graduates, wdith the goal of placing
25,000 young graduates a year; promoting retraining; assisting the self-employment support program, which
will be implemented in partnership with NGOs; and intensifying public utility works.
161.  The strategy will be backed by the necessary legislation, especially the draft microcredit law and the
decree amending the 1993 training and placement law recently adopted by Parliament.
162.  To preserve social cohesion, the Government will take all necessary steps to encourage the partners
involved to finalize the draft Labor Code, in a spirit of dialogue and mutual agreement, so that the new code
can be adopted as soon as possible. The Government will also take measures to promote social dialogue and
develop work accident prevention and compensation programs.
163.  In parallel, the Government will give high priority to vocational training by expanding the current
training strategy and by defining clear training objectives, with the main goal of helpings young people to enter
active employment. The Government intends to adapt training schemes to new skill needs; and develop new
training methods in partnership with training institutions, socio-vocational organizations, and industry
(apprenticeship, alternative training, agreement-based training). Finally, the Government will modernize its
training management methods and tools.
164.  This package of short and medium-term measures comprises the Government's employment promotion
policy. National meetings to bring together all the partners involved - the executive branch, the legislature,
workers' and employers' organizations, local authorities, and NGOs - will be organizecl by the end of this year
to facilitate consensual ratification of this policy. The measures and recommendations presented at these
meetings will cover, inter alia: the various employment promotion programs for young people, labor market
management and monitoring structures, sectoral employment strategies, labor relations, social protection of
workers, development of human resources in industry, community development and regional partnerships for
employment.
B.    PROMOTION OF WOMEN
165.  The Government's April 1998 statement gave special attention to the promotion of women, and
strongly emphasized the need for women to enjoy full and unrestricted citizens' rights.
166.  The Government is determined to combat all fonns of discrimination, to strengthen legal protections
for women with the objective of ensuring equality of opportunity, and to implement its international
agreements concerning women's rights. With these goals in mind, legislation that continues to include
discriminatory provisions will be reviewed.



Annex 3
Page 36 of 46
167.  Specific programs will be implemented in the areas of economics, social development, education,
health, and culture, with the goal of increasing the involvement of women as both participants in and
beneficiaries of the development process. The Government will also take the necessary measures to improve
the image of women in society and increase their access to decisionmaking positions.
168.  An Action Plan for the integration of women into development is under preparation. It will represent
the outcome of a dialogue and mutual agreement between the Government and civil society organizations. The
plan will comprise four main components: reproductive health; education and literacy; integration of women
into economic development; and increasing women's legal, political, economic, and social power.
C.    SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
169.  The social development strategy aims to improve the living conditions of the most disadvantaged
population groups and to strengthen the protection system by the year 2003. Implementation of the
Government's policy in this area will begin with actions to combat social exclusion, in order to reduce the
poverty that especially affects the rural and sub-urban areas.
170.  The policy calls for implementation of an integrated development strategy that will provide all
population groups with access to basic infrastructure and services, increased employment opportunities, and
the protections of the social safety net.
171.  The strategy will set sector-specific objectives, determine priority programs, and define relevant
indicators to monitor program implementation. It will also define the human and financial resources that need
to be mobilized for its implementation. Finally, the strategy will define the institutional framework, as well as
the coordination mechanisms, in which the various governmental and non-governmental partners will operate.
172.  To integrate the strategy into the National Development Plan, an interministerial committee, under the
authority of the Prime Minister, has been set up to coordinate the preparation of this strategy in the short term.
The Committee will also supervise implementation of the strategy and evaluate its performance.
D.    RESTRUCTURING OF ENTRAIDE NATIONALE (EN)
173.  As part of its policy of combating social exclusion, the Government plans to restructure Entraide
Nationale (EN) so that it can better carry out its role of serving disadvantaged social groups that lack access
to basic public services. The magnitude of EN's task can be gauged from the fact that its current programs
reach only about 65,000 beneficiaries (mothers and nursing children, young girls with little or no schooling,
orphans, the handicapped and elderly), compared with the approximately 2.5 million poor people identified
by the 1994 living standards survey.
174.  Restructuring EN is, consequently, of fundamental importance and calls for complex decisions to be
made, particularly with respect to dilapidated or badly maintained facilities and 6,000 poorly trained, unsuited,
or simply unmotivated staff. Despite this, EN remains the only public agency that currently tries to reach the
most deprived groups. Its network covers the whole of Morocco, and most of its programs are self-targeted to



Annex 3
Page 37 of 46
the groups not reached by existing social services. In addition, it has much experience with partnerships. Given
its status as a Public Enterprise, it can also display flexibility in managing its programs. Nevertheless, its
current budget, equivalent to 0.1 percent of GDP, is low, and will only be increased if EN appreciably
enhances its effectiveness and its efficiency at all levels of activity.
175.   In the near future, it is anticipated that a document detailing EN's long-term strategy will be prepared
and approved by the Government. The broad objectives of this long-term strategy are to: (i) improve program
targeting and quality of services; (ii) increase the number of beneficiaries; (iii) reorient programs toward rural
and sub-urban areas; (iv) develop partnerships with other institutions and NGOs to better target EN's activities
and enhance their efficiency; and (v) decentralize and deconcentrate its activities so as 1;o improve the quality
of its services.
176.   The proposed restructuring should enable EN to identify the needs of target grouips and set up specific
mechanisms for monitoring the impact of its programs, thereby ensuring their quality, effectiveness, and
sustainability. The restructuring will also assess the quality and reliability of other participants (public and
private agencies, NGOs), ensure that these requirements are met, and establish agreements with partners.
Finally, restructuring will enable EN to carefully choose the specific activities to be kept under its direct
responsibility.
177.   This will be accomplished using a two-phase approach. The first phase will introduce certain general
reforms (institutional and at the national level) and will also pilot reforms in four provinces. In the second
phase, the pilot reforms will be extended to EN's operations as a whole. During the first phase, lasting about
12 months, various restructuring alternatives will be tested in the four preselected provinces (Fes, Rabat,
Oujda, and Khemisset). The pilot programs will be evaluated in cooperation with governmental and regional
agencies, Moslem benevolent associations, and the other participants. From the evaluation of the impact and
efficiency of these pilot programs, a medium-term Action Plan will be prepared by EN and endorsed by the
Government.
178.   The pilot programs will serve to identify the activities on which EN will focus and those that will be
transferred, subcontracted, or privatized on a contractual basis. Restructuring EN will also require revising its
legal status and that of its personnel and functions, with the aim of adapting its legal structure to enable it to
decentralize its activities and develop contracts and agreements with partners.
E.   THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
179.   The creation of a Social Development Fund (Agence de developpement social ADS) , announced by
the Government in its general statement to Parliament and included in the 1998-99 Budget Law, will provide
Morocco with an instrument for grassroots mobilization and participation that can support the general social
development effort needed to improve the living conditions of the Moroccan people.
180.   The ADS will support the general effort of alleviating poverty and combating social exclusion, to the
benefit of the rural and sub-urban areas and the most deprived population groups. It will help the target
populations (through projects they will themselves have proposed and for which they will assume
implementation and monitoring responsibility) to improve their capacity to create incom.e-generating activities.



Annex 3
Page 38 of 46
It will enhance individual and community opportunities to integrate into the economic and social life of the
regions that will be selected.
181.   The Social Development Fund will operate in partnership with local authorities, institutional and
private operators, and the public administration, and will focus on:
*   community development, covering primary health care, nutrition, basic education, literacy
promotion, and environmental protection activities. Within this overall framework, the ADS may
provide support for infrastructure works, rehabilitation, and training;
*   small public utility works, such as rural dirt roads, irrigation, and electrification projects. Preference
will be given to highly labor-intensive activities, so as to create the maximum number of jobs.
Workers will initially be recruited locally, in the project implementation area, to ensure that the
target population reaps the benefits both of the services offered and of the jobs created by the
project;
*   development of small and micro businesses and income-generating activities. The program will focus
mainly on technical assistance to local institutions and NGOs. These organizations, in turn, will
provide technical support and credit to small and microenterprises, and to income-generating
activities that have a positive impact on employment and on improving the living conditions of the
poor.
*   strengthening and developing the institutional capacities of all the local partners, particularly their
capacity to identify and execute projects. The small contractors and consulting firms selected for the
various projects will be given training to enable them to carry out proposed activities successfully.
182.   The ADS will endeavor, in all its activities, to provide services to the poor, using innovative
approaches that involve beneficiary groups at all stages of its projects, with the goal of ensuring the
sustainability of the services offered and the activities undertaken.
183.   The ADS will be managed in accordance with the principles of management autonomy, transparency,
flexibility, efficiency, and involvement of beneficiary communities. In particular:
*   The Fund's legal status will guarantee its operational independence, and it will not be subject to a
priori but only to a posteriori controls. Moreover, its operations will be based on flexible and
transparent human resource management and procurement procedures. Its resources will comprise
budget funds plus contributions from official and private sources, based on its programs meeting
their social development objectives.
*   The composition of the board of directors will reflect the tripartite nature of the social partners. The
board, under the presidency of the Prime Minister, will be composed of representatives of ministries,
development NGOs, and the private sector.
*   Day-to-day management of the Fund will be delegated to a General Manager selected on the basis
of professional competence, management skills, and social development experience. The General
Manager will be responsible to the board for management of the Fund.



Annex 3
Page 39 of 46
184.  To enable the Fund to develop under optimum conditions, a pilot phase will be conducted imrnediately
after its articles have been approved by Parliament. During this pilot phase, the General Manager will set up
the Fund's institutional structure, recruit personnel, develop a data processing system, and prepare a manual
of procedures, so that the Fund can be operational at the beginning of fiscal year 1999-2000.
F.    RESTRUCTURING SOCIAL TRANSFERS
185.   Consumer subsidies are currently poorly targeted, expensive, and of little benefit to the poor. Far-
reaching, gradual reforms of the subsidy system will be prepared, and will be the subject of a major debate in
which all concerned parties in society will participate. Reform will be directed at better targeting of beneficiary
groups and at more efficient use of resources devoted to poverty alleviation. To reduce its negative impact on
consumer prices, the reform of subsidies will be accompanied by progressive liberalization of prices and tariffs
on the products concerned. The reform will release additional resources, which will strengthen the
Government's efforts on behalf of disadvantaged population groups.
186.   Reform will be conducted in stages to minimize its negative impact on the poor. New and more
effective forms of assistance for vulnerable population groups will be put in place, so as to reallocate the
resources now used for subsidies to the benefit of priority social programs. The Government has already
decided to reduce subsidies on granulated sugar used in industry. This measure will be followed by a similar
initiative with respect to cooking oils.
G.    ADULT LITERACY
187.  The Government considers it essential to lower the illiteracy rate quickly, and has set the goal of
reducing it from the current 51 percent to 24 percent by 2010. This ambitious objective requires the adoption
and implementation of functional literacy programs tailored to different target groups (manual workers,
mothers, infornal sector businessmen, young people over 16 with poor schooling, fishermen, prisoners, etc.),
along with diversification of teaching provision (the private sector, NGOs, local authorities, and other public
providers of services in areas of high illiteracy).
188.   Technical assistance and support in cash or in kind will be provided under Government agreements
with service providers. The agreements will provide for the effective training of a specified number of adults,
and will define the services to be offered by the provider as well as the Government's contribution to the
program. They will prescribe performance criteria, particularly with respect to the percentage of participants
who complete the course (the current wastage rate of 70 percent is to be reduced to 5 percent) and acquire
basic literacy skills (the current success rate of less than 10 percent is to be increased to 80 percent). Several
agreements with NGOs and professional associations were signed in late 1998.
189.  To achieve their goals, the programs need to cover 100,000 adults in the 1998-99 cycle, and 500,000
adults per year after they reach full operation in 2003. Budgetary support to expand the number of agreements
will be sharply increased starting in 1998-99 - with the objective of lowering the cost per adult effectively
made literate, launching literacy awareness campaigns, conducting intensive training programs, and producing



Annex 3
Page 40 of 46
suitable teaching tools. The 1998-99 Budget Law allocated DH 30 million for this purpose, up from DH 20
million in 1997-98.
H.    BASIC SOCIAL SERVICES
1.    Education
190.  The Government has given high priority to reforming the education and training system in order to
give all citizens equal access to knowledge, the modern world, culture, and employment. This reform will help
develop the full potential of human capital and mobilize the human resources available in the education
system. It will be based on national solidarity and the principles of public service.
191    The Government aims to extend universal basic education to all children in the 6-15 age group by
2006, with extension of the first cycle of basic education to all children aged 6-11 by 2002. The Government
will also seek to improve retention rates, especially in rural areas and among girls. Finally, it will take steps
to restructure secondary and technical education.
192.  In this context, the Government intends to:
*   construct 1,500 classrooms (including 300 satellite classrooms) per year in rural areas over the next
three years;
*   deconcentrate the Ministry of National Education (MEN) by enacting regulatory instruments that
broaden the powers and responsibilities of the MEN' s provincial bodies, notably in the areas of
school mapping, establishing a public expenditure program, and managing the relevant budgets;
*   open a dialogue between MEN and teachers' representatives with a view to ensuring a closer match
between the number of staff and the teaching positions that actually need to be filled. This will be
achieved by, inter alia: (i) rationalizing the distribution of teachers; (ii) introducing a legal obligation
to complete hourly workloads in more than one establishment; and (iii) the regularization of the pool
of substitute teachers, and their replacement with untenured teachers (vacataires), with limited
contracts, to provide coverage only during the actual non-availability of tenured teachers. Finally,
the study provided for in the BAJ Social Priorities project will be launched in order to analyze
institutional responses to the issue of staff management.
*   implement an experimental distance learning program (an interactive television program) for teachers
in rural areas. This program, which represents a first step towards a more ambitious medium-term
plan, will initially cover six BAJ provinces.



Annex 3
Page 41 of 46
2.     Health
193.  In the health sector the Government will intensify current efforts to improve access to health care by
consolidating existing infrastructure, setting up a system to finance health care delivery to low-income
populations, developing health insurance, and implementing a drug policy with widespread social benefit. The
reform of the hospital sector, including strengthening hospital management, will be a key aspect of a policy
aimed at mobilizing and rationalizing resources, controlling costs, and improving personnel motivation.
194.   The Government's statement of April 17, 1998 outlined a social strategy that incorporates the major
actions envisaged in the health sector. The objectives for the health sector over the period 1999-2003 are to:
*   decrease infant mortality from 37 to 27 per 1,000 live births;
*   decrease maternal mortality in rural areas from 307 to 274 per 100,000 live births;
*   expand basic public health care services, especially in rural areas, from 1 establishment per 9,100
inhabitants to 1 per 6,500;
* introduce new, more equitable financing mechanisms that will help mobilize additional resources
for the sector;
*   improve the effectiveness of the hospital network involving better integration of hospital and basic
health services;
*   improve  management of the  sector as a whole, in  the  context of regionalization
(deconcentration/decentralization).
195.   To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to:
*   strengthen basic health care services and priority public health programs. Proposed measures are
designed to: (i) reorganize and expand basic health care services in accordance with the standards
laid down in the health map (Carte Sanitaire) in order to enable delivery of am integrated package
of essential preventive and curative services to disadvantaged rural groups, especially mothers and
children; (ii) redeploy the personnel in health infrastructures in order to reduce inter- and intra-
regional inequalities; (iii) improve the management of obstetrical emergencies in rural areas by
upgrading hospital referral arrangements, developing efficient referral linkages between basic health
services and provincial maternity hospitals, monitoring obstetrical complications, and mobilizing
suitable personnel to take responsibility for deliveries and emergencies; (iv) improve access to
essential drugs; (v) strengthen information, education, and communication, and promote activities
under priority health programs; and (vi) develop multi-sectoral alliances.
*   develop new financing mechanisms for the sector. Plans for major activities include: (i) broadening
the coverage of health insurance; and (ii) setting up an arrangement to provide for the very poor. To
ensure both equity and adequate public hospital funding, the system of respons.ibility for the indigent
population will be set up in parallel with the health insurance system.



Annex 3
Page 42 of 46
*   improve the efficiency of the hospital network. The major actions proposed are designed to: (i)
standardize financial management tools (fees, invoicing, cost recovery); (ii) broaden and strengthen
the autonomy of public hospitals to enable them to resolve their problems locally, in the context of
regionalization and the implementation of new financing mechanisms (legislation for this purpose
will be enacted); (iii) establish procedures for transferring resources to public hospitals on a program
budget basis; (iv) install administrative management tools and develop an efficient information
system; (v) improve hospital infrastructure and equipment; (vi) implement a large-scale training
program for technical and managerial staff; and (vii) develop an accreditation system for quality
control and evaluation.
*   improve sector management. Deconcentration to the regions will require the Ministry of Health to
adapt to the new realities resulting from this policy, as well as the reorganization of health services
in the context of autonomy. To this end, the Ministry will need to develop a restructuring and
reorganization plan over the next two years. The plan should include steps to: (i) define mandates,
powers, and responsibilities at the central, regional, and provincial levels of the system; (ii) set up
regional health agencies, which will involve redeploying resources to this level; (iii) reorganize the
Ministry at the central level in light of its new role; (iv) define inter-regional resource allocation
criteria; (v) develop management tools that facilitate planning, strategic decisionmaking, and
comparative monitoring of public expenditure trends at the different levels of the system; (vi)
develop partnerships with the major actors in the sector, both public and private; and (vii) provide
planning and management training for high-level professionals.
196.   The short-term measures will include:
*   presentation of a timetable detailing the activities to be undertaken to develop and implement health
insurance and financing schemes for the most disadvantaged population groups;
*   presentation to the Government Council of the decree instituting charges for services provided by
hospitals and the relevant agencies of the Ministry of Health;
*   analysis of the personnel situation in the basic health care facilities in BAJ provinces in light of the
criteria already defined by the Ministry of Health, and preparation of a personnel redeployment plan
in these provinces to fill identified gaps;
*   definition of terms of reference for preparing national health accounts, to assist in decisionmaking
and policy formulation; and
*   adoption of the framework contract (marche-cadre) system for drug procurement.
I.     RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
197.   The Government will give special attention to rural development by providing rural areas with basic
infrastructure, in order to reduce socio-geographic inequalities and raise the standard of living of the rurar
population.



Annex 3
Page 43 of 46
198.  The national rural infrastructure development program will revolve around the iollowing components:
overall rural electrification, potable water supply, and rural road construction.
1.    The Overall Rural Electrification Program (Programme d'Electrification Rurale
Globale, PERG)
199.  The goal of PERG, a vital component of the program for providing energy to rural Morocco, is to bring
electric power to 1.5 mnillion households, representing 11 million inhabitants or 80 percent of the rural
population. At the current rate of 1,000 population centers or 105,000 households a year, this goal should be
achieved in 2010.
200.  In view of the success achieved by this program and the pressing demand of the populations
concerned, the Ministry of Energy and Mines is working to boost the annual electrification rate to 1,500
population centers a year, through both connection to the electricity network and recourse to renewable energy
sources (decentralized electrification). By 2003, the number of households benefiting from PERG programs
should reach about 807,000, or 43 percent of the rural population.
201.  The electrification programs will also have to include electrification of urban fringe areas. The master
plan being developed for this purpose will define the priorities and the package of conditions needed for
implementing this important complementary program.
2.    The Water Supply Program for Rural Population (Programme d'AIpprovisionnement
Group4j En Eau Potable des Populations Rurales, PAGER)
202.  This program comprises rehabilitation of existing equipment; implementation of the necessary water
gathering, storage, and distribution works; installation of pumping equipment; and construction of standpipes.
203.  At a total estimated cost of DH 10 billion over 8-10 years, the PAGER program aims to extend access
to potable water to 60 percent of the rural population, i.e., 8 million people, by 2004, comnpared with 18 percent
in 1994, 32 percent in 1996, and 34 percent in 1997.
204.  Since the startup of PAGER in 1995, a total of 3,500 localities, representing more than 2 million
people, have been equipped. Water supply works have been constructed either by developing underground
water impoundment systems or by connecting to existing regional potable water networks. The program will
be funded by, inter alia, the Government (25 percent), local authorities (15 percent), the beneficiaries (5
percent), and the national solidarity surcharge (15 percent), of which a first tranche of 5 percent has already
been approved.
205.  The draft 1998-99 Budget Law appropriations for this program amount to DH 200 million, including
DH 100 million for direct investment credits. The program adopted for the next fiscal year should benefit
1,000 population centers and villages, with a total of nearly 650,000 inhabitants. To reach 8 million rural
inhabitants by 2004, however, the share of budget resources (direct investment credits) will rise to DH 200-250-
million a year, compared with DH 100 million allocated for 1998-99 under the prograrm financing plan.



Annex 3
Page 44 of 46
206.  In the short term, the Government plans to conclude an agreement with the various parties involved
with respect to PAGER access goals and financing plans, based in part on the recent approval of a water tariff
surcharge.
207.  It should be noted that a participatory approach has been adopted for execution of PAGER projects,
based on decentralization and active involvement of the beneficiary population in all phases of implementation.
Beneficiaries will manage the water works equipment and assume responsibility for operating expenses and
possibly even renewal of the water distribution systems.
3.    The National Rural Roads Construction Program (Programme National de
Construction de Routes Rurales, PNCRR)
208.  Rural Morocco is served by nearly 38,000 km of classified and unclassified rural roads, of which 80
percent are completely undeveloped and 20 percent have only a few structures and a rudimentary roadbed. In
addition, 30 percent of these roads are unusable because of rain or snow for periods exceeding 30 days a year,
when the population centers are cut off.
209.  To improve this situation, a national rural roads construction program was initiated in 1995. Its aim
is to install, over a period of 9 years, more than 11,000 km of rural roads, comprising nearly 5,000 km of
construction and 6,000 km of rehabilitation works, at a total cost of DH 5.8 billion.
210.  This program is designed to strengthen the roads infrastructure in rural Morocco in order to improve
access and rural living conditions, promote employment, and facilitate development of the agricultural and
tourist sectors.
211.  Activities under this program were determined with local elected officials and authorities. This
participatory approach has been maintained as the program has developed, to ensure that it meets the real needs
of the populations concerned in terms of projects and the scheduling of priorities.
212.  The first phase, comprising nearly 2,960 km of roads affecting more than 2 million people, was started
in 1995 and is nearing completion.
213.  The total funding allocated to this program in the 1998-99 Budget Law is DH 750 million, from the
following sources:
*   General National Budget:    DH 170 million
*   Special Roads Fund:      DH 480 million
*   Beneficiary Communities:   DH 100 million
214.  The appropriations devoted to this program since its inception total DH 2,276 million.
215.  In addition, a study has been initiated on the resources to be deployed, and on possible ways to
increase the rate of execution from 1,300 kcrn to 3,000 km a year. At the higher rate, all rural areas could be
opened up by 2010, and the percentage of the rural population with access to roads would exceed 58 percent
by 2003.



Annex 3
Page 45 of 46
J.     Low-COST HOUSING
216.  To meet the needs of disadvantaged population groups as well as needs deriving from the current
housing shortfall, the Government will undertake a vigorous program of structural measures in the housing
sector, particularly in low-cost housing. This will revitalize the national engineering, construction, and public
works sectors.
217.  The strategy in this sector focuses on three main areas.
1.    Revision of the institutional and regulatory framework through measures to:
*   mobilize sites for housing construction by revising, in particular, town planning standards and the
legal instruments relating to land tenure (law of 1992; dahir of November 10, 1917; dahir of May
31. 1938);
- set up new mechanisms for promoting long-term financing for housing construction and acquisition,
through development of a secondary market for real estate asset securitization and mortgage
refinancing. The Minister of Finance has already issued an order providing low-cost housing finance
for commercial banks that wish to operate in this sector. Similarly, a draft law setting up a secondary
market for real estate titles is currently being examnined by both houses of Parliament. This package
of regulatory and legal measures is expected to give fresh impetus to the national financial market
geared toward housing, and to create mechanisms for its self-development;
*   rationalize public housing assistance by replacing the current system of indirect assistance by a
transparent and personalized system of direct assistance;
-   set up a program of housing construction for wage earners by mobilizing specific resources under
partnership arrangements with the various social actors (government, employers, unions, etc.);
*   revive rental housing by enacting appropriate legislation; and
* strengthen public enterprises and establishments under the jurisdiction of the Housing Ministry, and
redefine their role.
2.     Organization of the sector
218.  Reorganization of the sector will include:
*   encouraging the private sector to participate in promoting low-cost housing by means of public-
private association formulas and partnership agreements;
*   setting up a system of training, and monitoring information on housing in order to improve the
efficiency of the entities involved, raise the sector's productivity, and upgrade its management and
organization; and



Annex 3
Page 46 of 46
* continue the process of setting up a legal and regulatory framework by restructuring the various
professions involved in housing development.
3.    Direct action
219.  Finally, with respect to direct action, the draft 1998-99 Budget substantially increased appropriations
to the Housing Ministry, thereby permitting the startup of an extensive program to combat unsanitary housing
and promote land development planning. This program includes:
*  Establishment of five new urbanization zones (Zones d'Urbanisation Nouvelles, ZUNs), extending
over an area of 1,100 ha, which will provide socio-educational, economic, and administrative
installations;
*   The Slum Clearance Program (Program de Resorption des Bidonvilles, PRB), comprising 14
operations and affecting more than 14,000 households;
*  The restructuring of housing not constructed in accordance with regulations, comprising 7 operations
and affecting nearly 6,000 households;
*  Phased Development Zones (Zones d 'Amenagement Progressif; ZAPs). This involves measures to
combat the proliferation of housing that contravenes the regulations by putting new site fonnats (i.e.,
lots not entirely equipped, taking into account the low income levels of the households concerned)
on the land market. This program comprises 16 operations covering nearly 7,000 households;
*   Phased Slum Clearance Zones (Zones de Resorption Progressive, ZRPs). This involves pilot slum
clearance operations based on appropriate formulas for phased development in situ or relocation of
the populations concerned. This program, which is to be implemented in partnership with
communes, local authorities, and representatives of local population centers and the Government,
should total several dozen operations over the next two or three years.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
ANNEX 4: MONITORING INDICATORS
SECTOR                  IINDICATOR                                                 1997/98 11998199   1999100   2000/01   2001/02
[t(4) = indicator is based upon calendar year]     (198! q    (199)1  (2000).(2001    L (2002 L
Growth Indicators                                                                                                                                    l
I    Real non-agricultural GDP growth rate (%)                 3.5        3.7       4.2        5.2        5.7
Real Growth Rate of GNFS Exports (%)                        3.9        6.0        7.5        8.2        8.6
*  Rate of Inflation (consumer-price index; %)                 2.8       2.5        2.5        2.5        2.5
*   Gross investment (% of GDP)                               21.6      22.3       22.7       23.5       24.5
Economic Policy Indicators
Macro-economic framework
*   Budget Deficit, excluding privatization revenues (% of GDP)  3.5      3.5       3.6        2.8        2.1
*   Budgetary Savings (% of GDP)                               2.4        2.9       2.6        3.6        4.6
.   Budgetary Investment (% of GDP)                            4.5        4.3       4.3        4.5        4.7
Public Sector Reform
*  Budgetary Institutions              *   Implementation of BAJ Action Plan on expenditure     Adoption    Phase I    Phase 2    Phase 3    Phase 4
management within the timeframe specified in the LDP                                                      l
*   Actual Expenditures as a Share of Investment Budget
Allocation (Taux d 'emission, Titre II) for:'
Education                                           38         40         45         52         60
Health                                               50        54         58         62         65
Agriculture                                          77         78         80         83         86
*  Civil Service and Admninistrative   *   Government wage bill (% of GDP)                           11.3       11.2       11.0       10.5       10.0
Reform                             *   Budgetary credits allocated to and admninistered by regional
services (% of total budgetary credits) for:
Education                                            44         48         52         58         65
Health                                               39         42         46         52         60
Agriculture                                          55         58         62         66         70
Equipment                                            73         74         76         78         80
*   Number of client surveys (leading to the design and         0          0          2          4          6
introduction of performance measures) conducted by
ministries or departments _   _   _
*   Judicial Reform                    *   Judges and auxiliary staff holding office in commercial      0        20         40         80        100
couirts traied OIl t'ne basis of the new curriculum of the INEJ
l ____________l____________(%_______ _        of total)     _      _                           l          l          l          l          l         l
Private Sector Development                                                                                                                           11
*   Public Enterprise Reform and       *   Privatization Revenues (Dh million)                1      1155       500       3500       2000       2000
I Privatization                     j_ __llllll
Privat   n                       |*   Numberof enterprises sold or liquidated, including minority  4          6         30         60         90
AItual expendiIure as a share oftotalallocshareholdints  (   a  n   altis
Actual expenditures as a share of total allocated expenditures (carry-overs and new allocations).



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
7    ~     SETRINEDICATOR                                                                          ~9    989                         000    019
*   Demonopolization and Private        *   Number of new infrastructure projects with private              2          2          3           3          3
Participation in Infrastructure         participation                                                                                            . ._I
*   Business Environment                *   Import-weighted tariff(%)                                    16.2        15.4       14.1       13.1        10.7
*   Number of products and services subject to price controls     29         24          18         11          4
*   Access to Finance                       Credit to the non-goverment sector (as % of total credits)   66.3       66.3        66.7       67.2       67.8
*   Number of enterprises whose shares are listed in the stock    53         58          65         70         80
exchange                                                                                                      I
Human Resource Development
*   Social Assistance                   *   Number of ADS projects initiated                            -                        40         100        200
*   Number of beneficiaries of Entraide Nationale2            60,000     70,000    100,000    140,000    200,000
   Adult literacy (+15 years)          *   Number of implementation agreements concluded with                        10         20          30         40
NGOs
*   Education                           *   Gross enrollment in rural primary schools [6-11 years] (%)     65         72         79          86         93
*   Student-teacher ratio in secondary education                  13         14          16         18         20
*   Recurrent budget allocated to primary education as a share of  42        42          44         47         48
total recurrent budget for education (%)
*   Health                              *   Number of provincial hospitals equipped and staffed            48         53         58          63         69
adequately to treat obstetrical emergencies
*   Number of Primary Health Care Centers in rural areas built,  1416      1500        1620       1750       1900
equipped and staffed adequately
*   Non-wage recurrent budget allocated to basic health services   7         10          12         15         17
as a share of total non-wage recurrent budget for health (%)
*   Rural Infrastructure                *   Share of rural population having access to safe drinking       37         41         45          49         53
water (%)
*   Construction of rural roads (km)                           1,300       1,300    1  ,500      1,800       2,000
*   Share of rural population with access to electricity (o/)3    35         42         49          56         63
2     Including beneficiaries of programs to be sub-contracted to NGOs and the private sector.
3     In,dicator covers rural access to electricity from all sources (including both the PERG and solar sources).



Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
ANNEX 5. TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to Prepare:     6 months
(Identification to Negotiations)
Prepared by:      Government and World Batk Staff
Identification Mission    May 19, 1998
Departure:
Operations Committee:      September 29, 1998
Appraisal:      October 26-November 7, 1998
Negotiations:      December 7-11, 1998
Board Presentation:     June 1, 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness:    June 7, 1999
Closing Date:      December 31, 1999



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Morocco
Operations Portfolio
As of 29 March 1999
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                     Purpose
_____________________________________    _________________________  IBRD  IDA  Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 104
Active Projects
MA-PE-5519      1999   GOV'T OF MOROCCO                  LAKHDAR WATERSHED MG                     4 00        0.00        0.00               4.00        0.00        0.00
MA-PE-5524      1999   GOVERNMENT                        FES-MEDINA REHAB.                       14.00        0.00        0.00             13.73         0.00        0.00
MA-PE-5525      1999   GOV.OF MOROCCO                    HEALTH MANAGEMENT                       66.00        0.00        0.00             67.20         4.67        0.00
MA-PE-40566     1998   GOVT OF MOROCCO                   RURAL W.S.& SANITATN                    10.00        0.00        0.00               9.95        3.67         .84
MA-PE-5521      1998   GOVT OF MOROCCO                  WATER RESOURCE MGMT.                     20.00        0.00        0.00             19.90         2.00        0.00
MA-PE-5523      1998   FEC                              MUNICIPAL FINANCE II                     70.00        0.00        0.00             57.72        24.98        0.00
MA-PE-38978     1997   GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO             PSD III-VOC TRG.                        23.00        0.00        0.00             19.76        10.97        2.30
MA-PE-43725    1997   ONCF                               RAILWAY RESTR & PRIV                    85.00        0.00        0.00             67.23         7.68        0.00
MA-PE-42414     1996   GOVT OF MOROCCO                   COOR/MON SOCIAL PRO                     28.00        0.00        0.00             23.72         2.16        0.00
MA-PE-42415     1996   GOVT OF MOROCCO                   SPI - HEALTH                            68.00        0.00        0.00             52.48         -.54        0.00
MA-PE-5501      1996   GOV. OF MOROCCO                   SPI - EDUCATION                         54.00        0.00        0.00             36.20         7.60        0.00
MA-PE-5503      1996   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                SEW.& WATER REUSE II                    40.00        0.00        0.00             39.11         7.91        0.00
MA-PE-5489      1995   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                SECONDARY ROADS                         57.60        0.00        0.00             51.44        41.36        0.00
MA-PE-5435      1994   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/ONEP           WATER SUPPLY V                         160.00        0.00       40.00             71.57        67.87       12.84
MA-PE-5499      1994   GOV. OF MOROCCO                   IRR. AREAS AGR. SERV                    25.00        0 .00       7.99             10.56        15.66        1.05
MA-PE-5504      1994   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                ENVIRONMENT MANAGEME                     6.00        0.00        2.54               1.54        3.80        1.39
MA-PE-5462      1993   GOVERNMENT                        SECOND LSI IMPROVEME                   215.00        0.00       71.12             59.65        55.44       14.31
MA-PE-5514      1993   GOV. OF MOROCCO                   LAND DEVELOPMENT                       130.00        0.00       24.00             41.39        62.81       39.35
MA-PE-5517      1993   GOV.OF MOROCCO/FEC                MUNICIPAL FINANCE I                    104.00        0.00        4.00               1.33        5.34       -1.16
Total                                                                                        1,179.60         0.00      149.65            648.48       323.38       70.92
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 372.32           6,014.14            6,386.46
of which has been repaid:                  4.75            3,081.21            3,085.96
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,025.20           2,953.72             3,978.92
Amount sold                                       0.00               20.11               20.11
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               20.11               20.11
Total Undisbursed                :              648.48                8.36              656.84
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 28-Feb-99.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Morocco
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 28 February 1999
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval               Company            Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1987/90                  CIH                        19.96     0.00     0.00     1.07    19.96     0.00      0.00     1.07
1987/93                  SETAFIL                     2.98     1.20     0.00     0.00     2.98      1.20     0.00     0.00
1990                     ENNASR                      .94      0.00     0.00     0.00      .94      0.00     0.00     0.00
1994/96                  Mediafinance                0.00     1.16     0.00     0.00     0.00      1.16     0.00     0.00
1995                     Attijari                    0.00      .49     0.00     0.00     0.00       .26     0.00     0.00
1999                     Settavex                    5.04     9.00     0.00     0.00     5.04      9.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                        28.92    11.85     0.00     1.07    28.92    11.62      0.00     1.07
Approvals Pending Commnitment
Loan    Equitv   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Morocco at a glance                                                                    4/6/99
fM. East ;:Lower -$ -i0:00t;t0q00Vya    ;  f   
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            & Nofrt    midcdle
Morocco      Af**c  income,
Poculalion. mid-veer (mill/ansI                        27,5       283      2.28$
GNP oer cat(a tAas method, us$                        1     240  2060      1.230
G3NP fAilas methoa. U,S$Sbi I/ons)                      4,        583      2.818
Avemaoe annuval o owft. 1991497
Pooulation (1,9                                                    2.3       132
Labor force(                                            2.5        32        1.3
Most Drecar estimaittest vae   ear availablea 19911071
Poverty  'Of oooulat/on below nat onal overfi '1/no      13
urbarn oooulationi /% of tota oneulation)                53        57         4~2
Life OxectanCv at birth Ivea.rs)                         67        ii6        69
Infant motalitv (oor , 000 live b,thsl                   51        48         3
Child maIn Isilion (% of children unc'er 51              1o         10
Access to Safe water I% of oocotl/atid                   52         71        84
tliteracv (% of oonulat/on ace 15+;                      56        39         19
GrOSS rinraV enrollment :% of school-fte :oautaticn)     83        97        1 1
MaWlewawD 94;                                                    102        116J  :3$4 '
PFementwaleBcfdettZexl>ors                      0         ;0  0169-771  91  11 
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG.TERM~ TRENDS
1978     1986       1998      19970
GOP tuss billions)                             9.3     17.0       06.0      35.0
Gross domestic inv9tentmerrGDP                2&.1  ~22.8         19.6      20.6
Exooitr of cood and services/GDP              1a.5     22,       C2.7       2673
Gross domestc savinos/GP8                             161         16        17,2
GrosS natnonal savinoslGDP.                            12,        18.6      236
Currentaccount balance/GOP                   .14S       -1.4      -1.2      -0D3
Intedst Drvment2/GDP                                    3.0        2.5       84
Total acbVGDP                                 33.2 i034   6       603 353 17
Total debt service/exoort
Present value ondebt/GOP                         ..     2.        541.
Present value of debtren oor                     8      18       16957
1971646  1987-97     1998       1997   1998-02
taverace annual crowth)
GOP  4n3                                       2.d     12.1       1.0        47
GNP ner 1acita                        1,6 0pe?         10a9       -4,0 3t0
Exrtsh ofoonds rnds orkvinia         4,3       6.9      8.2        63        7.
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997
(9/ of GDP)
Aoricu!ture                                   19.2     19.1       19.3      13.9
Industrvy25                                            3.         3 O       3.
Manufacturino                                65       1.         70        1.
Services                                      48.3     48.6       49.7      52.6
Private consumolion                           68.9     68.0       69.7      66.4      (
General oovemment consurnetion                22.5     16.4       14.8      16.4         
Imoorts of aoods and services                 37.9     26.2       30.0      31.7
1976-86  1987.97      1996       1997
(averace annual romwth)
Aoriculture                                    3.6     -0.2       76.2     -25.6
Irndustrv                                      2.5      3.0        2.5       8.4
Manufacturino                                4.3       3.3       3.0        3.1
Services                                       5.6      3.2        4.0       0.6
Private consunmotion23                                            102        39
General covemnment consumoton                  5.0      1.8        2.6     -13.2   ~'       92   93.   99 4
Gross domestic investment                      0.6      1.8        3.5      10.6                       i    ~      ,.~
Imoorts of coods and services                  1        59         40        16
Gross national oroduct                         3.9      2.7       13.0      -2.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary eslimates.
-The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin boldl camoared with its incoma-roruo averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomolete.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Morocco
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997
Domestic pnces
(%change)
Consumer prices                               8.7      8.7        3.0       09 
Implicit GDP deflator                         1.5    10.3         1.2      2.0
Government finance
(5/ of GDP, includes current gr-ants)
Current revenue                              20.3     14.6       21.2     22.7         i=;
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.7         0.0       0.0
Overall surplus/deficit                       1.4      7.7       -3.5     -3.7
TRADE
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         1,262    2,608      7,066    7,039                        1      A
Other agriculture                           471      792      1,646     1,374
X Phosphorus                                496      412        348      435
Manufactures                                181      656      1,531     1,652
Total imports (cit)                         2,670    3,926      9,728    10,164
Food                                        447      476      1,287     1,065
Fuel and energy                             295      596      1,294     1,296     Z
Capital goods                               779      906      1,781     1 660
Exoort Drice index (1995=100)                 7        9 67       80        84
Imoort orice index (1995=1001                   ..      76        96        89      -tOits
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       89        85        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(USS millions) 
Exports of goods and services               1,696    3,757     9,433     9,483
Imports of goods and services               3,450    4,796    10,991    11t679          1   92       91 s  9          96
Resource balance                           -1,754   -1,039     -1,559    -2,195
Net income                                   -127     -688     -1,211    -1,179                                    7   .,'.,J
Net current transfers                         499    1,549      2,352    2,205
Currentaccountbalance                       -1,382    -239       -418     -113            -
Financing items (net)                       1,365      606       465       666            '
Changes in net reserves                        18    -367         -47     -553
Memo:
Reserves includina oold (USS millionsl        491      225      3.968    4.376
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$)              4.4      9.1        8.9       9.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997                         ;
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        3,084   17,601     21,710    19,096
IBRD                                        289    1,859     3,732    3,271    |-,7           ,
IDA                                          35       42        32        31
Total debt service                             ..    23          59        6         i
IERD                                         34      233       599       627                                        ;:
IDA                                           0        1         1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              47       57       356
Official creditors                           *,
Private creditors                            ..
Foreign direct investment                    38       89         0         0
Portfolio equity                             ..        0       134         0
Worid Bank program                                                           
Commitments                                 150      366       213                       .,,.
Disbursements                                64      363       380       213             b,
Principal repayments                         15      109       342       356
Net flows                                    49     254         38      -143
Interest payments                            20      125       258       272
Net transfers                                29      128      -220      -415
Development Economics                                                                                                  416199



oue.~~~~~~~~~4
i*-M  W  -  i > t: -g-0 w KJ _ _ / + AIRPORTO
TLANTJC                                        now      _      ~ ^ 0  79  9  ^ t71 <> - /            NCECETRAL
,#y lb Mo Uni of                         -  i   r
Th!Ytwtfn e * 1t fi g A . bound    ,/ eA      (V        oon                                                                               _ _ __ rp  O  TAL
on this map ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do~~~~onnH
imply, en ff'e p0!t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~en'
Th& Wodd Bank Gw*,p, ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ElWES
oj         :                                                                                                                                     , t-<      ECONOMIC REGtON BOUNDANIES
-or ogepf.*nc. of u,c       . :;qSg:j                                                                                                           _NEONAJ. OUNDARIES
ENTRAL .  0 -t 0    00 t; i  /   ~   /                  _  _  INERHAIONALBOUNDARY
0^   0:;  00 i  |  4 i  0 0 S    5 4  0  94:   0 00     >   m      0      5l     loD    RSoh
des~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~olie b  a ng ra
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                        Dmcf X   -000 2n,2i
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
de. Mom= 0 fq 0 tiES 0   27  .
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R"C CAPITAL
bi~~iOWAL CANTAL ~ ~  U
MWNS AND CMES~~~~U
ECONANCRErON BMJNARISW
4'                            2w~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



