Report No. PID6870
Project Name                     Morocco-Policy Reform Support Loan (PRSL)
Region                           MNA
Sector                           Multi-Sector (Economic Management/Public Sector
Management/ PSD/Poverty Reduction)
Project ID                       MAPE58356
Borrower                         Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing agency              Ministere des Affaires Generales du Gouvernement
Contact                          M. Monkid Mestassi, Directeur des Relations
Economiques                      Internationales
Ministere des Affaires Generales du Gouvernement
Rabat, Royaume du Maroc
Tel:    011-212-7-77.20.66
Fax:    011-212-7-77.47.76
Date of Initial PID              September 21, 1998
Project appraisal Date           October 26, 1998 (tentative)
Project Board Date               December 12, 1998 (tentative)
Background
A new Moroccan Government, led by the former opposition, took office in April
1998 following legislative elections late 1997. Its accession to power as
Morocco's first-time alternance Government reflects the significant
transformation of Morocco's governance that has taken place over the past few
years. The new Government's program, first presented to Parliament on April
17, 1998, calls for: (i) prudent macroeconomic management; (ii) reforms to
improve public sector performance and foster private sector development; and
(iii) broad-based human and social development and poverty reduction. Shortly
after taking office, the new Government approached the Bank with a request for
an operation to rapidly assist in developing and implementing its program.
The proposed Loan is the Bank's response to this request, based on intensive
preparation work since May 1998.
The Proposed Loan
The objective of the PRSL is to support the development and implementation of
the new Government's economic and social reform program. Under this program,
the Government has given a public commitment to pursue sound macroeconomic
management (including the consolidation of fiscal balances), implement public
sector reforms (covering budgetary institutions, the civil service, and the
judiciary), pursue the agenda for private sector development (covering
privatization, private provision of infrastructure, the business environment,
and access to finance), and promote human and social development, particularly
poverty reduction (notably through measures to increase rural access to basic
social and infrastructure services). To bolster the program's credibility and
initiate its implementation, the Government is already taking key actions "up
front". Together with Bank and other multilateral support, the program sends
an important signal to the local and international financial community, and
demonstrates that political opening and economic reform are going hand-in-hand
in Morocco.



Benefits and Risks
The benefits of the reform program supported by the PRSL would be
considerable. They would include enhancing Morocco's competitiveness and
achieving strong, sustainable growth while advancing on the country's
substantial human and social development agenda. In addition, the preparation
of the PRSL is promoting an excellent dialogue and developing a strong
partnership with the new Government.
The reform program supported by the PRSL faces three main categories of risk.
First, problems of political acceptance could stem from three sources:
coalition partners in the Government with an etatiste tradition; the recently
elected Parliament which may not support a program restricting the sphere of
influence of the state; and unions and other stakeholders adversely affected
by certain aspects of the reform program. Second, technical implementation
problems may arise from difficult intra-governmental coordination as well as
from scarcity of expertise. Third, social problems may result, in particular,
from expenditure constraints, from employment consequences of the
privatization program, and/or from poor implementation of social reform
measures envisioned under the program. These risks will be mitigated through
close monitoring of reform implementation.
Cost and Financing
The PRSL would assist implementation of the Government's reform program with
balance of payments support of US$250 million to be disbursed in one tranche
upon effectiveness.
Implementation
A large number of ministries and agencies across all sectors would be involved
in the implementation of the reform program supported by the PRSL. The key
counterparts to monitor the implementation of the reform program would be the
Ministry of General Government Affairs and the Ministry of Finance.
Poverty Category
The reform program supported by the PRSL includes a targeted human and social
development component, focusing on improved basic education and health care as
well as basic infrastructure services in the traditionally underserved rural
areas.
Environment Category
The PRSL has no direct impact on the environment. For the purposes of
Operational Directive 4.01, it has been placed in environmental category U,
which does not require an environmental assessment.
Program Objective Categories
Because it is intended to support a broad-based medium-term economic and
social reform program and accompanying macroeconomic and public expenditure
policies, the proposed PRSL falls principally under the category of Economic
Management. However, the proposed Loan would also contribute to other key
program objective categories. It would contribute to Public Sector Management
through reforms covering budget institutions, the civil service, and the
judiciary. It supports Private Sector Development by addressing
privatization, private provision of infrastructure, the business environment,
and access to finance. And finally, it contributes to Poverty Reduction by
establishing key principles of the Government's poverty reduction strategy and
supporting concrete actions to increase access to basic social and
infrastructure services, particularly among the rural poor.
- 2-



Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Co-Task Team Leaders
Ali M. Khadr
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC, 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-7860
Fax: (202) 477-0432
Axel Peuker
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC, 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-8676
Fax: (202) 522-2151
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 25, 1998.
- 3 -



