Docmuent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13494
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1243-PAK)
SEPTEMBER 1, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
Appraisal Year (1981) US$1 = Rs 9.90
Average 1982-1992 US$1 = Rs 18.01
Completion Year (1993) US$1 = Rs 28.11
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
All tons are metric tons (2,204.6 Ibs)
1 acre = 0.4047 ha
I cusec = 28.3 litres per second (0.0283m3/s)
1 cumec = 35.336 cusec
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
ADC           Agricultural Development Cell
APDT          Area Planning and Development Team
BMIADP        Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project
CAD           Command area development
DA            Department of Agriculture
DAE           Directorate of Agricultural Extension
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DI            Department of Irrigation
ERR           Economic rate of return
GDP           Gross domestic product
GOBAL         Government of Balochistan
GOP           Government of Pakistan
IDA           International Development Association
KfW           Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LCF           Labor conversion factor
NMDC          Netherlands Ministry for Development Cooperation
OFWM          On-Farm Water Management
PA            Project Agreement
PCR           Project Completion Report
PMC           Project Management Cell
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SCF           Standard conversion factor
TAT           Technical Assistance Team
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA         Water and Power Development Authority
WUA           Water Users Association
abiana        water tax
awara         system of rotational land tenure
chasma        springs
kareze       galleries dug into hillsides to tap groundwater
khuskhaba    use of run-off to supplement rainfed agriculture
manda         river
nullah        small drainage channel
puch          lottery used for rotational land tenure
sailaba       flood irrigation
sardari       system of agriculture under a traditional tribal situation headed
by a sardar with sharecroppers or tenants-at-will



FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofi.. of Dlr.awr4,Wt
PWe0  EvW ikSeptember 1, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject: Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Aericultural Development Proiect (Cr. 1243-PAK)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Pakistan Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and
Agricultural Development Project (Credit 1243-PAK) prepared (Parts I and III) by the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program for the South Asia Regional Office. Part II was submitted by the
Borrower. Comments from the cofinanciers (KfW of Germany and NMDC of the Netherlands) are
annexed.
The project aimed to increase production and reduce poverty by developing small irrigation
schemes, to introduce local participation, to strengthen related institutions, and to improve the
planning and execution of minor irrigation development. It was the first project assisted by the Bank
Group specifically for this province.
Implementation progress was minimal for five years. Main problems were inadequate project
preparation, the remoteness of the project sites, unresolved tribal conflicts, staff shortages (aggravated
by several aid projects starting up at the same time), lack of data, the failure to involve beneficiaries
(until later years), and the poor performance of local contractors and consultants. The Credit was
extended five times, and in the process, despite delayed implementation, the scale of the project was
increased to 42 schemes from 28. Hence the 9,000 hectares developed was two and a half times the
original area and the number of farm families benefitting more than tripled. Staffing problems
reduced the effectiveness of the institution building components.
The satisfactory PCR gives a detailed account of the project experience and draws some
familiar lessons on the need for realistic project designs, especially taking into account local
conditions and implementation capacity, and the importance of beneficiary involvement and
coordination of cofinanciers. In Part II the Borrower queries some of the engineering judgements
of Part I and offers reestimated economic returns (about 16-20%) which are much higher than those
provided in Part I (about 6-9%).
The outcome of the project is rated as marginally satisfactory, institutional development as
modest, and sustainability as likely.
An audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
Attachment                                                             by H. Eberhard K6pp
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1243-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ....................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ..................................... iii
PARTI ....................................  1
1. Project Identity ...........................................1
2. Background ..................... 1
3. Project Objectives and Description ................................  2
4. Project Design and Organization  ................................  4
5. Project Implementation ................................. 5
6. Project Results ................................  9
7. Project Sustainability ................................                        13
8. Donor Performance . ................................ 14
9. Borrower Performance ................................... 15
10. Project Relationship ................................... 15
11. Consulting Services ................................... 16
12. Lessons Learned . .................................. 17
13. Project Documentation and Data ................................ 18
PART II .............................                      ............... 19
1. Project Implementation ..................................                      19
2. Project Results . .................................. 20
3. Lessons Learnt . .................................. 25
4. Bank Performance ................................... 26
5. Comments on Parts I & I  of this Report . ........................... 26
PART III .................................                                         34
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ............................... 34
2. Project Timetable . .................................. 35
3. Credit Disbursements ................................... 35
4. Project Implementation ................................... 36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



5. Project Cost and Financing                                ...................... . 37
A. Project Cost ........................                                                                                    37
B. Project Financing ........................                                                                              38
C. Phasing of Expenditure ........................                                                                         39
6. Project Results                             ........................   40
A. Direct Benefits ........................                                                                                40
B. Economic Impact ........................                                                                                40
C. Financial Impact ........................                                                                               40
D. Studies ........................                                                                                        41
7. Status of Covenants ........................                                                                                      42
8. Use of Bank Resources                                 ........................ 43
A. Staff Inputs ........................                                                                                   43
B. Missions ........................                                                                                        43
ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Crop Budgets
Annex 2:   Farm Budgets
Annex 3:    Economic Analysis
Annex 4:   Comments by KfW
Annex 5:   Comments by NMDC
MAP
IBRD 16026R1 - Project Area



- j -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1243-PAK)
PREFACE
1.         This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and
Agricultural Development Project for which Credit 1243-PAK in the amount of SDR 12.5 million
(US$14 million equivalent) was approved in May 1982. Co-financing was provided by Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany and the Netherlands Ministry of Development Cooperation
(NMDC). The credit closing date was extended five times, by one year each time, to December 31,
1993, and the credit account was kept open until April 30, 1994, to accommodate final
disbursements. With the last disbursement made on March 7, 1994, the credit was fully disbursed.
KfW and NMDC have agreed to continue their support of the project until the end of 1994, by which
time it is expected that all project works will have been completed.
2.         Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
mission" which visited Pakistan in February 1994, and reviewed by the Agricultural Operations
Division, Country Department III, South Asia Region. Preparation was based on a review of
relevant project documentation, field visits, and discussions with Government officials, project staff
and IDA staff associated with the project. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
Messrs. J. H. Weatherhogg (agricultural economist/mission leader), E. S. Baillie (irrigation engineer) and
J. Beeny (agronomist).






- ift -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1243-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The project, which was IDA's first specifically for Balochistan, had the twin objectives
of improving agricultural production and farm incomes and developing institutional capacity to plan
minor irrigation schemes and manage their subsequent implementation. This included improvement
in the information base, introduction of appropriate forms of local participation, and development
of improved guidelines and criteria for selection and preparation of such schemes.
2.        As appraised, the project aimed at developing 28 schemes with a command area of
about 3,800 ha, many of which were located in rather remote areas of Balochistan. The project
also sought to examine possibilities for increased rangeland and fodder production through water
spreading; groundwater recharge; and conjunctive use of ground and surface water through three
pilot schemes.  Institutional development objectives were addressed through provisions for
additional staff, transport means, facilities, creation of a Project Management Cell, and by a
program of technical assistance and practical, skill-oriented training.
Implementation Experience
3.        Lack of suitable staff was a major project constraint. Competent staff in Balochistan
in the early 1980s was scarce, and a sharp increase in activities as a result of a number of
internationally assisted projects starting more or less at the same time made the situation even more
critical. The problem was further compounded by a Government of Balochistan (GOBAL) policy
of recruiting only residents of the province, as well as a reluctance of individuals from other parts
of Pakistan to accept posts remote from their families where lack of local background could add
to the difficulties of their work. Other problems constraining project progress included the physical
difficulties of working in a large project area generally lacking in infrastructure, lack of data on
which to base project designs, a lack of understanding of the detailed sociological situation in the
individual scheme areas, and unsolvable tribal conflicts"1. The presence of all these problems had
been correctly identified at appraisal, but their depth only became apparent during project
implementation.
I/  See comment by KfW in Annex 4.



- iv -
4.        Project start-up was slow. IDA credit effectiveness was delayed three months due to
delay in preparation of detailed designs for the first five schemes. KfW loan effectiveness occurred
almost two years late. The Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), responsible for
scheme preparation and design, found difficulty in carrying out its task due to staffing problems,
lack of data and remoteness of sites, optimistic deadlines and pressure of work in other parts of
Pakistan. As a consequence, their proposals were generally over-designed, frequently needed other
design modifications, lacked adequate sociological background and took much longer to complete
than originally anticipated. WAPDA's replacement delayed the project by a year. Scheme
preparation, detailed design and construction supervision was taken over by two domestic consulting
firms (for IDA and KfW schemes, respectively). Both encountered similar difficulties as WAPDA
and scheme preparation/design proceeded slowly.
5.        In addition to the preparation/design problems, major difficulties were encountered with
construction contractors. Although initially some contractors from outside Balochistan won tenders,
it became apparent that only local contractors could operate in the remote and tribal scheme areas.
Typically these were labor contractors, with very limited engineering knowledge or experience,
lacking in plant and capital. Problems contractors had to contend with during the first five project
years included harassment from scheme beneficiaries who had been inadequately consulted in
preparation and design, and complexity of structures beyond their technical competence.
6.        As a result of these problems, implementation proceeded very slowly. By December
1985, halfway through the original six-year implementation period, about 14% of the IDA credit
had been disbursed. Alarm at the slow progress and loss of project staff led to remedial measures
by GOBAL. These included greater efforts to fill vacant posts, and increasing the role of the
Technical Assistance Team (TAT) in an Accelerated Implementation Program (April 1987 to
September 1988) to identify, prepare and design more schemes. This action culminated in
agreement with the co-financiers to expand the project size from 28 to 38 (ultimately 42) schemes.
7.        Agricultural development activities were inevitably hampered by the slowness in
completion of the irrigation works, and support from the On-Farm Water Management (OFWM)
Project (Cr. 1163-PAK), expected at appraisal, was minimal. However, from early 1988 onwards,
implementation performance generally improved.
8.        The slow progress of the project during its first five years (January 1983 - December
1987) led to five extensions of the IDA credit closing date, to December 1993. Both KfW and
NMDC"' will continue their project support until December 19942'. The project thus consists
of two halves, the first half (1983-87) during which the main gains were in experience rather than
construction achievement, and a second half (1988-1993) during which the major part of project
implementation was accomplished.
I/  The Netherlands' finding commitment now amounts to NLG 20,563,600. See Annex 5.
21  KfW will consider a further extension to ensure completion of the schemes. See Annex 4.



v -
Results
9.        The project is expected to develop or improve irrigation supply to a command area of
about 9,000 ha, almost two and a half times the area estimated at appraisal. Assuming project
completion at the end of 1994, implementation will have taken twice as long as originally planned,
and the cost of Rs 1.18 billion (US$51.8 million) will be about 210% (49% in US$ terms) higher
than originally budgeted.
10.       Improvements in farm income re-estimated by the PCR mission are generally in line
with SAR projections. There is considerable variation in the level and extent of increase of income
depending on altitude (possibilities for growing high value crops), access to markets and land
tenure. At full development, owner operators in high-lying areas are expected to generate
incremental family incomes of around Rs 58,000 - an increase of 230% over the "without project"
situation (appraisal estimate - 260%). Owner operators at lower elevations growing high value
crops and wheat are expected to get similar results, but at low altitude where wheat is the main
crop incremental incomes are likely to be only around Rs 19,000 (+320%). Sharecroppers'
incremental income in low elevation wheat growing is estimated at only Rs 3,500 per family
(+ 160%).
11.       The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is re-estimated to be about 6%,
compared to 21% estimated at appraisal. Employing the same method of calculation as in the SAR,
the re-estimated ERR would be about 9%. The main reasons for this disappointing result are the
long implementation delay; much higher overhead costs than projected at appraisal; and the
selection of a number of large and expensive schemes in lower altitude areas which were not
included in the SAR analysis. Most prominent of the latter is the very expensive scheme at Ari Pir.
If this is excluded, the re-estimated ERR improves to about 7% or, following the SAR method,
about 11%.
Sustainability
12.       Farmers have shown considerable enthusiasm for the project and since 1990 farmer
participation and the formation of Water Users Associations (WUAs) has been actively promoted.
The intention is that these WUAs will be responsible for scheme operation and maintenance
(O&M). The apparent readiness of some groups to take responsibility for their schemes, and of
their members to make contributions to a fund for future maintenance appears promising. These
initiatives could be a model for other parts of Pakistan; however, it is as yet too early to assess
their sustainability. Other irrigation schemes in Balochistan are maintained by the Department of
Irrigation (DI), for which farmers are levied a water tax (abiana), which is generally only partly
recovered. Such continued dependence on GOBAL, encouraged by international support for
projects which both construct and maintain schemes with little, if any, contribution by the
beneficiaries, clearly weakens the chances of setting up self-reliant WUAs.
13.       Sustainability of a few schemes is also threatened by ineffecdvely regulated tubewell
exploitation. Legislation, and administrative machinery, for controlling the sinking of tubewells
exists, but is not effectively applied.



- vi -
Findings and Lessons Learned
14.       A number of the lessons learned from project experience have been embodied by
project management in evolving a systematic approach to scheme identification, preparation,
detailed design and construction. The final schemes have benefitted from a much higher degree
of local participation and more appropriate design than the earlier ones. This, together with
improved contractor competence, is reflected in much shorter construction periods.
15.       The project illustrates the problems that are likely to arise when proposals are over-
optimistic relative to available resources, particularly local staff resources. To make matters worse,
the project steadily increased in size and geographical coverage, increasing the logistical problems
during implementation. No easy solution is apparent to the staffing problem. However, where
staffing is likely to be a serious constraint, care must be taken in project design to closely identify
current and future staff availability and needs, taking account of project and other activities
foreseen. "  Project design needs to guard against placing too heavy a burden on project
management by extending activities over too large a number of scattered sites. Instead, it should
adopt an approach of development zones or grouping schemes within a manageable number of
areas.
16.       The project has demonstrated the importance of involving beneficiaries from the initial
stages of scheme identification, and of ensuring that social aspects are incorporated in scheme
design. The benefits of this approach are considerable and include improved scheme design, easier
implementation, and ultimately greater sense of ownership of the beneficiaries - reflected in their
willingness to carry out operation, management and repair of the completed schemes. To enhance
the effectiveness of consultant engineers, the consulting firms, rather than managing their staff from
a distance, should be required to open offices reasonably close to the project headquarters, the cost
of which should be included in their contract.
17.       In a number of important aspects the arrangements between the three co-financiers and
their relations with the Borrower worked well. However, project implementation would have been
helped by harmonizing all aspects, from effectiveness of legal agreements (availability of funds)
to project supervision. Joint supervision should have been the rule, as requested by the Borrower.
18.       The sustainability of a few project schemes will be jeopardized unless GOBAL controls
tubewell development more effectively. The sustainability of the very promising WUAs established
on each scheme will be compromised if GOBAL and international donors continue to develop
projects in which DI is responsible for operation, maintenance and repair, and farmers pay only
part of the cost through water taxes (abiana). Arrangements should be changed so that either
farmers are responsible for O&M (as on the project schemes), or abiana is fully collected at rates
that reflect the true cost of O&M, and this amount is passed on in full to DI.
I/ See comment by KfW in Annex 4.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1243-PAK)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name            Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project
Credit No.              1243-PAK
RVP Unit                South Asia Region
Country                 Pakistan
Sector            :     Agriculture
Sub-sector             Irrigation
2. Background
2.1        Balochistan covers 347,000 km2 or 44% of Pakistan's land area, but has only around
6 million inhabitants or 5% of the country's population. The climate is arid, rainfall in the wetter
and higher areas of the east is up to 400 mm annually, decreasing to only about 50 mm per year in
the western areas. Annual evapotranspiration often exceeds 2,000 mm and no crop production is
possible without some form of irrigation. Despite the harsh environment agriculture is the main
means of livelihood, accounting for about two-thirds of employment, compared with around 50%
nationally, and over half of Balochistan's gross domestic product (GDP), compared with about 25%
for the country as a whole. GDP per head is estimated at around half the national average of
US$384.
2.2        The Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project (BMIADP) was
the first IDA-supported project specifically for Balochistan, although there were several on-going
projects with components in the province (among them seeds, agricultural credit, grain storage,
agricultural research and on-farm water management). Part of the rationale for Bank involvement
was that Balochistan's limited water resources were only sufficient for minor irrigation and that the
province had therefore been excluded from the large federal water sector programs. The project
presented an opportunity to redress the balance.
2.3        Several other projects started soon after BMIADP and overlapped with it.  The
Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 1533-PAK) commenced in
1985.  Related projects, carried out with assistance from other donors, included the USAID-
supported Balochistan Area Development Project, commenced in 1984, which constructed delay



action dams' and rehabilitated karezes2 ; Small Irrigation Schemes in Balochistan funded by the
United Kingdom in 1985, to construct or improve 15 schemes; and Small Irrigation Schemes in
Balochistan financed by the Kuwait Fund in 1986, to construct or improve 39 schemes.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1         As formulated at appraisal, project objectives were to:
(a)     increase agricultural production and farm incomes through minor irrigation and
command area development works, and through improved agricultural practices;
(b)     improve the informationi base and institutional capacity to plan, prepare, and
implement minor irrigation schemes, and to introduce appropriate forms of local participation in
irrigation and agricultural development; and
(c)     develop  improved  technical and economic  guidelines and  criteria  for
preparation of integrated minor irrigation schemiies.
3.2         The main components of the six-year project consisted of:
(a)     Minor Irrigation Development. Investigation, design, and construction or
rehabilitation of about 28 minor perennial irrigation schemes irrigating an area of about 3,800 ha.
(b)     Agricultural Development. Command area development in these 28 schemes,
including improved layout of water distribution systems, lining of principal conveyance channels,
construction of control structures, land shaping and levelling, and improved field layout, and
introduction of improved irrigation and agricultural practices.
(c)     Pilot Schemes.  Development of three interrelated pilot projects aimed at
generating information on: (i) the technology of water spreading for increased rangeland and fodder
production; (ii) groundwater recharge; and (iii) solutions to problems of conjunctive/coordinated use
of ground and surface water, involving the installation of eight tubewells and development of about
800 ha of flood irrigated command area in selected areas that offer the potential for a subsequent
expanded program.
(d)     Institutional Development.   This included: (i) provision of additional
agricultural and On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) extension staff in the Directorate of
Agricultural Extension (DAE); (ii) establishment of a Project Management Cell within the provincial
Department of Irrigation (DI), including an Area Planning and Development Team (APDT); (iii)
strengthening the capacity of DI to carry out detailed engineering designs of minor irrigation works;
(iv) provision of facilities, transport, equipment and training for existing and additional staff, mainly
of DAE and DI; (v) formalization/strengthening of farmer organizations to operate and maintain
irrigation schemes so as to increase agricultural production; (vi) an evaluation study to assess the
project's impact.
I' Generally small earth dams constructed in hill torrents to increase percolation.
2   Galleries dug into hillside to tap groundwater.



- 3 -
The project also provided technical assistance and training, including: (i) 144 staff-months of
technical assistance in hydrology, irrigation design engineering, economics, agronomy and water
management; and (ii) 200 staff-months of practical skill-oriented training in engineering, agricultural
extension, on-farm water management, and farmer organization.
3.3        Total project cost was estimated at Rs 382 million (US$34.7 million). Funding was to
be provided by the Government of Pakistan/Government of Balochistan (GOP/GOBAL) - 15 %, IDA
- 41 %, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) - 38% and the Netherlands Ministry for Development
Cooperation (NMDC) - 6%. Project completion was expected by June 1988 and the credit closing
date was December 31, 1988.
3.4        The project was to be managed by a specially created Project Management Cell (PMC)
within DI, headed by a Project Director and assisted by an interdisciplinary Area Planning and
Development Team (APDT) comprising five Deputy Directors. A Steering Committee at the
provincial level was to be responsible for overall project direction, and in each District included in
the project a Project Area Committee was to be established, to assist APDT in the initial
identification and selection of schemes and help determine local priorities regarding proposed project
actions.
3.5        Recognizing the lack of data in the province for the design of irrigation works and the
limited capacity to formulate and execute irrigation and agricultural projects, a five point strategy
was defined, namely: (i) based on feasibility studies of representative schemes to apply criteria in
the selection, preparation and implementation of additional schemes - the criteria to be refined during
project implementation; (ii) to begin the collection of hydrological and socio-economic data for
project schemes immediately after start-up; (iii) to train provincial staff - particularly on-the-job -
with the help of technical assistance provided; (iv) to involve local communities in planning,
implementing, operating and maintaining the project's irrigation schemes; and (v) to carry out pilot
studies to formulate and test various aspects of water management for use in follow-up projects.
3.6        The strategy recognized that the project represented an initial stage of a long-term
program of water resources development. Organizational arrangements were for schemes to be
identified by APDT and feasibility studies to be prepared by the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA). Initially, WAPDA or other qualified consultants were to be responsible for
subsequent detailed preparation of schemes and tender documents, but it was expected that this work
would be progressively taken over by DI engineers, helped by the technical assistants provided under
the project. APDT was to be responsible for appraising the feasibility studies and detailed designs.
Scheme construction was to be by contractors under the responsibility of the DI Engineer, with
supervision by WAPDA or other suitable consultants. Responsibility for agricultural extension and
command area development (CAD) in project schemes rested with the Department of Agriculture
(DA). It was expected that these activities would benefit from the support of the IDA-assisted On-
Farm Water Management (OFWM) Project (Credit 1163-PAK), which covered most of the project
areas. This was to be supplemented by appointment of an additional Deputy Director (DAE), three
Agricultural Officers, two training officers and other staff, as well as placing an OFWM team in the
Nisai valley area, not covered by the OFWM Project. Annual programs and the corresponding
budgets were to be approved by the Project Steering Committee.



- 4-
4. Project Design and Organization
4. 1        The project as identified by IDA  in September 1980 and described as a Valley
Development Project, included investments in tubewells; minior diversion schemes for irrigation
(including CAD); soil and water conservation and water spreading for flood (sailaba) irrigation;
range improvement and groundwater recharge; livestock watering points from wells powered by
windmills; and technical assistance. Most project activities were to take place in the small sub-basins
of Gumbaz, Nisai, Nal, Greshak and Panjgur (Map 2). A Project Steering Committee was formed
to direct project preparation by WAPDA, assisted by IDA  missions in November 1980 and in
February and May 1981. As project preparation proceeded, the project concept was modified and
size steadily increased. At appraisal in June 198 1, the project included development of five perennial
irrigation schemes covering about 2,000 ha and about nine flood (sailaba) schemes covering a further
7,300 ha; pilot projects in rangeland improvement/livestock production, groundwater recharge, and
wells and windpumps for stock watering; and studies, data collection and technical assistance. It was
still to be concentrated in four major sub-areas of Gumbaz, Nisai, Nal/Greshak and Panjgur.
4.2         An appraisal follow-up mission was fielded in November 1981. As a result of this
mission, and the interest of Germany and the Netherlands in co-financing the project, the number
of schemes to be covered increased to 28 and the area to be covered was changed by dropping the
Panjgur sub-catchment and by including the whole of Zhob, Loralai, Khuzdar and Las Bela districts
(Map 1).
4.3         Thus, despite concern from identification onwards regarding the shortage of skilled staff
and difficulties likely in implementation and the need to focus project activities on three or four quite
small areas, project size from identification to final appraisal increased practically threefold and the
area of activities was no longer strictly confined. Moreover, the time allowed for implementation
was only increased from five to six years. The final project design was thus significantly over-
optimistic both in regard to the amount of work to be undertaken and the speed with which this could
be completed"'.
4.4         A weakness in project design was the lack of precision in organization and management
proposals. These seemed to take for granted a good level of collaboration/cooperation between line
departments; a readiness by these departments to release staff to the project; and a readiness by staff
to move to the project as a result of incentive payments to be made. Other aspects of project design,
particularly regarding the establishment of criteria for scheme selection, including application of cost
ceilings, minimum number of beneficiaries and involvement of local communities in planning and
implementation, were much more successful.  The project concept, to enhance agricultural
production and institutional capability through development of small perennial irrigation schemes with
strong farmer participation, was well chosen. Exclusion of tubewells (except as a part of the pilot
schemes) was also sensible, although low lift pumps were also generally excluded2", the reasons
apparently being concern regarding possible difficulties in operation and maintenance and fears in
the early 1980s of high fuel costs.
" This is well illustrated by the SAR Annex 5, Chart 2, which indicated a total time schedule per scheme from
identification to completion of irrigation and command area wvorks of only 52-62 weeks. In the event even
the less problematic schemes took four times as long and some schemes most of the implementation period.
2!  Only one scheme at Sorh has been implemented.



-5-
5. Project Implementation
5.1         Credit Disbursement. IDA disbursements seriously lagged behind appraisal estimates
as project implementation was much slower than anticipated.  Halfway through the six- year
implementation period (end December 1985) only about 17 % of the credit was disbursed, and by the
original closing date disbursement had increased to only 33%. In the event, the credit closing date
was extended five times, to December 31, 1993. The credit account was to be kept open until April
30, 1994, and on March 7, 1994, the credit was fully disbursed.
5.2         Project Cost. Although the IDA credit is closed, project implementation will continue
to complete unfinished or additional irrigation works on six IDA schemes. Five of these are
expected to be completed by June 1994 and the sixth, Ari Pir, by October 1994. Total cost for their
completion is estimated at Rs 37 million (US$1.23 million), which will be financed by GOP/GOBAL
(Part 11/5C). Minor CAD works are still to be completed on one IDA scheme at an estimated cost
of Rs 40,000 (US$1,300). Finance for this purpose may be provided under the proposed Phase II
of the project. Completion of unfinished or additional works on 13 KfW schemes is estimated to
cost Rs 88.5 million (US$2.95 million). This will be accommodated by extension of the KfW loan
closing date to December 31, 1994. CAD works on KfW schemes are expected to cost a further Rs
18 million (US$0.6 million) to complete. Total project cost at the expected completion date of
December 1994 is estimated at Rs 1, 183.5 million (US$51.8 million). This represents a cost overrun
of 210% in Rupee terms, or 49% in US$ terms. At the end of December 1993, actual expenditure
was Rs 999.2 million, or about 84% of the estimated total cost.
5.3         Organisation and Management. From the early project years PMC operated as an
autonomous body.  The scarcity of qualified staff within Balochistan created severe staffing
problems, which were to affect the project during the whole implementation period. Inadequate staff
were seconded from DI and DA and attempts to fill posts with contract staff were also only partially
successful. GOBAL's policy was to fill government posts with residents of the province, and hiring
on a contract basis was only possible if specific provisions were granted, nor was it always attractive
for staff from other parts of Pakistan to work in the province. For some categories of staff, e.g.
Design Engineers, repeated advertising was unsuccessful in filling vacancies. Three of the five key
posts of Project Deputy Director in APDT (Finance, Economics and Local Participation) were still
vacant one year after credit effectiveness, and the last two (Engineering, Agriculture) were more
often vacant than filled. Over the year from mid-1985 to mid-1986 the staff position deteriorated
seriously so that more than half the project's sanctioned posts were vacant, including the Project
Director and two Deputy Directors.  In addition, DI had not seconded the requisite staff for
supervision of construction, and the Agricultural Development Cell (ADC), which had always
operated with the staff being administratively under DA but technically under PMC, was no longer
under the direct control of the latter.
5.4         This was the project's lowest point. In agreement with the co-financiers GOBAL took
measures to appoint a new Project Director, agreed to strengthen his powers in hiring of staff and
providing necessary incentives, and ensured closer collaboration between the PMC and ID. GOBAL
also requested supplementary financing from NMDC to enable TAT to undertake more preliminary
screening and preparation of schemes as part of an accelerated project implementation program. This
culminated in a decision to increase the number of schemes to be developed under the project from
28 to 38 (ultimately 42), made possible by devaluation of the Rupee relative to the foreign currency



- 6 -
provided by the co-financiers. From early 1988 matters improved, although availability of competent
staff continued to be a difficulty, despite increased secondment of DI staff to the project.
5.5        ADC's role was to organize and assist farmers in CAD and to provide extension advice.
However, generally, farmers' interest in command area and agricultural development was only
galvanized when the irrigation works were reaching completion and farmers could see the extent of
their new water share. Since by early 1988 no irrigation works had reached completion in any
scheme, ADC's impact had been very limited. Also, it was expected in the SAR that the OFWM
Project (Cr. 1163-PAK) would cooperate with BMIADP in undertaking CAD works on many of the
schemes. In the event, the OFWM Project was only able to attempt part of the works on two
schemes. PMC apparently was seen by ADC and DA as not releasing sufficient funds to enable
ADC to carry out its tasks. In 1992, KfW provided Rs 3.6 million (US$0.12 million) to enable six
of ADC's agricultural graduates to work with TAT. This arrangement seems to be working quite
well, but still leaves the remaining six agricultural graduates and the other ADC staff less than fully
functional.
5.6        The role of the Project Area Committees in ensuring full local participation has been
taken over by Water Users Associations (WUAs) which were formed for each scheme. It is intended
that these WUAs will be responsible for all aspects of scheme maintenance and repair -except for
disastrous failure of structures beyond their competence and requiring the assistance of DI."
5.7         Scheme Preparation and Design. Initially, scheme preparation and design by WAPDA
was done with inadequate participation from the beneficiary communities and lacked the necessary
understanding of the sociological situation - in particular, who had rights to water and what water
sources were being used, schemes were generally over-designed, often required design changes and
took unnecessarily long to complete. Project design relied heavily on WAPDA to make up for the
project's staff inadequacy. Even before project start, WAPDA had difficulty in completing final
designs, which delayed credit effectiveness by three months. WAPDA indicated in late 1982 its wish
to withdraw from the project, but due to a number of delays, including those in meeting co-
financiers' acceptance criteria, it was not until 1984 that two local consultants were contracted to
prepare and design IDA schemes and KfW schemes, respectively. WAPDA continued to be
responsible for design of the pilot schemes.
5.8        This changeover in engineering consultants delayed project activities by at least one
year. Scheme preparation and design continued to suffer the same difficulties as before caused by
the remoteness of the areas and difficulty in provision of adequate staff.  In addition to the
consultants, TAT became more deeply involved in preparation and design, particularly during and
after the Accelerated Implementation Program (April 1987 to September 1988). During the second
half of the implementation period there was a clear improvement in quality of preparation and design.
More attention was paid to providing adequate information on the social, hydrological and
agricultural situation in each scheme area, involving the beneficiaries in detailed planning, the need
for developing cost-effective designs and incorporating the lessons learned from the project's
experience. This steady improvement could still go further and, unfortunately, it has not stopped
the earlier, inappropriately designed schemes from being constructed. Ari Pir, the most expensive
of the project schemes, has a massive weir for the diversion of 12 cusecs to irrigate a command area
See comment by KfW in Annex 4.



- 7 -
of 265 ha. Despite questions about the appropriateness of the design", particularly when compared
with the more cost-effective option of low-lift pumping, the scheme was constructed. Similarly, the
designs adopted for the Wuch Mangai groundwater recharge pilot project are extraordinarily
elaborate and costly21.
5.9          More recent scheme designs have avoided the use of siphons wherever possible, but
some schemes still include small diameter siphons which are not appropriate to the conditions and
are very likely to block. Also, designs tend to be too conservative. Only three schemes have free
intakes compared with 17 with weirs. In a number of instances it might have been possible to do
without the weir and rely on an intake alone and annual regrading of the nullah bed by bulldozer.
A further example is the use of infiltration gallery designs, which were challenging and, in a number
of occasions, disastrous for contractors (para. 5.11 below). In view of the well recognized limited
capability of available contractors, it is unfortunate that no more convenient engineering solutions
have been developed - making use, for example, of slotted corrugated steel pipe, plastics, glass fiber
or precast concrete pipes. Although, clearly, everyone's attention was directed mainly towards
improving implementation performance, it would have been helpful if attempts had been made to
develop designs which were less demanding on contractors' abilities.3'
5.10         Civil Works. Initially, contractors from Karachi and Lahore started work, but in most
cases found it difficult to continue and frequently abandoned their contracts. The tribal situation and
the remoteness of the sites dictated that only contractors located close to, or otherwise connected
with, individual communities, could be used.   Generally  these contractors had  inadequate
competence, experience and plant.  These difficulties were compounded by disputes with and
between the beneficiary communities and deficiencies in scheme designs. These latter problems
diminished as initial screening, preparation, community involvement and scheme design improved.
Initially, contractors were sometimes harassed by beneficiaries demanding compensation for land
taken up by the scheme as well as design changes. This often slowed or stopped contractors' work.
5.11         For these or other reasons, contractors often commenced work on the scheme
headworks. Where these involved an infiltration gallery, contractors generally underestimated the
extent and cost of dewatering - a problem which would have been minimized if the conveyance
channel had already been completed. Slowness in excavation and subsequent construction of the
gallery meant that in a number of cases works were incomplete by the flood season and were
destroyed.  Similar problems also affected construction of weirs.  In many cases, contractors'
performance was also poor due to pressure of other work and lack of liquidity, leading to a slow
I/  See office memorandum  of February 11, 1985.
2/  The Wuch Manga groundwater recharge scheme consists of an upstream  side-spillway in the form of a
masonry-finished concrete weir and a concrete-lined flume about 12.0 m wide leading to a rectangular
reservoir about 200 m long by 100 m wide formed of a rock-fill embankment of about 5.0 m average depth.
There are downstream spreading ponds fed by an open channel from the reservoir. The catchment area
estimated at 400 ha, appears very small and in the four years of its life no water has ever been collected
in the reservoir. As a result no observations have yet been possible. The whole impression is of over-design,
especially of the weir and the concrete flume, for the purpose intended. It may be that all worthwhile sites
were already taken up by existing flood irrigation schemes but it is quite surprising to find such an
expensively designed complex in such a poor if not impossible location, considering the amount of
engineering design and assistance expertise with which the project was endowed.
3/  See comment by KfW in Annex 4.



- 8 -
start-up and only intermittent effort thereafter. Added to these difficulties, the first priority of PMC
and TAT in the early years of the project was the completion of the pilot projects. Furthermore, the
withdrawal or failure of a number of contractors led to a considerable amount of retendering".
As a result of all these difficulties, only two schemes had been completed by the original credit
closing date.
5.12        The situation changed dramatically for the better as a result of the improvements
starting in 1988 regarding project management, scheme preparation and design - particularly
beneficiary participation - as well as the accumulated project experience, the fact that contractors
could be chosen on the basis of past performance, and the addition of two construction advisors to
TAT.  Helped by all these changes, the project achieved the major part of construction of the
irrigation schemes over the period 1988-1993.
5.13        Supervision of contractors was also the responsibility of the two consulting firms that
replaced WAPDA in scheme preparation and design. Generally, both had difficulties in posting
suitable engineers for duty on remote sites, where they were largely dependent for survival on the
goodwill of the contractor and the ultimate authority for instructing the contractor rested with the
project's executive engineers. The impact of their site supervision was therefore less than expected.
Despite this, the quality and finish of most of the construction work inspected by the PCR mission
appeared satisfactory.
5.14        Training has been provided on-the-job by TAT and through courses and study tours
as detailed in Part III/4A. Training proposals in the SAR concentrated on staff. Realizing the
importance of farmer training, the project developed training programs for WUAs in practical
maintenance techniques; estimating and budgeting repair work; WUA organization; and improvement
in water management. Most schemes have already been covered by the first two of these programs.
In addition, the project organized exchange visits between schemes, although in Balochistan's tribal
context this is not always feasible.
5.15        Pilot Schemes. Of the three pilot schemes included in the SAR - conjunctive water use,
groundwater recharge, and water spreading for improvement of range production - the last was found
by a desk study to be neither practicable nor economic and was not further pursued. The first topic
was split into two, one looking at conjunctive use of perennial and flood water, the other looking at
communal use of tubewells21. The study of conjunctive use of perennial and floodwater involved
the construction of a scheme at Chasma Achozai, as well as additional studies in other areas. For
groundwater recharge, two pilot schemes were constructed at Ziargai and Wuch Mangai. For
communal use of tubewells, a site at Duki in Loralai District was selected and four tubewells were
installed. Responsibility for design and implementation rested with a cell, headed by a Deputy
Director Pilot Projects, staffed by WAPDA and assisted by TAT.
5.16        Monitoring and Evaluation. A local university institute was contracted in 1986 to
study the project's impact, but was replaced in May 1989 by the Monitoring and Evaluation
Directorate of WAPDA. Unfortunately, the survey design and the strategy adopted (endeavoring to
produce early results) were found by a review in 1991 to be deficient, mainly on account of the small
I/  About 28 contracts were let for the 16 IDA assisted schemes.
2'  Schedule 2 Part C of the Development Credit Agreement was accordingly amended (July 25, 1989).



-9 -
sample size and under-representation of the larger schemes.  Consequently, the task was re-
contracted to WAPDA in 1992. Since then the aim has been to collect data annually on 24 of the
42 schemes for crop area and water delivery, and more detailed information on four schemes per
year out of a sample of 12 schemes.
6. Project Results
6.1         The project has developed or improved irrigation supplies to a total command area of
about 9,000 ha, or an irrigated cropped area of about 1 1,000 ha. This is almost two and a half times
the area projected in the SAR (3,800 ha), and 14 schemes more than the 28 initially projected - albeit
over an eleven-year implementation period instead of the six years planned at appraisal. The
additional water for irrigation is estimated at around 3.2 cumecs (112 cusecs), or a 1.75 fold increase
over the without project situation.
6.2         Agricultural Production. Farmers have been quick to realize the potential benefits of
increased water supplies and/or improved reliability of delivery. At higher altitudes (above 1,200
masl), many instances are observed of farmers anticipating improved water supply, planting apple
orchards ahead of scheme completion. Also, schemes having more dependable sources of water,
such as springs (chasma) are largely under orchard crops. In these more favorable cases the part
of orchards in the cropping pattern has greatly exceeded the tentative estimates made in the SAR",
and even those in the more recent scheme feasibility/screening documents.
6.3         At middle altitudes, less valuable tree crops such as pomegranates are grown.  Where
land is communally owned by the village, usage is often allocated by lottery (puch) on a seasonal
basis only, as in the rotating awara system. Conversion to higher value horticultural cropping is
thereby constrained and has generally lagged earlier expectations. At lower altitudes, especially in
Belochi, Sindi or Zehri dominated areas where the sardari system is often practised2 the adoption
of higher value cropping systems, mainly vegetable production, is confined to the sardar and his
immediate family who tend to use even hereditary tenants as sharecroppers, resulting in a highly
skewed sharing of scheme benefits.
6.4         Surveys conducted by the project impact evaluation team indicate that wheat and fodder
yields are presently well below SAR predictions, most of the increase in benefits resulting from
cropping changes towards higher value crops and/or increases in areas irrigated as a result of more
diversion from the sources and/or more equitable distribution. Yields are compared below:
For the seven project schemes which rely on springs the orchard area as a percentage of the cropped area
is projected to have increased from 45% without project to 51 % with project. Comparable figures in the
SAR were 4% without project and 15% with project.
2/ A feudal sardar with large numbers of sharecroppers or tenants-at-will.



- 10 -
Comparison of Crop Yields (t/ha)
Crop Group            Example Crop      SAR Estimate       WAPDA MI&E            GOBAL         PCR Esttimate  |
I ~~~~~~~~~~~FStats.                                                                                 
Sumitner grains             Pulses                  n a.               0.40                                0,70
Sunimer fodder              Sorghum:               3 )0.O2           0.85/4.25          (0.764            1.1/5.5
grain/stover
Summer vegetables           Melons                 23.00               5.0()                               15.00
Winter grains               Wheat                   2.8()              1.20              1.868             2.10
Winiter fodder              Fodder wheat             .a.               na.                                 9.()0
Wvinter vegetables          Onions                 20.00               8.75                                13.00
Apples (exisnng,            AppIes-                 14.0)0)             n a.                                8.1()
Apples (new) Yr. 15         Apples,                201)))             15.0)(                               19.75
Other decidtious truit      Ponlegranates          nFla.               n.a.                                7.20
(existing)
Other deciduous fruit (new)   Ponegranates          it.a.              8.41                                7.41)
Yr. 15
Suh-tropical fruit (existitig)    Citrus                               D.. na.                             9.90
Suh-tropical IrLiit (flew)  Citrus                  is.a.              n.a.                                1().8()
Y'r. 15
Perennial fodder            Alfalfa                5(0.0:2            10.0()                               16.00
SAR yields assumed a mixture of apples, apricots and grapes.
Fresh weight.
6.5             The  fact that yields appear to  have changed  little probably  reflects the generally
weak agricultural extension service operating within the province. Measures taken by the project
to improve extension advice to farmers (para. 5.5) are too recent to have had a noticeable effect
and the bulk of schemes have been only recently completed. The additional production as a
result of the project is projected at the year 2008 to be about 4,500 tons of wheat, 8,000 tons
of fodder, 15,000 tons of vegetables and 22,000 tons of fruit.
6.6             Farm   Incomes.   Tentative  projections  of with  and  without project agricultural
benefit streams are in Annexes 1 and 2. Financial benefits to owner-operators are anticipated
to increase between 230% and 610% between Scheme Year 1 and full perennial crop
development in Scheme Year 15. Increases in benefits to sharecroppers (found predominantly
in southern, lower altitude areas) are only around 160%, starting from a very low base. This
is generally in line with SAR projections. Income trends are detailed in Annex 2, Table la to
Ic, and summarized  below.



- 11 -
Incremental Income (Rs '000 per Household) and Percentage Change Without Project (WoP) to With Project (WiP)
Scheme                       ........ Owner Operator (0/0) ........ .... I.... Share Croppe .
A)ithude                           Water Source &
(in masi. with Cropping Pattern  Tenure & Access    Reliability  SAR  PCR           SAR          PCR
avg. area)                                      Rs'0ooo|  %    RsO000/ | %    Rs'O000| %   Rs'000/I %
Household      Housahold      Household     HsNd.
Pui       High value apples Owner/Operator, good  Spring, high  -  -  58.1  233          -     .
1,700 m
1.65 ha
Thal      Awara       Awara, good    Weir, low      -              59.0   284
2,070 m   wheat/veg.
4.1 ha
Sukleji   Awara wheat  Awara/Sardar, poor  Weir, low        -      18.7   321     -      -    3.5  164
92 m
1.6 ha
Kanchogi    Deciduous fruit, Owner/Operator, good Weir, low  39.4    260    25.7   269  -      '
1,990 m   wheat
2.0 ha
Rabat     Deciduous    Owner/Operator, good Gallery,  48.4    536    52.4   611
1,380 m   fruit/wheat                moderate
1 .75 ha
6.7           Economic Impact.  Recalculation of the project's economic rate of return (ERR)
has been made in constant 1993 prices. Costs have been adjusted by applying a standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 to local currency costs and by excluding the pilot schemes as
well as a proportionate share of overheads, including technical assistance and training. Unskilled
labor has been valued at two-thirds of the market wage" . Wheat, sorghum and fertilizers have
been valued at import parity prices based on Bank commodity price forecasts. Prices of other
outputs and of domestically produced inputs have been adjusted by the SCF of 0.9.
6.8           On this basis, the recalculated ERR is 5.8 %. Employing the same labor conversion
factor (LCF) as the SAR would reduce the ERR to 5.2%. The SAR, in fact, took a much
simpler approach to calculation of the ERR, project investments being taken as the construction
cost of schemes2' multiplied by a factor of 0.86. Recalculation on this basis gives an ERR of
9.2%  at the LCF of 0.67, or 8.3%  at an LCF of 0.8.
6.9           The reasons for this poorer result than the 20.6%  projected at appraisal are the long
delays in scheme implementation; the much higher than originally foreseen overhead costs,
particularly for consulting engineers and TAT (which also is a reflection of the extended
implementation period); projection of lower yields of wheat and sorghum than in the SAR;
inclusion of a number of often large schemes in the south of the province, which were not
included in the SAR analysis; and the presence of some expensive schemes relying on weirs.
Most prominent of the latter two categories is the very expensive scheme at Ari Pir. If it is
This is lower than assumed in the SAR (labor conversion factor of 0.8). The justification is that most of
the unskilled labor for earthworks, command area development and preparation for orchard establishment
is needed  in the off-season.   Also, the large number of refugees from  Afghanistan  during the
implementation period added to a labor pool for which there were already few employment opportunities.
2/  SAR, Annex 3, Table 3, Capital Cost items A and B.



- 12 -
excluded, the recalculated ERR improves to 6.6% or, using the approach adopted in the SAR,
to 11%.
6.10          An ERR has also been calculated for each scheme. The results, given in Annex 3,
Tables 1 to 6," show  a wide variation between schemes, from  a high of 33%  (Tor Murgha)
to a low of -14% (Lukh Abdul Rehman). Grouping schemes by type of diversion structure
shows that generally schemes fed by springs and karezes have higher ERRs, and returns are
lower for schemes with weirs (Annex 3, Table 5). This reflects the cropping patterns adopted
where water sources are unreliable and the high costs of weirs designed to withstand infrequent
but substantial floods, and out of proportion to the quantity of water diverted.
Comparison of ERRs by Structure and Reliability of Source
|    Group    |                       Source                                Reliability   Average
Springs       Underground springs in deeply fissured rock.                  High                11
Karezes       Traditional horizontal wells dug into the water table under hills or shallow  High/moderate  8
excavations under naridas.
Free intakes    Intake tower placed in stable river site.                   High/moderate       9
Pump          Pumping base flow from larger rivers.                         High               14
Infiltration  Safely buried gallery extracts sub-surface flow in mandas and nullahs, sized  Moderate  6
galleries     according to diversion,
Weirs         Divert surface perennial flow in mandas and nullahs, yet sized for peak flood    Poor  3
flows.
6.11         In addition, schemes in the south, at lower altitudes, tend to be less profitable due
to climatic, social or marketing constraints. Scheme profitability increases with altitude, and it
generally decreases with rising capital cost per hectare as shown in Annex 3, Figure 1.
6.12         Benefits from all three pilot studies have been insignificant. A desk study indicated
that water spreading was not practicable since it competed with existing systems of sailaba and
khuskhaba wheat growing; it would be impossible to exclude nomadic and other livestock during
pasture establishment; and costs greatly exceeded benefits due to the low frequency of significant
run-off events.  Conjunctive use of water appeared to be an attractive idea, but farmers
generally expanded high value horticultural production up to the limit of the newly installed
tubewell or rehabilitated perennial source rather than using any of it for the invariably lower
value crop (e.g. winter wheat). None of the conjunctive water use trials proved practicable.
One successful aspect was the inclusion in the trials program of confined irrigation, i.e., the use
of basins or bunding for irrigation in orchards. This showed that it was possible to save about
a third of the water normally applied, and the technique is now quite widely adopted by farmers.
Groundwater recharge was a concept of great interest to GOBAL, given the problem of rapid
depletion of the aquifers in central Balochistan. A specially commissioned mathematic model
A Working Paper (43 pages) entitled Derivation of Benefits for Each of the 42 Schemes is available
from Asia ISC.



- 13 -
to simulate artificial groundwater recharge indicated a delay of several years before any surface
water would descend to the groundwater table. Economically the two trial sites (in retrospect,
not ideally located) proved unviable, and the trials were discontinued. A desk study on the
performance of delay action dams indicated that more water evaporated from the surface than
percolated through the silt-clogged floor and that only those dams having other functions, such
as flood control and provision of silt for further land development, could be ranked as useful.
6.13       Environmental Impact. All the perennial irrigation schemes improved incomes
as well as the quality of life in their respective areas, by creating small oases in an otherwise
unrelenting, arid landscape. Salinity is not a problem"1. The only negative aspect reported
is in the south, where insufficient attention to borrow pit water accumulation and some poor
design of irrigation out-turns is resulting in an increase in mosquitoes and risk of malaria. The
project is addressing this aspect through a women's program of education and use of
impregnated mosquito nets.  Later-designed schemes always include watering places for
livestock, which are not only beneficial to resident herds/flocks, but also to nomadic livestock.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1        Resources. The project schemes are agronomically sustainable, since the crops
chosen are almost always those suited to local conditions. Crop inputs are generally available,
although often under-utilized. Provided perennial water sources do not permanently decline
(many are subject to seasonal or periodic variations), the future for communities relying on
perennial water sources appears assured. There is, however, the problem of ineffectively
regulated tubewell exploitation, which threatens the water sources of a few BMIADP schemes
(e.g. Rabat and Arambi). Despite legislation and Water Committees, at provincial and district
level, to regulate groundwater abstraction, the sinking of new tubewells is not effectively
controlled. GOBAL recently accepted financial assistance from the Netherlands for a study to
produce sound technical data for new legislation and regulations to control access and production
from the province's aquifers.
7.2        Operation and Maintenance. Since 1990, the project has been more active in
promoting farmer participation and the formation of WUAs on all 42 schemes as well as two
pilot projects. Under the Water Users Ordinance of 1981 WUAs have legal status. They would
be responsible for all future scheme operation and maintenance except in the case of failure of
main works, beyond their competence, which would remain the responsibility of DI. Progress
of the WUAs is promising and some have already opened accounts for accumulation of
members' subscriptions to be used for scheme maintenance and repair. The strength of the
WUAs varies widely from scheme to scheme. A number of WUAs met by the PCR mission,
when asked about financing of repairs, indicated that they would seek funds from the project,
ID, or their Member of the Provincial Assembly rather than use their own resources.
Unfortunately, the growth of strong WUAs is tempered by a tradition of patronage, continuing
responsibility of DI for maintenance of schemes outside the project in exchange for a water tax
(abiana), which is generally under-subscribed, and continued international donor support for
'  Electro-conductivity of water sources is generally less than 1,200 micro-mhos/cm  and depth to the water
table generally exceeds 20 meters.



- 14 -
projects which both construct and maintain schemes with little, if any, contribution by the
beneficiaries. The principle of user responsibility for maintenance, successfully started under
the project, will need to be energetically pursued in the future, if the project schemes are to be
truly sustainable.
7.3        Cost Recovery.  Farmer contributions have been in the form  of labor for
earthworks for on-farm water channels. Collection of money to fund O&M needs to be on a
localized and transparent basis.  Any future project phase should seek to oblige irrigating
communities to make advance contributions to bank accounts - e.g. 1 % of estimated capital cost
at identification, another 1 % before detailed design - and generate a reasonable share of
estimated capital cost within five years of scheme commissioning.
7.4        Institution building, which was a major objective of the project, has been only
partially successful. The main difficulty was the extremely limited number of suitable local staff
available and the large demand for staff from the number of projects started during the 1980s.
As a result, posts remained unfilled and staff turnover, particularly in ADC, was too frequent.
This partial vacuum was filled by increased inputs from the consulting engineers and TAT. All
the training activities financed by the project (para. 5.14) must have had a beneficial impact on
staff capability, but its extent is not measurable.
7.5        Probably the project's greatest success has been in developing a system for scheme
identification, preparation, design and implementation based on full involvement of the
beneficiaries. This strongly emphasizes ownership of the schemes by the beneficiaries and their
subsequent responsibility for operation and maintenance. If this approach can be sustained, the
project could be a model for minor irrigation schemes in other parts of Pakistan. A further
benefit from the project's eleven years of implementation is the accumulation of information on
hydrology, pedology, agriculture, sociology, engineering and contractors.
8. Donor Performance
8.1        The SAR was over-ambitious regarding the project's size, area covered and
implementation period. There also appears to have been inadequate appreciation by IDA, as
well as all the other donors supporting projects in Balochistan in the early 1980s, of the
province's absorptive capacity.  Adequate local staff just was not available.  Difficulty in
implementation was increased by the area covered. The 42 schemes finally developed had an
average distance from the project headquarters at Quetta of 280 km, equivalent to an average
travel time (one way) of more than five hours. Also, whilst most of the problems likely to
constrain the project - such as remoteness of the project sites, weakness of the implementing
agencies, difficulty in staffing the project and the sociological complications of tribal areas -
were all identified during project preparation and appraisal, the depth of these difficulties appears
to have been underestimated.
8.2         Supervision started satisfactorily with 11 missions during the first four years, then
changed to longer intervals after 1986 (9 missions in six and a half years). There was a gap



- 15 -
between missions of more than a year and a half (October 1986 to July 1988)" just when the
project had reached a critical stage and the Accelerated Implementation Program had been
introduced. Unfortunately, the continuity of IDA staff involved in project supervision was poor
during the second half of the project implementation period. Only during later years were
supervision missions from the three donors combined, the latter proving highly beneficial.
8.3        Despite satisfactory mission frequency, IDA supervision during the early years of
the project appears not to have been effective in helping to resolve the project's key problems.
Good points in IDA's performance were the service provided by the Resident Mission,
particularly in the contribution to staff continuity on supervision missions; assistance in
procurement matters; and flexibility in rescheduling project completion to permit irrigation
scheme construction to be largely completed in spite of the very slow start.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        Taking account of GOBAL's relative inexperience with major Bank-funded projects
with a high construction content, the Borrowers' general performance was satisfactory.
9.2        GOBAL, by granting autonomous status to BMIADP, allowed the Project Director
considerable powers to keep the project moving, including discretion to award tenders not always
to the lowest bidder. However, the fact that the Project Director (through his Project Engineers)
was named as "the Engineer" in contracts limited the authority of the local supervising
consultants' engineers on site.
9.3        Weak points were: (a) counterpart funding was sometimes late and inadequate; (b)
collaboration between line departments in supporting the project was poor, particularly in using
the resources available under the IDA-assisted OFWM and Baluchistan Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research Projects in strengthening project impact; (c) there was lack of attention
to developing a good hydraulic data base for sub-project design, particularly irrigation channel
discharges. During field visits frequent examples were noted of simple measuring devices (V-
notches and depth gauges) broken and out of use.
10. Project Relationship
10.1       Between the co-financiers it would undoubtedly have been preferable if agreements,
conditions and credit/loan/grant effectiveness had been harmonized. As it was, the IDA credit
and NMDC grant became effective in January 1983, whereas the KfW loan became effective
only in November 1984. This gave the co-financiers slightly different perspectives on the
project. Had all the agreements become effective at the same time, the co-financiers might have
reacted earlier and advised Government to take remedial action to improve project performance.
In the event it was not until 1986, as a result of the concerns of all the co-financiers, and
particularly those of KfW, that action was taken.
I/  Possibly as a result of the Bank's 1987 reorganization.



- 16 -
10.2       While the relationship between the co-financiers and between them  and the
Borrower were generally very positive, and to an extent benefitted from the difference of
approaches, ideas and interests that they possessed, it could have been improved by fielding of
joint supervision missions. This had been repeatedly requested as desirable by Government from
project inception, but only occurred on four occasions starting in September 1986. For many
projects this might not have been a matter for concern, but for BMIADP with its PMC, three
consulting engineers and TAT separate supervision may well have created some confusion at the
field level as to project responsibilities.
10.3        Despite this criticism the collaboration between the three co-financiers has worked
satisfactorily in supporting and advising the Borrower in project implementation and in accepting
the need for extension of the project implementation period. NMDC's increased contribution
of grant funds to expand technical assistance has been particularly valuable in bringing the
project to a reasonably successful conclusion."z
11. Consulting Services
11.1       All the local consultants employed were based outside Balochistan and found
difficulty in finding competent staff to work in the remote project areas. WAPDA, with
Government and IDA assistance, was responsible for project preparation and feasibility studies,
and detailed designs of the first five schemes.  However, due to staffing and logistical
difficulties, lack of data on which to base designs, unrealistic deadlines, and pressure of work
in other areas its performance was not satisfactory, and its services in scheme preparation and
design terminated after completion of designs of four schemes in 1984. WAPDA continued to
be responsible for pilot schemes. Here also its proposals were significantly over-designed.
11.2       The two consulting firms that replaced WAPDA in scheme preparation and design
encountered the same difficulties as WAPDA, and work proceeded at an unacceptably slow pace
until 1988. Considerable redesign had to be undertaken, and site supervision was less than
satisfactory. This was due to difficulty in recruiting engineers for duty in remote areas and the
lack of authority of a single site engineer in the context of local politics and tribal influences
(para. 5.13). An additional factor was that site work was administered from the respective head
offices. It would have been preferable to require the consultants to establish offices in Quetta
and to permit them to include this cost in their tender.
11.3       The performance of the technical assistance team of expatriate consultants (TAT)
was satisfactory.  Its duties were to:  (a) strengthen the existing institutions by training of
counterparts and WUA members; and (b) participate in preparation/implementation of project
schemes. In assignment (a) TAT was successful only in part (paras. 5.14, 7.4)2', but (b) was
effectively and competently fulfilled3'.  Its role evolved from  participation and training to
becoming a full partner of PMC in project management and execution, as both Project Directors
ii  The Netherlands' funding commitment now amounts to NLG 20,563,600. See Annex 5.
21  See comment by KfW in Annex 4.
3/  Additional schemes, which more than doubled the irrigated area, were constructed in the extended project
period.



- 17 -
and TAT leaders changed ". Whilst TAT's contribution has been clearly effective in attaining
the physical goals of the project, the training of counterparts was largely directed to project staff.
11.4       Other Consultancy Services.  After initial involvement of a local university
institute, undertaking the Impact Evaluation Study was assigned to WAPDA's Watercourse
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. The unit, with guidance from an expatriate M&E specialist
attached to TAT, carried out its fieldwork conscientiously but had difficulty in processing the
numerous data.
12. Lessons Learned
12.1       Main lessons from project experience are:
(a)    Where local staffing is likely to be a serious constraint, care must be taken
in project design to closely identify current and future staff availability and needs, taking account
of project and other activities foreseen. Consideration could be given to recruiting competent
individuals born in the province but working in other parts of the country or abroad.
(b)    Project design needs to guard against placing too heavy a burden on project
management by extending project activities over too large a number of scattered and remote
sites. Instead, project design should adopt an approach of development zones or grouping of
schemes within a manageable number of areas.
(c)    The project has demonstrated the importance of involving the intended
beneficiaries from the initial stages of scheme identification, and of ensuring that social aspects
are incorporated in scheme design. The benefits of such an approach are considerable and
include improved scheme design, easier implementation, greater participation  of local
communities, and ultimately greater sense of ownership of the scheme by these communities -
reflected in their willingness to undertake operation, management and repair of the completed
schemes.
(d)    Where projects are co-financed, their implementation will be helped by
harmonizing all aspects, from effectiveness of legal agreements (funding availability) to project
supervision. Joint supervision missions should be the rule, except if otherwise requested by the
Borrower.
(e)    To enhance their effectiveness, consultant engineers should be required to
open offices reasonably close to the project headquarters, the cost of which should be included
in the contract.
(f)    The sustainability of a few project schemes will be jeopardized unless
GOBAL controls tubewell development more effectively.
I  There were 5 project directors and 4 team leaders.



- 18 -
(g)    The sustainability of the promising WUAs established on each scheme will
be compromised if GOBAL and international donors continue to develop projects in which DI
is responsible for operation, maintenance and repair, and farmers pay only part of the cost
through water taxes (abiana). Arrangements should be changed so that either farmers are
responsible for carrying out operation and maintenance (as on the project schemes), or abiana
is fully collected at rates that reflect the true cost of operation and maintenance, and this amount
is passed on in full to DI.
(h)    Greater attention should be given to collection of hydraulic data in all
schemes, which could significantly assist design of future schemes.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1       The SAR and Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were generally sufficient to
provide a basic framework for IDA, the Borrower and the implementing agencies. The main
weakness of the SAR was over-optimism in what could reasonably be expected within a six-year
implementation period (para. 4.4). The SAR was good in establishing criteria for scheme
selection and in preaching the need for local participation. However, the latter aspect was not
adequately addressed until halfway through the eventual implementation period.   SAR
organization and management proposals were, perhaps intentionally, left a little imprecise or
flexible. In particular, they assumed a degree of cooperation between line departments which
did not exist. Nor, probably, could it exist in a situation of several projects competing for the
small number of staff available. Because of the much slower than anticipated implementation
progress, the physical and financial targets of the SAR proved not very useful.
13.2       Project monitoring has only worked effectively over the last two years (para. 5.16)
and provides as yet only a partial basis for making projections of eventual project benefits.
13.3       Good documentation of project progress has been maintained by PMC through the
efforts of TAT, including: regular quarterly and annual progress reports, pilot study reports,
scheme screening reports, feasibility reports, detailed design documents and full drawings,
numerous manuals on civil works structures, perennial irrigation scheme selection, hydrological
reports, flow measurement reports, orchard and wheat trial reports, sociological reviews,
agricultural training manuals, operation and maintenance guides. Preparation by TAT of an up-
to-date briefing report for each major supervision mission greatly aided supervision work.
Similar assistance through a briefing report and updated information on project expenditures
greatly helped the PCR mission in its task.
13.4       The collection of hydraulic data (para. 9.3) is a weak point in the operation of
irrigation schemes and would merit close government attention.  Systematic and regular
recording of observations costs little but yields information of great value for future designs.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1243-PAK)
PART II
1. Project Implementation
1.1       Project start up was slow, and by the original completion date, 1988, around 22% of the
current funding had been committed. This was caused by an initial focus on institutional development
of GoP/GoBAL Departments, which proved ineffective. In particular scheme selection and design
were the responsibility of the Planning and Development Organisation of WAPDA, which failed to
provide the services required. In 1988 the project focus was changed to direct implementation, with
considerable TA staff input, which has been successful, with about 15% of project funds being
disbursed each year.
1.2       The IDA funded schemes have all been completed by December 1993 with the exception
of four, of which three will be completed by June 1994 and the remaining by October 1994. Overall
the IDA schemes were some 95% complete by the credit closing date of December 1993.
1.3       The closing date for the KfW funded schemes has been extended to December 1994. At
the end of December 1993, 18 KfW funded schemes had been completed, 4 will be completed by June
1994 and the remaining 4 in November and December 1994. Overall the KfW schemes were some
80% complete at the end of December 1993.
1.4       Apart from six schemes identified during project preparation, schemes were selected and
screened by TA staff, with the detailed designs and tender documents being prepared by local
consultants. Construction is undertaken by local contractors under the supervision of the project,
assisted by local consultants. Contractor performance has been unreliable and construction work has
taken longer than expected. When complete these schemes will provide irrigation for a command area
of some 9,000 ha with a planned crop area of 11,032 ha, with 49,311 beneficiaries, about 7,000
households. The schemes are designed to increase the cropped area by about 6,000 ha, 227% of the
pre project area, and farmers are expected to increase the area of higher value crops, especially
orchard crops and vegetables.
1.5       The pilot project programme was reduced in scope, and four experimental schemes were
built. Two ground water recharge schemes have been built and monitored, and have proved unviable.
A report on ground water recharge has been prepared.
1.6       The institutional aspects of the project management and coordination component have not
been totally achieved, and the project has had difficulty in obtaining the services required for CAD



- 20 -
and extension. CAD is expected to cost Rs 34.5 M and has been completed on 19 schemes out of a
planned 29 schemes, with an overall completion of 70% by the end of December 1993. The CAD
works on all IDA schemes, where finally planned, were completed by the end of December 1993.
An Agricultural Development Cell (ADC) within the GOBAL Department of Agriculture undertakes
CAD and farmer extension and training, but the motivation and performance of the ADC in the past
has been poor, although now much improved. This is the result of structural problems of Government
institutions which are well known, and are not capable of solution at project level.
1.7       The Monitoring and Evaluation functions of the project were divided.  The impact
monitoring system was initiated in 1986 under contract by Karachi university and taken over in 1989
by the Watercourse Monitoring & Evaluation Department of WAPDA. The value of the studies is
reduced by poor sampling procedures, which were not corrected until 1991, and the fact that many
of the schemes were not yet complete. The management information systems are undertaken by the
TA staff, and consist of quarterly reports, accounts and records of progress on construction contracts.
These are complete, up to date, accurate and available, which is a major achievement considering the
length of the project, its geographical spread and the general standard of accounting and reporting.
1.8       The TA to the project was initially advisory, but has tended to become more involved with
implementation where local institutions have not performed adequately. The TA team includes
irrigation engineers, command area designers, sociologists, W&D and agricultural extension specialists
supplied through contracts with overseas and local companies and the Government Departments. The
TA team was responsible for scheme selection, preparation of screening reports, contact with the
beneficiaries and the formation of Water Users Associations, training in scheme maintenance and after
care programmes, farmer training and training in extension programmes.
1.9       The project is directed by a project steering committee consisting of the Secretaries
Irrigation, Agriculture and Finance under the Additional Chief Secretary (Development).
Implementation is undertaken by a Project Management Cell, under the overall administration of the
Department of Irrigation and headed by the Project Director; and the Agricultural Development Cell
located in the Department of Agriculture. The TA team advises the Project Director.
2. Project Results
2.1       Project Impact by Stated Objectives. The first objective of the project is "to increase
agricultural production and farm incomes through minor irrigation ..... and improved agricultural
practices." This has been undertaken by the development of 42 small irrigation schemes intended to
increase water supply, leading to higher crop areas and output and improved incomes. Progress
towards this objective can therefore be monitored by measuring:
(i)       water delivery before and after scheme development;
(ii)      crop area and production changes following increased water delivery;
(iii)     income effects resulting from cropping changes; and
(iv)      the cost of scheme construction and operation.
2.2       The high level of variation between schemes makes it impossible to derive useful impact
indicators, such as scheme cost or output or net income per unit of area or water or per beneficiary,
as the range of such indicators is wide, and does not seem to be related to scheme benefits. Individual



- 21 -
schemes can be compared by estimating rates of return, and the impact of the project as a whole can
be estimated in a similar way.
2.3       There is a close relationship between altitude, a proxy for the agricultural zone and
returns, all the schemes with low FIRR being at low altitude. There is some relationship between
water flow and beneficiaries, which are correlated, and returns, most of the best returns being to
larger schemes. It also seems that the cheaper and more expensive schemes are less likely to give
good returns.
2.4       Simply selecting schemes over 1300 m, in other words where deciduous fruit can be
grown, would appear to ensure a positive FIRR. In the high areas orchard crops give a high return,
and are well known and accepted. These crops cannot be grown in the lower areas, and good returns
depend on the introduction of high value crops, such as vegetables, and increased yields from
improved management. Farmers on the lower schemes have yet to adopt these practices in large
enough numbers to give positive returns, due to lack of knowledge and poor access to markets. It
should be noted that many of the low schemes have only been completed in the last two years, and
it is likely that farmers have not, as yet, completed adapting their cropping patterns; for example it
is expected that returns to Sorh, completed less than a year before the surveys, will improve
considerably once farmers have adapted to the increased water supply. The importance of farmer
training in these schemes to ensure the potential benefits are obtained is clear, and BMIADP has not
yet established an adequate extension service. Returns to the large incomplete lowland schemes remain
to be studied, but may be better than for small schemes.
2.5       It should be noted that the returns to orchard crops are yet to be obtained, as production
will not start for several years. It is reasonable to expect that the returns to low schemes will be found
to have improved in later studies, though they are unlikely to give as good a return as schemes with
orchard crops.
2.6        The second objective of improving institutional effectiveness has, as already discussed,
not been fully achieved. No criteria for identifying impact on this objective are provided in the project
design, and there are no objective means of measuring institutional development where there is no
marketed output. The information base for project development has been improved, and the project
is making progress with developing local participation in irrigation and agricultural development.
Every scheme has a Water Users Association, which will be responsible for maintenance. The
effectiveness of these organisations will not be apparent for some years to come, and attempts to assess
progress towards this objective would be premature.
2.7       The third objective of developing improved technical and economic criteria of irrigation
schemes has been achieved. BMIADP has adopted these criteria, which are accepted by donors and
government. As it is difficult to understand how schemes could have been developed without such
criteria, this is less a project objective than part of the implementation arrangements.
2.8       Achievement of Physical Development Objectives: Construction.  The development of
schemes was delayed, and whilst the project started in 1982 no schemes were effective till 1987, and
most not until 1991. This long lag has a serious effect on estimates of rates of return. By late 1993,
30 schemes had effectively been completed. The remaining 12 schemes will mainly be completed
during the remainder of 1993 and the first half of 1994. The completion of CAD works is lagging
somewhat behind the main works, but this has less effect on output, as farmers make their own



- 22 -
arrangements. The construction phase of the project was due to be completed by 1988, and can,
therefore, be taken as being about five years late. However, the physical construction objectives have
been or will be achieved.
2.9        This delay is due to an initial focus on institutional development and relying on local
agencies to implement schemes, which failed.  It is clear that the project design considerably
underestimated the problems of using local agencies, and of improving their performance. Future
project design needs to take account of these problems, and if institutional development is a project
objective the time frame needs to be adequate.
2.10       Water Delivery.  Water delivery measurements have not yet been fully established on
sample schemes. Figures are available for four schemes for three years, and show an increase in
supply, and improved delivery efficiency.
2.11       Crop Development. Crop area surveys indicate that project impact has been substantial,
and is in excess of planned increases on completed projects. Though delayed, the impact of the
project appears to be considerable.
2.12       Expected Life of Scheme Infrastructure. The life of scheme infrastructure has been taken
as twenty years, and calculations of returns are based on this. At this time major structures such as
headworks will still have a useful life, though channels and minor works will need rehabilitation.
Orchard crops will also require replacement at this time, unless husbandry practices are improved, so
there would effectively be a need for a further development programme after twenty years. The effect
of adding a salvage value for the headworks at the end of the project period was tested, and found to
have a negligible impact on the rate of return.
2.13       Scheme Operating and Maintenance Costs.   O&M  costs are estimated as 1.2%  of
construction costs a year, with a rehabilitation cost of 20% of construction costs in year twenty. No
costs of farmer extension to project schemes planned as part of BMIADP II are included in the
analysis as they have not yet been incurred, and the effects of the extension in terms of increased yield
rates, have not been included as part of the benefits assumed in the analysis.
2.14       Establishing Expected Crop Area and Output Projections.  Crop area estimates used to
calculate scheme returns are based on the area measured by transect surveys in 1992 on the 15
completed schemes for which area data are available. No further changes are assumed, though it is
probable that further increases will occur as irrigation efficiencies improve. Yield levels are assumed
at current levels for the life of the project. The increased areas are assumed to start on each scheme
in the year water became available, or the following year where this was late in the season. It is
assumed that all new orchard crops are planted at this time, though in practice some may be planted
earlier.
2.15       Crop budgets were prepared using reported survey data, where available and estimates by
the project economist where not. Comparisons of budgets from survey data and those used by the
project show them to be very similar. There are insufficient survey data to prepare budgets for
individual schemes, and the same figures were used for all.
2.16       Orchard crop budgets were based on survey data, and a twenty year budget calculated.
Yield rates late in the orchards' life have been standardised at a lower level than reported in surveys,



- 23 -
as the level of variance of these yields was high, and sample sizes were small. All other yield rates
are as reported by farmers in field surveys. Output prices are those adopted by the project economist,
and are conservative. Output prices include an allowance for packing and handling, so these are not
included as budget items. Establishment costs are based on labour for preparing land and the purchase
of root stock. Other input utilisation is as reported by surveys. Spraying costs include application,
always done by hired labour. All labour is charged at current hire rates. No data are available for
almonds or plums, and these minor crops were assumed to be mixed orchards, which are mainly apple
and apricot. Note that it is year six before orchards provide a positive cash flow.
2.17       Attribution of Benefits from Increased Output to the Project.  It is assumed that all the
benefits from increased crop areas observed are due to the project. The increases due to long term
trends in Balochistan are small in comparison to those found on BMIADP schemes and it is assumed
that crop areas would not have changed in the BMIADP schemes if the project had not been
implemented. The effect of including provincial area growth trends on estimated returns would be
minimal.
2.18       Market Projections.  At full development the 42 BMIADP schemes will be producing
over 100,000 tonnes of fruit. The scheme orchard area will have been increased by an area of about
12% of the current provincial orchard area, which will have itself grown by over 40% if long term
trends continue. The project schemes will have a significant effect on fruit output, but will be a small
part of total provincial production, probably under 10%. Apples are still imported to Pakistan, the
demand for fruit from urban centres is likely to continue to grow, and there is also the possibility of
exports to neighbouring countries. It is therefore concluded that the project will not have a significant
impact on the fruit markets and the additional output will be absorbed without affecting prices or
causing marketing problems.
2.19       The contribution of project schemes to the supply of other crops and vegetables will be
proportionally smaller than for orchard fruits. Project wheat production, for example, is a tiny
proportion of national output. In addition farmers will be able to adapt their cropping patterns to
exploit market demand, and are unlikely to face any long term marketing problems or influence prices.
2.20       Financial and Economic Price Estimates and Projections:  Price data are based on
evaluation survey data and market prices collected by BMIADP staff during Phase II scheme
preparation. For financial calculations all prices used are for 1992. Project expenditure from 1982
to 1991 has been converted to 1992 prices using the GDP deflator published by the GOP Finance
Division. This index has doubled between 1982 and 1992.
2.21       Economic prices are based on estimates made by BMIADP staff during Phase II scheme
preparation. Border prices are calculated, wheat, apples and fertilisers are at import parity prices,
whilst cotton is at export parity price. Farm labour is shadow priced at 75 % of hired labour wages
to reflect the surplus of labour in scheme areas, and the underemployment of labour out of peak
seasons. Construction costs are adjusted by a factor of 0.8, calculated using individual economic
prices for scheme construction costs for labour, skilled labour, steel, cement, transport and overheads.
Other prices, are adjusted by a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.9 to reflect net taxes, duties and
subsidies on traded goods.



- 24 -
2.22       It is assumed that current market prices will be maintained during the project life, in real
terms. IBRD commodity projections assume that terms of trade for agricultural output will improve
over the next twenty years, so this estimate is conservative.
2.23       Secondary Costs and Benefits: Livestock benefits are assumed to be accounted for by the
returns from fodder crop production, a major enterprise on some schemes and by valuing crop by-
products where these are fed to livestock. No other returns to livestock are assumed, though the
project has improved drinking water access.
2.24       Health and Domestic Water. The health impact of the project is thought to be small, and
is not included in the project benefits.
2.25       Estimated Rates of Return: Proiect level results were obtained by combining the results
of the 15 schemes analyzed to provide an overall FIRR estimate. Benefits were combined according
to the year of scheme completion, and direct scheme construction costs were combined according to
the date of payment. Project overheads were distributed according to actual project expenditure and
planned expenditure between 1982 and 1993, to reflect real cash flow. Operating and maintenance
costs were taken as 1.2% of total construction costs, starting in 1993, with a rehabilitation cost of 20%
of construction costs in 2015.
2.26       The overall FIRR of the 15 schemes analyzed is 16.5%. The rate of return is reduced
by the long investment period, and the eleven years of negative cash flow before the substantial crop
income benefits begin to appear.
2.27       Validity of the FIRR at Proiect Level.  The FIRR is increased to 20.6%  if the project
costs before 1988 are ignored, which is what might be expected from a second phase of the project,
assuming a much quicker start up, and therefore lower overheads.
2.28       The validity of the FIRR would be affected if the 15 completed schemes used in the
analysis are very unrepresentative of the remaining 27 schemes.   No single measure of
representativeness was found, so the FIRR was recalculated by weighting the schemes by water
delivery, construction cost, number of beneficiaries, altitude and a composite of these four weights.
2.29       The resulting FIRR were:
Weighted By          FIRR
Water delivery       19.7
Construction cost    15.5
Beneficiaries        16.1
Altitude             16.7
Composite            16.9
2.30       The results of these calculations indicate that the 15 schemes are fairly representative of
the project as a whole, and that it is unlikely that the FIRR of the overall project would differ greatly
from the base FIRR of 16.5%. The most likely cause of a major change will come from the very
large lowland schemes, none of which were completed at the time of the analysis and their
performance cannot be fully predicted with the available data.  The estimates of FIRR are



- 25 -
conservative, and might be expected to increase when the results of later surveys are evaluated,
especially if crop yields increase as a result of the extension programme envisaged under BMIADP II.
2.31      Incremental crop income per beneficiary at full development will average about Rs 14,400,
with a maximum value of nearly Rs 80,000 per year. This amounts to about Rs 100,000 per
household, compared with current total incomes of less than Rs 30,000 found in household surveys.
2.32       Economic Rate of Return. The model was rerun with economic prices and project costs
adjusted by Standard Conversion Factors. The resulting EIRR was 17.4%. Eleven of the fifteen
schemes analyzed have a positive EIRR, including Sorh, which had a negative FIRR, due to the low
financial price for cotton.
2.33      It is concluded that the BMIADP will have a positive rate of return, and that beneficiary
incomes will be substantially increased. No serious negative impacts have been identified and equity
issues are thought not to have been worsened by the project at scheme level.
3. Lessons Learnt
3.1        Organisational Structure.   The organisational structure of the project, together with
responsibilities and chains of command must be carefully and clearly established at project preparation
stage. An organisational structure which depends on a high level of inter-departmental cooperation
to achieve the objectives of the project is likely to be fraught with difficulties, and although the
evolution of a management structure capable of delivering the required outputs is possible, it is
unlikely to be achieved in the required time scale.
3.2        Staffing. The staffing requirements of the project must be carefully identified, assessed
and sourced.  This assessment should also consider the staffing requirements and demands on
government departments from other projects and demands on the non-governmental sector from other
independent agencies in the irrigated agriculture sector.
3.3        Preparation and Implementation Period.  Adequate time for the preparation of schemes
from identification through to completion of detailed design must be allowed for in the project design.
Actual preparation durations were up to four times that allowed in the Staff Appraisal Report, and
while it is recognised that this much longer period was almost entirely due to the limited capabilities
of the local consultants, it must be remembered that initially no formal farmer participation and
sociological interaction was being undertaken as part of the preparation and design process. Although
in the later part of the project, the feasibility and design processes have been considerably streamlined
with correspondingly shorter durations, the additional time required for a full farmer participatory and
consultative approach will inevitably extend the overall preparation time, perhaps even to the levels
previously experienced.
3.4       Although the overall capabilities of the local contractors has improved and a pool of more
experienced contractors has been established over the life of the project, the technical and managerial
competence is still relatively low  compared to the rest of Pakistan.  Consequently, realistic
construction durations and overall implementation periods must therefore be adopted.



- 26 -
4. Bank Performance
4.1        As noted earlier, there were a number of shortcomings with the initial project organisation
which were partly the cause of the slow rate of implementation at the beginning of the project.
4.2        The Bank's performance has generally been satisfactory, although frequent changes in
supervision personnel of late have inevitably led to some minor delays while staff familiarise
themselves with a sormewhat complex project.
4.3        During the early years of the project, the donors tended to field separate review missions
visiting the project at different times.  This approach was not conducive to good inter-donor
cooperation and was time consuming for the project management. More recently, the coordination
between the Donors has improved to the extent that combined review missions have been mounted at
regularly yearly intervals.
4.4        The Donors have cooperated well together, however, at critical periods in the project
development, particularly in their willingness to fund necessary additional technical assistance and
consultancy costs to ensure participation of the farmers and sustainability of the schemes, and also in
their positive attitude to the frequent extensions of the credit and loan period.
5. Comments on Parts I & III of this Report
Over-design of Schemes
5.1        It is stated in a number of instances in Part I of this report that the schemes have been
over-designed, reference Evaluation Summary, Implementation Experience; and Section 11, Consulting
Services, which needs clarification. It is agreed that many of the early designed schemes contained
overly complicated structural components, e.g. the use of highly reinforced thin section reinforced
concrete elements, which were very difficult to construct and often required expertise well in excess
of that available with the contractors, and in that sense, therefore, were over designed. However, it
is contended that in general most of the schemes in fundamental concepts were under engineered,
particularly in relation to flood flows and hill run-off which is a feature of arid mountainous regions
subject to infrequent but torrential rainfalls. Indeed the Province is littered with failed irrigation
structures due to under engineering in basic concepts and more importantly, inadequate attention to
detail, particularly cross drainage structures for flood flows. In this respect many of the original
designs were similar to those prevalent in the Province, and it would be misleading to describe these
as over-designed.
Proiect Costs
5.2        It should be noted that the cost of the project has only increased some 9% when gauged
against the original Donor currencies; namely, Special Drawing Rights, Deutsche Marks and
Netherlands Guilders. The remainder of the increase in US$ terms, quoted as 49%, is as a result of
devaluation of the US$ against these currencies.
5.3        Minor typographical errors, which have not been carried through to the totals, occur in
Schedule B, Project Financing of Part III. The Total of Irrigation Scheme Development, Construction



- 27 -
- IDA should read Rs 301.7 million and not Rs 381.7 million. Similarly, the Sub-Total of Irrigation
Scheme Development, Expected (end Project) should read Rs 788.5 million and not Rs 778.5 million.
Results
5.4        An economic analysis has been undertaken at scheme level and for the overall project,
with the results of the analysis for the overall project outcome having been quoted variously as having
an EIRR of 5.8%, or 5.2%, or 9.2% or 8.3%, depending on which set of assumptions regarding SCF,
LCF and Overhead Cost allocations have been adopted. The results at individual scheme level and
for the overall project are significantly different from those obtained previously by the project and
warrant closer examination.
5.5        Although the relative merits of various LCF factors has been discussed, the report does
not state what assumptions have been used or on what basis the individual scheme level benefit streams
have been derived. Crop Budgets are developed and given in Annex I of Part III; Farm Budgets, not
used in the derivation of the project EIRR, are given in Annex 2; and Annex 3, Economic Analysis
of Part III, gives the cost and incremental benefit streams at scheme level with the aggregates giving
the overall project streams. However, the scheme cropped areas in the "Without" and "With" project
scenarios are not given or any statement as to how these have been derived. It is generally accepted
that this is an essential step in the development of the scheme level, and thus overall project,
incremental financial and economic benefit streams.'
5.6        It is not proposed to discuss in detail the crop gross margins derived in Annex 1 of
Part III, as this is subject to interpretation by the individual economist. However, it should be noted
that the price of apples, which is of key importance to the project, is considered to be low.
5.7        It is also noted that a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9 has been applied to the
financial prices to convert these to economic prices in the PCR analysis. The project, however, has
calculated that construction costs should be adjusted by a factor of 0.8 to render financial costs into
economic terms, following an analysis of the construction costs in respect of labour, skilled labour,
steel, cement, transport and overheads. The project has also considered a farm labour shadow price
of 75 % of local hired labour rates to reflect the surplus of labour in the scheme areas and the seasonal
underemployment of labour. Other prices were adjusted by an SCF of 0.9 to reflect taxes, duties and
subsidies on traded goods. The use of an overall SCF of 0.9 as adopted in Part III, will reduce the
economic outcome of the project.
5.8        However, of most concern is what would appear to have been the method of derivation
of the incremental benefits, although it must be stressed that this is not transparent from the
information given in the report.2 It would appear that the incremental benefits have been derived
from an estimate of incremental water gained as a result of the scheme works, reference Table 4,
Annex 3. However, the "Without" and "With" Project flows, used to obtain the Incremental flows,
do not correspond with project documentation. As analyses have been undertaken for schemes yet to
A Working Paper entitled Derivation of Benefits for Each of the 42 Schemes is available from Asia ISC.
SA3AG.
2 See footnote I above. SA3AG.



- 28 -
be completed, it would be reasonable to expect that the incremental flow is that predicted at Feasibility
or Screening Report stage as this is the best available data. This does not appear to be the case.
5.9        For example, the incremental flow at the often quoted Ari Pir scheme, has been given as
5.5 cusecs, with a without project supply of 5.5 cusecs. The project records show a without project
supply of 1.9 cusecs and an expected with project supply at the headworks of 12 cusecs; i.e. an
incremental flow of some 10 cusecs when the scheme is completed. At Nigong and Sehan, the
incremental flows directly attributable to the project works are known to be 5 cusecs and 3.5 cusecs
respectively, not the 2.0 cusecs quoted for each in the PCR. The expected incremental flow at
Aghbarg is some 4.7 cusecs as a result of the project as opposed to the quoted 2.5 cusecs. Similarly
at Arambai Manda Karezes, the expected incremental flow is 3.0 cusecs against that quoted in the PCR
of 1.0 cusec. Conversely, the quoted incremental flow at Tor Murgha is 5.0 cusecs, against a planned
2.1 to 3.0 cusecs.
5.10       The project undertook an Impact Evaluation Study effectively from  1991 through to
December 1993, when the contract with the executing agency, the Water Course Monitoring and
Evaluation Directorate of WAPDA, was terminated due to lack of funding. It is accepted that the data
collected during the study is incomplete, due to the limited time period and construction works being
delayed. However, surveys of the actual cropped area were undertaken for 15 schemes considered
to be substantially complete and operational.
5. 11      The Interim Project Impact Assessment, based on the actual measured cropped area of the
15 sample schemes, was undertaken in March 1993 and the results, originally produced as Annex VI
of Volume 3 of the Phase II Preparation Report, are given in section 2 above. A comparison has been
made between the quoted figures given in Part III of the PCR and the results of the Impact Assessment
for the 15 monitored schemes. The comparison covers the key impact criteria of cropped area and
flow together with the calculated scheme level EIRRs and is given in Table 1.
5.12       From a comparison of the calculated EIRRs, it can be seen that in general the rates of
return for the low and medium altitude schemes as calculated in the PCR are higher than those
estimated from the impact data, whereas, those calculated for the high altitude schemes in the PCR
are considerably lower than those calculated in the Impact Assessment. This is somewhat surprising
when the change in cropped area to high value orchards in the high altitude schemes has greatly
exceeded the predictions given in the Screening/Feasibility reports. It can also be seen that there
appears to be some correlation between the schemes where a small incremental water flow increase
has been quoted and a much reduced scheme level EIRR. For example Aghbarg, where a 4.7 cusecs
increase in flow was expected (and is now being achieved), the Impact Assessment found an EIRR of
19.8% compared with the PCR estimate of only 2.5 cusecs additional water with a corresponding
EIRR calculated at -2.0%. Arambai Manda Karezes, is another example, 3.0 cusecs incremental water
and an EIRR of 20.0% from the Screening Report and Impact assessment, compared with 1.0 cusec
increase and an EIRR of 6.0% in the PCR.
5.13       The Interim Impact Assessment was based on the actual crop areas found by survey in
1992 on 15 schemes for which area data were available. The area of one other scheme, Sukleji, was
not surveyed due to social unrest at the time. The without project areas used in the impact assessment
were those given in the Feasibility or Screening Reports. Only the increase in the area is considered,
with yield levels assumed at current levels for the life of the project. Crop budgets were prepared
from survey data. The impact assessment also clearly states other assumptions as follows:



Table 1 Interim Impact Assessment and PCR Comparison for 15 Schemes
Balochistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project
Completion Report Rates of Return Comparison
Screening Report                     Transect Survey              Proj Comp Report    Economic Internal
Scheme          Screening Flows       Comp Report Flows       Screening Areas Crop Area/Cusec   Transect Areas Crop Area/Cusec  Crop Area Area/Cusec   Rate of Return
w/out  with incrm   w/out   with  incrm        w/out    with   w/out    with         w/out   with   w/out    with         with       with      Impact Eval  PCR
cusec cusec cusec   cusec  cusec  cusec           ha      ha    ha/cus  ha/cus    ha/cus ha/cus  ha/cus  ha/cus            ha       ha/cus         X          %
LOW ALTITUDE
Sorh            1.00  4.00  3.00    1.00   4.00   3.00         32.38  119.39   32.38    29.85    32.38  106.80   32.38   26.70    122.00            30.50       1.30      14.00
Wahi             .10  1.50  1.40       .00   1.00   1.00       23.47   81.75  234.73    54.50    23.47   43.90  234.73   29.27           83.00      83.00       neg       -7.00
MEDIUM ALTITUDE
Kingri           .60  2.10  1.50    1.50   2.50   1.00         37.23  139.62   62.05    66.49    37.23   89.00   62.05   42.38    150.00            60.00      -2.40       5.00
Luk Abdul        .25  1.00   .75    1.00   1.80    .80         10.93   40.87   43.71    40.87    10.93    7.70   43.71    7.70            8.00       4.44    -14.00        -.50
Rehman
Rabat           1.00  1.50   .50    1.00   1.50    .50         48.16  132.34   48.16    88.22    48.16   75.30   48.16   50.20           76.00      50.67      -1.90        .00    q
Thal            1.50  3.00  1.50    1.50   4.00   2.50    115.34  247.68   76.89    82.56   115.34  393.20   76.89  131.07    437.00    109.25                  7.80      15.00
HIGH ALTITUDE
Aghbarg         2.80  7.50  4.70    6.50   9.00   2.50    131.53  464.60   46.97    61.95   131.53  473.60   46.97   63.15    460.00                51.11      19.80      -2.00
Ali Khanzai    1.00  1.20   .20    1.00   1.40    .40          39.70   45.60   39.70    38.00    39.70   42.30   39.70   35.25           51.00      36.43      17.00       2.00
Arambai         3.50  6.50  3.00    5.50   6.50   1.00    133.55  214.49   38.16    33.00   133.55  272.40   38.16   41.91    231.00                35.54      20.00       6.00
Manda
Dilsura         1.80  2.30   .50    1.80   2.30    .50         64.50   81.50   35.83    35.43    64.50  149.70   35.83   65.09           87.00      37.83      23.40       3.00
Kanchogi        1.60  2.20   .60    2.50   3.50   1.00         90.25  126.67   56.41    57.58    90.25   94.20   56.41   42.82    124.00            35.43       6.10       1.00
Kan             2.00  3.00  1.00    3.00   4.50   1.50    139.22  199.11   69.61    66.37   139.22  216.00   69.61   72.00    162.00                36.00      36.20      15.00
Metharzai
Pui             4.00  6.00  2.00    5.00   9.00   4.00    243.63  243.63   60.91    40.60   243.63  447.00   60.91   74.50    391.00                43.44      24.30      19.00
Tor Murgha       .90  3.00  2.10    3.00   8.00   5.00    121.01  180.09  134.45    60.03   121.01  598.00  134.45  199.33    328.00                41.00      37.30      33.00
Zum Shah         .20   .80   .60       .40    .80    .40       10.52   28.33   52.61    35.41    10.52   28.80   52.61   36.00           29.00      36.25       8.80      10.00
Murad



- 30 -
(i)        all the benefits from the increased crop areas are due to the project. Long term provincial
growth trends on estimated returns would be minimal;
(ii)       no attempt has been made to assess the effect of fluctuations in rainfall on flow rates; and
(iii)      scheme area estimates exclude areas fed only by dug or tube wells, but it is common
practice to supplement the scheme water with water from wells during critical months; the
effect of this supplementary water on the overall cropped area is impossible to assess
without undertaking an intensive monitoring programme at scheme level and has been
ignored.
5.14       It would appear from the comment on the Impact Evaluation Study in Section D, Studies,
of Part III, that the PCR Mission was concerned that scheme benefits from supplementary wells were
having a significant effect on the cropped area measured. A comparison of water duties given in Table
1, clearly demonstrates that this concern was unfounded. The area/cusec under the Screening Report
heading is calculated from the proposed cropping pattern and the projected flow after project
completion. The area/cusec under the Transect Survey heading is calculated for the measured cropped
areas during the Impact Study divided by the projected flows after project completion from the
Screening/Feasibility Reports. The area/cusec under the Proj Comp Report heading is the calculation
of the PCR quoted area and the PCR quoted With Project flow; the origin of these figures is not
known. It should be noted that these average figures have to be used with caution as the water
requirements differ greatly for various crops, and where there has been a larger than anticipated
change in cropping pattern from low to high water requirement crops, this will significantly change
the area that can be irrigated from a unit of water. However, as a general guide for the purposes of
this comparison, it will suffice.
5.15       It can be seen that in only 4 of the 15 schemes studied in the Impact Assessment, is there
any question of the enlarged crop area being irrigated with water from sources other than that
anticipated as a result of the project works. In two cases, Dilsura and Pui, the somewhat larger than
expected increase in area can be solely attributed to an even greater increase in flow than was
anticipated at Feasibility Study stage. This is partly due to additional works, but mostly to the higher
than normal rainfall in the areas preceding the impact survey. In Thal, the larger than expected
increase in area is attributed to larger flows due to higher than normal rainfall and some use of wells.
In Tor Murgha there is obviously a significant contribution from other water sources reflected in the
considerable increase in area per unit flow over that postulated at the time of design. Although certain
additional works have increased the flow somewhat, the majority of this additional water is thought
to come from wells.
5.16       It is concluded, therefore, that with the exception of Tor Murgha, the Impact Assessment
based on the actual cropped areas does not overly distort the overall project outcome. It could also
be argued that the project improvements act as a catalyst for the farmers to develop wells for
augmenting the flow during critical months. With the increased and more reliable base flow from the
channel, farmers are more likely to invest in the construction of a well to further expand the
sustainable cropped area. It could therefore be construed as a benefit attributable to the project.
5.17       It is surmised that in order to isolate considerably exaggerated perceived benefits from
other water sources and to predict the results of the larger low altitude schemes, the PCR Mission have
attempted an analysis based on incremental flows. However, the source of this flow data is not
known, the quality suspect and therefore the overall project economic analysis should be treated with
considerable caution.



- 31 -
5.18       In conclusion, it can be argued that certain limited benefits attributed to the project in the
Interim Project Assessment are strictly speaking due to climatic effects and minor additional water
sources as stated in the study. It can also be argued that the larger low altitude schemes when
complete, may also under perform to a greater extent than the impact assessment sample low altitude
schemes, at least initially, and have a detrimental effect on the overall project outcome. These factors,
if quantifiable, would undoubtedly have the effect of reducing the EIRR below the 17% given in the
Impact Assessment, but it is not considered possible that these effects would lower the overall project
outcome to the 6% level given in the PCR.
Outstanding Works
5.19       Part I of the report states that works still have to be completed on six IDA financed
schemes after December 1993. In fact works remain on only four schemes, three of which will be
completed by June 1994; namely Sukleji, Mir Ali Khel and Mishkbel; and one, Ari Pir, which will
be completed by October 1994.
Scheme Preparation and Design
5.20       The report quotes the irrigated area for Ari Pir scheme as 265 ha, whereas the scheme
will actually irrigate a command area of 402 ha (993 acres) with an estimated cropped area of 565 ha
(1397 acres).
5.21       Only one scheme has been constructed with small diameter syphons and rectification of
certain aspects of this problem is already in hand by the project. The desire that small diameter
siphons should be avoided is endorsed, but alternatives such as an aqueduct or larger diameter pipe
are more expensive and can hardly be considered compatible with the statement that designs are
conservative and expensive. Similarly, the implied criticism that weirs are built where a free intake
might be possible is also disputed. Locations where the existing river channel is sufficiently stable
to permit a free intake in Balochistan are very few, which is reflected in the actual number of schemes
with free intakes compared with those requiring weirs.
5.22       Stabilisation of the bed level to prevent degrading, leaving the intake out of command is
only one of the reasons for the construction of a weir. Other, often more important, reasons are to
command the agricultural area, provide a cut-off to impermeable material to force the water in the bed
material to the surface, provide the opportunity for sediment control measures and river training. No
weir has been constructed where a free intake would have sufficed.
5.23       The proposal for trucking bulldozers around Balochistan to regrade river beds is also not
considered compatible with the "cheap and cheerful" approach obviously considered desirable, nor for
farmer operated, managed and maintained schemes, especially bearing in mind the remoteness of the
sites and distances from Quetta mentioned elsewhere in the report.
5.24       Slotted plastic and steel pipes have been used instead of infiltration galleries on other
foreign aided projects in Balochistan, e.g. Small Irrigation Schemes, Kuwait Fund and Balochistan
Area Development Project (BALAD), USAID. In a number of cases these were replaced within the
construction period by a box type BMIADP gallery, as the pipes quickly became blocked. Cleaning
of this type of gallery once blocked, like small diameter siphons, is virtually impossible without
specialist high power jetting and flushing equipment as utilised to clean sub-surface drainage and



- 32 -
sewerage systems. Considerable experience of galleries is available in Balochistan and a prime
requirement is to make them large enough to allow access for maintenance and de-silting. The larger
section also permits a larger void area which reduces entrance losses and ensures the draw down of
the sub-surface water surface.  While the project agrees that wherever possible the component
structures should be simple, cost effective and not strain the contracting capability, they must also be
suitable for the purpose intended, robust and appropriate for the location. The project has drawn on
the experiences from a wide variety of sources both within Pakistan and outside and the criticism that
designs could have been simplified to be less demanding on the contractors abilities is not considered
valid.
Monitoring and Evaluation and Flow Monitoring
5.25      It should be noted that whilst the Monitoring and Evaluation programme was reviewed and
substantially revised in 1991, to correct earlier deficiencies concerning the small sample size and under
representation of the larger schemes, no significantly greater amount of useful evaluation data could
have been obtained prior to this as the majority of schemes had not been completed. Indeed useful
data could now be collected but the monitoring of schemes had to be suspended in December 1993
due to the closure of the IDA Credit and no other donor willing to continue the M&E work. It must
also be stated that it is surprising that the PCR Mission make no mention or comment of the Impact
Assessment results or indeed appear to have made use of the data in any form.'
5.26       Flow measurements on schemes have also been stopped since December 1993, with the
closure of the M&E contract. Unfortunately some of the gauges used to measure water levels in the
flumes installed as part of the flow monitoring programme were removed only days after being
installed and since the closure of the M&E contract many more have subsequently disappeared.
During the monitoring programme, however, this was not a major problem as the gauge reader carried
with him a portable gauge which could be aligned with the bolts or holes in the concrete upstream of
the flume.
5.27       Flow measurements on existing schemes do provide a valuable data base, particularly for
impact assessment where flow is a key indicator. In this respect it is recommended that a way be
found to continue measurements, ideally by a person appointed by the WUA and not utilising
government resources in the data collection. The government is currently forming a Water Resources
Bureau, assisted by the Netherlands Government and one of its main tasks will be the monitoring of
surface and ground water resources together with the establishment and maintenance of an up to date
and easily accessible data base. A mechanism whereby the scheme flow measurements are recorded
and stored by the Water Bureau should be established at the earliest opportunity.
5.28      It should be noted, however, that virtually all the minor irrigation schemes have discrete
unique aquifers which form the water source and detailed observations of flow on one scheme is
unlikely to be useful in the prediction of yield in another scheme, perhaps even relatively quite close.
Source Reliability
5.29      Considerable emphasis has been placed on ranking the reliability of the irrigation water
sources. The reliability of a source type cannot be generalised and is misleading. The contention in
See Part 1, para 6.4, and Part 111/6D. SA3AG.



- 33 -
Part I of this report that the reliability of free intakes is lower than karezes but higher than infiltration
galleries is considered incorrect. In very broad general terms the reliability and sustainability of a
source and its response times to antecedent climatic conditions tend to decrease in the order of springs
> karezes > infiltration galleries > weirs > free intakes. Free intakes are last in reliability as the
geometry and even basic location of the river is subject to change and only in very rare cases
involving rock bed/side or bars can a free intake be considered reliable. They also tend to have a
shorter response time to rainfall changes than a weir. It should also be noted that any source is
susceptible to upstream development or abstraction.
Social Water Use Structures
5.30       Social water use structures, including animal drinking, clothes washing and wuzu
structures, have not only been included in the later scheme designs but have been retrospectively added
to virtually all schemes where these were found to be missing.
Balochistan Minor Irrigation and
Agricultural Development Project
Quetta, June 1994



- 34 -
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title                              Purpose                        Year of    Credit Amount          Status        Comnments
Approval
On-Farm Water               To increase agricultural production by improved     1981        SDR 33.4 M        Completed    PCR issued
Management (OFWM)           management of water saved through                                                                June 1988
Project (Cr. I 163-PAK)     watercourse renovation and cleaning and related
measures in the lour provinces.
Raluclistan Agricultural    To achieve sustained increases in agricultural      1984         SDR 8.2 M        Completed    Draft PCR
Extension and Adaptive      production in four Districts through                                                             issued
Research Project (Cr.       strengthening and reorganization of the                                                          December
1533-PAKj                   Extension Service on the lines of the Training                                                   1993
and Visit System of extension, and widespread
adoption by farmers of proven and
recommended improved farming practices.
Expected to provide the basis for future
expansion of extension and research activities to
the rest of the Province.
Command Water               To increase agricultural production through         1984        SDR 43.7 M        Compieted    Draft PCR
Mlanragement Project (Cr    improved water management, alonlg with                                                           under
1487-PAK)                   supplying agricultural services and non-water                                                   preparation
inputs in seven sub-project areas totallinig
510,()() ac located in all four provinces.
Second On-Farm Water        T o consolidate gains achieved under                1985        SDR 34.8 M        Completed    PCR issued
Management Project          Cr. 1163-PAK and improve OFWM programs                                                           May 1993
(Cr. 1603-PAK)              in the four provinces to eiable them to realize
their potential
Second Irrigation Systems    Increase agricultural production by improved       1988        SDR 58.2 M         On-going      Agreement
Rehabilitation Project      reliability and distribution of water supplies,                                                 includes
(Cr. 1888-PAK)              reduce crop losses front rain flooding, and                                                      revised plan
strengthen PIDs O&M capability.                                                                 for removal
of O&M
subsidies
TIhird Otn-Farm  Water      To increase agricultural production by effective    1991         US$36.3 M         On-going
Management Project          use of water saved throughi renovation of                       SDR 33.4 M
I.n. 3327-PAK,              watercourses and related measures in irrigated
Cr 2245-PAK)                as well as bhrani areas of the four provinces,
Federally' Administered Tribal and Northern
Areas (FATA and FANA).
Second Agricultural         Second phase in a long-term program to              1990        SDR 44.4 M         On-going
Research Project (Cr.       strengthen Pakistan's agricultural research
2154-PAK)                   services. To finance priority research in
horticulture, livestock, soil science, integrated
pest management and social sciences to support
the natiotial developmenlt objectives of the 7th
Five-Year Plan, as well as provincial priority
research based on Provincial Research Master
Plans to be prepared.



- 35 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                                   Date Planned                  Date Revised                    Date Actual
Identification                                                                                  August/September 1980
Preparation                                                                                       November 1980 a!
Preparation                                                                                        February 1981 a/
Preparation                                                                                          May 1981 a/
Appraisal                                                                                           June/July 1981
Appraisal Follow-up                                                        -                      November 1981 b/
Credit Negotiations (start)          February 8, 1982                March 15, 1982                 March 24, 1982
Board Approval                        April 27, 1982                 May 25, 1982                   May 11, 1982
Credit Signature                            -                              -                         June 3, 1982
Credit Effectiveness                  October 5, 1982                January 5, 1983               January 5, 1983
Project Completion                    June 30, 1988                                                     n.a. c/
Credit Closing                      December 31, 1988              December 31, 1993             December31, 1993 d/
a/ IDA assistance in project preparation.
b/ SAR dated April 13, 1982.
_/ Irrigation works still to be completed on six IDA schemes, of which five are expected to be completed by June 1994 and the
final scheme (Ari Pir) by October 1994.
d/ The closing date was extended five times, by one year each time, and the credit account was kept open until April 30, 1994, to
accommodate final disbursements.
3. Credit Disbursements
Estimated and Actual Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Appraisal Estimate
- SDR                          0.8    2.7    5.1    7.7    10.0   11.8   12.5
- US$                          0.9    3.0    5.7    8.6    11.2   13.2   14.0              -       -       -        -
Actual
- SDR                          -       0.90   1.96    2.55   3.12   3.84   5.04   6.41   8.26    9.63    11.30   12.50
- USS                          -       0.95   2.01    2.65   3.36   4.33   5.90   7.70   10.25   12.12   14.47   16.14
Actual as % of Appraisal Estimate
- SDR                          0       33.3   38.4   33.1   31.2   32.5   40.3   51.3   66.1    77.0    90.4    100.0
- USS                          0       31.7   35.3   30.8   30.0   32.8   42.1   55.0   73.2    86.6    103.4   115.3
Date of Final Disbursement: March 7, 1994.



- 36 -
4. Project Implementation
Physical Targets and Achievements
Indicators                                              Unit        SAR Estimnate           Actual           Actual as % of
SAR Estimnate
Minor Irrigation Schemes
Schemes                                                 no.               28                 42 a/                      150
Command Area                                            ha               3,800               8,798                      232
of which:
- Kanchogi                                              ha                110                 100                        91
- Rabat                                                 ha                86                  96                        112
- Other schemes                                         ha               3,604               8,602                      239
Pilot Schemes
Conjunctive water use                                    ha               800               n.a. b/
(including tubewells)                                   no.                8                   0
Water spreading                                         ha                800              (deleted)
Groundwater recharge (schemes)                          no.                -                   2
Communal rubewells                                      no.             n.a. c/                4
Vehicles
Project management, irrigation, and pilot projects      no.              22 */               22 d/                      100
Agricultural development cell                           no.              11 *119dl/                                     173
Technical assistance team                               no.               4 */               24 d/                      600
Total                                                   no.               37                  65                        176
Technical Assistance
Expatriate consultants                              staff months          144               552 e/                      383
Local consultants                                   staff months           -                449 e/
Training                                            staff months          200                n.a. f/
a/ In 1988 it was proposed to proceed with development of around 44 schemes of which 2 were subsequendy deleted.
b/ The Chasma Achozai conjunctive water use pilot project consists of a spring with a diversification flow of 1.5 cusecs. At the tail
end of the perennially irrigated land is a large area used for flood irrigation, part of which might be covered in any one season.
c/ Introduced into the project during implementation.
d/ Numbers reported in possession at February 1994.
e/ Technical Assistance Team allocation agreed by GOBAL and the co-financiers, almost all of which had been delivered by the end of
December 1993.
f/ During the course of the project, 17 staff of the PMC/ADC have been attached to the TAT. 16 formal courses have been arranged
lasting from one to ten days with a total of 170 participants. In addition, 65 project staff have attended courses in Quetta and Lahore
and two project staff have taken short courses at Universities in the United Kingdom. Also, two study tours have been undertaken,
one to Northern Europe/Mediterranean and one to the Far East.
*1 Excluding motorcycles, trailers, tractors (Annex 3).



- 37 -
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost (Rs million)
SAR       SAR with    Actual (end  Expected   Balance of   Expected/   Foreign   Local
Contingencies  Dec. 1993)    (end    Expenditure Appraisal %
Project)
Irrigation Development
Construction- IDA              -          -          296.6         301.7         32.1         -        45.2   256.5
Construction - KfW             -          -          237.3         315.7         78.4         -        47.3   268.4
Planning/design/               -          -           99.6         104.6          5.0         -        10.5   94.1
supervision - IDA
Planning/design/               -          -           56.5          66.5         10.0         -         6.7   59.8
supervision - KfW
Sub-Total                    148.3      241.4        663.0         788.5        125.5       335       109.7  678.8
Agricultural Development
Command area development       -          -            6.4           6.4          0.0         -         0.6     5.8
- IDA
Command area development       -          -           13.4          31.4         20.0         -         3.2   28.2
- KfW
Agricultural Development       -          -           25.6          31.9          6.3         -         0.6    31.3
Cell
Sub-Total                     17.8       29.0         45.4          69.7         24.3       246         4.4   65.3
Pilot Schemes
Construction                   -          -           23.7          23.7          -           -         3.5   20.2
Planning, design and           -          -            8.7           8.7          -           -         0.9    7.8
supervision
Sub-Total                     36.1       58.8         32.4          32.4          -          57         4.4   28.0
Project Management and         8.3       13.5         54.8          62.4          7.6       473         0.1   62.3
Coordination
Technical Assistance and
Training
TA and training               14.6       20.5        153.5         177.8         24.3       766       138.7   39.1
Accelerated implementation     -          -           14.6          14.6          -           -        12.1    2.5
program
Monitoring and evaluation      2.1        2.9          9.6           9.6          -         300         0.5    9.1
Sub-Total                     16.7       23.4        177.7         202.0         24.3       765       151.3   50.7
Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles                       8.8        9.9         18.2          18.2          -         131        16.4    1.8
Equipment                      4.6        6.0          7.6          10.1          2.5       136         9.1     1.0
Sub-Total                     13.4       15.9         25.8          28.3          2.5       133        25.5    2.8
Total Baseline Costs         240.6        -             -             -           -           -         -       -
Phys. & Price Contingencies  141.4        -             -             -           -           -         -       -
Total Project Costs          382.0      382.0        999.1        1,183.3       184.2       310       295.4  887.9
Exchange Rate Rs/US$          11.0       11.0         21.9          22.8         30.0         -        22.8   22.8
Total Costs in US$ Million    34.7       34.7         45.6          51.8          6.1       149        12.9   38.9
Price contingencies at appraisal equivalent to 28.8% of total project costs in Rupee terms, 25.4% in US$ terms.



- 38 -
B. Project Financing
(i) Proposed Financing
Expenditure Category                             Govt.             IDA               KfW             NMDC                Total
Civil Works
- US$ million a/                                     2.2              12.9              13.0               -                28.1
Rs million b/                                    24.21            141.94            143.04               -              309.19
Equipment and Vehicles
- USS million                                       0.4                1.1               -                                   1.5
Rs million                                        4.24              11.65              -                 -                15.89
Salaries, Allowances, Other Expenses
- US$ million                                        3.0               -                 -                 -                 3.0
- Rs million                                        33.54              -                 -                 -                33.54
Tech. Assistance, Training, Eval. Study
- US$ million                                        -                 -                 -                 2.1               2.1
- Rs million                                         -                 -                 -               23.41              23.41
TOTAL
- USS million                                        5.6              14.0              13.0              2.1               34.7
- Rs million                                       61.99             153.59            143.04            23.41             382.03
a/ SAR, Table 3.2.
b/ Based on SAR, Annex 3, Table 2.
(ii) Actual Financing (Rs million)
......... . Donor ........_  ....................                      Fin...........C ............................ ng.............  ...............
Allocation   %      SAR      Actual     Expected     IDA       KfW      NMDC       GOP/      Total
land Dec. lend Projectl                              GOBAL
19931
Irrigation Development
Construction - IDA                      IDA        90       -        269.6       301.7    242.6         -                  59.1     301.7
Construction - K1W                      KfW        90       -        237.3       315.7       -       284.1        -        31.6     315.7
Planning/design/supervision  IDA        IDA       90        -         99.6       104.6     89.6         -         -        15.0     104.6
Planning/design/supervision  KIW        KfW       90                  56.5        66.5       .        59.9        -         6.6      66.5
Sub-Total                                                241.4       663.0       788.5    332.2      344.0        -       112.3     788.5
Agricultural Development
Command area development IDA             IDA       90       .          6.4         6.4       5.9        -         -         0.5       6.4
Command area development K KtW          KIW        90       .         13.4        31.4       -        28.3        -         3.1      31.4
Agricultural Development Ce Il.                                       25.6        31.9       -          -                  31.9      31.9
Sub-Total                                           -      29.0       45.4        69.7       5.9      28.3        -        35.5      69.7
Pilot Schemes
Construction                            IDA        90       -         23.7        23.7     21.3                   -         2.4      23.7
Planning!design/supervision             IDA       90        -          8.7         8.7      7.8         -         -         0.9       8.7
Sub Total                                                  58.8       32.4        32.4     29.1                   -         3.3      32.4
Project Management and Coordination                 -      13.5       54.8        62.4       -          -         -        62.4      62.4
Technical Assistance and Training
TA and training                        NMDC       100      20.5      153.5       177.8                         177.8         -      177.8
Accelerated implementation program     NMDC       100       .         14.6        14.6       - -                14.6                 14.6
Monitoring and evaluation              NMDC/ 100/90         2.9        9.6         9.6      3.6                  5.6        0.4       9.6
IDA
Sub-Tota                                                   23.4      177.7       202.0      3.6         -      198.0        0.4     202.0
Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles                                IDA      100        9.9       18.2        18.2     18.2                   -         -        18.2
Equipmenl                               KfW    100al        6.0        7.6        10.1       .        10.1        -         -        10.1
Sub-Total                                                  15.9       25.8        28.3     18.2       10.1        -         -        28.3
Total                                                    382.0       999.1    1,183.3    389.0       382.4    198.0       213.9   1,183.3
Actual       %        33%        32%       17%       18%       100%
Appraisal     %         41%       38%        6%        15%       100%
al Originally 75% but later increased to 100%.



C. Phasing of Expenditure (Rs Million)
FY83     FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87     FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92     FY93    July/Dec   Balance         Total
1993       1994
Irrigation Development
Construction - IDA                         -       3.23     9.18      4.21      3.23      9.93    14.76    31.27    51.08    52.33    52.57          37.86       32.06        301.69
Construction - KfW                         -         -                  -       0.33      1.92    10.37    30.04    52.88    55.21    54.69           31.83      78.51        315.75
Planning/design/supervision - IDA        5.80      2.03     3.27      1.86      1.75      7.04     8.17      8.79    20.60    14.62    17.48           8.20        5.00       104.61
Planning/design/supervision - KfW          -       2.14     4.12      4.36      4.24      2.04     4.29      4.94      8.36    10.30       9.26        2.47      10.00         66.53
Subtotal                        5.80      7.41    16.56    10.43       9.55    20.92    37.59    75.04   132.91   132.46   134.00            80.35      125.57       788.59
AgriculturaL Develop ent
Command area development - IDA             -         -         -      0.18      0.19      0.48        -         -      0.56      0.60      0.81        3.54       0.04          6.39
Command area development - KfW             -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -      4.64        -       7.69        1.10       17.96        31.39
AgriculturaL Development Celt              -       0.75      0.89     1.01      1.13      1.53      1.69     2.37      3.50      4.15      5.65        3.00       6.30         31.95
Subtotal                                  0.75      0.89     1.19      1.32      2.01      1.69      2.37     8.70      4.75    14.14         7.64       24.30        69.73
Pilot Schemes
Construction                               -         -      0.77      4.17      3.65      1.51     8.90      4.34      0.41        -         -           -           -         23.75     '
Planning/design/supervision                -         -      0.28      1.53      1.34      0.55     3.26      1.59      0.15        -         -           -           -          8.70
Subtotal                          -         -       1.05     5.70      4.98      2.06    12.17       5.92     0.56        -         -           -           -         32.44
Project Management and Coordination        0.69      4.45      5.86     4.49      4.22      3.46     3.90      5.15      5.68      6.40      6.87        3.60        7.60        62.37
Technical Assistance and Training
Technicat assistance and training          -       4.29     4.51      5.33      7.71      7.73    12.66    20.63    31.86    27.97    20.85          10.02       24.26       177.81
AcceLerated implementation program         -         -         -        -       2.66    11.79      0.11         -        -         -         -           -           -         14.56
Monitoring and evaluation                  -         -         -      0.86      0.52      0.34     0.30      1.20      0.85      1.48      1.10       3.00           -          9.65
Subtotal                          -       4.29      4.51     6.19    10.89    19.86    13.07    21.83    32.71    29.45    21.95             13.02       24.26       202.02
Vehicles and Eqjuipment
Vehicles                                 1.76      7.51     0.87      0.56        -         -      0.59      1.78        -                0.63        4.47           -         18.17
Equipment                                0.54      2.04     0.57      0.24      1.74      0.08     0.65      0.31      0.73      0.40        -        0.34        2.50         10.13
Subtotal                        2.30      9.55      1.44     0.80      1.74      0.08      1.24      2.09     0.73      0.40      0.63        4.80        2.50        28.30
TOTAL                                      8.79    26.45    30.31    28.79    32.70    48.39    69.65   112.40   181.28   173.46   177.59              109.41     184.22    1,183.45
Exchange Rate Rs/US$                      12.70    13.48    15.16    16.13    17.17    17.56    19.16    21.39    22.37    24.78    25.90               29.70      30.00
Total USS MilLion                          0.69      1.96      2.00     1.78      1.91      2.76      3.63     5.25      8.10      7.00      6.86        3.68       6.14         51.78
1.34%    3.79%    3.86%    3.45%    3.68%    5.32%    7.02%   10.15%   15.65%   13.52%   13.25%              7.12%      11.86%      100.00%



- 40 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benerits
Key Indicators                                                                 SAR                   PCR
Direct beneficiaries (no.)                                                   14,50(0               49,300
Benefitting farm families (no.)                                               2,070                  7,585
Benefitting command area (ha)                                                 3,800                  8,905
Cropped area (ha)                                                               n.a.                11,525
Inferred cropping intensity (%) at full development - Year 15                  n.a.                    130
Incremental water made available (cumecs)                                       n.a.                  3.18
Increase in wheat production (tons)                                           3,(100                 4,400
Increase in fodder production (tons)                                          7,500)                 8,000
Increase in vegetable production (tons)                                       5,300                 15,000
Increase in fruit production (tons)                                          11,00()                21,600
Increase in farm income - high elevations (%)                               200-340                   233
Increase in farm income - middle elevations (%)                             260-660                   284
Increase in farm income - low elevations (owner-operator) (%)                     -                    321
Increase in farm income - low elevations (sharecropper/tenant)(%)                 -                    164
Generated farm employment (workdays)                                        236,000              1,200,000
Note: The two schemes chosen by the appraisal mission proved insufficiently representative of larger schemes
located at lower altitudes, which were added later to the project and which reduced the overall project ERR.
B. Economic Impact
SAR Estimate                           PCR Estimate
Overall ERR (%)                                                 20.6                                     5.8
Range of individual scheme ERRs (%)                          18.9 to 21.6                             -14 to 33
Project life (years)                                             30                                      32
Standard conversion factor (SCF)                                0.90                                    0.90
Unskilled labor conversion factor (LCF)                         0.80                                    0.67
C. Financial Impact a
SAR Estimate b/                 SAR Estimate c/                 PCR Estimate d/
WoP            WiP             WoP              WiP             WoP              WiP
Net farm income
(Rs'000)
- at high elevation              12.1            41.3             15.2            54.5            24.9             83.0
- at middle elevation            14.0            91.9              9.0            57.4            20.8             79.8
- at low elevations (o0o)          -               -               -               -               5.8             24.6
- at low elevation (s/c)           -               -               -                -              2.1              5.6
a/ For detailed budgets see Annex 2.
b/ SAR projections expressed in constant mid-1981 prices.
c/ SAR projections revalued in constant 1993 prices.
d/ PCR estimates expressed in constant 1993 prices.



- 41 -
D. Studies
Study                    Purpose as Defined at               Status                 Impact of Study
Appraisal
Groundwater Recharge            To replenish underground water    Discontinued              Nil. Insufficient water
reserves by diverting flood flows                          diverted, which took too
from nullahs and mandas and                                long to reach water table.
retaining diverted water to allow                          Uneconomic and of limited
steady percolation through soil                            replicability.
profile.
Water Spreading                 To divert spate flow from       Completed (desk study       Nil. Impracticable and
nullahs onto rangeland, in order    only)                  uneconomic. Would
to promote regrowth of natural                             compete with existing
fodders.                                                   khuskhaba wheat growing,
whilst needed grazing
control would be
impossible to achieve.
Conjunctive Water Use           To augment infrequent           Completed                   Limited. In practice, high
khuskhaba/sailaba flood                                    value cropping was
diversion events with a reliable                           expanded up to the limit of
water source (groundwater or                               available reliable water
perennial) for promotion of                                sources.
better crops, making better use
of total water resource.
Communally Operated Tubewells   To examine how different        Completed                   Mixed. In practice, high
communities could co-operate in                            value cropping was pushed
the use of communally-owned                                to the limit of pumped
tubewells, in a conjunctive water                          water supply. Some wells
use situation.                                             were closed due to
disagreements between
users. One community
aggregated high value
cropping area towards head
of otherwise oversized,
khushkaba-dictated
command area.
Confined Irrigation             Added as part of conjunctive    Completed                   Highly beneficial. Trials
water use trials to demonstrate                            proved that one-third of
improved efficiency of water use                           water traditionally applied
in orchards and vegetable                                  could be saved. Many
growing.                                                   farmers are now practising
confined irrigation.
Impact Evaluation Study, IES    To evaluate scheme and farm     On-going (temporarily at    15 schemes monitored,
(Monitoring and Evaluation)     family benefits.                standstill due to cash     using transect survey
shortage)                  method, and household
interviews held. Useful
start, but needs further
funding as is on-going
process, and fine tuning to
eliminate including
tubewell irrigated areas as
perennial irrigation scheme
benefits.



- 42 -
7. Status of Covenants
DCA Section                Description of Covenant                                Comments
3.01 (b)                   Make adequate and timely budgetary provisions.         On a number of occasions govemment was not
able to make adequate budgetary provision in a
timely manner.
3.02 (b)                   Employ supervisory and other consultants.              Coniplied with, but employment not by end
October 1982 as stipulated in the DCA but only
by October 1983,
3.03 (b)                   Exclusive use of project goods and services.           Generally complied with, but some vehicles used
for non-project purposes.
3.04 (a) and (b)           Plans, specifications, progress reports.               Fully complied with.
3.04 (c)                   Project completion report.                             Government prepared Part II of the PCR.
4.01 (b)                   Provision of audit reports.                            Audit reports were often submitted late.
PA Section
2.08 (a)                   Use of guidelines, criteria and implementation schedule    Agreed guidelines and criteria were used, but
satisfactory to IDA in selecting schemes.             implementation schedule could not be adhered to.
2.08 (b)                   Preparation of annual implenientation schedule.        Initially complied with, but as implementation
delays increased the schedules were nolonger of
any great assistance to project/GOBAL/IDA.
2.08 (c)                   Agreement with project beneficiaries before executing a    Initially, inadequate attention was paid to local
scheme.                                               participation and agreement, but since 1988
compliance was satisfactory.
2.09                       Arrangements for project impact evaluation.            The PA specified that arrangements should be
made by December 1, 1984, or one year after
completion of the first scheme. Consultants
started work in July 1985, but the task had to be
retendered and work recommenced only in May
1989.
2.10                       Establishment of a Project Steering Committee and a    Project Steering Committee and Management
Project Management Cell including a Project Director.  Cell were established. Project Director
appointment generally good, except during 1986-
1987 when the post was empty or the incumbent
was too rapidly transferred.
2.11                       Submission of designs of pilot schemes.                Compliance was delayed, as follows:
Water spreading by December 1985 instead of
April 1, 1983; groundwater recharge by February
1985 instead of July 1, 1983; and conjunctive
water use by December 1985 instead of
November 1983.
3.03                       Water users' responsibility for scheme maintenance.    Since 1988 the project has involved water users
fully in scheme design and implementation and
provided advice on their future responsibilities.



8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Pre-FY82     FY82      FY83      FY84       FY85      FY86      FY87       FY88       FY89          FY90          FY91         FY92          FY93             FY94                 Total
Stage of Project Cycle
Preappra,sal                             140       0 2         0         0         0         0          0          0          0             0             0            0             0                0                140.2
Appraisal                               15.8      77 2         0          0         0         0         0          0          0             0             0            0             0                0                 93 0
Negotiations                               0       9.5       0.5          0         0        0          0          0          0             0             0            0             0                0                 10.0
Supernision (excl PCR)                     0        2 3     31 7       34 5      32 0      19.3      16 1       23 2       20.5          19 3          32.1         12 7          15 3             17.3                276.3
PCR inc FAD/CP)                            0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0          0             0             0            0             0             24 1                 24 1
TOTAL                                  155.8       89.2     32.2       34.5      32 0      19 3      16 1       23 2        20.5         19.3          32 1         12 7          15.3             41 4                543 6
B Missions
Perf ormance  Rat ings
Mission Type                      Month/Year 1/         No of Persons        Days in Field       SDeciallsation Represented 2/       Status 3/               Trend 4/    Types of Problems 5/            Comments on Problems
Identi./Prep.                      Sep- 80                     4                   16                      A,EC,HG,SC
Preparation                         No- 80                      1                  10                      EC
Preparation                        Feb 81                      3                  28                       A,E.HG
Preparation                        May 81                      1                   17                      A
Appraisal                          July 81                     5                  24                       A,A,EC,E,H
Appr Follom-up                     Non. 81                     2                  14                       A,EC
Superrni.on            1 6/        Non 82                      1                    2                      A                                 .                    .                     0                WAPDA's role.
Supervision            2 6/        Dec 82                      3                    3                      EC.A,E                                                                       0 O              Staffing, consultants
Super-ison             3           Feb. 83                     2                   6                       EC,E                             2                     2                     0                Staffing. procurement.
Super-rsion           4 6/         June 83                     2                    2                      EC,A                                                                         0                Staffing, procurement,        ez
Superision             5           Dec. 83                     3                    8                      EC,A,E                           2                     1                     0                WAPDA, staffrNg, procsrement
Sopernision           6            May 84                      4                   8                       EC,A,E,E                         2                     1                     0                WAPDA, tribal problems.
Super.-sion            7           Dec. 84                     4                    8                      EC,F.E,HG                        2                     1                     0                Staffing, scheme identification,
fIlooding.
Supervision            8 7/        June 85                     2                    7                      E,A                              2                     2                     MO               Staffing, contractor problems.
Anail Funds    Prn1nct Manage,ment      Dev, Impact     Onerall stat    Compl. mith Conenants
Sopervision            9 8/        Feb. 86                      1                  0                       EC                          1                  2                     2              1
Sapervmsron          10            Apr 86                      4                    8                      EC,EC,E,E                   1                  3                     2              2
Sopervisron          11 9/         Oct 86                      2                  11                       EC.E                        1                  3                    2               3
Supernision          12            July 88                      1                 10                       E                           1                  2                     2              2
Sopernison           13 7/         Dec 88                      3                   10                      E,E,DO                      1                  2                     2              2
Supervision           14 7/        Apr 89                       2                  11                      E,E                         1                  2                    2               2                  -
Supervision           15 9/        Nov. 89                      1                  14                      E                           1                  2                     2              2                  2
Supevr,sion           16 7/        June 90                      2                  20                      E,E                         1                  2                     2              2                  3
Supervision           1 79/         May 91                      1                  10                      E                           1                  2                     1              2                  2
Supervision           1 8          May 92                       1                  14                      E                           1                  2                     1              2                  2
Super"ision           19 6/        Aug. 92                      1                   2                      DO
Supervision          20 9/         May 93                       2                   8                      E,E                         1                  2                     1              2                  1
PCR                                Feb. 94                     3                  17                       EC.A.E
I/ Date of return to headquarters.
2/ A = Agronomist; DO . Disbursement Officer; E   Engineer; EC = Economist; HG   Hydro-Geologist, SC   Soil Conservationist.
3/ 1 = Problem free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems.
4/ 1 = Improving; 2 = stationary; 3 = deteriorating.
5/ M = Managerial; 0 = Other
6/ Not a complete supervision mission limited in time and topics covered).
7/ Joint mission with NMDC
8/ Annual update lor PIR.
9/ Joint mission with KfW and NMDC.






- 45 -
ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1243-PAK)
CROP BUDGETS



- 46 -
PAKISTAN: Balochistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural Devebpment Project
_ RICES  (December 1993)                                   Annex 1, Table 1
Epricel.
A                   B                         C           D        E         F
_ rop                            Example used       Units  Financial Economic
6 harif grains                      ulses             Rs/t       8900      8010
7 (harif fodders                    orghum (G + S)    Rs/t       3900      4230
8 harif vegetables                  elons             Rs/t       3500      3150
9 abi grains                        heat              Rs/t       4000      6200
10 Rabi fodders                      odder wheat       Rs/t        600       540
11 3abi vegetables                   nions             Rs/t       2875      2590
12 <harif fodders (stovers)        Sorqhum/maize       Rs/t        500       450
13 Deciduous fruit - existing (apples) [Il  Trad'i apples (E)  Rs/t  10000  9000
14 Peciduous fruit - new (apples) [I]    DRS red delicious    Rs/t  11000   9900
15 Peciduous fruit - new (apples) [II    DRS red delicious    Rs/t  11000   9900
16 eciduous fruit - existing (others) [1]  Domegranates (E)    Rs/t  8000   7200
17 eciduous fruit - new (others) [I]  omegranates (N)   Rs/t      8000      7200
18 eciduous fruit - new (others) [Il    pomegranates (N)   Rs/t   8000      7200
19 ub-tropical fruit - existing [C________   Rs/t                 4000      3600
20 Sub-tropical fruit - new [I]      trus N)           Rs/t       4000      3600
21 iSub-tropical fruit - new [1I   Ditrus (N)          Rs/t       4000      3600
22 Ifalfa/berseem                   Ifalfa/berseem     Rs/t        700       630
23 Straw/residues                   Wheat straw _Rs/t              400       360
24
26 Inputs 
27
28 Labour: unskilled                                  Ps/day       50.0      30.0
29 abour: skilled                                     Ps/day      100.0      90.0
30 ractor hours                                        Rslhr       70.0      80.0
31 Animal draft                                       Rs/day       60.0      54.0
32 Seeds: pulses                     _s__kg_                        8.2       7.4
33 eeds: sorghum                                       Rs/kg        6.0       6.5
34 eeds: melons                                        Rs/kg      100.0      90.0
35 eeds: wheat                                         Rs/_kg       4.5       7.0
36 eeds: onions                                        Rs/kg      150.0     135.0
37 eeds: alfalfa                                       Rs/kg       45.0      40.0
38 FYM                                                 Rs/t       150.0     135.0
39 Straw                                               Rs/t      400.0      360.0
40 raRslkq                                                         9.6       12.6
41                                                    Rs/kg         9.4      12.1
42                                                     Pslkg        6.5       8.5
43 Foliar spray                                       Rslkg       100.0     130.0
44 Festicides                                          Rslltr    200.0      260.0
45 rools                                              L1S         100.0      90.0



PAKISTAN: Balochisan Minor Irrigaton and Agricultural Development Project
BUDGETS FOR ANNUAL CROPS: Rs/ha                  Finandal; PCR assumptions                                                                           Annex 1 Table 2a
[Budgarab]
KhariU grains /1   Kharil lodders R2 Kharif vegetables /3  Rabi grains /4  Rabi fodders /5  Rabi vegetables /6 Alitala/berseem
LABOUR                      Unit  Pricu      only     Cost   OrQty      Cost      Only      Cost   Onty      Cost   Onty      Cost    anty       Cost   Onty      Cost
Land preparation          w-crys             5.0               5.0               20.0              5.0               5.0              20.0               5.0
Planting/ransplantng     w-rSys              2.0               2.0               10.0              2.0               2.0              30.0              0.5
Weedng                    w-days            20.0              20.0               80.0             25.0              10.0              80.0              40.0
Applying crganic matter   w-cdys               -                -                 4.4                -                -                4.4                -
Applying fertliser        w-days             0.5               0.4                4.4              0.9               0.5               4.4               1.3
Pest conlrd               w-cbys               -                -                 5.0                -                -                5.0                -
kigation/watering        w-days              3.0              3.0                20.0              3.0               2.0              15.0             20.0
Harvesbng                w-days              7.0              11.0               30.0             10.5              22.5              26.0              53.3
Drying/processing         w-days            14.0               5.5               37.5             21.0              12.9              32.5              22.9
Field maintenance        w-days              2.0              2.0                 4.0              2.0               2.0               4.0              2.0
Other                    w-days
Total Labour               w-days             54                49                215                69               57                221              145
-of which hred %:      -w-clys   50            -        -       -        -         -         _       _        _       _         _        _        _
INPUTS
Tractor hire              hours    70        3.0      210      3.0     210                   -     3.0       210     3.0      210                  -     3.0      210
Butock hire                days    60                   -                 -       8.0      480       -         -      -         -      8.0      480       -         -
Seed or Plants           kg or pc           15.0      123    18.0       108       5.0      500   100.0      450   140.0       630      4.0      600      20       900
Fer111sers
-N                        kg      9.6      20.0      192    20.0      192      100.0      960    50.0      480    20.0       192    100.0      960    15.0       144
-P                        kg      9.4      20.0      188    10.0       94       60.0      564    30.0      282    20.0       188     60.0      564    60.0      564
-K                        kg      6.5      10.0       65     5.0       33       60.0      390     5.0       33      7.0       46     60.0      390    50.0      325
Trace                       kg     100                  -                 -         -        -       -         -      -         -        -         -
Organic manire/sill        tr7    150          _       -                 -        2.0      300       -         -      -         -      2.0      300       -         -
SWaw                       tcn    400          _        _       _        -        0.2       80       -         -      -         -      0.2       80       -         -
Pestiddes                   kg     200         _       -                  -       4.0      800       -         -      -         -      3.5      700       -         -
Tools                       L-S    100         1      100       1       50          1      100       1       100       1      100        1       100                _
Iigation fees              LI-S    200        1       200       1      200          1      200       1      200       1       200        1      200
Taxes & Quota payments  5   Rs                        312              215                2625               420              270              1869               560
Other costs                                             _                 _                  _                 _                                                    _
Total cash costs             Rs                       1390              1101               6999             2175              1836              6243              2703
GROSS INCOME
Main crop                    '                0.7    6230       '.1    4290         15    52500     2.1     8400       9      5400       13    37375      16    11200
Residue                     ton    400        0.7      280     5.5    2750         1.5      600     2.5     1008       -         -      6.5    2600        -         -
Total Income                Rs                        6510             7040               53100             9408              5400             39975            11200
NET REVENUE                 Rs                        5120             5939               46101             7234             3565              33732             8497
Return to labour          Rs/w-day                      96              122                 214               104               63               152                59
NOTE _1 Pulses taken as typical example
NOTE _i2 Sorghum taken as typical example
NOTE /3 Melons taken as typical example
NOTE /4 Winter wheat taken as typical example
NOTE /5 Fodder wheat taken as typical exampie
NOTE _r6 Onions bken as typical example



PAKISTAN: Balochisan Minor Irrigaton and Agricultural Development Project
BUDGETS FOR ANNUAL CROPS: Rs/ha                  WiP case - financial SAR Projections                                                                 Annex 1. Table 2b
/Budgarab]
Kharif grains /1   Kharif lodders /2 Kharil vegetables 13  Rabi grains /4  Rabi lodders /5  Rabi vegetables /6 Altalfa/berseem
LABOUR                      Llnit  Price     Onty      Cost   Onty       Cost     Olty      Cost   Onty       Cost   Onty      Cost    Only      Cost   Qnty       Cost
Land preparation         W-rt?ys
Plantingtransplanting    w-days
Weecing                  w-c1ys
Applying o-ganic matter  w-rSys
Applying ertiliser       w- days
Pest conrd               w-_tYs
Iigation/watering        w-cbys
Haivesting               w-days
Drying/processing        w-days
Field maintenance        w-days
Other                    w-days
Total Labour              w-days               53               36                 102               45                                  100               18
-of which hred %:      -w-d)ys    50                    _                 _                  _                 _                _                  _                 _
INPUTS
Tractor hire              hours    70                   -                 -                   -                -                 -                 -                 -
Bullock hire              ctsys    60       12.0      720     6.0       480       12.0     720    12.0       720                 -     12.0      720    25.0      1500
Seed or Plants           kg orpc            35.0      288    37.0       222       2.0      200    90.0       405                -       6.0      900       2        90          4:
Ferilisers                                                                                                                                                                      co
-N                        kg      9.6      60.0      576    35.0       336      55.0      528    70.0       672                -      40.0      384    25.0      240
-P                        kg      9.4      30.0      282    20.0       188      45.0      423    40.0       376                -      40.0      376    40.0      376
-K                        kg      6.5         -        -                 -         -        -       -         -                -        _         _       _        _
Trace                      kg    1'00                   - .               _                   _                _                 _ 
Organic manure/silt        ton    150                   -                 _                   _                _                 _                 _
Straw                      ton    400                   -                 _                   _                _                 _                 _
Pestiodes                  kg      200       1.5      300                 -       2.5      500      1.0      200                 -      4.0      800
Tools                      L5S   100           1      100                 -         1       100       1      100                 -        1      100                 _
k-rigation fees            L,.S    200         1      200                 -         1      200       1       200                 -        1      200                 -
Taxes & Ouota payments  5   Rs                       1068              1170               4025               560                 -              2875              1750
Other costs                                             _                 _                   _                _
Total cash costs             Rs                       3534              2396               6696              3233                 -              6355              3956
GROSS INCOME
Wain orop                   tn'               2.4   21360        6    23400         23    80500      2.8    11200                 -       20    57500      50    35000
Residue                     ton    400        2.4      960      30    15000        2.3      920      3.4     1344       -         -     10.0    4000        -         -
Total Income                Rs                       22320             38400              81420             12544                 -             61500            35000
NET REVENUE                  Rs                      18786             36004              74724              9311                 -             55145            31044
Return to labour          Rs/w-day                     354              1000                 733              207              ERR                551              1725
NOTE _=t Pulses taken as typical example
NOTE _/ Sorghum taken as typical example
NOTE /3 Melons taken as typical example
NOTE /4 Winter wheat taken as typical example
NOTE /Ei Fodder wheat taken as typical example
NOTE _ro Onions Saken as typical example



PAKISTAN: Balochisan Minor Irrigalon and Agricultural Development Project
BUDGETS FOR ANNUAL CROPS: Rslha                 WoP case - financial SAR Projections                                                               Annex 1. Table 2c
[BudceJrabJ
Kharl gralns 11   Kharl/ lodders _2 Kharif vegetables /3  RabI grains /4  RabI fodders _15 Rbbi vegetables /6 Altalta/berseem
LABOUR                      lnit  Price     Onty      Cost   Onty      Cost     Only      Cost   Onty      Cost   Only      Cost    Onty       Cost   Onty      Cost
Land preparation         w-dRys
Plntlng/ansplantng       w-days
Weecing                  w-days
Applying crganic matter  w-days
Applying feriliser       w-cays
Pest conrcd               w-days
igatonevatering          w-days
Harvesting               w-days
Drying/prDcessing        w-cays
Field maintenance        w-days
Other                    w-cays
Total Labour              w-days              36               23                100               48                                 100               40
-of wich hred%:        -w-cbys   50                    _                _                   _                _                _                 _
INPUTS
Tractor hire              hours   70                   -                 -                  -                -                -                 -                -
Bulod Nre                 ys      60       8.0      480      5.0     300       12.0      720     8.0      480                -     12.0      720    20.0    1200
Seed or Plants           kg orpc           25.0      206    27.0      162        5.0      500    90.0      405                -      5.0      750       2       90
FerIlsers
-N                        kg      9.6        -        -                -       40.0      384      -         -                -     40.0      384    10.0       96
_P                        kg      9.4        -        -                -       40.0      376      - -                        -     40.0      376       -        -
-K                        kg      6.5        _-                                                                 -                              -       - _
Trace                      kg      100                 _                 _                  _                _                _                 _
Organic manure/silt        tar    150                  _                _                   _                _                _                 _
Sraw                       ton    400                  _                _                   _                -                _                 _
Pestiddes                  kg     200         -        -                -        4.0      800      -         -                -      4.0      800
Tools                      L5.s    100        1      100       1       50         1       100       1      100                -        1      100
higaton fees              L4S    200          1      200       1      200         1       200      1       200                -        1      200
Taxes & Quota payments  5   Rs                       512              351                2625              250                -              2156             1190
Other msts                                             _                _                   _                _
Total cash costs             Rs                      1497              1063               5705             1435                -              5486             2576
GROSS INCOME
W&in crop                   1011            1.15    10235      1.8    7020        15    52500    1.25      5000                -       15   43125       34    23800
Residue                     ton    400       1.15     460       9     4500        7.5    3000      1.5      600       -        -      7.5    3000        -        -
Total Income                Rs                      10695             11520              55500             5600                -             46125            23800
NET REVENUE                 Rs                       9198            10457               49795             4165                -             40639            21224
Return to labour          Rs/w-day                    255              455                 498               87              ERR               406              531
NOTE /1 Pulses taken as typical example
NOTE _2 Sorghum taken as typical example
NOTE 13 Melons taken as typical example
NOTE /4 Winter wheat taken as typical example
NOTE _i Fodder wheat taken as typical example
NOTE /6 Onions taken as typical example



PAKISTAN: Balochistan Minor Irrigaton and Agricultural Development Project
BUDGETS FOR ANNUAL CROPS: Rs/ha                  Economic: PCR assumptions                                                                           Annex 1. Table 2d
[Budgarab]
Kharif grains /1   Kharit fodders /2 Kharif vegetables /3  Rabl grains /4  Rabi fadders /5  Rabi vegetables /6 Altalta/berseem
LABOUR                      Uruft  Prtc      Onty     Cost   Only       Cost      Onty     Cost   Qnty       Cost   Only      Cost    Onty      Cost   Qnty       Cost
Land preparation         w-days              5.0              5.0                20.0              5.0               5.0              20.0              5.0
Pbning/transplanting     w-cbys              2.0              2.0                10.0              2.0              2.0               30.0              0.5
Weedng                   w-cbys             20.0             20.0                80.0             25.0              10.0              80.0             40.0
Applying crganlc matter  w-dJys                -                -                 4.4                -                -                4.4
Applying terliser        w-clys              0.5              0.4                 4.4              0.9              0.5                4.4              1.3
Pest contrd              w-*bys                -                -                 5.0                -                -                5.0
igatiobntwatering        w-ttays             3.0              3.0                20.0              3.0              2.0               15.0             20.0
Harvesting               w-days              7.0              11.0               30.0             10.5              22.5              26.0             53.3
Drying/processing        w-days             14.0              5.5                37.5             21.0              12.9              32.5             22.9
Field maintenance        w-days              2.0              2.0                 4.0              2.0              2.0                4.0              2.0
Other                    w-days
Total Labour              w-days              54                49                215                69               57               221               145
-of which costed %:    100 w-dys   30        54      1605      49     1466       215     6459       69     2081      57     1705      221      6639     145     4348
INPUTS
Tractor hire              hours    80        3.0      240     3.0      240                   -     3.0      240      3.0      240                 -     3.0       240   o
Bullod hire               days    54                   -                 -       8.0      432       -        -       -         -      8.0      432       -         -
Seed or Plants           kg orpc            15.0      111    18.0       117       5.0      450   100.0      700   140.0       980      4.0      540      20      800
Fertlisers
-N                        kg    12.6       20.0      252    20.0      252      100.0     1260    50.0      630    20.0      252    100.0    1260    15.0         189
-P                        kg    12.1       20.0      242    10.0      121       60.0      726    30.0      363    20.0      242      60.0      726    60.0      726
-K                        kg      8.5      10.0       85     5.0       43       60.0      510     5.0       43     7.0        60     60.0      510    50.0      425
Trace                      kg      130                  -                 -        -         -       -        -       -         -        -        -
Organic manure/silt        tom    135          _       -                 -        2.0      270       _       -                  -      2.0      270       -         -
Straw                     t1r     360          _        _       _        -        0.2       72       _       -                  -      0.2       72       -         -
Pestiddes                  kg     260          _       -                 -        4.0     1040       _       -                  -      3.5      910       -         -
Tools                      L.S     90          1       90       1       45         1        90       1       90       1        90        1       90                 _
hilgatin fees              L;S    200         1       200       1      200         1       200       1      200       1      200         1      200
Taxes & Quota payments     Rs                           -                -                   -                -                 -                 -
Other costs                                                _        __  _                    _                _
Total cash costs             Rs                       2825             2483               11509             4346              3768             11649             6728
GROSS INCOME
Main crop                   tar               0.7    5607      1.1    4653          15   47250      2.1    13020       9     4860        13    33670      16    10080
Residue                     ton    360        0.7      252     5.5    2750         1.5      540     2.5      907       -         -      6.5    2340        -         -
Total Income                Rs                        5859             7403               47790            13927             4860              36010            10080
NET REVENUE                 Rs                        3034             4920              36281              9581              1092             24361             3352
Return to labour          Rs/w- d.ay                    57              101                 169              138                19               110               23
NOTE /1 Pulses taken as typical example
NOTE i2 Sorghum taken as typical example
NOTE /3 Melons taken as typical example
NOTE f4 Winter wheet taken as typical example
NOTE /5 Fodder wheat taken as typical examde
NOTE _f6 Onions bken as typical example



PAKISTAN: Balochistan Minor ,Irgation.and Agricuftural DerelopmertPr,oect
APPLE ORCHARD  (traditional) NEW                             Finlandal budget (Rs/ha)ji                                                        Amexr. 1: Table 3-1
(budgtrwFj
INPUrTs                                         Year I     Yer2        Year 3      yew 4       Year 5      Yewa!      Yar?        Year a      Yers9       Year 10     oYw II        Year 12     Yeaw 13     OYear 14      Year IS
Labour:               Averagel         pri  Ontv  coal          cost -V     costI.-    cost Only   cost snle   cost niv   cost nle   cost  nl   cost onti   cost Col    cost Onft   cost Onv   cost On             coa  Mntg   cost
tarraclng (avg)               W-day           20           2           2          2           2           2           2           2          2            2            2            2            22                        2
digging holes/dIggingcircles    W-dqr         25           55          5          5                 5           5           5          5            5            5            5            5                  5            5
planting                      W-dql            3           0
irriatIng                     W-do/           20          22          24         26          2a          30          30          30         30           30           30           30           30           30           30
apptitng organic matiN     22W-da,            42           2          22         22          22          22          22          22         22           22           22           22           22           22           22
eppiying ettmw                W-dWv            I           I           I           I          2           2           2           2          2            2            2            2            2            2            2
.sedintg and dgging           W-day           40          40          40          40         40          40          40          40         40           40           40           40           40           40           40
spraying chemsicals           W-day            4           a           a          0         10          10          10          10         0           10           10           to           10           10           10
harvesting                 40 W-day            -           -           -          --5                                 6          is         21           50           83           72           6I           87           60
grading/packing            39W-dq              -           -              -                               4           7          14         23           40           50           58           65           Be           72
trainingiipruning             W-dqr                        2           3           4          5           6                      10          tO          10           10           10           10           10           10
other                         W -dqr                                           I_ _ __ __ _I                                          _ _   I___ _                                           I _ _ _
Totalilabour   (Avg        206 W-day          55         s0          lOS        ItO         114         125         135         153        173          210          234          250          2617         277          282
- unskulad, hkd           So00W-day      50                        
- "led. hired %,            SW-dqr    100   8   775   4    401   5   526   6   552    6   568    a   825   7   875   6    766   9   863    10  1050   12  1171    13  1252   13  1333    14  1386   14  1410
Malarial Inputs       % bought
Planting matsnia                each      16 100160010 la        IS60-                                            -           -           -          -            -            -            -            -            -            -
OM & F9,11111er
animal manumrelslt         50  Ion      ISO   20  1500            -  10   750  10   750  0   750   10   750  10   750  10   750  tO   750   10   750    10   750    10   750   10   750    10   750   10   750
StrON                      50  ton      400   I   200    I   200    I   200    I   200    I   200    I   200   I   200    t   200   I   200               1   200      I   200      I   200      1   200      I   200      1   200
chemical              N         kg      9.61  10    96  IS   144  20   192  25   240  30   288   35   336  35   336  35   336  35   336   35    336    35   336    35   336    35   336    35   336   35   330   -
P         kg       9.4   9     65  14   132  16   169  20   168  22   207  22   207  22   207  22   207  22   207   22   207   22   207    22   207   22   207    22    207   22   207
IK        kg      6.5  10    615  1S    98  20   130  25   163  30   195  35   226  35   228  35   220  35   228    35   228   35   228    35   228    35   226    35   226   35   226
lollar spraycoaddtal    trace   kg      100                                                    -           -           -           -           -           -            -            -            -            -                  -
Pesiticides,                     kg      200   1   200   2    300   2   400   3   500   3   800    3   600   3   600    3   600    3   600                 3   800      3   600      3   600    3   600        3    Boo    3   600
Tools                           sum      100   I   100    1    00    I   100   1   100    I   100    I   100    I   100           I1  00    I   00      1    100     I   100      I   00      I   00      I   100      I    100
Othar                           crate     25-- -                  - -         -- -                   -50   1260 101  2520 202  5040 323  8064  554  13680  706  17640   O06  20160  907 2268O0973 24318  1003 25074
Irrigation charge                Re      500         500         500         500        500         500         500         500        500         500          500          500          500          500          500          500
Traneport colia to distant market   Rs    1400         -           -           -1         -           -        1260        2520       504         6064        13860        7640        20160        22660        24318        25074
Total cash costjl              '000 A s              5.1         2.0         3.0         3.2         3.4        61.1        6.6        13.8        16.6         31.7         39.4         44.5        48.6         52.954
YIELD                      10.6  Ion-    -                        -           -                -          1.0        2.0         4.0        614          11.0         14.0        IS0           18.0         19.3        19,9
YIELD (ADJUSTED             9.7  ion      60    -           -           -          --                    0.6         1.6         3.6         5.6          9.9         12.8         14 4         16.2         17.4         179
GR0SS INCOME                   000115 10000            -           -           -          -           -         90         18.0        36.0        57.6         90~0        126.0        144.0       162.0        173 7        79.1
CASHFLOW                       00011.               -5AI        -2.0        -03.0      -3.2        -3.4          26:        9.4        22.2        37.7         67.31        Oa6          66.5       112.4        20.6        124 8
Cumulative       (mirn    -18.7,000FIS              -5.1        -7.2       -10.1      -13.31      -6.71       -136         -4.4        17.8        55 5        122.8        209411      306.         41.3         542 1        666.
NPY@aI0%-                  320'00011.
Average annuaizeed income:,    000) Re    ea
11ETLFIN TO FAMILY LA8OLR:R  1eW - do/               -35         -27         -30        -30         -32          25          73         153        230          337          369          416          444          459          465
Average annualiard retwn per mork-day:               261 R15P -da
NOTE -/1 Cash cost - chenmil ferOtiser, pesticides, eedlings, tools. irrigation. mangmar4t and arty hired labour.
32 Aveage YearI -20



PAKISTAN: B.lochistan Mino,r irg.tion .nd Ag,Itoua. Oaelopnrer4Prqecl
APPLE ~CHR AROD  (traddi ...  EXISTING                            Financial budget (As/Ira)_/1                                                             Anne.a I: Table 3- 2
[b.dgtreFj
INPUTS                                              Yeah I      Y.ar         Year 3       Yea4        Yst          Ysar6       ysa,7        Ye1 .r9                  Yat           V.5r111       Y.ar12       Ya3           Y-a,14        Y-srIS
Labors:                 Ave,age_/S        pric   0t On   .. co t y    cost flf55        ty   Cost oy Ct   IY   Cos Ln               Csy   c 0tvt8ostLnty "'cost Oynty   coati Ony    cos  Ony    Cos  OnY   cos  Ony   cos   MnY    costi
l..rrClng(a,,g)                 W-day              2           2            2            2           2            2            2           2            2            2              2            2             2             2             2
digglngtrh.i./digging cirCes    W-day             5            5            5                        555                                                                                         555 
PlentI,,g                       W-day              -           -
Irrigating                      W-day            30           30           30           30          30           30          30           30           30           30            30            30            30            30            30
aplIg organIc Incttr      22 W-day            22           22           22           22          22           22          22           22           22           22            22            22            22            22            22
applylnttito                    W-day             1            I            I           I            I           I            I            I           I             I             I             I             I             I            I
...d Ig and digging             W-d.y             40          40           40           40           40          40           40          40           40           40             40           t0            40            40            40
spraying cttetlcels             W-daY             to          to           to          to           to           to          1o           1o           to           10            to            to            to            to           to
harvetIng                    39 W-dey            "a           36           4t           41          41l          41         I4l           41           41           41            At            41            41            4t            41
gradlng/peckIn               32 W-dey            29           31           32           32          32           32          32           32           32           32            32            32            32            32            32
it aining/pw nin g              W-day             a                                                     6                                   8              6                                     8             8             8       
other                           W-dayI
Total lebo.r    (A,,g,       187 W-day           181          185          189          189         189          169         189          t89          189          t89            189          199           189           189           199
-rrn.kiflld. hired          500 W- de/      50                                                                           -                              -                                                                                   
- sklled. hired  ~%i         5 W- de      t00    9    908    9    928    9    948    8    946    9   949    9    949    9    848    8    948    9    948            9    948      a    948      8    948      9    948      8    948      8    948
Material Inputs         % booght-
Plantingtsmaterial                eaCh       la            -            -            -            -           -            -           -            -           -             -             -             -             -             -             -
Gm & FertOlser 
animal manors/silt           50  ton       rso   tO    750   10    750   10    750   tO    750   10   750   10    750   10    750   tO    750   tO    750    10    750    10    750    tO    750    10    750    10    750    tO    750
straw                        50  ton       40      I 200    1    200        1 200        1 00               1   200    1 2    00    1   200 I                 200     1   200 120        20       I   200      1   200       1   200       1    200
chenricel  N        89        9.8  20~~~~~~~~~ 19I012 2            I9 0         12 2          9     0    12    0      12 2          9    0     12     2      19     20    192    20    192    20    192    20    182    20    192          I.
P          8        9.4  20    188   20    198   20    168   20    t9         0    18 20    19    20        18    20    188 20               20    182    20    188    20    t96    20    198    20    188    20    169
K    kg       6.5  25    183   25    183   25    183   25    183   25    183   25    193   25    193   25    183   25    1:83   25    163    25    183    25    163    25    183    25    1813   25    183
foliar sprayocktlail    trace    kg       100            -            ---                                   -     -                  -            -           -             -             -             -             -             -             -
Pesticides                         kg       200    2    400    2    300    2    400    2    400    2   400    2    400    2    400    2    400    2    400             2    400      2    400     2    400      2    400      2    400      2    400
Toots                              soot     100    I    100    I    100    1    100    I    100    I    100    1    100    1    100    I    100          I1   IDO      1    100      I    100      1    100     I    tOO      I    100      I    100
Other                             oras,      25 403  10080 428  1 0710  454  11340 454  11340  454  11340  454  11340 454  11340  454  11340 454  11340   454  11340   454  11340   454  11340   454  11340   454  113401 454  113410
Irrigation charge                  R:       500          500          500         500          500         500          500          500          500         500O          500           500           500          500           500           500
Transport co.t.to ditant market   Its      1400        10080        1710        1340         1340         t340         13!0        11340        1340        1340          1340          11340         113401       11340         1340          11340
Total cash cost_/t               '000 Rs                23.8         24.1         26.1         26.1        26.1         26.1        29.1         28.1         29.1          26.1         28.1          28.1          29.1          28.1          28.1
YIELD                        618  ton             8.0          8.5          9.0         9.0          9.0         6.0          9.0          9.0         9.0           9.0           9.0           8.0           8.0           9.0           8.0
YIELD  (AOJUSTED)             7,9  ton       80  7.2           7.7         S      8.1          8.1         8.1          8.1          8.1   8.1                8.1     r            8.1           8.1           8.1          8.1           8.1
GA tOS.SINCOME                    OOOAR. 10000           72.0        78.5         81.0         910         9.           9. 11.0                    .0l1.081.0                             81,0         8 1.0         81.0          9 1.0         81.0
CASHFLOW                          OOOA                   484:1.                   54.          5.          549           49          5.9          4.59    5                 5.9  54.9    54.                         54.95494.
Crtat.         (sln       48.4OOOAsR                 48.4        100           5.1        2,10.0       284.8        31.         37.           2.         444           593           5954.1        69.           70.758917
8~~~~R ~~~n/a   %
NPV a  0% -458 000 R$
Anarags annuslead Income:        '000 As     53
RETLF1 N TO FAMILY LA9OLIIt:   R s/W- day                292          294          305         305          305          305         305          305         305           305           305           305           305           305           305
Averag   ..nnldised yetwn per  orno-day:             1300 A Mn- day
                                                              .... ........                      ...............            ....                    ........                    . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . .   . .    ..   ......
NOTE  /I Cash cost - ch.n4cal tertlliset. p-stiodess seedlings, toots. Wirrgalov. nrang-ntnr and arly, hired labor.,
t/2 Av,erage YrlI -20



PAKISTAN   Balochistan.Minor Irrigation and Agrlccl.ot.lDeo.l.pnetrProi.ot
APPLE CRCHARD  (dwa-ting -W..tok. Inrp,oned                       F.n ....l buvdget (Rslha)_/l                                                           An... I- Table 3-3
[budgtreF]
INPUTS                                              Vear       year 2       Yeat I       Yeat4       Yet         Y'e r8        7er          -eat       Yer         yearlO        Year          Yr12         Yesar13       Yea, 14       Years,1
taboo,   verage12  ~   Oty  costray   cot  Qfr~jt  nty    ost  nl    cost  ly   COStflly   Cst  nty cOst  nI    cost  nly   COtConst                          ost Ony    costOnMy        cot tOn       cocostOOlyy cos
terracing (ang)                 W-day            20            2           2            2           2            2           2            2           2             2             2            2             2             2            2
digging hrolas/digglng crrcles    W-day          80          Io           to          to           to           10          10           10          to           to            to            to            to            10           tO
plantin g                       W-day             a            I
Irrigating                      W-day            25           27          29           31          33           35          35           35          35            35           35            35            35            35           35
apply.ng otganlic matter     22 W-day            42            2          22           22          22           22          22           22          22            22            22           22            22            22           22
applyingteIonirer               W- day            I            1           2            2           3            3           3            3           3             3             3            3             3             3            3
sneditg and d.gging            W-day            s0          80           80          80           80          80           60          50           s0           80            80            a0           80            s0            80
spraying chenricals    W~~~-dy           4           a                        O           t           10           10          10           10            tO           10            10            1O           tO            to
harvesting                   71 W-day                                      2            5          14           29          54           72          81           80            89             8            0           10810
gra ding/packing             57 W-day                                      2            4           11          23          43           58          85            72           79            8s            88           88            88
training/pruning                W-day                          4           a            a           tO          12          1a           20          20            20            20           20            20            20           20
othe                            W-day
Total labour    (Ang         297 W-day           220          113         143          154         174         208          255         292          308           324          340           358           358          356           356
- unskluled, hued           500 W-day        So                                                                                                                                                             
- sWilled, hired @%:          5 W-day    100   IlI  1100    8    588    7    715    8    788    8    870   10   1028   13   1276  IS   1458  IS   1538    18   1820    17   1701    18   1782    18   1782    18   1782    18   1782
Material inputs         % bought              -
Planfing etaerial                 each       30 240 7200 24    700                  -           -            -           -            -           -            -            -             -             -            -             -             -    -
OM & Farnilis ,r 
anI mal n.nu./silt           50  :on       150   20   1500    -       -   tO    750  tO    750   10    750   10    750  tO    750   10    750   10    750   tO    750    10    750    10    750    10    75,0   10    75,0  tO    750
stra                         5010.         400    I    200    I   200    I    200    I    200    1   200    I   200    I    200    I    200    I    200             I    200      1    200     I   200       1    200     1    200      I    200 
chemical               N          kg       8.8  15    144   20    182   20    288   35    336   40    384   45    432   45    432   45    432   45    432    45    432    45    432    45    432    45    432    45    432    45    432
P          kg       8.4  10      84   15    141   20      8    25    235   30    282   20    2812  30    282   30    282   20    282    30    282    30    282    30    282   320    282    30    282    30    282
K         kg        8.515        820        100    18535    22840    280 45                     84        28 45        28345    283    45    23    483 454                    8     45    283    45    23      45    283
Ionlar spray cocktail   trace     kg       100   10   1000   15   1500   20   2000   25   2500   25  2500   25   2500   25   2500   25   2500   25   2500    25   2500    25   2500    25   2500    25   2500    25   2500    25   2500
PesticIdes                         kg       200    1    200    2    300    2    400    3    500    3   800    4    700    4    800    4    800    4    800           4    800      4    800     4    800      4   800       4    800     4    800
Tools                              sum      1001   100    1    1      00    1 100        1 100    I    100   ID   I    100    I    100    I    100    I    100       I    100      1    100     I    100      I    100      I    100     I    100
Other                             crate      25    -       -   -       -  25    830   50   1260  151   3780 323   8084 805  15120  808  20160 807 22880  1008  25200  1108  27720  1210 30240  1210 30240  1210 30240  1210  30240
Irrigation charge                  Rs       500          So0         500         500          500         500          500         500          500         500           500           500          500           500           500           500
Transport costs to distant mtarket   Rs    1400            -           -         8030        1280        3780         8084.      15120        20160.      22880         252001       27720         20240         30240        20240         20240
Total cash cost_I               '000 Rs                 12.1         4.3          8.8          8.8        14.0        22.8         37.4         47.8        52.8          57.8         63.0          88.1          68. 1        88.1          88.1I
YIELD                        15.7  ton              -           -          0.5         1.0          3.0         8.4         12.0        18.0        I18.0         20.0          22.0          24.0         24.0          24.0          24.0
YIELD (ADJUSTED)             14.2  ton       80    -            -          0.5         0.8          2.7         5.8         10.8        14.4         18.2         1 8.0         18.8          21.86        21.8          21.8          21.6
GROSS INCOME                      OQO0Rs 11000             -           -          50           8.8        28.7        83.4        11I8.8       158.4       178.2         188.0        217.8         237.6         237.8        237.8         237.8
CASHFLOW                          000 As               - 12.1l      -4.3         -1.8          1.3        15.7        40.4         81.4        110.8       125.4         140.1        154.8         188.5         188.5        188.5         188 5
Cumutative        (tnlr    -18.1  0OAs -R.1                        -1.5        -1.           1.8          -1.2        38.3        120.7       231,5        358.8         487.0        851.8         821.31        880.8       1180.31       13298.8
.FIR-                   1     71 %
NPV OI0%-                    815O000As
Anetage ann.aiead Income:        '000 Rs    109
RETI.IN TO FAMILY LABOLfl:    A sW - day                 -58         -40         -12             8          8 5        207          338         400          428          455           478           501          501I          501           501
Anerag  ann.alised returns per work-day:             I340 RsMw -da
N OTE  /I Cash cost - C hemical fertiliser, peasticide s, seedlin gs, tools, Irrigatio n, ma nage mert an d a ny h Ire d labour.
J2 Aner9ag Yearl -20



PAKISTAN: Balochistan Minor Irrigation and Agriadt.ralDenelopmerttProect
POMEGRANATE CRCHAAD  NEW                                          Finandal budget (Rs/ha)Jt                                                               Annex I; Table 3 -4
[budgtrtF]
INPUTS                                              Yea, I        Yea.r2     Ywar3 .t    Yet4 Olt        atS Yos      1at      Yer          Y'ar     Lylear          Yea,r 10     Yat           Year 12       Yea 13        Ya14         Yeat IS
Labowe:                 Jntae2            prc  Onty  cost sly    c cost          cost  ty     Ctny cost  sty   colt LyeacYost Only   cost ny                 CO.t Qnly   Cos  Onl    cost Only   cost Only   Cos  OMY   cost O                 cosl
terracing (avg)                 W-dwl            20            2            2           2            2            2           2            2           2             2             2             2            2             2             2
digging holaslcdlgglng cmicls   W-day           100            5            5            5           5            5           5            S           5             5            10           tO            10            tO            tO
planting                        W-day            1 1 
irrigating                      W-day            20           22           24          26           28          30           30           30          30            30            35            35           35            35            35
applying organIc Manetl     22 W-day             42           2           22           22          22           22          22           22           22           22            22            22            22           22            22
applying fertillser             W-day              I           I            I            1           2            2           2            2           2             2             2             2            2             2             2
.aelding and digglng            W-clay           40           40           40          40           40           40          40           40          40            40            60            s0            6o           so            60
spraying chemicas               W-day             4            6            a          10           tO           10          10           10          to0                         to           to            to            to            to
harvesting                   22 W-day              -           -02                                   5           a            2           16          23            24            30           32            3a            37            37
grading/paecking             16 W-day              -           -0                        I           4            6          10           14           Is           19            24            26           30            30            30
trani nglproning                W-day                          2            3           4            5            6           S           t           10            10            20            20           20            20            20
other                           W -day          I__ _ __     _ _ _I_ _ __ _ __I__                                                                                         _
Totalilabou,   (Avg,         163 W-day           236           St1         106         114          123          131         141          153         162           165           215          219           226           227           227
-  mskllted, hired         SOOW-day        50                                                                                                                                                                              - - 
- skilled, hired @%:          S W-day    100   12   1160    4    405    5    530    a    568    6    613    7    657    7    704    6    766    6    611             6    623    It1  1076    t I   1096    1 1   1144    1 1   1136    II1  1136
MAaterial Inputs        % bought              -
Plantingtmaterial                 eacht        6400 3200 40    320                  -            -            -           -            -           -            -             -            -              -            -             -             -
OM & Fertiliser 
animnalnmanu,a/sI6           50  ton       150   20   1500    -        -   tO    750   10    750   tO   750   tO    720   10    750   tO    750   10    750    10    750    10    720    10    750    10    750    tO    750    10    750 
straw                        50  ton       400    1   200    I   200    I   200    I   200    I   200    I   200    I   200    I    200    1   200                   1    200      1   200       I    200      1   200      I   200       I    200    U
chemn.lc               N          kg        6.6 10       go615    144 20    162 25    240 30    266 35    336 35    330 35    336 35    336    35    336    35    336    35    336    35    336    35    336    35    336    LI>
P          kg       9.4    9      65   14    132   16    166   20    166   22    207   22    207   22    207   22    207   22    207    22    207    22    207    22    207    22    207    22    207    22    207
K          kg       6.5  10    655  IS        66   20    130   25    163   30    195   35    226   35    226   35    226   35    226    35    226    35    226    35    226    35    226    35    226    35    226 
follar spray codtalsl    trace    kg       10             -            -           -            -            -           -            -           -            -             -            -             -             -             -             -
Pesticddes                         kg       2CO00    1   200    2    300    2    400    3    500    3    600    3    600    3    600    3    600    3    600          3    600      3    600      3    600      3    600      3    600     3    600
Tools                              SUM       100    I    100    I    100    I    100    1    100    1    100    I    100    I    100    I    100    I    100           I    100     1    100      1    100      1     I00     I     .0      I    10
Other                             crate      25    -       -    -       -    4    tOt   is    405   45   1114   73   1623 109   2734  162   4050 207   5164   219   5406   271   6764   202   7290   340   625   332   6303   332   61303
Irrigation charge                  Rs       200          500         500          500          500         500          500         500          500          500           500          500           500           500           50050
Tranpr   ost  iatnal                s      10              -           -          126         504         1366        2286         34021       5040         64261         6604         6442 1        9072         10564         10332         103502
Total cash cost-/I              '000 R.                  7.1          2.2          3.2          4.1         6.0          7.7         6.6         12.6        15.31         16.~0         19.21         20.4         23.2          2247          22.1
YIELD                         5.0  ton-                         -          0.1          0.4          1.1         1.6          2.7         4.0          5.1           5.4          6.7           7.2           6.4           6.2           6.2
YIEL.D (ADJUSTED)             4.5  ton       90     -           -          0.1          0.4          1.0         1.6          2.4         3.6          4.6          4.6           6.0           6.5           7.6           74            7.4
GAROSS INCOME                    '000 R s   6000           -            -          0,7          2.9         7.9         13.0        16.4         266         36.   3        6.646.2                    51.6         60.5          59.5          59.01
CASH-FLOW                        '000 Rs                -7.1        -2.2         -2.51        -1.2          2.01        5'.31        9.7         16.0        21.           22.29         203.537.3                                30.3          36.3
Cumulative        (mit.    -130O'OO Rs                   71         -.           1.           1.         -11.1         -5.6          36          16.6        41.           94.26.                    124.7         16.           156.31        234.7
NPV II1O%=                   105.O00CRs
Average annuuWised income:       000 Rs      21
RETURN TOFAMILY LABOLFt:  RPs/W -day                     -32         -29          -25          -II           1 7         42           72         ItO          139           148          142           151           172           166           166
A-arag  annuuWiwd tetwn per work-day:                    103 PsAn -day
                                               ....--------                     .......        .     .......        ....       .     ....-------               ....       .........              .........         
NOTE _/1 Cash cost - ch*nical Ilertglner, pestladds. seedlings, tools, Irrigation, managemert and any hired labour.
/12 A-eage Year 1-20



PAJUSTAN: Balochist*nMinorl(rigationandAgrlwRuraiDevelopm*rtPtoiect
POMEGRANATE CFICHARD EXISTING                                   Finandal budget (Rslhe)jl                                                             Amex 1: Table 3-5
(b.dgt,.Fl
INPUTS                                            Ymt I  L  Year, 2 .'t O.Ymr 3 ost  Ymr 4         ymf 50.1   Yeaw a       Ymr 7        Y  r a       -t 9        ea' 10      Yew 11        Year 12      Year 13     OY-t 14    GYm  0
Labow:                 A"rag*_n          Pli"  Only  cost nly   c         ty   c   Lniv   cost Dnt,   c      ntv   cosInty   cost anty"a costLntyv   cost Onyty   costi 0.tV   cost antV   cost antv   cost  ntv   c              nty   cost
terracing (avg)                W-day             2           2            2           2           2           2            2           2           2            2             2            2            2             2            2
digging holes/digging circles    W-day           5           5            5           5           5           5           5            5           5            5            10           10            10           10           to
planting                       W-day
irrigating                     W-day            30          30          30           30          30          30          30           30          30           310           30           30           30            30           30
:pp:ying organic matto      22W-day             22          22           22          22          22          22           22          22          22           22            22           22           22            22           22
pp ying lenihser              W-day             2           2           2            2           2           2           2           2           2             2            2             2            2            2             2
.*eding and digging            W-day            40          40           to          40          40          40           40          40          40           40            60           60           60            60           so
sp'ayl.g chemicals             W-dy              4           6            a          10          10          10           io          10          10           10            10           10           10            10           to
harvesting                  32 W- day           27          27          27           28          2a          29          29           30          30           31            31           32           32            34           38
g,ading/packing             25 W- day           21          22           22          22          23          23           23          24          24           24            25           25           20            27           29
I-Ining1pruning                W-day                         2            3           4           5           6            a          10          10           10            20           20           20            20           20
othe,                          W-day                      I                                                I
Total I.boul   (Avg         192 W - day         152         157          161         165         167         16a          171         174         175          176           211          212          214           2 1 7        220
-  nskified. hired         500 W-d.Y       50    -      -   -       -    -       - -         -    -      -
- skdied. hired 0 %:         5 W- day    100   a    762   6    706    9    505   a    $24    a   833    a    II42   9    B56    0   a7O   9    874              9    a7a    I 1  1057    1 1   1002    I 1  1070    1 1  1086    I 1   1102
Matefti IAP.ts          % bo.ght
Pl..ti.g  atwml                  each        a 625   5000  63    500              -           -           -            -           -           -           -             -            -             -            -            -             -
OM & Fonihs.,                                -                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ln
:.imal man../slit           50  ton       150   10    750   10    750   10    750   10   750   iO   750   10    750   10    750   10   750  iO    ?so    10    750    10   750    10    750    10    750    10   750    10    750   Ln
t,*.                       50  ton       400    1   200    1   200    1    200    1   200    1   200    1    200    1   200    1   200    1   200               1   200      I   200      1   200       1   200      1   200      1   200    1
chemical               N         kg        9.a  3o    288  30    28a   30    28a  30   288   30   268   30    258  30    2sa   3o   2aa  30    28a    30    286    30   266    30    2aa    30   2aa    30   2aa    30    288
p         kg        9 4  20    ISO  20    lea   20    188  20    ise  20    188   20    18a  20    iSS   20    188  20    lea    20    iaa    20    lea    20    iea    20    lea    20    las    20    ISO
K         kg       a.5  30    195  30    195   30    195  30    195  30   igS   30    195  30    i95   30    195  30    195    30    195    30    195    30    195    30    195    30    195    30    195
foliat spray cod(tag    trace    kg       100            -           -           -           -                        -           -           -           -             -            -             -                         -             -
Pesticides                        kg       200   3    600   3    OM        3    SW     3    500    3   aoo    3    Soo    3   600    3   600   3    600          3    800      3   600      3    600      3   800      3   800      3    GM
Tools                             s.m      100    I    100    I    100    I    100    I   100    I   100    I    ioo    I    100    I    100    I    100          I    100     I   100       I    100     I    100     I   100      I    100
Olho,                            crate      25 239   5974 243   6075 247   6176 25i  e27a 255  6379 259   8480 263  85a 1 2a7  6683 271  0784  275   0885, 279   aSaG  284   7088  292   7290   3os  7a95  324   8100
1-gation charge                   Rs       500         5(o         500          500         SW          Soo          500         500         500         500           500          500          500                        500          500
Transpo(t coss to distant a,ket   Rs      1400        7434        7560         76861       71112       7938        8064         0190        83161       6442          85as         8694         a82O          9072.        9578        10050
Total cash cost_/I              '000 Rs                22.0        177         175        17.6        1 8.0       I&2          IIIA        1117        i89          19.2          19.6         19 a         20 3         21.2          22 I
YIELD                        7O  ton            5.9         8.0         5.1          6.2         0.3         a.4         6.5         6.6         6.7           6.8          69           7.0          7 2          7.6           a 0
YIELD (ADJUSTED)             6.3  ton       90  53          5-4         5.5          58    -   5,7          5.8         59         59          6.0           6.1          62       -   6 3           6            as            7 2
GROSS INCOME                    '000 Rs  aDOO          42.5        43-2         43.9        44 6        45.4        46.1        4a.a        475         48 2         49 0         491           50 4         51A          54 7          57 6
CASHFLOW                        '000 Rs                20.:        25.5        26A          27.0        27.4        27.9        28.4        2a                          -a         30.1           0.6         3 a          33 51         35.51
C.M.1al"         (.1n:      20 5'000 A s               20.         4159        72 4        99A        26.a         54 6        83.01      2 11a                                                 .31             31
1           1              A        2 42 T'31    27219.0       301.1        33 7           -:11        396 a        432
SR                         n/a %
NPV   10%                   242'000 Rs
A,e(age ann.alived [ncomo-      '000 As     31
RETLFIN TOFAMILY LABOLA:   R VW - day                   142         170         173         172         173          174         174         174         176           179          150           152          155          163          170
Average annualised tetwn Per Olk-day:               1  167 Rs
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . .  . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . .  . ... . . . . . . ............................................ . . . . . . . . .
NOTE -11 Cash cost - cheffical fenliser. pestiddes. seedlings, tools, ktigation, mariagamert and affy hired labour.
_12 Average Year I - 20



PAKISTAN: B.loctilota. Mi.or l,igation..ndAgrictUltualD-oel.pnr.r4Prq*Ct
CITWUS  RCHA49O  NEW                                            Financial budget (As/ha)_/t                                                           A,nrex I: Table 3 -8
(b.dgtreFJ
INPUTS                                            Yeah        Year2        Y-ar3       Yr4         YaS         Year         Yarl 7          r6      Yer         Yeart 1ori                  Y.art2       Year 13      Yer4          YeartS
Labore:        Average/h         r~~ Only  cost y    costn             costn       cost y coty c            colny    cos   ty   cs  nty   co   Only   c              nt     cos  OnV   cos  Only    otOnly   CtOnty   Cs
terracinig (avgl               W-day            20           2            2           2           2            2           2           2           2             2            2             2            2             2            2
digging hole./digging circles    W-day          63           5            5           5           5            5           5           5           5             5            tO           tO           tO            1o           to
Planting                       W-clay                        I
Wnigaling                      W-daV            20          22           24          28          28           30          30          30          30            30           35            35           35            35           35
appl:ying organ'ic matten   22 W-day            32           2           22          22          22           22          22          22          22            22           22            22           22            22           22
app yinglellrtilme,           W-day             I            I           t           2            2           2           2           2            2            2             2            2             2            2             2
weeding and dig ging          W-clay           40          40           40          40           40          40          40          40           40           40           80            G0            60           60            60
apraying chemlicals            W-day             4           6            a          tO          tO           t0          to          Io           10           10           tO            10           tO           tO            tO
h.rtrsting                  256W-day                                      I            3          7           14          22          29          38            40           43            43           43            43           4
grading/packIng             28 W-day                                      1           3           7           14          22          29          36            40           43            43           43            43           43
traini ng/pruning              W-day                         2            3           4           5            6           8          10          tO            10           20            20           20            20           20
other                          W-day
TotalLebowr   (Ang:         197 W-day           186          el          107         116         128          146         162         179         193           200          248           248          248           248          248
-urnekilled. hired         500 W-day       50                                                                                                                                                          
-  killed, hi,ed @%:         2 W-day    100   4    373    2    162    2    214   2    233    3   257    3    292    3   325    4    357    4   386               4    401     5    465      9    465     5    495      5    495     5    495
Material Inputs        96 bought             -
Plantinigmaterial                each       10 250 25D0025    250                 -           -            -           -           -            -           -            -             -            -             -            -             -
Om & F ertlitser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 li
animaltnranure/a1           50  ton       ISO   IS   1125    -       -   10    750   10   750   10    750   10    750   10    750   10    750  10    750   tO    750    10    750    tO   750   tO    750    10   75               tO    750   a
straw                       50  ton       400    I   200    1    200    I   200    1   200    1   200    I   200    1   200    I   200    1   200                I   200      I    200      I   200      I   200       I    200     I    200
chemiclc              N          kg       968  IS    144   20    182   25    240   30    288   35   336   40    384   40    384   40    384  40   384    40    384    40    384    40    384    40    384    40    384    40    384
P          kg       6.4  10     94   15    141   20    188  25    235   25    235   25    235  25    235   25    235  25   235    25    235    25    235    25    235    25    235    25    235    25    235
K         kg        8.5  15     68   20    130   20    163  30    195   35    228   40    260   40   280   40    260   40    260    40    260    40    260    40    260    40    260    40    260    40    260
tolia spray cocktail   trasce    kg       100           -            -           -           -            -           -           -            -           -            -             -             -            -            -             -
Pesticides                        kg       200    1   200    2    300    2    400    3    500    3   600    3    600    3   600    3    600    3   600            3    600     3    600      3    600     3   600       3    600     3    600
Tools                            aut       100    I    tOO    I    100    I    tOO    I    100    1    tOO    1    100    I    100    I    tOO    I   100         I    100     1    100      I    100     1    100      1    100     1    tOO
Other                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Irrigation charge                 As       500         S00         500          500         So0         500          500         500         500         500           500          500           500          500           500          500
Transport cosntstodistant narket    As    1400           -            -         252,       1008        2520         50401       7560       100601      12600         13860        15120 1       15120        15120         15120        151I20
Total cash cost-/I              000 Rs                 5.3          2.0         3.0          4.0         5.7         6.4         10.9        13.5        16.0          17.3         16.6          1.           16. 'S6       16.6        _186.
YIELD                        7.8  ton.                        -          0.2         0.8          2.0         4,0         6.0        8a0          10.0         11.0          12.0         12.0          12.0         12.0          12.0
YIELD (ADJUSTED)             7.0  tont      60     -          -          0.2         0.7          1.8         3.6         5.4          7.2         9.0          99          I10.8                10.61.               10.8         10.8
GROSS INCOME                    '000 Rs  4000            --                     0. 7         2.9         7.2         14.4        21.6        26.8        36.0          39.6         43.2          43.2         43.2          43.2         43.2~
CASH-FLOW                        OOOFt -s5.31                      -2.0        -2.3        -1. 1         1.0         6.0         10.7        15.3        20.01         22.31        24.6          24.61        24.6          2461         24. 6
Cum.lathne       (rin:t   -10.7O000R                  -5.2         -7.3        -6.6       -10.7         -6.2        -3.2          7.5        22.8        42.8          65.1         66. 7        114.2        136.6         163.3        167.9
NPV@t0 %                     a 61OOOA ls
Average annualeid Income:            Ao0  IsS1
AETUR N TOFAMILY LABOLWR:   AsIW - day                 -29         -25          -22         -tO           1 2         42          67           88         106          114          lOt            101         lOt           lOt           lOt
Average annuW iwd retuwn Per w ork -day:                66 RsM-do
NOTE _It Cash cost - cherr.cal fertiliser, pesticides, seedlings, tools, irigation, mnanagement and any hired labour.
/2 Anerage Yoawl -20



PAKISTAN Baloch.sta. M,nor lrtrgat.on and Agrrc,iftral Deoelopmrent Project
CITRUS CTRCHAPD, EXISTING                                       Financial brodget (Rs/ha)_/l                                                          Anne. I. Table 3-7
[b.dgt,e4rJ
INPUTS                                            Yeari       Year 2      Year3        Ya            eArS,     Yer6         YeMlYar                 Ya9          VearlO0      YnrItI        Year12       Yart13              Year           1YerI
Labowr:                Average_/2       _pric   ntya  coStLtv cl COsty               fty   C      tosti COt Ontyv' costLntyaA 7Cost Onty" ecost ony    Cost Onty   costl Oinly   cost Onty   cost Oty   cos  Onty   cost Onrty   cost
te-iclng (avg)                 W-day             2           2            2           2           2            2           2           2            2            2             2            2             2            2             2
digg.ng holes/d.gginrg c.rcles    W-day          5           5            5           5           5            5           5           5           5             5            10           to            1 0          1 0           10
plant;ng                       W-day                    - 
iniiigating                    W-day            30          30          30           30          30          30           30          30          30            30           35            35            35           35           35
AP plyi:ng organic metIe    23 W- day           32          22          22           22          22          22           22          22          22            22            22           22            22           22            22
ap plyinngtfert.Aser           W-day             2           2            2           2           2           2            2           2           2             2             2            2             2            2             2
wneedinng and digging          W-day            40          40           40          40          40           40          40          40           40           40            60           60            60           60            60
sPraying chenicals             W-day            to          to           to          10          1O          to          to           IS           10           10           tO            10            10           tO            10
harvesting                  37 W -day           29          32          36           40          40          40           40          40          40            40            40           40            40           40            40
grading/packli.g            37 W-day            29          32          36           40          40          40           40          40          40            40            40           40            40           40           40
training/pruning               W-day             I           It                       1           1 I          I                       1                         1 t           1 t          I             1
olher                          W-day
Total labout    (Ang:       202 W-day           179         177          184         191         191         191          191         191         191           191          221           221          221           221          221
-unukillecldhired          500 W-day       50                                                                                                                                                            -   - -    - -  - -    - -    - -
- sIlled, hired ? %:        2 W- day    100    4    359    4   353    4    309    4   392    4   362    4    392    4   382    4    382    4    362             4    362     4    442      4    442     4    442      4    442     4    442
Matarial Input.        % bought              -
Pla nting material               each       10           -   -        -           -           -            -           -           -            -           -             -            -             -            -             -            -   t,.
OM & Fertiliser 
anIrnaltnanume/silt         5,0  ton     ISO   15   1125   10    750   10    750   10   750   10   750   tO    750   10    750   10    750   10    750    10    750    10    750    tO    750    tO    750    10   750    10    750
Star.                       5,0  ton      400    1   200    1   200    I    200    I   200    I   200    1   200    1   200    I   200    I    200               1    200      I   200      1   200       I    200     1   200       I    200
chemtical             N          kg       9.6  35    336  35    336   35    336  35    330   35   336   35    336  35    336   35    338   35    336    35    338    35    336    35    336    35    336    35    336    35    339
P         kg       9.4  22    207  22    207   22    207  22    207   22   207   22    207   22    207   22    207   22    207    22    207    22    207    22    207    22    207    22    207    22    207
K         kg       6.5  35    226   35    226   35    226   35    228   35   226   35    228  35    228  35    228  35    228    35    228   35    228    35    226    35    228    35    226    35    228
folirtspray cocklail    trace    kg       100           -            -           -           -            -           -           -            -           -             -            -             -            -             -            -
Pesticides                        kg       200    3    600    3    900    3    600    3   500    3    B00    3    600    3   900    3    600    3    600          3    600      3   600      3    600      3    600     3   600       3    900
Tools                            Sunt      100    I    100    I    100    I    100    I    100    I    100    I    100    I   100    I    100    1    100         I    100      1    100     I    100      I    100     1    100      I    100
Other                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Irrigation charge                 As       500         500         500          500         500         500          500         500         500          500          500           500          500           500          500           500
Transporttcosb todistant market   Rsa    1400        10080       11340        12600       13860       138600       13860       13660       13660       13660         13860        13660         13660         13660        13660         13660
Total cash costl/              '000 As                 13.7        14.9        15.9        17 1         17.2        1 7.2        17.2        17.2        17.2          17.2         17.2          1 7.2        17.2          17.2          17.2
YIELD                       10.4  ton           6.0          6.0        10.0         11.0       I11.0        11.0        11.0         11.0        11.0          11.0         11.0          11.0         11.0          11.0         11.0
YIELD (ADJUSTED)             9.4  ton       90  7.2          5.t         9.0         99           99          9.6         9.9          99          9.9           9.9          9.6           9.9          9.6           9.9          9.9
GROSS INCOME                    000O Rs  4000          28.6        32.4        36.0         39.6        36.6        39.6         39.6        39.6        39 6          39 6         39.6          39.6         39.h          39.6          39.6
CASHF LOW                       '000 Rs                15.1        17.8        20.1         22.5        22.4        22.4         22.4        22.4        22.4          22 4         22 4          22.4         22.4          22.4          22.4
Cumulative       (mIn       15.1 '000 Rs               1 5.1       32.9        53 0         75 5        97.6       120.4        142.6       165.3       167.7         210.1        232.5         254.9        277.3         299.0         322.01
ARR -                      ne
NPV ( l0%-                  176O000Rs
Avera.ge ann.allned In,come:   '000 Rs      21
RETLFIN TO FAMILY LABOLJR    Rs/W-day                    86         103         112         120          120         120         120          120         120           120          103           103          103           103           103
Average a-nnuained return per work-day:                106 RS/An-day
NOTE JI Cash cost - chetrdcal Ienlihsei. pesticides, seedlings, tools. irrigation. managen,ent and any hired labour.
J2 Average Year 1 -20






- 59 -
ANNEX 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1243-PAK)
FARM BUDGETS



PAiISTAN: BalochistanMinorlrrigation andAguculturai Development Project
FARM BUDGETS                                  PCR assumptions                                                                                             Annex 2: Table ia
fFbudgel                                                                          FARMING SYSTEMS
HIGH ALTI T UUE, HG-i VALLE    MIODLE ALTITLDE, MODESf VALLE      LOW ALTITUDE, LON VALUE          LOWALT1TUDE, LOW VALLE
MOOEL 1 e.g. Pul               MODEL 2 e. . Thai         MODEL 3 eg.Suk1e I Owner-pe       MOOEL 4 eq.Suke I Shareanopper
Existlng     With-project      Existing      With-project       Existing    With-project          Existing    With-project
arC    ha     Rs    ha Rsaoy   ha             Rs    ha   Rsaha RA  aoy   ha                                    As    ha      Rs
Aveage size of hdding:                              1.00          1.65              1.40          4.10              0.60          1.60               0.60          1.60
Average area acpped:                                 1.02          1.65              1.76         5.88              0.77          2.24                0.65          1.65
O-rcping imensity                                    1.02         1.00              1.26          1.43              1.28          1.40                1.09          1.03
Y15 full
cevelop nent
WoP  WP
:CRP                              case   case
Rsha   Rshe
Kharif g-ains                     5.120   5.187 0.9  0.00   0.02            -  1.0                          -  1.0  0.04   0.23   0.16     0.84  1.0  0.04   0.23   0.16   0.84
Kharit fodders                   5.939   6.016 0.9            -             -  1.0            -             -  1.0  0.16   0.96   0.44     2.62  1.0  0.16   0.96   0.44   2.62
Kharil vegetables               46.101  46.700  1.0  0.14   6.59   0.25  11.82 1.0  0.20   9.31   0.67  31.43 0.8             -              -  0.8             -            -
Rabl g-ains                      7.234   7.328 0.9  0.56   3.63   0.53   3.51  1.0  1.48  10.71   4.51  33.03  1.0  0.41   2.93   0.91     6.67  1.0  0.41   2.93   0.91   6.67    cr
F'abl fwclders                   3.565  3.611  0.9            -   0.14   0.46  1.0  0.05   0.19   0.14   0.49  1.0  0.04   0.14   0.12     0.44  1.0  0.04   0.14   0.12   0.44
Rabivegetaties                  33.732  34.171  0.9           -             -  1.0            -   0.07   2.29  1.0  0.02   0.67   0.30    10.35  1.0           -   0.02   0.68
Others                           8.474   8.696 1.0            -   0.04   0.33  1.0            -   0.07   0.58  1.0  0.02   0.17   0.12     1.05  1.0                         -
Oedeci.otsfruit - e,dstng (apples)    48.442  54.882  1.0  0.30  14.29   0.30  16.19 0.8      -             -   -             -              -   -       _
Decdidous truit - new (apples) [ij     147.052  1.0           -   0.17  24.85 0.8             -             - _  _    _ _      _
Oeddecis fruit - new (app es) [11j     145.120  1.0           -   0.17  24.53 0.8             -      _        _               - _ _  _
DedcrJunus fruit - existing (others)    20.489  35.497  1.0  0.02   0.35   0.02   0.60  1.0  0.03   0.55   0.03   0.96   -   _               _   _             _
Deddnusfruit-new(others) [1             36.349  1.0           -   0.02   0.62  1.0            -   0.14   4.91   -      _         _ _    _
Deddj.is fruit-new (others) [iI]        36.349  1.0                         -1.0              -   0.14   4.91   -             - _ _     _
Sub-topicalfruit-existing       15.066  22378    -            -             _   _             _             -  1.0  0.01   0.21   0.00     0.07  1.0           -             -
Sub-tpical fruit - new [IJ              24.556   -            _             _   _             _             -  1.0           -   0.03      0.74  1.0           -             -
Sub-Irpical fruit - new EIl]            24.556   -            -             _   _             _             -  1.0            -   0.03     0.74  1.0           -             -
Aifalfa/lberseem                 8.497   8.607 0.9  0.01   0.06   0.02   0.13  1.0                0.14   1.16  1.0  0.06   0.52   0.12     1.04  1.0            -            -
TOTAL  ErT REVENUE PER FARM   COOOs Rsy                    24.9          83.0              20.8          79.8               5.8            24.6               2.1           5.6
INCR1ENETAL REVENJE PER FARM   L0s Rvy                                   58.1                            59.0                              18.7                             3.5
RETLRN TO LABCOJR ON FARM             Rs Wcy                203           305               135           138               101            117                52            53
INCREMENTAL RETLiRN TO LASOJR         Rs Wcy                              102                               3                               16                               1
TOTAL NET REVENUE PER I-ECTARE  'CWs RsAr                   24.9          50.3              14.8          19.5              9.7            15.3               3.5           3.5
INCREMENT AS PERCENTAGE OF WoP           %                                233                             284                              321                             1 64
Family membes per househdd            Njmber         6.5           6.5               6.5           6.5               6.5           6.5                 6.5          6.5
PER CAPITA ANNLAL INCOME          CO05 Rsa)r                3.8          12.8               3.2          1Z3                0.9             3.8               0.3           0.9
Per capta annial income (@ 30 Rs/$)    L6S.lr               128           426               106           409                30             126               11            29
NOTE 1: Frr simpliaty, one series cd standard ano bjdgets por hectre have been derived in Appendx 1, then lir*ed Int this file.
NOTE 2: Adjustments have been made to refert verying co*p petrnance levels at dferent loabons and In diferent ago-climatic zones.



PAI STAN: Balochistan Minor Irrigation and Agdcultural Development Project
FARM BUDGETS                                   PCR crop perfrrmance                                                                                           Annex 2: Table lb
[FuidGel                                                                            FAFMING SYSTEMS
KANCHOG - SAR Projecions        KANCHOG - PCR Projectons         PABAT - SAR Projectons             HAEAT - PCR Froiectons
Existing     With-project       Existng       With-project        Existing    With-project           Existing    With-prolect
ad;    ha      . Rs   th     Rs ad;y   ha      Rs    hr       Rs  ac    ha      Rs    ha        Rs adc   ha        Rs    ta      Rs
Aveage size of hdding                                 1.70          2.00              0.60          0.75               1.50          1.75                 0.95          1.50
Avemrge area crcpped.                                 1.63          2.00               0.64          0.79              1.50           1.75                0.99          1.57
Cropping ntensity                                     0.96          1.00               1.06          1.05              1.00           1.00                1.04          1.04
Y15 full
develop nent
WoP    WIP
CROP                              case   case
R.s-ti   Rs5>7e
Khanf grains                      5.120   5.187 0.9  0.25   1.13   0.25   1.15  0.9  0.08   0.38               -  1.0            -                -  1.0            -             -
KharifFaodoers                    5.939   6.016 0.9             -             -  0.9  0.01   0.03   0.01   0.07  1.0  060   3.56   0.14        0.85  1.0  0.12   0.73   0.08   0.50
Kharifvegetables                 46.101  46.700  1.0  0.11   5.12   0.21   9.95  1.0  0.08   3.78   0.01   0.28  1.0             -   0.12      5.70  1.0  0.04   1.89   0.06   2.90
Rabi gains                        7.234   7.328 0.9  1.13   7.34   1.03   6.77  0.9  0.38   2.47   0.35   2.29  1.0  0.90   6.51   0.81        5.96  1.0  0.83   5.97   0 83   6.05
RabifoDdds                        3.565   3.611 0.9             -             -  0.9            -              -  1.0            -               -  1.0             -   0.04   0.15
Flabivegetatles                  33.732  34.171  0.9            -   0.08   2.58  0.9            _              -  1.0            -   0.24      8.34  1.0            -             -
Othes                             8.474   8.696 1.0             -             -1.0              -              - 1.0                             - 1.0              -
Decduous fruit - existing (apples)    48.442  54.882  1.0  0.04   2.03   0.04   2.31  1.0  0.04   1.84   0.04   2.09  0.9        -               -  0.9             -             _
DeduiousFruat-new(apples)[(l            147.052  1.0            -   0.13  18.38  1.0            -   0.08  11.18 0.9              -   0.17    22.90  0.9             -   0.12  16.28
Dedduous Fruit - new (apples) [llJ      145.120  1.0            -             -  1.0            -   0.08  11.03  0.9             -               -  0.9             -   0.21  26.91
DedrJuous fruit - exsting (others)    20.489  35.497  1.0  0.04   0.86   0.04   1.49  1.0  0.05   1.04   0.05   1.81  1.0        -               -  1.0             -             -
Dedruous fruit - new (others) [I)        36.349  1.0            -   0.13   4.54  1.0            -   0.09   3.24  1.0             -   0.17      6.29  1.0            -   0.06   2.25
Dedrjcuousfruit - new (others) 1ll       36.349  1.0                          -  1.0            -   0.09   3.24  1.0             -               -  1.0             -   0.17   6.00
Sub-tropical fruit - existing    15.066  22 378   -            _              _   _             _             _    _             _               _    _             _
Suib-vropicalfruit - new[l)              24.556   -            _              _   _             _             _    _             _               _    _             _
Sub-ropical Fruit - new [11)             24.556   -            _              _   _             _             _    _             _               _    _             _
AllalFa/berseem                   8.497   8.607 0.9  0.06   0.46   0.10   0.76  0.9                            -  1 0            -   0.08      0.70  1.0            -
TOTAL NET REVENUE PER FARM   'CCs P.sq'                      16.9          47.9                9.5          35.2              10.1             50.7               8.6          61.0
INCREMENTAL REVENUE PER FARM   0CCs RsqVr                                  31.0                             25.7                               40.7                            52.4
RETURN TO LABOJR CN FARM               PsWc          e    )   132           201               159           268                110             206                119           272
INCREMENTAL RETURN TO LABCUR           R4lWcMcb)                             68                             110                                 96                              153
TOTAL NET REvENUE PER H-ECTARE   O'Cs RASy                   10.0          24.0               15.9          47 0                6.7            29.0                9.0          40.7
INCREMENT AS PERCENTAGE OF WoP            %                                 183                             269                                404                              611
Family members per househdd            N.mber          6.5           6.5               6.5            6.5               6.5           6.5                  6.5           6.5
PER CAPITA ANNUAL INCOME          Q'Cos Rs                    2.6           7.4                1.5           5.4               1.5              7.8               1.3           9.4
Pe capia annual income (@ 30 Rsa$)      Ls.65r                 87           246                49            181                52              260                44           313
NOTE 1: For simplioty. ne series cd standard aop budgets per hectare have been derived in Appendx 1. then lirked intl this tile.
NOTE 2 Adjustments have been made to reflect varyingc roo perfcrmance levels at dclterent l ocations and in diferent ago-climatic znes



PAWISTAN: Badlchistan Minor Irrigation andAgicultural evelopment Projet
FARM DJDGETS                                  SAR crop perfcrmance                                                                                       Annex 2: Tatle 1 c
(Fbicd.eJ                                                                         FARMING SYSTEMS
KANCHOGt - SAR Projecions      KANCHOG - PCR Projecmrns        PABAT - SAR Projecions            RABEAT - PC3 vject ons
Existing    With-project       Existng      With-project        Exisling    With-project          Existing    With-project
aq     ha Rs    ha          Rsaci    to       Rs    ha      RsaLy   ha        RS    ha         Rs aq    ha     Rs    to      Rs
Aveaage size of hdding.                             1.70          2.00              0.60          0.75              1.50          1.75               0.95          1.50
Average area acrpped:                                1.63         2.00              0.64          0.79              1.50          1.75                0.99          1.57
CrcppingIntenslty                                    0.96         1.00              1.06          1.05              1.00          1.00                1.04          1.04
FuAl
dvt.
WoP    wiP
CRCP                              case   case
R8tw  R5Btw
K?urlf g-ains                    9.198  18.786 0.9  0.25   2.03   0.25   4.18  0.9  0.08   0.68             -  0.9            -              -  1.0            -             -
Kharifloctdars                   10.457  36.004 0.9           -             - 0.9  0.01   0.06   0.01   0.42  0.9  0.60   5.65   0.14      4.60  1.0  0.12   1.29   0.08   2.99
Kharifvegetaties                49.795  74.724  1.0  0.11   5.53   0.21  15.92 1.0  0.08   4.08   0.01   0.45  1.0            -   0.12     9.12  1.0  0.04   2.04   0.06   4.63
Flabi g-ains                     4.165   9.311 0.9  1.13   4.22   1.03   8.61  0.9  0.38   1.42   0.35   2.92 0.9  0.90   3.37   0.81      6.82  1.0  0.83   3.44   0.83   7.68  a
FRat llodders                        -      - 0.9             -             - 0.9             -             - 0.9             -              - 1.0             - 0.04 _
Rabivegetables                  40.639  55.145 0.9            -   0.08   4.17 0.9             _             -  0.9            -   0.24    12.11  1.0           -             -
Others                           9.521  16.164  1.0           -             - 1.0             -             - 1.0             -              - 1.0             -             -
Dedckjous fruit - edsling (apfes)    48.442  54.882 0.8  0.04   1.63   0.04   1.84 0.8  0.04   1.47   0.04   1.67  0.8       -               -  0.8            -             -
Dedckjous truft - new (appes) []       147.052 0.7            -   0.13  12.87 0.7             -   0.08   7.82  0.7           -   0.17    17.81  0.7            -   0.12  12.66
Oedcuojus Iruit - new (apres) (111     145.120 0.7            -             -  0.7            -   0.08   7.72 0.7             -              -  0.7            -   0.21  20.93
Oeddjouis Iruit - existing (others)    20.489  35497 0.7  0.04   0.60   0.04   1.04  0.7  0.05   0.73   0.05   1.27  0.7     -               -  0.7            -             -
Dedcijcus ruit - new (others) [I]       36.349 0.7            -   0.13   3.18 0.7             -   0.09   2.26  0.7           -   0.17      4.40  0.7           -   0.06   1.58
Oedcjkcus fruit - new (others) [II]     36.349 0.7                          - -  0.7          -   0.09   2.26  0.7            -              -  0.7            -   0.17   4.20
Sub-ropical truit-existing       15.066  2378   -             _             -   _             _             _   _            _               _    _            _
Sub-ropical ft - new lI                 24.556   -            _             _   _             _             _   _            _               _   _             _
Sub-ropical htut - new [I]              24.556   -            _             _   _             _             _   _            _               _   _             _
Altala-erseem                   21.224  31.044 0.9  0.06   1.15   0.10   2.74  0.9            _             _  1.0            -   0.08     2.51  1.0           -
TOTAL NET REVENJE PER FARM    cOs Rs,)                      15.2         54.5               8.4          26.8               9.0            57.4               6.8          54.7
INCRENENTAL REVENLJEPER FARM   'Cos R4ly                                 39.4                            18.4                             48.4                            47.9
RETURN TO LABCJR CN FARM              RfsWcb                188           376               220           294               176            411                145          350
INCREMENTAL RETUIN TO LABOJR          Rs Wc                               188                              74                              235                             205
TOTAL NET RENENJE PER HECTARE  'Cos R4&W                     8.9          27.3              14.1         35.7               6.0            32 8               7.1          36.4
INCREMENTAS PERCENTAGE OF WoP            %                                260                             217                              536                             708
Family members per househdd           Njmbar          6.5          6.5               6.5           6.5               6.5           6.5                 6.5          6.5
PER CAPITA ANNWIU%L INCOME        WOs R48r                   2.3           8.4              1.3           4.1               1.4             8.8               1.0          8.4
Per capila annual incame (@30 Rsy$)    L6$sr                 78           280                43           137                46             294                35          280
NOTE 1: Fcr simplidty, one series d s3ndYard rrop budgets per hectare have been derhved In Appendx 1, then lirkeo Intc this file.
NOTE 2: Adjustments have been macd toreflectNwying orop pertrmance leves at dileremt locabonsand in dfferentago-climac zones.



PA12 STAN: Balochistan Minor Irrigation and Agrcultural Development Project
FARM LABOUR SUPPLY ANDDEAND  Chal            PCR assumptions                                                                                            Annex 2: Table 2a
FAFRMING SYSTEMIS
e.g. Pul                       e.g. Thal                e.g. Sukleii; Owner-operaicr      e.g. Suklejl; Sharecropper
HIGHIALTITUDE, H-lGH VALLE    MI CE ALTITUDEM       VALUE       LOW ALTITUDE LOW VALUE           LOW ALTITUDE. LOW VALLE
MODEL 1  g. Pui                MODEL 2 e . Thai          MODEL 3 eg.SLkIe i Owner -operator MODEL 4 eg.SulkleI Sharecropper
Existng     With-project       Existing     With-project        Existing    With-project         Existing    Wth-project
LAEOlJR NEEDS                                 any    ha W-days   to W-Chys aBo    ha W-drys   he W-cdys adl  th W-days   ha  W-cays
Average size d hciding                              1.00         1.65              1.40          4.10             0.60          1.60                0.60          1.60
Averags area cropped:                               1.02          1.65              1.76         5.88              0.77         2.24                0.65          1.65
Croping intensity                                   1.02         1.00              1.26          1.43              1.28         1.40                1.09          1.03
Y15 full
develo  ent
WoP    WiP
CROP                             case   case
W-c*?B W-a:th
Kharif g-ains                   53.500  54.196 0.9  0.00   0.20     _      -  1.0     -      -     -      -  1.0  0.04   2.35   0.16     8.78  1.0  0.04   2.35   0.16   8.78
Khari tclfarks                  48.850  49.485 0.9    -      -      -      -1.0       -      -     -       -  1.0  0.16   7.91   0.44    21.53  1.0  0.16   7.91   0.44  21.53  1
Khrifvegelabies                215.300 218.099  1.0  0.14  30.79  0.25  55.18  1.0  0.20  43.49   0.67 146.78  0.8   -      -      -        -  0.8     -      -     -       -a 
Rabi gains                      69.350  70.252 0.9  0.56  34.77  0.53  33.64  1.0  1.48 102.64  4.51 316.69  1.0  0.41  28.09  0.91    63.93  1.0  0.41  28.09  0.91  63.93 L
RabNoddlers                     56.827  57.566 0.9    -      -  0.14   7.41  1.0  0.05   3.07   0.14   7.77  1.0  0.04   2.27   0.12     6.97  1.0  0.04   2.27   0.12   6.97
Rabivegetables                 221.300 224.177 0.9    -      -      -      -  1.0     -      -   0.07  15.02  1.0  0.02   4.43   0.30    67.93  1.0    -      -   0.02   4.48
Others                          55.427 56.878 1.0     -      -  0.04   2.16  1.0     -       -   0.07   3.81  1.0  0.02   1.11   0.12    6.88  1.0     -      -     -      -
Deducx.us srtit - existing  pples)   181.100 189.200  1.0  0.30  53.42  0.30  55.81  0.8  -  -     -      -   -    -        -      -        -   -    -        -     -      -
Deciuais rtit - new (apples) 11]      319.165 1.0     -      -   0.17  53.94 0.8     -       -     -      -   -    -        -      -        -   -    -        -     -      -
Dedjccstrit-new (pcjes) l(l          319.165 1.0     -      -   0.17  53.94 0.8      -      -     -      -   -    -        -      -        -    -    -       -     -      -
Deddicusruui - eAsting (others)   152.390 220.400  1.0  0.02   2.59   0.02   3.75  1.0  0.03   4.11   0.03   5.95   -    -  -      -        -   -    -        -     -      -
DedciicusruiI-new(oUhers)[l]          227.260 1.0     -      -  0.02   3.86  1.0      -      -   0.14  30.68      -      -     -       -      -    -      -      -          -
DedckjousuiL - new (olhers) [I1]      227.260 1.0     -      -      -      -  1.0     -      -   0.14  30.68   -    -       -      -        -   -    -        -     -       -
Sub-tcpical Iruit - exsting    179.440 221.040   -    -      -      -      -   -     -       -     -      -  1.0  0.01   2.51   0.00     0.66  1.0    -       -     -      -
Sub-ropical frut - new (1]            247.500   -    -       -     -       -   -     -       -     -      -  1.0     -      -   0.03     7.43  1.0     -      -     -      -
Sub-topical ruit - new l1]            247.500   _-        -     -      -    -    -       -         -      -  1.0     -      -   0.03     7.43  1.0    -       -     -      -
AifalIafberseem                144.940 146.825 0.9  0.01   1.04   0.02   2.25  1.0    -      -   0.14  19.82  1.0  0.06   8.84   0.12    17.77  1.0    -      -     -       -
TOTALLAROURNEEDSFORFARM               L-ctf           -  122.8      -  271.9         -  153.3      -  577.2          -   57.5     -    209.3          -   40.6      -  105.7
TOTAL LABOUR NEED PER HECTARE         L-c4r               119.9        164.8              87.0          98.1             75.1            93.6              62Z4          64.1
INCREMENTAL LABoLu                                                       149                            424                               152                              65
FAMILY LABOUR AVAILABLE         270.00 L-dc*         2.0  540.0   2.0  540.0        2.0  540.0   2.0  540.0         1.5  405.0   1.5    405.0        1.5  405.0   1.5  405.0



PAI$STAN: Balochisten Minorlrrigation andAgncutural Deveopment Project
FARM LABOUJR SIPPLY AND DEMANDF (h)          PCF crop perfcrmance                                                                                      Annex 2: Table 2b
FAF4IING SYSTEMS
KANCHOG - SAR Projecbns        KANCfIlU - PCR Projectons      RABAT - SA4H irojectins          FABAT - PCRojec2cts
Existng     With-project       Exisling     With-project       Existing    With-project         Existing    Wth-project
LABOLJR 1EEDS                                 adj    ha     Rs    ha      Rs adj   ha       Rs    ha     Rs adj   ha       Rs    ha       Rs adj   ha       Rs    ha     Rs
Avarage size of hdoing:                             1.70         2.00              0.60         0.75              1.50          1.75               0.95          1.50
Average area cropped:                               1.63         2.00              0.64          0.79             1.50          1.75                0.99         1.57
Cpping Intensity                                    0.96          1.00             1.06          1.05             1.00          1.00                1.04         1.04
Y15 full
dcdvelo  ant
WoP  WP
CROP                             case   case
W-r$he W-Ckhe
Kharit g-ains                   53.500  54.196 0.9  0.25  11.80  0.25  lZ05 0.9  0.08   3.95       -      -  1.0     -      -     -        -  1.0     -      -     -      -
Kharitfladders                  48.850  49.485 0.9    -      -      -      - 0.9  0.01   0.26   0.01   0.58  1.0  0.60  29.31   0.14     7.03  1.0  0.12   6.01   0.08   4.11
Krifvegetabes                  215.300 218.099 1.0  0.11  23.90  0.21  46.46  1.0  0.08  17.65  0.01   1.31  1.0     -      -   0.12    26.61  1.0  0.04   8.83   0.06  13.52
FRabl gains                     69.350  70.252 0.9  1.13  70.34   1.03  64.93 0.9  0.38  23.66   0.35  22.00 1.0  0.90  8;242  0.81    57.18  1.0  0.83  57.21   0.83  57.96
Raoi lodders                    56.827  57.566 0.9    -      -      -      - 0.9     -       -     -      - 1.0     -       -     -        -  1.0     -      -   0.04   2.36  r.
Rablvegetales                  221.300 224.177 0.9    -      -   0.08  16.95 0.9     -       -     -      -  1.0     -      -   0.24    54.70  1.0    -      -     -      -
Others                          55427 56.878 1.0      -      -      -      -  1.0    -       -     -      -  1.0    -       -     -        -  1.0     -      -     -      -
Dedckous fruit - ewdstng (pples)   181.100 189.200 1.0  0.04   7.61   0.04   7.95  1.0  0.04   6.88   0.04   7.19 0.9  -    -     -        -  0.9     -      -     -      -
Dedious trult-new(aples)[(1           319.165  1.0    -      -   0.13  39.90  1.0    -       -   0.08  24.26 0.9     -      -   0.17    49.69 0.9     -      -   0.12  35.33
Dedcucus frult - new (pples) [II]     319.165  1.0    -      -      -      -  1.0    -       -   0.08  24.26 0.9    -       -     -        -  0.9     -      -   0.21  59.17
Dedcduistrut-existing (cthers)   152.390 220.400 1.0  0.04   6.40   0.04   9.26  1.0  0.05   7.77   0.05  11.24 1.0  -      -     -        -  1.0     -      -     -      -
Dedkjousfruht-new(otlers)[I]          227.260  1.0    -      -   0.13  28.41  1.0    -       -   0.09  20.23 1.0    -       -   0.17    39.32  1.0    -      -   0.06  14.09
edcijousirutt- new (others) [ll]      227.260  1.0    -      -      -      -  1.0    -       -   0.09  20.23  1.0   -       -     -        -  1.0     -      -   0.17  37.50
Sub-ropical klt-existing       179.440 221.040   -    -      -      -      -   -     -      -      -      -   -    -        -     -        -   -    -        -     -      -
Sub-topical fruit - new (Ij           247.500   -    -       -     -       -   -     -      -      -      -   -    -        -     -        -   -    -        -     -      -
Sub-topical fruit - new [II]          247.500   -    -       -      -      -   -     -      -      -      -   -    -        -     -        -   -    -        -     -      -
Alalfaber5seem                 144.940 146.825 0.9  0.06   7.83   0.10  12.95 0.9    -       -     -      -  1.0     -      -   0.08    11.89  1.0    -      -      -      -
TOTALLABOURtEEDS FORFARM              L-dW            -  127.9      -  238.8          -   60.2     -  131.3          -   91.7     -    246.4          -   72Z0     -  224.0
TOTALLABOUJR WEEDPERFiECTARE          L-qJr                78.6        119.2              94.3         167.0             61.2           140.9             72.9         143.0
INCF1EMENTAL LABOLfR                                                     111                             71                              155                             152
FAMILY LABOUI AVAILABLE         270.00 L-d'Y         2.0  540.0   2.0  540.0        2.0  540.0   2.0  540.0        1.5  405.0   1.5   405.0         1.5  405.0   1.5  405.0



PAl(STAN: 8aJochistan Minor lrngation andAgricultural Development Project
FARM LABOUR SUPPLY AND DEMAND  (ha)           SAR crop perfrrmance                                                                                        Annex 2: Table 2c
FAFbtlING SYSTEMS
KANCHO-C  - SAR Projectons     KANCHOG-I  - PCR Projectons     RABEAT - SAR Prjoections          PEAT - PCR Projectons
Existing     With-project      Existing     With-project        Existing    With-project          Existing    With-project
LA9OlJR NEEDS                                 adl    ha      Rs    to      R  sadj   ha       s    hea    Rs a/   hea    Rs    ha           Rs ad/   ha       Rs    ha      Rs
Average size cd hdding:                             1.70          2.00              0.60          0.75              1.50          1.75                0.95          1.50
Average area cropped:                                1.63         2.00              0.64          0.79              1.50          1.75                0.99          1.57
ropping intensiy                                    0.96          1.00              1.06          1.05              1.00          1.00                1.04          1.04
WOP    Wtip
CRCP                              case   case
W-d4ha W-djiSa
Kharif gralns                   36.000  53.000 0.9  0.25   7.94   0.25  11.78 0.9  0.08   2.66       -      -  0.9    -       _     _         -  1.0    -       -     -      -
Khari todders                   23.000  36.000 0.9     -      -      -      - 0.9  0.01   0.12   0.01   0.42  0.9  0.60  1Z42   0.14       4.60  1.0  0.12   2.83   0.08   2.99
Kharifvegetables               100.000 102.000  1.0  0.11  11.10  0.21  21.73  1.0  0.08   8.20   0.01   0.61  1.0    -       -   0.12    12.44  1.0  0.04   4.10   0.06   6.32
Rabl gains                      48.000  45.000 0.9  1.13  48.69   1.03  41.59 0.9  0.38  16.37   0.35  14.09 0.9  0.90  38.88   0.81    32.97  1.0  0.83  39.60   0.83  37.13  un
Rabl lodders                        -       - 0.9      -      -      -      - 0.9      -      -     -       - 0.9     -       -     -         -  1.0    -       -   0.04     -
Fablvegetables                 100.000 100.000 0.9     -      -   0.08   7.56 0.9     -       -     -       -  0.9    -       -   0.24    21.96  1.0    -      -      -
Others                          25.583 28.000 1.0      -      -      -      - 1.0      -      -     -       - 1.0     -       -     -         - 1.0     -      -      -      -
DedukroLjs fruit - existing (apples)   181.100 189.200 0.8  0.04   6.08   0.04   6.36  0.8  0.04   5.51   0.04   5.75  0.8  -  -    -         -  0.8    -      -      -      -
Dedckjous fruit - new aples) [I]       319.165 0.7     -      -   0.13  27.93 0.7     -       -   0.08  16.98 0.7     -       -   0.17    38.65  0.7    -      -   0.12  27.48
Decdcosis ruit - new (apples) [II]     319.165 0.7     -      -     -       -  0.7    -       -   0.08  16.98 0.7     -       -     -        -  0.7     -      -   0.21  46.02
Deditous fruit - exisling (others)   152.390 220.400 0.7  0.04   4.48   0.04   6.48  0.7  0.05   5.44   0.05   7.87 0.7  -   -     -        -  0.7     -      -      -      -
Dedckjous fruit - new (others) [I]     227.260 0.7     -      -   0.13  19.89 0.7     -       -   0.09  14.16 0.7     -       -   0.17    27.52  0.7    -      -   0.06   9.86
Decdduos fruit - new (others) [III     227.260 0.7     -      -     -       -  0.7    -       -   0.09  14.16 0.7     -      -      -        -  0.7     -      -   0.17  26.25
Sub-ropicalfruit-existing      179.440 221.040   -    -       -     -       -   -     -       -     -      -   -    -        -      -        -    -    -       -      -      -
Sub-ropical Iruit-new [I]              247.500   -    -       -     -       -   -     -       -     -       -   -    -        -     -        -    -    -       -      -      -
Sub-ropical fruit-new [Il]             247.500   -    -       -     -       -   -     -       -     -       -   -    -        -     -        -    -    -       -      -      -
AlaffIaberseem                  40.000  18.000 0.9  0.06   2.16   0.10   1.59 0.9      -      -     -       -  1.0    -       -   0.08     1.46  1.0    -       -     -      -
TOTALLABOCURfNEEDSFORFARM             L-dSr            -   80.4     -  144.9          -   38.3      -   91.0          -   51.3      -    139.6          -   46.5      -  156.1
TOTAL LABOLJR NEED PER HECTARE        L-d w                49.4          72.3              60.0         115.8              34.2            79.8              47.0          99.6
INCRE?AEN4TAL LABDLJR                                                      64                              53                               88                             110
FAMILYLABOLR AVAILAELE          270.00 L-ct%         2.0  540.0   2.0  540.0         2.0  540.0   2.0  540.0         1.5  405.0   1.5    405.0         1.5  405.0   1.5  405.0






- 67 -
ANNEX 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1243-PAK)
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS



r~~~~ _                                                                         = 
u    lll   ll                        VC; l  ll l  ll  lllll  l        lll           z
3-      ,ll                  >           ,       ,l                 ,       ,ll   ,      3
.. . .....       ...               . ......0
U,  Nl                                             NO   11 U 11 O       11  
D2   D    D-N  U_ Us :DO -:r                 o                                           -          
0Noo 0 N 0 .    -  0  ah.ON                        aOeWo  NN-O-  0MUU   NOO_            2 
N 0                -o s.     a   o              NN0   0& a                            2YaO s   
oooOOOo ooOoO  NNO oo o*eNoooN                                           NNODe    eeooo 
00.  o0...O~OI0............N.......N0OO                                I
oo000000aNaOoa                ......NN................O 
-.o O - o-.eoaouNu-                             N-e- 0s NN 0000      o    NSON a          N    
-     -O0-eo   0OO- O  -NO N  N,             0 U-gN Ooooo0               Ntu   5
a  2~~~~~~~~~~0 
N0 ........   ... ............    IN                                                N    0
O O o - s ~ ~        ~       ~ ~ Z  - e s    YNUooo   U-fssNo>-oS ; _   Is 8IN
0   0O   02 - s. -              e  So22  N a   N 00 OOO   o        0NSou       2OOOO2
O 0 cee NNOCOe NNN               NNo Noeo         0eeo   oo00         eeeooe 
00                                                             00       QuOu              ZY-                      ONOCON   2  OO
0   O0~ 8      22                          ~ ~00     2              8         NESO    o           
O        oroo  OOOOOO N N No   8N 8OSN                         oY000S         0  2; 
-~  -                ONON  009O-
SE
-. ..........................................I
1            '     5Z42              22'   2  2    00   8'  0 2a   2 2 ;Z.Z :a t:22   u 
. .............0.......... P ........I........
.  .............................000000 
.  .. .... ....        ...      OO......N  ...... 
O  N~~~~*O22   ~~~~~  I0-INOII-IIOIINIIO                     I INCOS I IN O I Io I N
*O 000000000000000000000000090



- 69 -
N       NNOaOOt  N               O       N      a                             0 N**  
000.0..         ......0.0.......0~f0
X NN      aO      O      ^e      Oa OO  NO  Nan   0 a 0 _N    0 *-oeoN 00
~~~~~~2 0 0              N                 O   aO O   tNO O'N0 tetb0N   O NCa-O
.900 C C-             ...-  0 ......C.00-
....O                                       ct.....,.
e O   n O     000.N 00.  O CCCOOtNo oN             *N .9     _      nO N   a
Z  . . . .-.. ..... . 
*  -     0N0~...........    -------
........ .........
O 0        0               r O                         ,- O     -  .0      . . . . . . . .
000*0.             S 0.. ..............
0..0.000       00..00..0.    0          f..00-  00.
00   00 O0                  0  0    00  0  00    OaOO^        -    0  0   00000qw ON 
-; N-f   -  0           Ot O       0       - 1   *0 N         aNa              N00  S  
O  NN O N                                 0 O-.9       wOONONwwts          
Z        *^er           Ne6N        bel sNa00       Ns  0 0  -        00  N4
*    O N - O    N  w  e n  s N   O O                                             - 1  N N O
O-                                 -           O 
t                            0        0 a0                  "toNf              
J~~~    ~~~~                     0 O0        o_oooN1                   |     
C                                               N9 I              
COOwONNONN-      1               
3    No  ^ >Z  ow  NN  -o  -          .  9O  a_  NO       N OO  S      .. N N   Oa 
S  i                                       o_ootoN    6F#       
2~~~~ 1                                                                  N     1               NN_f   >NOssw@w- .e 
-                   -i OO0i  O                         IOa   KNoF   OON
g~~~ a N_ E"     oon  ionI            N  _   n
o~~~*~ ^ oo-o   _O_aoo   -_N na    OON 



I            tIFt 
.    .    .                 .  .    .  .    .    .     .    .    .    .    .  F ,   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   . .    .    .}
lik~~~~~~~~ .XSF8  .22 82S 2 2 .           2     iS .St .ulill_ _  .- .  . .S_   . .    .     .  .    ., '. .'. 
o.                                                           .            . .    I . . . .    . . .
I   ,  w   "       . w o  ~ '   ' 3    Ip .p. ,  . . .     ",    o. , ' o . .  o ,, o,    o,     o . . ...
b   H           111                         II    II    II    II         1111   "o9 ___o          'o.ooo1  1114 oHI   ,       
..........                    0.... ..............                             .       *...
-   j   .                        0b v0 b40(4440(.. .                      0            0 . . .    . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  - . . . . . .   . . . . .  -o . . . b.-
b   o   V   O      . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . o- .              .,.   . . .  . . .. . .
o I                       b                                                           -  _-  V~I  V I  IHIHIIHI  H  4
Z   O   o   _ > ~ O b .  : O- " O             . .    . .      .  - . - . . . -. -. ..  . . .
V- 1_ 0 V 0                          oV _i                                                        b,,_oovo*b-fv  o~~| ,Oe   a.
0o4   00 1( S(ZJ                            O00"0001                      01o4oo0N00 110  >   o"oo so   oo    o i
_~~~~~~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  D; . .  ,o . . . . . . . ., . . 
.0D M O D D s ~ O O - " D V "" D b D ^ lo ~ ; . .-.V. . . 0.'.4.4.1...1 . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .          . . . . . .d . . . . . . . . .w  ~
V ^} D sO - V   01- . .0  . . . .- -. . . . 0- ..    - .  .....-...                        0 0 
... ...-...                             - =01.........................0
_4   *                        S         _.. . D . .                                            00V.........0 -.O... .. ..
..............   -                     ...........
.      ...         0.... .....                       . .... .... ........
*     . ........              ......400 *  . -04    ...........
0   *   '      .. .. . .. ..-.-.. . .-...
0                                                                                       2~~~-O



- 71 -
SUMMARY OF SCHEME RATES OF RETURN & IRRIGATION WATER                         Annex 3,Table 4.
(summary]
Irrigation water diverted
SCHEME                Areacropped  EIRR  Type of   WoP supply  WIP supply  Increment Incremental
ha     % headworks        cusecs       cusecs     cusecs benefits Yr 15
Aghbarg                        460    -2      S               6.5          9.0        2.5           3.3
Ali Khanzai                     51      2     G               1.0          1.4        0.4           0.5
Arambi Manda Karezes           231      6     K               5.5          6.5         1.0          2.7
Ari Pir                        541    -4      W               5.5         11.0        5.5           5.1
China                           29    -3      K               0.9          1.1        0.2           0.9
Daryazai                       167      4     W               2.0          4.0        2.0           1.6
Dilsura                         87      3     G               1.8          2.3        0.5           1.7
Duki Viala                     563      7   W+G               6.5         11.0        4.5           3.0
Gachina                        194      1    W                5.0          7.0        2.0           1.1
Gulistan Karezes               326    21      K               3.0          7.7        4.7           6.9
Hanna                           15      3     S               0.1          0.5        0.4           1.2
Kanchogi                       124      1     W               2.5          3.5         1.0          3.2
Kan Mehterzai                  162    15      S               3.0          4.5        1.5           3.5
Katan                          194    -3      G               3.0          4.5        1.5           1.4
Khajjak                       1172    12      W              20.0         30.0       10.0           7.0
Kingri                         150      5     W               1.5          2.5        1.0           2.5
Kuria Wasta                     74      4     W               1.5          2.5        1.0           1.5
Lukh Abdul Rehman                8   -14      W               1.0          1.8        0.8           0.1
Mir Ali Khel                    88      1      1              0.1          3.0        2.9           1.6
Mishkabel                      335    12       1              7.5         12.0        4.5           5.9
Muiillah Ahmed Kareze           44      4     K               0.5          1.0        0.5           0.6
Nath                           106    -3      W               1.5          2.0        0.5           0.8
Nigong                         350      1     G               4.0          6.0        2.0           4.0
Pechi                           46    17      S               1.2          1.5        0.3           2.6
Pelar                          150   -13      W               2.0          4.0        2.0           0.6
Pui                            391    19      S               5.0          9.0        4.0          11.1
Rabat                           76      0     G               1.0          1.5        0.5           2.2
Saliaza                        484    11      W               8.0         14.0        6.0           5.8
Sangori Matwarkh               456    -2      W               2.0          8.0        6.0           4.8
Sehan                          244      8     G               2.5          4.5         2.0          5.4
Sharik                         349    17      W               3.0          7.0         4.0          4.6
Sorh                           122    14       P               1.0         4.0         3.0          1.2
Sukleji                       1112      3     W               12.0        24.0        12.0          7.6
Thal                           437    15      W                1.5         4.0         2.5          4.2
Tor Khula Kibzal               581      4     W                7.0        13.0         6.0          6.3
Tor Murgha                     328    33      G                3.0         8.0         5.0          9.6
Tor Shah                       272    13       1               2.0         5.0         3.0          6.1
Uriagi                         338    14      K               3.5          5.5         2.0          4.0
Wahi                            83    -7      G                0.0         1.0         1.0          0.7
Zandra                          66    14      S                1.5         2.3         0.8          2.8
Zehri                          492    15      G               8.0          9.0         1.0          7.0
Zum Shah Murad                  29    10      S               0.4          0.8         0.4          1.2
TOTALS & AVERAGES            11525    6.2                   148.5        260.9      112.4         148.0
G = Gallery, I = Free Intake,  K = Kareze,  P = Pump,  S = Sprlng,  W = Weir



- 72 -
PAKISTAN: Balochistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project
SUMMARY OF SCHEME PATES OF RETURN BY TYPE OF DIVERSION STRUCTURE                                   Annex 3, Table 5.
[summafys]
SCHEME                 Cropped    EIRR  Type of  EIRR by group Comments
Area (ha)      % headworks                 %
Ali Khanzal                    51       2     G                      Gallery is sunk cost
Dilsura                        87       3     G                      Gallery is sunk cost
Katan                         194    -3       G
Nigong                        350       1     G
Rabat                          76       0     G
Sehan                         244       8     G
Tor Murgha                    328      33     G                      Repairs only to gallery
Wahi                           83    -7       G
Zehr                          492      15     G                    6
Mir Ali Khel                   88       1      1
Mishkabel                     335      12      1
TorShah                       272      13      1                   9
Arambi Manda Karezes          231       6     K
China                          29    -3       K
Gulistan Karezes              326      21     K
Mullah Ahmed Kareze            44       4     K
Uriagi                        338      14     K                    8
Sorh                          122      14     P                   14
Aghbarg                       460    -2       S
Hanna                          15       3     S
Kan Mehterzal                 162      15     S
Pechi                          46      17     S
Pul                           391      19     S
Zandra                         66      14     S
Zum Shah Murad                 29      10     S                   11
Ari Pir                       541    -4       W
Daryazal                      167       4     W
Gachina                       194       1     W
Kanchogi                      124       1     W
Khajjak                      1172      12     W                      Weir not included in project
Kingri                        150       5     W
Kuria Wasta                    74       4     W
Lukh Abdul Rehman               8   -14       W
Nath                          106    -3       W
Pelar                         150   -13       W
Saliaza                       484      11     W                      Weir is sunk cost
Sangori Matwarkh              456    -2       W
Sharik                        349      17     W                      Weir is sunk cost
Sukleji                      1112       3     W
Thal                          437      15     W                      Only repairs to weir
Tor Khula Klbzai              581       4     W
Duki Viala                    563       7   W+G                    3 Weir, gallery and upper channel not included in project
AVERAGE EIRR                          6.2  %
G = Gallery, I = Free intake,  K = Kareze,  P = Pump,  S = Spring,  W = Weir



PAKISTAN. Ba.ochisen Minor lrrigtonandAgrrcultural Dtewlp.ent Project
SUMMARIES BY SCHEME                                                                                                                                                                                                      AnnusS, TabIa 6
Cost  EIM    wremandedare a   CostJta   Croppedarea           Cost/ha     Beneids Benelis/crop aea       BC                            Comments
Scheme                 AJMMRs      %         ac    ha GoCRs   USS               hea OOOS    USS       RsU/oA   bOXs/rhs  USY1ha    P. tio
Kan  ehr*Mi               6 9    8.9        472    189    36  1216             124    56   1852         42 0   338 7    11290      6 1   Compact high salues scheme, miain yinenrpensive channel linng
Uragi                    12 8    14.0       782   313    41  1364              338    38   1263         53 4   158 0     5266      4 2    H.gh .ciu simpy scheme.
Khagak                   41.1    11.9      2219    838    46  1544            1172    35   1169        132.3   1128      3762      32    Laige-scb. beeitsIaltailendlrom modesivaliecrops siglnfcarl
Salea                    21.1   11.3       1138   455    46  1548              484    44   1455         845    1745      5817      40    Largesceb. beelitsat loWerend from high alue crops signlicant
Hannas                    9.9    2.5        470    188    53  1756               15   660  22002        13.9  926 7    30889       1 4   Present berreits low ineopens,w channel lining only should resul in high nalue orchards.
Du1dVe.                  25 3    7.2       1065   426    59  1983              563    45   1501         52.7    93 7     3122      2 1   Large scheme, with re Ibe -terabsltcton (,neirA g lberylassunkCosts.
Pui                      15 6    19.4       596   238    66 2184               391    40   1332        134.4   343 7    11458      8 6    High v-e cropping, b_ cost channel lining only actibe co-munily.
Golislan aKenes          19.4   20.8        666   266    73 2426               326    59   1983         97.7   2997      990       50    High  elve croppng, lo.wcostchanel lining only, acti,e community
Tor Mufgta               11.6   33.2        363    145    80 2664              328    35   1180        134.1   409 3    13642     11 6   High aI.w cropping, lo cost channel lining idh remnol of srgnc.anl bottleneck. deBltry repairs only
ArambrMandaKanrezs       150     5.9        470    188    80  2665             231    65   2166         306    1323      4409      20    Highnal.ecropping rq cost chaenellinrfg only.acIrWirve rnmunny
Sharik                   23.4   17.1        723   289    81  2697              349    67   2235         79 8   228 7     7622      3.A    Weiracross Zhob rwr sunk cost Chanrellioing del.ers more _ar to high wive cfops, but supply unrelabb
Mishiabel                22.4   12.3        683   273    82 2729               335    67   2226         78 8   235 2     7841      3 5    Actie high Ivale croppngarea, channel lining only.
Zehri                    23.7   14 6        697   279    85 2839               492    48   1609        100 1   203.5     6782      4 2    Active high wa le croppingarea. chanrel liningand one blng syphon only.
G-arhe                   19.0    0.6        540   216    88 2929                194    98   3264        21.1   108 9     3629      1 1    Low cost engireering buht bnd lii,ntg andcrop wvale modest.
Tor Shah                 16 8    12.8       453   181    93 3091               272    62   2063         76 5   281 8     9392      4 6    High salue cropping, but free inmare on rheracceses unreaibt flo-s, therefore much wheat
Sorh                      83    14.4        218    87    95 3154                122    66   2254        235    1926      6421      28    Pumpscheme. butnoltchrap. Highswivenegebbb croppmg (closeto Karachi) butreinly bemeting-csarr
Agtbarg                  47.8  -1.6        1068   427    112 3730              460   104   3464         38.9    84 6     2819      08    Hlgh alue CroppDonW bmg corkeyar,e (15 km) anc expensne engmee ring
Tor Khula Kiba.          57.5    4.0       1270   508    113 3774              581    99   3300         93 1   160 2     5341      16    Erpensih weir on Zhob tIr, nOms unreliab*, with plor history ol sedentary agicunure
Pechi                     4.6   16.8         95    38   121 4347                46   101   3377         282   619 1   20637        6 1   High ilve croppingarea, but increased no.eopensioelyacquired                                     _
Sukteli                 100.2    3.1       2001    800   125 4174             1112    90   3005        144.6   1300      4335      1.4   Largeenlensne scheme, butI..walve cropping due to probiemsofcl-aae, hndten.reandaccess.         LO
ThaI                     25.1   15.5        490    196   128 4265              437    57   1913         773    176.9    5866       3.1    Unrelable 6low in rier, plus hnd tenures65es-IwIt riltupblre of high are vegefables.
Mulbh AhmedKareme         5.2    4.3        100    40   129 4304                44   118   3949          83    1904      6346      16    SmIl high alve scheme with dwindling wat supply de to groundncterabsticcion upstream
Alr KIanni                4.8    2.1         80    32   150 4998                51    94   3136          64   125 5      4183      13    SmIt scheme. channel hning exPensie n relation to enl octer deluered.
Zandra                    8.8   14.0        142    57   154 5141                66   133   4425        338   512.1    17071        39    Hlghvali. cropping acirmgrcnmurnvy. bLIcronel linngexpenrisme s-a-saddoional wlar
Clryeiai                 19.2    3.6        286    114   168 5584              167   115   3825         28 6   171 3     5709      15    Land Fnure. chrmae and access ill limil upbke of high alue cropping
Sehan                    28 9     7.5       429   172   168 5607               244    116   3940        77 0   315 3    10511      2 7   Reotahely wreopens,ve scheme, high sOl.e cropping possibe, but presently soiled due 1o dSpules
Kmngri                   19.4    5.3        275    110   176 5882              150   129   4313         38 1   240 7     8022      19    High salve cropping poss.ble. butnepenson eng.irerigand long debys i consrhuction
loth                     159   -3.2         212    85   188 6267               106   151   5033         108   102.3      3409      07    S-il scheme, reroute, wdh epen.e difficult conveyance chnnel
LukhAbdulP Iehman         63    -14          75    30   209 6973                  8   747  24905         06    952       3175      0 1   Enp-ns  eweir, limited ledand -eworers Poor scheme
5angorl Wt-arkh          808   -1.5         924   370   219  7286              456    177   5906        701   153.7    5124        09    Eopensive hirr relaon to dverod Pennel flow
Kurr W9asr 11.0    38                      122    49   226  7522               74   149   4956         182   2457       8191      17    Smanll Crere. ilhcroppnglimlredbyhmdle.ress
Zum Shah Murad            5.7    9.7         63    25   226 7544                29   197   6555         IS 7   541 4    18046      2 8    Smell scheme, high alue cropping. bu.etpens,e conveyance channel.
Katan                    36.0   -28         390    156   231  7699              194   186   6191        25 1   1294      4313      0.7    Peii-urbn scheme, pan-time farmers. sufferedswrs debysinconstruc-ion
Nigong                   46.6    1.1        488    195   239  7953             350    133   4441        55 3   158 2     5273      12    Expensioe geleryin unreleable rnereetnsere coveyance sysem
Ratba                    22.9    0.5        239    96   240 7999                76   302  I0062         24 7   3250    10833       1 1   Greatly redcedhlow, Weto upstreamrabslwction. Highly nerlubte sharing ofl,er.
Dilsum                   13 9    3.2        132    53   263 8777                87   160   5327         20 0   229 9     7663      14   Limitd -rler with -any riser crossings in high salue croppngaea.
Kanchogi                 27 9    3.3        249    100   280 9338              162   172   5741         30 5   189 3     6276      1 1   Epensisre weir andagqduct on unrelwhe rner. Coney-oce problems suere therelore much lor salve wheat
MirAli.hel               20.8    0.9        170    68   306 10210               88   237   7907         238   271 1      9036      1.1   Eopensiseand debyedengineering. Croppingoptions lireidbyclimaleandaccess.
Wahi                     260   -69          179    72   362 12082               83   313  10423         12.1   145.8     4859      05    Costsofdeliueringwaleroutofah proportbontoamountandbenelitsl Poorscheme.
Pelbr                    39.8   -13         239    96   416 13877               150   265   8844         7.7    513      1711      02    Costs ofdehveringwateroutofall proportion P-,rscherme. Seere conveyane probtems, losalve cropping
China                    139   -3.0          61    24   569 18966               29   479  15957         10.1   3483    11609       07    Highswlve cropping. butengireering costspushedup by construltonof ater tanks
A,iPi,                  1559   -4.4         662   265   589 19926              541   288   9606         968    178.6    5952       06   Veryape.nsie, mapproprstwe irandcos-lyagisdpcts wherepwoinglrom rrerwouldtbe more costel enti
TOTALS a AVERAGES   X1137         6.1            8798    129  4.308          1525      88   3289      2149      186      6216      I 9



PAKISTAN: Balochistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project
COMPARISON OF EIRR WITH CAPITAL COST/Ha
40
10
20 
C  10
L-mj           ~~~~~~~~CD
x
- 20   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                            O  2.  32. 2Q325cD
41459 7. '80' 182588 39~J,t1211M)-9~
Capital cost of schemes per commanded hectare('00ORs/ha)



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1243-PAK)
COMMENTS BY KFW






- 77 -
20 JUN 1994 12:20  From CCT-FAX* 06974312944 KfW Frankfurt  To 0:0012024771871
SEITEIPAGE 1 VON/OF 2, #57765
KfW Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
Postfach 11 11 41
60046 Frankfurt am Main
Telefon (069) 74 31-0
World Bank                               officer in
Attn: Mr. P. Streng                      charge:              Seizer
Senior Economist SA3AG                   our ref.:            Sel/spl11668
Washington, USA                          extension:           3243
date:               20.06.94
Telefax number: 001-202-477 1871
L III a / German Financial Cooperation with PAKISTAN
Balochistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural
Development Project (82 65 472)
Project Completion Report
Ref.: Your letter dated 23.5.1994
Dear Mr. Streng,
First of all we would like to express our appreciation for the comprehensive and
thorough report which has been prepared. We concur with your list of lessons to
be learned from this project.
We enclose a number of comments where we have to some degree a different
opinion or suggest a different emphasis.
page iii, para 5: We suggest to add "as well as from unsolvable tribal conflicts" to
the last sentence, as this was also a major delaying factor. [Added to para 3
instead. SA3AG]
page iii, para 8, second sentence: Please add "; KfW will consider a further
extension to ensure completion of the schemes."
page v, para 1 5: In our view the major delaying factor during the first half of the
project was the fact that the concept of a Project Management Cell did not work as
anticipated, because the GoBal departments were not prepared to second qualified
staff into a PMC. This was in our understanding the real, underlying reason for the
staff shortage.
page 6, para 5.6, last sentence: In our view the arrangements with the WUAs did
not stipulate that Dl carries out major repairs, from its own funds - in our
understanding the farmers would be expected to pay for such repair work.



- 78 -
20 JUN 1994 12:21  From *CCT-FAX' 06974312944 KfW Frankfurt  To 0:0012024771871
SEITE/PAGE 2 VON/OF 2, #57765
page 7, para 5.9: As far as the schemes which we have financed and visited are
concerned, we do not support the statement that the designs were "too
conservative" or "overdesigned". We think that most of the suggested alternatives
(bulldozers etc.) are not sustainable solutions under the Balochistan circumstances.
page 14, para 7.2: According to our information farmers of BMIADP schemes are
exempted from abiana payments.
page 14, para 7.3: 10% capital cost recovery has been superseded by higher
demands.
pages 15/1 6, paras 10.1/10.2: In our view different loan effectiveness was not
really a delaying factor during the project start, the problem lay with poor
performance of GoBal and WAPDA.
page 16, para 11 .3: The problems with the lack of institutional strengthening are
outside of the competence of TAT, this is a matter of GoBal commitment and the
donors insisting on it. TAT has been very active in training WUAs for their
functions; this should be added.
We hope you will find our comments useful and constructive.
Yours sincerely,
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU
sgd. Dr. Mussig         sgd. Kullmer
Last Page: Total Page(s) 2



- 79 -
ANNEX 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1243-PAK)
COMMENTS BY NMDC






- 81 -
AMBASSADE VAN HET KONINKRIJK DER NEDERLANDEN
ROYAL NETHERLANDS EMBASSY                     c.c. Ms. E. Herfkens, World Bank
Economic Division                             DAL/CO, DMP/MZ
4200 Linnean Avenue N.W.
Washington D.C. 20008
Tel. (202) 244-5300
Telefax (202) 966-0737
EA-gsb                                        June 16, 1994
Mr. Peter Streng
Senior Economist
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Dept. III
South Asia Region
Room MC 10-377
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Re: Pakistan/Balochistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project.
Project Completion Report.
Dear Mr. Streng:
With reference to your letter of May 23, 1994, on the above mentioned subject, the
Netherlands authorities agree with the project completion report, but they would like to have
the total Netherlands contribution to the project included at an appropriate place to be
determined by the Bank.
tWSincerely Yours,
Jan Heidsma,
Economic Counselor.






32'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Be                                                                                                                                                       INWFP
I032                                                              64 ~'680
*                                                              PAKISTAN                                                                                                                 NWFP
/              BALOCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                   .             9  j                    i
PROJECT AREA                                                                                         K.-'
NOIINT LAT1 ''N At4 LA,ItCT Afl ViItitC       * 't  Tf 1      N l,IC                                                    Z
i    -1 esL  I  AheA I  tR1 J I   I    sVIITISS    0    '111V1- AL --l IFLr                              ~          _    Qt                              /1f
It IA t, A ttAA ,AL I nO ItA C Nt I AM                                       I A I I I                                                 TI A1
I, ANt - tItt Ate\ PI                                                                                                B I    H  I
*\'          ,'                                                    AFGHANISTAN    ~--Nsz#tZY-101                                       Mson                A N1
ISIAMIC REP.           UhJ 
IRAN\. '  Xr < --- 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AII I8             I I IC I                                               /1 1) INAAL I                    /1  I . I,Mh
tWntl,t hd dutlot 1>,AJACt *AtttAAem,Atat4A,' AcGuntdtg   T         K   H   A   R  A        IN          ;5         S11/d                                                          f 
to agrened rereAters                                  \wt                                            / J        - 
* AATAoundatrt teottrge attA water e, 'td"tg  hRttt\//   
so A-rlFS cOt u,I SS,tt , t. IC aNre1 AottIde Ihe  |        \                                   /tA        //          /                j
ndlcAAtOOtAted Dcltatea  Ttre .rKt,rU-rNtWl aNAd  J/
K LMEdtERS                                                                                                                                                      on I) 1a1 t 1q-1lew th,sIr mdent fied dorkF5fS n / / I T otes i
0 10I/uDRimply   on  t   port of
0__50_150_________________|                                                                                                                                                  ony judgment on thet legol
u tLK5_-SP                                                          UR       a                                          j~                                    bocptpiosnc  of such
j               |        T ~~~~~~~~~               ~         ~~~              ~         ~~U  E     T  T    A                           SQE;AGAITtA ArP.
ISLAMIC  REP.                                                                                             Bh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISAI  DE   urugtsu
.OF                                                                                                       -                  / J    / L  A C  HI          E                       t'A (
s             ~~~~~I                                                                                                                                                      A->^>-  \ /  -/*'SzAD 
IRAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ne
28_                                            KA ,.                                t  ,   _
dg.64                                                                                                    68_0



