Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3772-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 13, 1982
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of January 8, 1982 the Government of Pakistan decided to unpeg
the Pakistan Rupee from the US Dollar. Previously, the exchange rate was
fixed at Rs 9.9 = US$1. The Rupee exchange rate will now be managed with
reference to a trade weighted basket of currencies of Pakistan's main trade
partners. At the time of introducing the new system, Rupee exchange rate
against US Dollar was fixed at Rs 10.1 per US$. The rates below have been
used throughout this report.
US$1      =   Rs 11.0
Rs 1      =   US$0.091
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                                     Metric Units
1 foot (ft)                                      =   30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 cubic foot (cft)                               =   .0283 cubic meters
1 yard (yd)                                      =   0.925 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                                      =   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                                      =   0.045 hectare (ha)
1 acre foot (ac ft)                              =   .123 hectare meter (ha m)
1 canal mile (5000 ft)                           =   1.524 km
1 square mile (sq mi)                            =   259 ha or 2.59 sq. km.
1 pound (1 lb)                                   =   0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (lg ton)                              =   (1.016 metric tons - mt)
Pakistani Units    English Units
1 maund      =      82.3 lbs (0.0367 lg ton)   =   37.39 kg (0.0373 m tons)
26.8 mds     =      2,205 lbs                    -   1.0 m tons
27.2 mds      =     1.0 lg ton (2240 lbs)        =   1,016 kg
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADBP          -     Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
ADP          -      Annual Development Program
AO            -     Agricultural Officer
APDT         -      Area Planning and Development Team
CAD           -     Command Area Development
cca or CCA   -      Canal Command Area
CDWP         -      Central Development Working Party
cft          -      Cubic Feet
cusecs       -      Cubic Feet per Second
DA           -      Department of Agriculture
DAE           -     Directorate of Agricultural Extension
DI            -     Department of Irrigation
EADA          -     Extra Assistant Director of Agriculture
ECNEC         -     Executive Committee of National Economic Council
ERR           -     Economic Rate of Return
FA           -      Field Assistant
FW/o         -      Future without Project
FW           -      Future with Project
FY           -      Fiscal Year
GOP          -      Government of Pakistan
GOBAL        -      Government of Baluchistan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED (Cont-d)
ha           -      Hectare
ha m         -      Hectare Meter
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
KFW          -      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCB          -      Local Competitive Bidding
M            -      Million
m            -      Meter
m-m          -      Man-Month
mt           -      Metric Tons
NA           -      Not Applicable
NMDC         -      Netherlands Ministry for Development Cooperation
NFC           -     National Fertilizer Corporation
NPV          -      Net Present Value
OCC          -      Opportunity Cost of Capital
O&M          -      Operation and Maintenance
OFWM         -      On-Farm Water Management
p.a.         -      Per Annum
PAC          -      Project Area Committee
PDWP         -      Provincial Development Working Party
P&DD         -      Planning and Development Department
P&I          -      Planning and Investigation
PMC          -      Project Management Cell
PS           -      Prudent Shopping
PSC          -      Project Steering Committee
PV           -      Present Value
PY.          -      Project Year
SV           -      Switching Value
TA           -      Technical Assistance
T&V          -      Training and Visit System
TW           -      Tubewell
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Program
VDO          -      Valley Development Officer
WAPDA        -      Water and Power Development Authority
WUA          -      Water Users Association
WPO          -      Wapda Planning Organization
GLOSSARY
bund         -      flood protection embankment
doab         -      land between major river systems
chak         -      lowest order of irrigation command (about 450 ac)
karaze       -      traditional irrigation system with tunnel conve-
yance channel
kharif       -      wet season (mid-June to mid-October)
khushkaba    -      a slightly more reliable form of dry-land farming
using rainfall runoff
nullah       -      small drainage channel
rabi         -      dry season (mid-October to mid-June)
warabandi    -      weekly rotational schedule of irrigation deliveries
to farmers
watercourse  -      irrigation distribution channel within a chak
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ..................................................             1
General         .......................................                  1
IDA Involvement in Baluchistan ..... ...............                     2
Main Features of Baluchistan Province .... ............                  2
The Agricultural Sector in Baluchistan .... .............                3
Physical and Land Tenure Features ..... .............                    3
Farming Systems & Agricultural Practices ....................            6
Crops, Cropping Patterns and Animal Production ..............            8
Provincial Institutions ......................................           8
Agricultural & Supporting Services ..... ..............                  9
The Irrigation Subsector ................    ..     ..................  12
II.   THE PROJECT           ..................................................  13
Project Area           ................................................  13
Project Objectives ...............     .....    .....................   14
Project Components ..........................................           15
Main Project Features ..................    ..    ....................  16
Minor Surface Irrigation Development ......... .. ..........         16
Extension and Command Area Development ........ .. .........         17
Technical Assistance and Training .......... ..       ............   17
Pilot Schemes ......................        ......................   18
Conjunctive Water Resource Use Pilot Study ............          18
Waterspreading for Improvement of Range Production  ....    19
Groundwater Recharge ...............   ..     .................  20
Guidelines and Criteria for Minor Irrigation Schemes ........           20
III.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND PROCUREMENT ....          ...............  22
Project Costs ...............................................           22
Project Scope and Unit Costs of the Irrigation Schemes                  22
Financing ...................................................           23
Procurement .................................................           24
Disbursements ...............................................           25
Accounts & Audits ...........................................           26
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission that visited Pakistan
in June/July 1981 comprising Messrs. D. Leeuwrik, R. Anson, J. Kampen (IDA)
and H. Honeyfield and J. Waterhouse (Consultants) and of a follow-up mission
in November 1981 comprising of Messrs. D. Leeuwrik and R. Anson (IDA).



- ii -
Page No.
IV.   ORGANIZATION & MANAGEMENT . .......................... .....    26
Overview   ... ...............  ................................  26
Procedures for Identification, Preparation/Appraisal,
and Implementation of Minor Irrigation Schemes   .......   29
Pilot Schemes and Special Studies  .........................    31
Monitoring and Evaluation ...............        .. .. ..   32
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING & PRICES, FARM
INCOME AND COST RECOVERY         ...................................   34
Agricultural Impact .................................   34
Marketing & Prices               . . .35
-  Farm Budgets & Incomes               . . .35
Cost Recovery '...................................          .    37
VI.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, & RISKS .....      .....................   38
Overview ..................................................    38
Employment Benefits ... ...........................              39
Direct Foreign Exchange Effect             .      ... ..   39
Tribal Impact .... ...          .    ......... ............... .......   39
Economic Analysis             . ........ ...                     39
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests ................  ...        42
VII.   AGREEMENTS        REACHED ..................................   44
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1      Agricultural and Hydrological Supporting Tables
Table 1     Baluchistan - Area and Production of Important Field Crops  46
Table 2     Baluchistan - Area and Production of Major Fruits             47
Table 3     Baluchistan - Area and Production of Important Vegetables   48
Table 4     Baluchistan - Cropped Acreage by District                     49
Table 5     Baluchistan - Cropping Patterns and Irrigation Intensities
by District                                                50
Table 6     Temperature, Potential Evapotranspiration, and Rainfall at
Muslimbagh and Khuzdar                                     51
Table 7     Irrigation Water Requirements of Crops                        52
Table 8     System Irrigation Water Requirements                          53
ANNEX 2      Guidelines and Criteria for Identifying, Selecting and Implementing
Minor Irrigation and Pilot Schemes                          54
Appendix 1 Draft Agreement by and Between District Councils and
Water Users Associations/Cooperatives                      62
Table 1     Financial Cost Limits for Selection of Remaining Minor
Irrigation Schemes                                        64
ANNEX 3    Project Cost Tables
Table 1   Summary of Project Cost by Component and by Fiscal Year         65
Table 2   Summary of Project Cost by Expenditure Category and
Fiscal Year                                                 66
Table 3   Detailed Cost of Irrigation Development                         67



- iii -
LIST OF ANNEXES (Contd)
ANNEX 3 (Cont'd)
Table 4   Detailed Cost of Agricultural Development                         68
Table 5   Detailed Cost of Pilot Schemes                                    70
Table 6   Detailed Cost of Technical Assistance and Training                71
Table 7   Detailed Cost of Project Management and Coordination              72
ANNEX 4    Summary Features and Costs of Selected Irrigation Schemes
Table I   Summary Features of Kanchogi and Rabat Schemes                    73
Table 2   Summary Cost for Kanchogi Surface Perennial Scheme                74
Table 3   Summary Cost for Rabat Infiltration Gallery Scheme                75
ANNEX 5    Project Implementation Schedules and Charts
Table 1   Summary Implementation Schedule of Project Activities             76
Table 2   Implementation Schedule of Physical Works of Minor
Irrigation Schemes                                             77
Table 3   Procurement Schedule                                              78
Table 4   Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements                           82
Chart 1   Organization Chart of Project Direction, Coordination,
and Implementation                                             83
Chart 2   Flow Chart of Irrigation Scheme Stage/Cycle According
to Required Activities and Responsible Entities                84
ANNEX 6    Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance Team and
Project-Related Studies (Hydrological, Conjunctive Water Use,
and Evaluation)                                                  85
ANNEX 7    Financial and Economic Analysis-Supporting Tables
Table 1    Cropping Patterns and Yields for Selected Schemes                 92
Table 2    Crop Input Requirements (per ha)                                  93
Table 3    Financial and Economic Prices                                     94
Table 4    Farm Budget for Surface Irrigation Scheme                         95
Table 5    Farm Budget for Infiltration Gallery Scheme                       96
Table 6    Economic Cash Flow for Overall Project                            97
Chart 1    a. Locus of Present Values of Incremental Project Costs &
Production Benefits                                           98
b. Locus of Project Cost and Benefit Switching Values            98
ANNEX 8    Related Documents and Background Papers in Project File           99
MAPS  1.   IBRD 16026-R - Project Area
2.   IBRD 16027   - Annual Rainfall and Physical Relief
3.   IBRD 16028   - Kanchogi Land Suitability Classification
4.   IBRD 16029   - Rabat Jhal Land Suitability Classification






PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. Background
General
1.01      Pakistan, with an area of about 80 M ha, varies in climate from
arid and semi-arid to sub-tropical. Rainfall is low, variable and seasonal,
making irrigation a necessity for most of the cultivated area. Out of a
total cultivated area of 20.1 M ha, about 11.9 M ha are commanded by canal
irrigation, of which 8.2 M ha receive water throughout the year. A further
4.5 M ha are irrigated by small streams, springs, wells, karezes or flood
water. Only 3.7 M ha are cultivated under barani or rainfed conditions.
1.02      About 72% of the estimated 84 M population live in rural areas.
Average per capita income is about US$300 per annum (Bank estimate in 1980).
About 30% of the population have incomes below the Bank-s estimated absolute
poverty level of US$150.
1.03      Pakistan s economy stagnated during the early 1970-s, with growth
in GDP averaging only 3.4%, but since 1977 has shown considerably more
strength. Over the past four years (or FY78-81), GDP has grown by over
6% per year, and exports have increased by 11% p.a. in real terms. Major
sectors in industry also have significantly increased production. In
agriculture, which accounts for 30% of the GDP, 70% of export earnings
and 60% of the labor force, all major crops have performed well during the
last few years. Agricultural production rose by 4.4% in 1980-81.
1.04      GOP's present policies follow a strategy to increase agricultural
production through investments in projects that reap high, quick-yielding
returns. The new strategy includes the rehabilitation of existing irriga-
tion systems, strengthening of irrigation and agricultural services, removal
of subsidies on fertilizer, pesticides and tubewells, provision of incentive
output pricing, and the transfer of public tubewells to the private sector.
All of these, however, are still at an early stage of implementation. Al-
though Government still faces severe budget constraints, the higher level
of economic activity and new tax measures have led to greater revenues and
an improved budget for continued development.
1.05      Pakistan-s four provinces share allocations out of national revenues
based primarily on their populations. Thus, Baluchistan's share is only 3.9
percent.  However,  I:e province receives additional allocations due to its
poverty relative to the other provinces. Because its limited water resources
fall mainly into the category of minor irrigation, Baluchistan has been ex-
cluded from the benefits of large federal water sector programs. To bring
Baluchistan's development into line with that of other provinces, it will
need to continue receiving increasing amounts of funds.



- 2-
1.06      GOP is giving high priority to promoting Baluchistan's development.
This is reflected in Baluchistan's Special Development Plan formulated in
mid-1980 by GOP and GOBAL, as well as in GOP's current Annual Development
Program (ADP).  Its allocations in FY82 total Rs 553 M, which is a 30% in-
crease over the actual FY81 ADP allocation. GOBAL has drawn up a three-year
Medium Term Program that provides an investment framework for the yearly
APD's. The largest outlay is for the irrigation and agricultural sectors,
which account for about 50% of the Medium Program. To carry out the Three-
Year Program and the Special Development Plan, the GOBAL would require sub-
stantial assistance from GOP and external aid donors. Provincial capability
to plan, formulate, and implement development projects would also have
to be strengthened.
IDA Involvement In Baluchistan
1.07      The proposed project would be the first IDA-supported project
specifically for Baluchistan, although several on-going projects in Pakistan
have components in the province. These include the Third Education Project
(Cr.No.678-PAK), the Primary Education Project (Cr.No.892-PAK), a Seed Project
(Cr. No. 678-PAK), the Third Highway Project (Cr.No.974-PAK), Agricultural
Development Bank of Pakistan IV Project (Cr. No. 957-PAK). In addition, five
projects with components in Baluchistan have recently been initiated with
IDA assistance: the Small Industries Project (Cr. No.-1113-PAK), the Fifth
Education (Vocational Training) Project (Cr. No. 1.109-PAK), the Grain Storage
project (Cr. No. 1159-PAK), the Agricultural Research Project (Cr. No. 1158-
PAK), and the On-Farm Water Management Project (Cr No. 1163-PAK).
Main Features of Baluchistan Province
1.08      Baluchistan has an area of 347,000 square kilometers (sq. km.).  It
is Pakistan's largest (44% of the total area), but also least developed province.
It extends from the Arabian sea in the south to North-West Frontier Province
in the north, and shares borders with Punjab and Sind in the east and Iran and
Afghanistan in the west and north. It is largely arid and barren; its popula-
tion of 3.47 million represents only 4% of the national total and is still
predominantly nomadic and tribal, and only in the initial stages of being
integrated with the rest of the country. The various tribes are of Baluch and
Pushtun origins. The dialects vary somewhat among tribes and are derived from
Baluchi, Pushto, and Urdu languages, with an increasing proportion of the
population adopting the national Urdu language. Approximately 85% of all
inhabitants live in rural areas. Traditional customs and practices are still
followed, which are characterized by complex systems of land tenure, water
rights, and income sharing. Tribal leaders tend to be suspicious of modern
development because it may diminish their influence.
1.09      Baluchistan-s low level of development is reflected in its low
income levels and poor infrastructural base. The province-s average annual
per capita income is about US$150, which is one half of the country's average
per capita income and equal to Pakistan's absolute poverty level. Industry
in the province remains backward for lack of adequate infrastructure; much
of Baluchistan's rich mineral resources remain underdeveloped for the same
reason.



-3-
The Agricultural Sector in Baluchistan
1.10      Importance of Agriculture.  The primary importance of the agricul-
tural sector in Baluchistan's economy is shown by the following indicators:
about 65% of the total labor force derives its livelihood from agriculture,
and approximately 56% of the province's gross domestic product was contri-
buted directly by the agricultural sector in 1978-79, as compared to 55% and
30% respectively, for Pakistan. These percentages are even higher when other
directly related sectors are considered, particularly transport and trade.
Out of agriculture's total value of production, crops contribute 70%, live-
stock 28%, and fisheries and forestry 2%. Wheat is the principal crop grown
(35% of total cultivated area), followed by sorghum, rice, fruits, and vege-
tables. The province produces about 50% of Pakistan's total fruit produc-
tion. Livestock production is a major source of income for much of the
rural population. Baluchistan has about 18% of the national herd of sheep
and goats (5.0 M sheep and 4.0 M goats), which are distributed according to
available feed supply in sedentary, transhumant, and nomadic flocks.
1.11      Output Levels.  The province's agricultural output levels, are low
relative to national averages. The average cropping intensity of 71% is
well below the national average of 111%. Fertilizer use is negligible,
averaging about 2.8 kg per'ha of cultivated area in 1979; agricultural
extension services cover only a small proportion of the area. Large annual
fluctuations in crop yields and production make it difficult to discern
increasing trends except for fruit, wheat, and rice which have increased
in area and yields (see-Annex 1, Tables 1, 2 and 3). As a result of the
province's low output levels, Baluchistan still has to import substantial
volumes of food to meet its subsistence requirements. The province has
considerable potential to increase agricultural production by developing
existing water resources for irrigation and introducing improved agricultural
practices.
Physical and Land Tenure Features
1.12      Climate.  Baluchistan's climate is generally arid.  Variations are
largely due to differences in elevation. In most of the province, average
annual rainfall is below 200 mm and characterized by wide annual variations.
It is quite common for the total annual rainfall to occur in one or few
unpredictable storms. The high altitude plateau and valleys in the north
receive up to 350-400 mm of average annual rainfall, while the southern
plains, which represent 66% of the provincial area, receive only 100-150 mm
per year. Except for the north-east, which falls under the influence of the
summer monsoons, rainfall occurs mostly in winter (some as snow). Tempera-
tures are extreme, being very high in summer (June-July), particularly in
the southern and western plains, and falling below freezing in the north in
winter (see Annex 1, Table 4). The combination of low rainfall, low humidity
and high temperatures result in high rates of evapotranspiration and low
effectiveness of rainfall.



-4 -
1.13      Topography and Agro-Ecological Zones.  Major agro-ecological zones
are recognized mainly on the basis of elevation, but are not well delineated.
Baluchistan is divided into four physiographic regions which broadly coincide
with the main agro-ecological-zones.
(a) North-Eastern Region. The region consists of a number of
parallel ranges and associated narrow valleys merging into
the Quetta-Pishin uplands (over 1700 m). Alluvial sorting
and sedimentation have given rise to distinct physiographic
units recurring in each valley: (i) alluvial fans consisting
of coarse materials; (ii) an evenly sloping piedmont plain
below the alluvial fans composed of finer material; (iii)
basins or playas, which are depressions with closed drainage
in which fine sediments have collected and where salinity is
frequently high; (iv) nearly level flood plains formed by the
deposition of fine silty material by slow-moving river spills
and (v) loess deposits which occur in certain valleys. In this
region temperatures tend to be moderate, although winters are
long.
(b)  Southwestern Region.  The region comprises an elevated area with
valleys draining southwest and west to the Arabian Sea or the
salt lakes and swamps of Mashkill and Zora. Only the river Mixla
drains eastward into the Kachhi plain. Alluvial sorting and
wind action have resulted in recurring landforms of alluvial,
piedmont and desert plains, and basins. Much of the region is
characterized by extreme heat and aridity.
(c) Kachhi Plain. This is a piedmont plain of about 20,000 square
kilometers sloping from an elevation of about 150 meters near
Sibi in the northwest to 60 meters at the southeastern margin
near Jhatpat. Wedged between the Kalat and Khirtar ranges on
the west, and the Marri and Bughti hills on the east, the plain
merges into the Indus plain toward the south. Agriculturally,
it is the most productive region of Baluchistan, and it produces
most of the wheat, rice and sorghum.
(d) Coastal Plain. The coastal plain stretches about 900 km along
the Arabian Sea, south of the Mekran Range. It includes the
fertile Las Bela area and extends up to the Karachi Plain in
Sind. Its recurrent land forms include gravelly, stony pied-
mont terraces towards the north, piedmont plains, coarse sands
(derived mainly from marine sands), basins and river plains.
Dates are produced in significant quantities in this area.
1.14      Soils.  They are typical of those formed under desert conditions,
mostly alkaline and very low in organic matter, and derived from the sediments
of bordering shale, sandstone and limestone formations. The mountain slopes
are mostly bare or covered with thin, rocky, skeletal soils, and coarse
material is deposited by hill torrents close to the foot of the mountains.



-5-
Down the piedmont plain there is a gradual change of soil particle size from
coarse to fine.
1.15      The soils that are suitable for agriculture vary from heavy loams
to silty clays, although towards the western part of the province sandy soils
become prominent. Salinity is fairly widespread in the low lying basins.
Agriculturally, the soils are reasonably productive despite their heavy tex-
ture. They are low in nitrogen, and also respond to the application of phos-
phorus. Soil depth in the valleys, although variable, is generally adequate.
Heavy texture and low permeabilities do pose problems in water management for
maximum crop production, in that it may be difficult to saturate the root zone.
1.16      Land Use.  Of the total land area in Baluchistan of 34.7 M ha, only
about 19 M ha has thus far been reported as used. An estimated 17.2 M ha are
uncultivated, of which 11.2 M ha are unsuitable or otherwise not available for
cultivation, 1.1 M ha are classified as forest, and 5.4 M ha are considered
culturable waste. The cultivated area is estimated at 1.38 M ha, with an
annual net sown area of about 470,000 ha, and with the remaining area in
fallow. The cropped area is little more than 1% of the total area, and
fluctuates sharply from year to year according to rainfall; 94% of the total
area is classified as rangelands, and, therefore, livestock is of considerable
importance to the province's economy.
1.17      Land Tenure.  Census data on land tenure indicate three principal
categories (see Table 1.1): (i) Owner-Occupied is where the owner farms the
land; (ii)  Owner-cum-tenant occupied is where the farmer owns part of the
land and the remaining part is owned by others, but cultivated on a share-
cropping basis; and (iii)- Tenant-occupied is where the land is not owned,
but farmed on a share-cropping basis. The type and extent of tenancy varies
in different parts of Baluchistan, and, because of the generally scattered
nature of agricultural settlements, tends to be localized. At the provincial
level, farms have been classified according to tenure illustrated in Table
1.1. Because of the arid nature of the land, and hence its low productive
capacity, average farm size in Baluchistan appears to be larger than that for
Pakistan as a whole. 1/ The number of farm families that benefit from the
development of minor irrigation schemes therefore tend to be low, and the
investment per beneficiary family relatively high.
1/   The data in Table 1.1 shows that almost 75% of the total farm area
is owned/operated by farms that exceed 10 ha. However, the limited
water supplies and farm power limit the area actually cultivated to
substantially less area, averaging about 4-6 ha per farm.



- 6 -
Table 1.1:   Baluchistan - Farm Area By Size of
Farm and Tenure
No. of Farms (000)            Farm Area (000) ha
Owner-                       Owner-
cum-                        cum-
Size of Farm      Total Owner  Tenant Tenant  Total  Owner Tenant Tenant
Small               963   787       39   136   2,191  1,662    115    825
(< 5 ha)          (56%)
Medium              357   211       33   114   2,561  1,503    234    825
(5 - 10 ha)       (21%)
Large               406   263       62    81  12,694  8,636  2,230  1,828
(> 10 ha)         (23%)
Total      1,726  1,261       134   331  17,446 11,801  2,579 3,066
(100%)  (73%)    (8%) (19%)  (100%)  (68%)  (15%) (17%)
1.18      Since parts of Baluchistan have not been surveyed or issued with land
titles, the statistics on land tenure are incomplete. In the untitled areas,
tribal rights and customs still prevail. Even in the titled areas, tribal
influence may still be strong in determining land rights and tenancy patterns.
A whole village may be registered in just one name, and the village may practice
a type of rotational farming with no apparent ownership assigned to any partic-
ular piece of land. Except for some small tribal areas, land titling is now
complete in the Quetta, Sibi, and Kalat Divisions, including most of the
project area.
Farming Systems and Agricultural Practices
1.19      The orientation in rural Baluchistan is still predominantly pastoral,
although farming is becoming an increasingly important part of rural life.
Villages are established wherever an adequate perennial water source occurs,
with surrounding gardens, orchards, and cropped fields. Sheep and goats are
grazed on adjoining range areas and on crop residues. Animals graze the range
in flocks of 50 to 150 units under the care of a shepherd.
1.20      Water, being the most limiting resource, dictates the spatial
division of the five major agricultural activities: rainfed (barani and
khushkaba) farming, irrigated (flood and perennial) farming, and grazing.
(a) Barani Farming. Because of the low and unreliable rainfall,
barani or rainfed cropping cannot be practiced very widely.
Crop yields obtained are extremely low and crop failures are
frequent.



-7-
(b)  Khushkaba.  Khushkaba is a slightly more reliable form of
rainfed farming in which farmers concentrate rainfall runoff
from a large area onto a smaller area by bunding. Yields
obtained under these conditions are somewhat higher and more
consistent, but risk of failure is still high.
(c)  Flood Irrigation.  In sailaba or flood irrigated farming the
farmers construct high bunds around fields and divert flood
waters from rivers and hill torrents into these fields.
Floodwaters flow from field to field and when the soil pro-
file is considered saturated, the bund is breached to release
the water into another field. The lack of levelling leads
to very uneven distribution of the water. Crop stands are
often reasonable adjoining the lower bunds where the water has
colUected, but almost nonexistent in the upper parts of the
field. Because of uncertainty and low frequency of floods,
the fluctuations in their quantity, and the primitive methods
of diverting and guiding them over the fields, considerable
erosion and bund breaches are common. A large part of the
production cost in flood agriculture consist of continuously
repairing and reconstructing bunds.
(d)  Perennial Irrigation.  Perennially irrigated land is generally
used for orchards and other high value crops, and to a lesser
extent, for annual crops. In the case of .annual crops in the
perennially irrigated schemes, a system of rotation is often
practiced in which the entire command area is moved so that
crops may be sown on the same land only once in four years.
Because the land has been fallowed for three years, its fer-
tility has been raised and-the need for fertilizer is less.
However, this often leads to inefficient use of scarce water
resources because of the relatively long delivery channels
needed to convey the water to the various parts of the com-
mand and the limited investments in land development. Farmers
tend to sow more crop than their allotted share of irrigation
water can support during periods of peak demand. This tends
to reduce both crop yield and quality unless rain happens to
fall during the high demand periods.
1.21      The size of an operational farm unit is largely determined by the
power and water supply requirements and availabilities. It varies from about
2-8 ha and tends to coincide with the area of land that can be cultivated by
one pair of bullocks. However, the use of tractors is increasing rapidly,
which is leading to larger operational land-holdings. The Engineering sec-
tion of the Department of Agriculture provides bulldozers for custom hire,
and these are used extensively for levelling and bunding operations. Field
preparation for sailaba and khushkaba cropping tends to be minimal. Under
perennial irrigation, initial land preparation is also frequently less than
satisfactory, although, in general, better cultivation practices are followed.
The application of fertilizers and pesticides is higher in perennially ir-
rigated crops and orchards than in flood irrigated crops, although they are
rarely applied in the amounts required and at the time needed. Pest control



-8-
in orchards is carried out by the Agricultural Department. Limitations in
staff and equipment only allow a coverage of about 18% of the growers.
Crops, Cropping Patterns, and Animal Production
1.22      Agriculturally, the most productive areas in Baluchistan are the
northern upland valleys of Quetta, Loralai and Zhob, and the Kachhi plain.
Temperate fruit and vegetable production are concentrated in the northern
upland areas, and is restricted to areas with a perennial water supply.
Orchards are often intercropped with wheat, fodders and vegetables. In
the lower elevation areas to the south of the highlands, such as in Kalat
and Khuzdar, orchards are still important in the cropping pattern, but the
emphasis changes to pomegranates and dates.
1.23      The main field crops grown are wheat, sorghum, rice, barley, maize,
oil seeds, and pulses. Winter or rabi crops occupy 55% of the cropped area
and summer (Kharif) crops cover about 45%. In terms of area and production,
wheat, sorghum, rice and oil seeds (rape seed/mustard) are the most common
field crops as shown in Table 1, Annex 1. In 1978/79 the production of these
crops amounted to 209, 35, 51 and 12 thousand tons respectively, with cor-
responding yields of about 1200, 400, 1500 and 400 kg per ha. In general,
crop yields are low, which is partly due to unreliable water supplies and
to poor management practices.
1.24      A large range of vegetables is grown, of which onions, potatoes
and tomatoes are most important. Again, production fluctuates tremendously
from year to year (Table 3, Annex 1). Vegetables are grown in excess of
local requirements and exported to large urban markets, as are fruits which
are produced in significant quantities and include apples, grapes, apricots,
dates, and almonds (Table 2, Annex 1). The area under orchards in the pro-
vince is about 20,250 ha, of which 30% are young trees, indicating the con-
siderable amount of new planting. Yield and quality of fruit is well below
international standards. The province produces about 71,000 tons of fruit
annually, which is 50% of Pakistan's total production. An estimated 44,000
families derive incomes from fruit production.
1.25      The productivity of Baluchistan's rangelands is extemely low.
On average, 40 to 80 ha are required to support one adult sheep or goat
for a year. By grazing crop residues and producing irrigated fodder crops,
farmers increase the number of animals that can be carried per unit of range-
land. As a result, accessible grazing lands are heavily and continuously
over-grazed. Stock may walk up to 30 km a day to obtain water. Productivity
per animal tends to be extremely low. Annual offtake amounts to some 2.0 M
sheep and goats, providing an important source of income for an estimated 85%
of pastoral and farm families.
Provincial Institutions
1.26      A number of government institutions serve Baluchistan-s irriga-
tion and agriculture sectors, the most important for the project being the
Departments of Irrigation and Power (DI) and of Agriculture (DA).  The DI



-9-
is headed by the Secretary of Irrigation and Power, who is assisted at head-
quarters by a Deputy Secretary, two Chief Engineers, two Executive Engineers,
an Assistant Design Engineer, and administrative staff. The province is
divided into five circles, each directed by a Superintendant Engineer. The
five circles are subdivided into 14 divisions, each headed by an Executive
Engineer. Below this level, DI staff consist of 150 Sub-Engineers, 79 Tech-
nicians, and other technical and support staff. In addition to the responsi-
bilites of the irrigation and power sectors, the DI is responsible for the
construction and maintenance of drinking water supplies.  The DI is better
endowed with staff and transport than the DA, but generally lacks sufficient
funds for new construction or major rehabilitation of irrigation works.
Moreover, DI does not receive funds to carry out investigations and planning
of new schemes. The DI has very little capacity for engineering design and
most of the civil works are carried out through local contractors following
standard local competitive procedures. There is considerable scope for
improving design, construction, and maintenance of irrigation works.
1.27      Although the DA has various Directorates, the Directorate of Agri-
cultural Extension will be the most important in implementing the project's
agricultural activities.  The Directorate has 180 professional staff, of which
96 are in extension and 55 in research. Staff strength is considerably less
than that of DI, not only in number but also in grade. While DI provides and
maintains irrigation works, the DAE has primary responsibility for on-farm
water distribution and management. To strengthen these water management
activities, an OFWM Directorate was established under the direction of the
DAE as part of the IDA-financed OFWM project. Given the present limited
coverage of the DAE in Baluchistan, there is a large potential for increasing
agricultural production through increasing DAE's extension delivery system.
The functions, strengths, and weaknesses of the DAE are described in greater
detail in paras 1.29 to 1.33.
Agricultural and Supporting Services
1.28      Agriculture in Baluchistan is generally scattered in widely dispersed
pockets, particularly in the valleys. There are few major towns, and many
agricultural settlements are not easily accessible. Given Baluchistan's
budgetary constraints and low levels of production, it has not been possible
to provide the province with adequate services in research, extension, credit,
input supply, and marketing.
1.29      Agricultural Research.  Of all Pakistan's provinces, Baluchistan
is least endowed with agricultural research institutes and applied research
activities. There is no agricultural faculty at the provincial university,
and Baluchistan is largely dependent on the Sind Agricultural University at
Tandojam for formal agricultural training.
1.30      The provincial Department of Agriculture is responsible for re-
search and extension. Agricultural research is controlled from the research
institute at Sariab near Quetta.  This primarily horticultural research



- 10 -
institute is the only provincial agricultural research center. Technical
assistance has been provided to the Institute by UNDP. The Pakistan Agricul-
tural Research Council operates the Arid Zone Research Institute currently
being established at Quetta. This Institute is primarily engaged in devel-
oping trickle irrigation for horticultural crops, but research will be ex-
panded and diversified under the IDA-supported Agricultural Research Project.
1.31      The overall research base is weak in Baluchistan, and only limited
testing of new technology has been carried out, with the result that extension
packages need considerable refinement. Nevertheless, there is sufficient
evidence that increased utilization of improved seeds and fertilizers (N&P),
better plant protection techniques, and more efficient water management
practices would have a significant impact on production, particularly in
perennially irrigated areas. With the increased emphasis on research under
the Agricultural Research Project, research support required for the pro-
posed project should be adequate.
1.32      Agricultural Extension Services.  The Province's agricultural
extension system is headed by a Director, who reports to the Provincial
Secretary of Agriculture. There are Deputy Directors of Agriculture Exten-
sion at the Division level, Extra Assistant Directors at District level and
Agricultural Officers (AO) and Assistant Officers as well as Field Assistants
(FA) and Crop Reporters at Tehsil level. Each AO supervises about 5 FAs,
with each FA programmed to service agriculture over an excessive area cover-
ing about 3 to 4 thousand.cultivated hectares. The Extension Directorate
also procures and distributes fertilizer and seed, and is responsible for
plant protection measures and collection of agricultural statistics.  On-farm
water management (OFWM) is also a responsibility of the Extension Directorate.
1.33      The extension service is another weak link in provincial efforts to
improve agricultural production. The completion of the Agricultural Training
Center at Quetta will overcome, to some extent, the deficiencies in training
(50 FAs would be trained annually). In addition, the return of some 42 B.Sc.
candidates studying at various universities in Pakistan under the auspices
of the Directorate of Agriculture will alleviate the present shortage of AOs.
There are also plans to recruit an additional 250 FAs (mainly for pest con-
trol), and it is envisioned that by 1983-84 all FAs will have been provided
with motorcycles. Staff of the water management wing will be strengthened
under the OFWM Project. Moreover, the policy decision to transfer fertilizer
and pesticides distribution to the private sector will release staff for
extension duties. Under the proposed project, action would be taken to
further strengthen extension and water management programs specifically in
project areas.
1.34      Agricultural Inputs.  Extension staff of the Directorate of Agri-
cultural Extension is responsible for the procurement and distribution of
agricultural inputs. At present, there are some 60 distribution centers
throughout Baluchistan. These are located primarily in the larger population
centers in dense agricultural settlements, and do not effectively serve the
more remote areas. Distribution centers are established in all the proposed
project areas.



- 1L -
1.35      Fertilizer use has been steadily increasing in Baluchistan, but per
ha consumption is still low.  In terms of nutrient tons, nitrogen (N) in-
creased from 1600 tons in 1973-74 to 2800 tons in 1978-79, and phosphate (P)
from 300 tons to 1100 tons during the same period. Total fertilizer usage,
therefore, averaged about 2.8 kg per cropped ha. Over the same five-year
period, the use of pesticides ranged from 73 tons to 188 tons, with an average
of 125 tons. Improved seed is distributed only in the case of wheat (1060
tons in 1978-79). The proportion of improved wheat seed sown annually varies
from about 20% to 40%.
1.36      Plant protection services are currently being transferred to the
private sector. The subsidy on pesticides, which is 50% at present will be
reduced to 25% in FY82, and completely removed by FY85. Subsidies on ferti-
lizer and on the use of hired machinery are also gradually being removed;
plans are being introduced to distribute inputs through commissioned agents
in the private sector, of which there are now 40. It is doubtful, however,
if the planned transfer to the private sector would be fully effective in
the 2-year period envisioned, particularly in the more remote areas.
1.37       Credit.  Agricultural credit is provided by the Agricultural Devel-
opment Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), commercial banks, Cooperative Bank, and
the district administration ("taquavi loans"). Short term loans (at 11%
interest) are advanced by ADBP for the purchase of fertilizer, seed, pesti-
cides, and hired labour; short-term loans are also provided through coopera-
tive societies and district administration. Long term loans are provided
primarily by ADBP and commercial banks for land levelling, installation of
tubewells, purchase of bullocks, tractors and other implements, dairy farming,
rearing of sheep and goats, and poultry farming. About 90% of ADBP's loan
portfolio in Baluchistan are for tractors and machinery.
1.38      To facilitate credit availability in Baluchistan, ADBP is in the
process of relaxing its limits on loans and of simplifying its borrowing
procedures. ADBP has also recently established a mobile credit program
aimed at valley development and carried out by "valley development officers"
(VDOs). In addition, ADBP established in December 1981 a branch in Khuzdar
District, which is located in the project area. Low credit recovery, however,
is a problem that may limit defaulters from qualifying for additional credit.
However, ADBP has decided to "de-link" credit disbursements with actual
recoveries wherever a VDO is assigned. Because ADBP plans to increase the
VDOs to cover the project area, the recovery rates are expected to be con-
sistent with the expected levels agreed under the IDA-financed ADBP credit
(Cr. No. 957-PAK). Also, the project's proposed formation and strengthening
of Water Users Associations/Cooperatives should also improve the recovery
levels from institutional credit sources.
1.39      Marketing, Processing and Storage.  Marketing is carried out by
both the public and private sectors. In the public sector, Pakistan's
Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation (PASCO) and the provincial
Department of Food buy grain at fixed procurement prices from producers and
private traders. To provide adequate marketing outlets, the coverage of
government procurement has been increased substantially in recent years.



- 12 -
In the private sector, small farmers sell their grain in village markets
and/or to foodgrain merchants, who then sell the grain to wholesalers or
millers. Present milling facilities are adequate. Grain storage facilities
in Baluchistan are being increased by the IDA-financed Grain Storage project.
1.40      The greatest marketing inefficiencies are encountered in the move-
ment of fruits and vegetables. Miost of the production is marketed to other
provincial urban centers, particularly Lahore and Karachi. Contractors
purchase fruit at the flowering stage directly from farmers and arrange for
picking, packing and transport to wholesale markets. Although intermediaries
also purchase vegetables at the farmgate, many of the larger farmers market
their perishables in local regional markets, particularly in Karachi. Local
processing and storage facilities are essentially non-existent. Cooperative
marketing has occurred only in a few instances; as production surpluses
increase, experience in other provinces suggests that cooperative or farmer
group marketing will become increasingly more important.
The Irrigation Subsector
1.41      Water Resources.  Due to highly variable intermittent rainfall,
Baluchistan's landscape is characterized by large numbers of hill torrents
with occasional flows of a few hours to a few days. Host of the flood flow
is lost and is drained off into larger rivers. The high fluctuations and
unpredictability of stream flows cause difficulties in harnessing the water
for irrigation.
1.42      Hydrologically the province is divisible in four major drainage
basins: the Zhob basin northeast of Quetta, which is the catchment of rivers
draining into the Indus; the Kharan basin in the West; the Mekran coastal
basin, which drains into the Arabian Sea; and the Kachhi basin containing a
number of major tributaries.
1.43      Very little stream flow data has been collected in Baluchistan and
detailed studies are still to be completed to establish with greater accuracy
the total usable surface and groundwater resources. UNDP has supported
studies to determine the groundwater potential of selected areas (which
include the proposed project areas), and WAPDA will initiate a program of
comprehensive planning of water resources development and management in the
major river basins in Baluchistan in FY82.
1.44      The annual runoff in Baluchistan is estimated at 1.03 M to 1.23 M
ha m. The combined groundwater resources of the major valleys have so far
been estimated at about 14,730 liters per second. This is a very prelimi-
nary estimate based on incomplete data and needs to be considerably refined.
In some valleys, e.g., Quetta and Mastung, water tables are being rapidly
lowered by a profusion of wells. The result is that many of the older
karezes and shallower wells have gone dry.
1.45      Irrigation.  Out of a total cultivated area of 1.38 M ha, only
0.6 X ha have some form of irrigation. Canal irrigated areas comprise about
74% of the total irrigated area, are mainly nonperennial, and are concentrated



- 13 -
in only a small portion of the province. Karezes, or underground channels,
account for 16% of the irrigated area, and the remaining 10% is irrigated by
wells and tubewells. Although much of the available perennial stream flow
is being tapped with varying degrees of efficiency, the province's irrigation
potential is under-utilized. Available information, although limited, suggests
large conveyance losses occur along canal areas, which result in low water-use
efficiencies. Irrigation works tend to deteriorate rapidly due to poor con-
struction and inadequate maintenance.
1.46      Large works are constructed by the Department of Irrigation (DI),
which then also takes responsibility for all major maintenance. The DI also
maintains staff to operate and carry out routine maintenance on minor schemes.
There is generally no cost recovery from the farmers.  Operation and main-
tenance of small irrigation schemes constructed by farmers are carried out
by their collective efforts which are coordinated by community leaders.
1.47      Existing flood water schemes constructed by government include
some 79 diversion structures, 17 storage dams and 78 delay-action dams (small
dams, which hold back runoff water to recharge groundwater). In addition,
farmer groups have cooperated in constructing small earthen dams, flood flow
channels, and bunds to collect flood flows. Irrigation from karezes, springs,
and wells covers about 144,000 ha. The area irrigated each year varies,
however, with the amount, intensity, and occurrence of annual rainfall.
1.48      Water is distributed according to traditional water rights that are
passed on by inheritance. A similar principle applies to land rights. Water
rights are recorded in the revenue books (jama bandi) that are used to collect
land revenues. Allotted water shares are rarely transferred or sold. A more
common practice is to sell water for the seasonal basis or to make exchanges
and transfers on an ad hoc basis. Although water rights for traditional
surface irrigation schemes and karezes are well defined, both inter- and
intra-tribal water disputes are common. In more modern types of irrigation
development, such as tubewells, traditional procedures of determining equitable
water distribution do not apply. Instead, this water is generally considered
to belong to the owner of the tubewell.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Area
2.01      The project area comprises selected valleys located in the Districts
of Zhob, Loralai, Khuzdar and Las Bela. As indicated in the map, the project's
activities will be concentrated in the small basins of Nisai, Gumbaz, Nal and
Greshak. Because of their variation in agricultural characteristics and socio-
economic conditions, and the scattered, self-contained nature-of minor irriga-
tion schemes and farming communities, the principal features of the principal
project sub-areas are summarized below. A full description of the site of each
scheme to be included under the project would be completed as part of the



- 14 -
feasibility study and agreed criteria to be carried out for each scheme (see
para 2.18).- The Nisai area is part of the Zhob River Basin, Nal and Greshak
of the Hingol River Basin, and the Gumbaz sub-basin is a part of the main basin
of the Nari River. The sub-areas lie towards the northeast of the province and
are composed of narrow inter-mountain alluvial-fill valleys. They generally
display the typical landscape described in para 1.13.
2.02      The Nisai valley encompasses about 350 sq. km, and has a total popu-
lation of roughly 7,000 persons. Out of a total 23,900 ha of land, 7,850 ha
or 33 percent are arable, of which only 600 ha currently receive water for
irrigation. Gumbaz valley covers an area of 3430 sq. km. Its total drainage
area is about 9583 sq. km. Total population comprises about 31,000 persons.
Much of the land is owned by landlords and farm size tends to be relatively
higher than in the other project sub areas. The area has good potential for
groundwater development. Nal valley covers an area of about 1,316 sq. km.
Greshak valley is separated from Nal by the Shashan and Sohra Damb Ranges
towards west and east, respectively. Climate, soils and agriculture are
similar to Nal.
2.03      Nisai is the most accessible of all the primary project sub-areas,
and also has the most developed infrastructure and services. Nal-Greshak, in
Khuzdar District, and Gumbaz are more remote and less developed in terms of
basic infrastructure. In all project sub-areas, centers for the supply of
inputs and credit, irrigation and agricultural extension services, and market-
ing outlets are available in nearby, larger towns. These support services,
due to the shortage of staff, facilities, and transport, are in the process
of being extended to the relatively more remote farming areas.
2.04      Although the project area is limited to selected settled areas
where agriculture is the major source of livelihood, the special conditions
of Baluchistan's underdevelopment as discussed in paras 1.09, 1.22-1.48 are
generally applicable to the project area.
Project Objectives
2.05      The main objectives of the project are:
(a) to increase agricultural production and farm incomes through
minor irrigation and command area development works, and
through improved agricultural practices;
(b) to improve the information base and institutional capacity
to plan, prepare, and implement minor irrigation schemes,
and to introduce appropriate forms of local participation
in irrigation and agricultural development; and
(c) to develop improved technical and economic guidelines and
criteria for preparation of integrated minor irrigation schemes.



- 15 -
2.06      Project Implementation Strategy.  Within the province, there is
currently a general absence of data for the design of irrigation works, and
only limited capacity to formulate and execute irrigation and agricultural
projects. These deficiencies would be overcome by a number of project actions.
First, based on feasibility studies of representative and replicable schemes,
criteria would be applied in the selection, preparation and implementation of
additional schemes during the course of the project implementation. Criteria
and design specifications would be monitored and refined during the project's
implementation as experience is gained. Second, for schemes to be prepared as
part of the project, hydrological and socioeconomic: data collection would begin
immediately after project startup. Third, provincial staff would be trained
locally and substantial technical assistance, emphasizing on-the-job training
of local staff, would be provided during the early stages of the project.
Fourth, the project aims to emphasize farmer participation in planning, execut-
ing, operating, and maintaining the project's irrigation schemes, which are to
be limited to settled sub-areas. Fifth, pilot studies would be carried out
under the project to formulate and test various aspects of water management
for use in follow-up projects. Thus, the project strategy is to formulate a
feasible initial stage of a long-term expanded program for the development of
valley water resources.
Project Components
2.07      The project is comprised of the following components:
(a)  Minor Irrigation Development
The investigation, design, and construction work or rehabil-
itation of about 28 minor perennial irrigation schemes that
itrigate an area of about 3,800 ha.
(b)  Agricultural Development
Command area development in these 28 schemes, including
improved layout of water distribution systems, lining of
principal conveyance channels, construction of control
structures, land shaping and levelling, and improved field
layout, and the introduction of improved irrigation and agri-
cultural practices.
(c)  Pilot Schemes
The development of three interrelated pilot projects that
aim to generate information on: (i) the technology of water
spreading for increased rangeland and fodder production;
(ii) groundwater recharge; and (iii) finding solutions to
problems of conjunctive/coordinated use of ground and surface
water, for which eight tubewells and about 800 ha of flood
irrigated command area would be developed in selected areas
that offer the potential for a future and expanded program.



- 16 -
(d) Institutional Development
.This would include: (i) provision of additional agricultural
and OFWM extension staff in the DAE; (ii) within the provin-
cial DI, the establishment of a Project Management Cell,
including an Area Planning and Development Team; (iii) strength-
ening the capacity of the DI to carry out detailed engineering
designs of minor irrigation works; (iv) provision of facilities,
transport, equipment and training for existing and additional
staff, mainly of the DAE and DI; (v) formalization/strength-
ening of farmer organizations to operate and maintain irriga-
tion schemes so as to increase agricultural production; (vi)
an evaluation study to assess the project-s impact.
(e) Technical Assistance and Training
The provision of (i) 144 manmonths of technical assistance,
including hydrology, irrigation design engineering, economics,
agronomy and water management; and (ii) 200 manmonths of
practical skill-oriented training in engineering, agricultural
extension, on-farm water management, and farmer organization.
Main Project Features
Minor Irrigation Development (Base Cost, US$14.3 M)
2.08      The development of about twenty-eight minor irrigation schemes
accounts for about 62% of the projectIs total investment.  Water use efficiency
in existing schemes is generally low because of high conveyance losses, absence
of systematic command area development and on-farm water management. In the
rehabilitation of existing schems, high water losses would be reduced by
redesign and lining of delivery channels and by developing farm irrigation
systems in the command areas. In the construction of new irrigation schemes,
and considering the limited availability of perennial irrigation supplies,
the project would tap underground stream flow through the construction of
infiltration galleries. Past construction of such structures included cutoff
walls blocking the underground flow below river channels; these structures
are relatively expensive and difficult to construct. Under the project, less
expensive structures such as connected wells or buried pipe would be used.
2.09      Preparation of Schemes.  Two minor irrigation schemes (Kanchogi)
and Rabat) have been prepared to detailed engineering design level. A condi-
tion of credit effectiveness is that at least five schemes would be prepared
to final design stage satisfactory to IDA. Of these 5 schemes, 3 to 4 would
constitute the first year's construction program.  The remaining schemes
would be prepared during the course of project implementation according to
agreed technical and cost/economic criteria (para 2.18) and an agreed i=ple-
mentation schedule (Annex 5, Table 2). Assurances were received from GOP/GOBAL
that: (i) it would annually furnish to IDA by March 1, beginning in 1983,
a project implementation schedule for review and comment; and (ii) GOBAL
would provide IDA/KFW for review and approval the feasibility study of each
irrigation scheme. The principal features of the two prepared schemes are
outlined below:



- 17 -
(a)  Kanchogi Surface Irrigation Scheme.  This scheme would improve
and rehabilitate an existing perennial irrigation system for about
110 ha. A diversion weir, 14m long would be constructed to ensure
full utilization of the available water and designed to pass
a peak discharge of about 205 m /sec (equal to the maximum
historic flood flow). The section of the weir near the head
regulator would be depressed and provided with control gates
for sediment passage. The main irrigation channel (capacity
.11 m /sec) would include necessary lining and control
structures.
(b)  Rabat Infiltration Gallery Scheme.  This scheme would irrigate
a currently rainfed and relatively unpr3ductive area of about
86 ha by tapping a portion (about .04 m /sec) of the subsurface
flow of the Rabat Jhal through construction of an infiltration
gallery. The collected water would be conveyed to the comand
area by lined gravity channel. The gallery would be construc-
ted at a depth of 1.8 m.
Agricultural Extension and Command Area Development (Base Cost, US$2.1 M)
2.10      Existing agricultural extension services in the project areas need
substantial strengthening for the successful implementation of the Project.
The long-term aim of the Provincial Government is to establish an improved
extension service based on the training and visit (T&V) system. Although
this objective is beyond the scope of the project, the project would improve
agricultural extension services in the project sub-areas and would also further
strengthen the existing OFWM Wing within the Directorate of Agricultural
Extension. In the prgject area, this OFWM Wing would be provided with some
additional qualified staff, transport, equipment, training and technical
assistance to promote command area development. Building on the experience
and criteria of the IDA-financed OFWM project, efficient water use would be
promoted in project areas through (a) reconstructing and lining watercourses
(where required); (b) providing control structures; (c) land levelling and
grading; and (d) demonstrating improved irrigation techniques on holdings of
progressive farmers.  New concepts in farmer participation and organization
(see para. 2.18-b) would also be tested under the project. Cost estimates
for expansion and improvement of extension services, especially command area
development activities, are summarized in Annex 3, Table 4.
Technical Assistance and Training (Base Cost, US$1.7 M)
2.11      The technical assistance (TA) experts would assist in the preparation
and implementation of project activities and would emphasize on-the-job train-
ing of local counterpart staff. Approximately 144 manmonths of TA experts
(at an average cost of US$8,500/m-m) would include: (a) a Hydrologist (28 man-
months) to plan and initiate the systematic collection of hydrological data;
(b) an Irrigation Agronomist (28 manmonths) to assist in developing approp-
riate cropping systems and in implementing improved water management practices;



18 -
(c) a Design Engineer (28 manmonths) to assist in improving design capability
within the DI and to help develop alternative designs for feasible flood
schemes; and (d) an Economist (28-manmonths), who would (i) assist the
project staff in setting up and implementing the project's monitoring and
evaluation system; and (ii) help carry out scheme preparation and appraisal,
and studies on conjunctive water use and project impact. The remaining 32
manmonths would be allocated among these disciplines and possibly others,
which would be determined during the course of project implementation.
Annex 6 provides the terms of reference for the various technical assistance
assignments. Assurances were received from GOBAL that the TA experts,
comprising a Hydrologist, Irrigation Agronomist and Economist, would be
employed by October 31, 1982, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The
Design Engineer would be recruited during the second year of the project,
after the DI engineers have received initial training and work experience in
the Central Design Organization of WAPDA. Other experts as required would be
hired during the course of project implementation.
2.12      About 200 manmonths of training would be provided under the project.
Emphasis would be placed on local on-the-job and practical training in
specific technical skills including water management practices and farmer
organization skills. Training efforts at local and some overseas training
institutions in the fields of engineering, agricultural extension, and on-farm
water management would be particularly directed toward the needs of staff of
the Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture. The Agricultural Training
Institute, which is financed by IDA's Third Education Project (Cr. No. 678-PAK),
is located in Quetta and would -be used to provide some of the project's train-
ing needs. Some of the training requirements would also be provided by the
OFWM training institute currently operating in Lahore. No advanced degree
training would be envisaged. However, specialized in-service practical train-
ing in Pakistan (e.g. at the Mona Experiment Station) and overseas, for a total
of 78 man-months, would be arranged for officers involved in the Project. The
Project Management Cell would have overall responsibility for implementing the
training component (see para 4.02). It is expected that within three months
after credit effectiveness IDA would review and comment on training proposals
and schedules prepared by GOBAL and assisted by the TA team for officers at
various levels.
Pilot Schemes (Base Cost, US$3.8 M)
2.13      Conjunctive Water Use (Base Cost US$2.6 M).  At present, there is
little coordination in planning and implementing agricultural development based
on different sources of irrigation water. Tubewells, perennial surface diver-
sions, infiltration galleries and flood-schemes are constructed in isolation
of each other, without attempting to exploit the advantages that may be gained
through conjunctive development. Because total available groundwater is
limited and tubewell irrigation is generally more costly than surface irriga-
tion, the utilization of groundwater through tubewells should be fully integ-
rated with varying supplies of perennial surface water to ensure optimum use
and economic returns of the combined water resources. Similarly, the unrelia-
bility of flood flows can be substantially offset if the use of floodwaters is
combined with a water source. Therefore, a pilot study to specifically address



- 19 -
the optimum use of complementary water sources and to resolve issues in the
efficient and equitable use of tubewells has been included in the project.
The following related issues would be addressed: (a) water rights and water
sharing by farmers and farmers groups; (b) operation and maintenance of these
integrated irrigation systems by the beneficiaries; (c) government subsidies;
(d) cost recovery; (e) public versus private sector tubewell development. The
terms of reference for these conjunctive/coordinated water use studies are
given in Annex 6.
2.14      Eight tubewells would be installed as part of these pilot studies,
Some of these would be located in areas without alternative water sources and
issues particular to groundwater development would be studied. However, most
of these tubewells would be developed concurrently with two or more flood
schemes commanding a total area of about 800 ha. An effort would be made to
select sites where also potential exists for perennial surface water develop-
ment and/or the construction of infiltration galleries. In these pilot
projects, the use of floodwater would be fully integrated with that of other
and more reliable water sources. The project would collect the necessary data
for planning and developing innovative, low-cost engineering designs which
would place flood irrigation on a more reliable, permanent basis. Harnessing
of surplus flood water upstream would reduce erosion and other damage down-
stream, and would.contribute to improved water utilization. At present,
structures and bunds tend to be shortlived through a combination of unfavorable
siting, inadequate design, and inferior quality construction. The project
would involve construction of diversion structures, proper location and con-
struction of flood channels and field bunds and improved field water management.
2.15      The results of these pilot studies would provide the basis for  (a)
guiding future development of groundwater in the Province within sustainable
yields of the aquifers, and in conjunction/coordination with other sources of
water, and (b) making more reliable use of the considerable annual flood flows
within the context of total valley water resources. Assurances were received
from GOBAL that the detailed designs of the pilot studies would be sent to IDA
for review and comment by November 1, 1983.
2.16      Water Spreading for Improvement of Range Production (Base Cost,
US$0.6 M). Water spreading to utilize excess flood water offers considerable
scope for increasing crop and forage production. Water spreading would be
initiated as a closely monitored pilot scheme on about 800 ha. Alternative
water spreading methods would be investigated to utilize water from small
capacity nullahs typically emerging from the catchment areas at intervals of
about one km. These nullahs are 6 to 9 m wide, have a peak discharge capacity
of 50-70 liters per second, and useable runoff may occur from three to five
times a year. Engineering designs and practices which are used successfully
in other countries and elsewhere in Pakistan would be adapted to Baluchistan
conditions. The design of the turnout structures and the layout of field bunds
would be adjusted to achieve even distribution of water and a fully saturated
soil profile, while minimizing erosion and disturbance of top soil and vegeta-
tion. Assurances were received from GOBAL that the final design of the water
spreading program would be completed with the assistance of the hydrologist
provided under the TA component, and submitted to IDA for review and comment
by April 1, 1983.



- 20 -
2.17      Groundwater Recharge (Base Cost US$0.16 M).  Present groundwater
withdrawals in several of Baluchistan's valleys exceed available recharge.
The project would augment groundwater recharge in selected areas by construct-
ing channels and bunds to induce a larger proportion of the runoff to deep
percolate to below the ground water. Estimates of average recharge have been
prepared for each of the proposed project areas, but little is known of the
recharge mechanisms or the amount of recharge possible. Runoff water would be
diverted from a stream channel and spread across the upper zone of an alluvial
fan. Data would be collected on rainfall-runoff relationships, infiltration
rates, and the feasibility and economics of recharge schemes using silt-laden
flood waters. Assurances were received from GOBAL that preliminary designs for
the pilot project, including the proposed monitoring system, would be finalized
in the first-year of project implementation with the assistance and guidance of
the hydrologist and would be submitted to IDA for review and comment by July 1,
1983.
Guidelines and Criteria for Minor Irrigation Schemes
2.18      Each irrigation scheme would be selected, designed, and implemented
using technical, organizational, and cost/economic guidelines and criteria
detailed in Annex 2, and summarized below. Assurances were received from GOBAL
that guidelines and criteria satisfactory to IDA would be applied to each
scheme financed by the project.  These criteria would include the following:
(a) Technical Guidelines and Criteria
(i) Planning and Investigation. The first requirement for the
identification, selection, and planning of minor irrigation
and water spreading schemes would be the availability of basic
site information, present and potential agricultural produc-
tion, and completion of a socioeconomic study of project
beneficiaries. Since information on localized hydrological
conditions in the project areas is practically non-existent,
water supply estimates would be made using the best available
methods and comparing catchments with similar characteristics.
Rainfall data would be obtained by DI field staff from the
nearest available raingauging station. Rain-gauges would be
installed on the larger catchment areas. Preference would be
given to formulating irrigation schemes where perennial flows
are available and that meet all the technical and cost/economic
criteria. However, schemes that have reliable non-perennial
flows and otherwise meet the agreed criteria, would also be
considered for inclusion under the project. All irrigation
schemes must demonstrate clear evidence of supporting prefer-
ably perennial crops, but at least an irrigated wheat crop
each year. Schemes that depend on unreliable sailaba (or
flood) water supplies are already included as part of the
project's pilot scheme component (see para 2.13).
(ii) To improve the hydrological data base for planning and design
of schemes to be implemented later in the project and in sub-
sequent projects, a modest program of systematic measurement



- 21 -
would be initiated. Where necessary, these measurements would
include the the drilling of test bores to gather geological
and groundwater data. Crop water requirements would be esti-
mated by the modified Penman method after establishing monthly
evapotranspiration rates for significantly differing agro-
climatic zones in the project area. Irrigation requirements
of crops would be determined by using realistic conveyance
and field irrigation efficiencies based on soil and layout
characteristics.
(iii)  Design and Implementation.  Engineering works would be designed
and constructed in accordance with the standards of accepted
engineering practice in Pakistan and acceptable to IDA. The
criteria call for design and layout of conveyance and distri-
bution channels down to individual holdings. Channel capaci-
ties would be designed in accordance with irrigation require-
ments of anticipated cropping patterns, and, particularly in
the larger command areas, would allow for rotational water
supply. Channels and field structures would be designed and
constructed to reduce conveyance losses to practical limits
and to maximize economic returns. Where necessary, adequate
erosion-avoiding measures would be implemented and adequate
drainage would be provided.
(b)  Organizational Criteria.  Construction of each scheme would
normally not exceed 12 months. Before any scheme is construc-
ted, there would be a legal agreement between GOBAL (through
the concerned District Council) and the benefitting farmers
specifying mutual responsibilities, including provisions in
case the responsibilities are not fulfilled satisfactorily.
DI would be responsible for providing the schemp; DAE would
ensure provision of adequate extension services, which would
promote measures that increase crop productivity. Prior to
construction, the benefitting farmers would form a Waters
Users Association (WUA)/Cooperative, and as indicated in the
scheme agreement, the WUA/Cooperative would agree to:  (i)
donate unskilled labor for the construction and O&M of on-
farm works (similar to the recently approved OFWM project);
(ii) recover from all individual beneficiaries of the scheme
the full required contributions in cash and kind towards the
adequate maintenance of the irrigation scheme. GOBAL brought
to negotiations a draft of this scheme agreement, at which
time its content and implementation procedures were discussed
and agreed with IDA (see Annex 2, Appendix 1). Assurances
were received from GOBAL that: (i) prior to the construction
of any project-financed scheme, signed agreement satisfactory
to IDA would be completed between the relevant District Council
and the WUA/Cooperative setting out their mutual responsibili-
ties, and (ii) it would take the necessary measures to strengthen
the concerned WUA/Cooperative to enable it to fulfill its agreed
responsibilities.
(c) Cost/Economic Criteria. Separate evaluation of each minor
irrigation scheme would ensure it is within acceptable limits
of total investment cost, cost per direct beneficiary, and



22 -
cost per ha irrigated (Annex 2, Table 1). Although the unit
cost per ha would probably vary according to each scheme, the
essential requirement is that this unit cost should correspond
with a scheme economic rate of return (ERR) of at least 15%.
Therefore, this agreed cost/economic criteria would be applied to
each scheme and would ensure a minimum acceptable level of equity
and economic returns. The planning stages would screen schemes
to select those that have relatively more equitable and higher
returns; future stages would strive to design each scheme so
as to optimize its economic returns. GOBAL, however, may submit
a scheme to IDA for special approval if the scheme could be
justified on grounds other than the agreed cost criteria.
III.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND PROCUREMENT
Project Costs
3.01      Total project costs are estimated at US$34.7 M equivalent, with a
foreign exchange component totalling about US$5.2 M (or 15%). Cost estimates
include approximately US$.4 M in taxes and duties, and exclude the contribu-
tion farmers are expected to make in construction of the on-farm area works
(see para 2.18(b)). Base cost estimates are based on price quotations
prevailing in mid-1981, adjusted by IDA to March 1982 price levels. Physical
contingencies vary according to major expenditure items, ranging from 10-15%
and averaging about 13% of base costs. Price contingencies have been
assumed at the annual rates of inflation shown in Table 3.1. Project costs
by component are summarized in Table 3.1 and are detailed in Tables 1-7 of
Annex 3.
Project Scope and Unit Costs of the Irrigation Schemes
3.02      Project scope, or the total area to be irrigated under the proposed
project, has been based on the construction cost per ha determined for the
two schemes prepared to feasibility level at the time of IDA's appraisal
(para 2.09). For the remaining schemes, these costs are subject to some
variation. However, the technical and cost criteria are considered suffi-
ciently flexible to account for possible variations among other future
schemes. The determination of total project cost and number of schemes were
based on estimates of available financing, institutional capacities, potential
number of schemes, and of a minimum desired impact.
3.03      Cost estimates for the two prepared schemes (para 2.09) are based
on acceptable engineering standards for Baluchistan conditions and were prep-
ared using Pakistan's composite schedule of rates updated to March 1982 price
levels; Tables 2 and 3 in Annex 4 summarize the schemes major cost items. The
average cost per ha of irrigated area for the surf-ce irrigation (perennial)
schemes (as represented by Kanchogi) is estimated a, about Rs 41,000 and for
infiltration galleries (as represented by Rabat scheme), Is 60,30o.
costs are detailed in Annex 4, Tables 2 and 3, and incluac construcL- -.
irrigation works, command area works, physical contingencies, and technical
overhead (from planning and investigation through design and supervision or
construction). The unit and total base costs (including estimates of farmer



- 23 -
donated labor) for the project's irrigation schemes are dissaggregated by two
project components and are presented in Tables 3 and 4 of Annex 3. These
investment costs per ha and per beneficiary are within the acceptable range
of other similar IDA-financed projects. Implementation periods for each
scheme, from planning through the construction phases are expected to range
from about nine to fifteen months.
Tacble 3.1:  Project Cost Summary By Component
% of
% of    Total
(Rs. Million)        (US$Million)      Foreign  Base
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
1. Irrigation
Development /a         136.6  13.2   149.9  13.0   1.3    14.3         9       62
2. Agricultural
Development /a           17.5   4.6    22.1   1.7   0.4       2.1    21         9
3. Pilot Schemes             34.5   5.8    40.3   3.3   0.6        3.8    14       17
4. Technical Assistance
and Training             3.0  14.5    17.5   0.3   1.4        1.7    83         7
5. Project Management
and Coordination         7.8   3.1    10.9   0.7   0.3        1.0    28         5
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS /b   199.4  41.3   240.6  19.0   3.9    22.9    17           100
Physical Contingencies       27.9   3.5    31.5   2.7   0.3        3.0    11       13
Price Contingencies /c       97.6  12.3   109.9   7.9   0.9        8.8    10       38
Total Project Costs /d    324.9  57.1   382.0  29.5   5.2    34.7    15           151
-                -                     -   _ _ _ 
/a  Includes costs for planning, design, and supervision of construction.
T7 Base costs are expressed in March 1982 price levels.
7_ Price contingencies are based on the following assumptions of inflation:
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
Local Costs (%)          14.0   12.5    11.0   10.0   10.0    9.0    8.0
Foreign Costs (%)         8.0    8.0    7.75   7.25   6.5    6.5    6.5
/d  Includes duties and taxes and excludes farmer donated labor.
Financing
3.04      External aid would tentatively provide about US$29.1 M, or 85% of
total net project cost, covering 100% of foreign costs and 70% of local costs,
and excluding taxes and duties. The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 M would



- 24 -
finance approximately 40% of project costs, covering about 52% of foreign costs
and 38% of local costs. The Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Kfw) of W. Germany ha
agreed in principle to co-finance on a parallel basis civil works of minor irri-
gation schemes for a total of US$13.0 M, covering about 17% of foreign costs
and 41% of local costs. The Netherlands Ministry for Development Cooperation
(NMDC) has also agreed in principle to finance 100% of the technical assistance
and training component, totalling about US$2.1 M. The remaining funds (US$5.6
M), or 15% of total net project cost plus duties and taxes, would be provided
by GOP/GOBAL.  Assurances were received from GOP that adequate funding would
be provided to GOBAL at the beginning of each fiscal year according to the
project's expenditure schedule. Conditions of credit effectiveness include:
(i) approval of the project's PC-1 by ECNEC; and (ii) completion of the
project agreements between GOP/GOBAL and KFW and NMDC.  The proposed finan-
cing plan is summarized in Table 3.2 and the estimated schedule of expendi-
tures is presented in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2.
Table 3.2:   Proposed Project Financing
Expenditure Category                US$ M    GOP & GLOBAL    IDA    KFW/a  NKDCI-
------U S$ M-.
1.  Civil Works /b                   26.0         2.2         10.8    13.0
2.  Equipment & Vehicles              1.5          .4          1.1      -
3.  Salaries, Allowances and
Other Expenses                  3.0         3.0
4. Technical Assistance, Training
and Evaluation Study            2.1          -           -       -     2.1
5. Unallocated                        2.1          -           2.1     -       -
Total Cash Cost                      34.7 /c      5.6         14.0    13.0   2.1
% Financing
(Net of Duties and Taxes)        100          15          41       38     6
7a   Project agreement between co-financiers and GOP/GLOBAL to be finalized.
/b   Includes cost of design, engineering, and supervision.
/c   Includes about US$.4 million in duties and taxes to be covered by
GOP/GOBAL and excludes approximately US$.7 M in farmer-donated labor.
Procurement
3.05      Procurement would be carried out by the Project Management Cell
(see para 4e04 and Procurement Schedule summarized in Annex 5, Table 3) and
would include:
(a) Civil Works. Because of the project's implementation sched-
ule, and the seasonal and scattered, and highly divisible
nature of the civil works, it would not be practicable or



- 25 -
economical to group the work into contracts suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB). Therefore, the execution
of civil works would be through local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures satisfactory to IDA.  When practicable, a number of
separate schemes would be bid as one contract, with the option
to bid individually for separate schemes.  The local custom is
to follow a bidding range and to indicate the official respons-
ible for evaluating and awarding the contract.  For example,
contracts exceeding US$150,000 are bid at the country level
and the Chief Engineer for the DI is responsible for awarding
the contract; contracts under this amount and for predetermined
cost ranges are bid at the provincial level and are awarded by
designated officials of the DI. Tender documents and award
recommendations for the contracts exceeding US$250,000 would
require prior review by IDA. The supervisory consultants, and
the provincial Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture would
retain full responsibility for quality of construction.
(b) Vehicles, Equipment and Other. Vehicles would be procured
through ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines. Eligible domestic
bidders would be entitled to a 15% preference. Where feasible,
these items would be grouped according to category, with
deliveries as required by the project's implementation schedule.
The aggregate value of items to be procured through ICB is
about US$.5M (including price escalation, but net of taxes
and duties). Because of the need for vehicles during the
project's first year, GOBAL has already begun preparing the
documents for procuring them. Motorcycles would be purchased
directly by project staff as appropriate who would be provided
with a medium term loan by GOBAL. Loans would be repaid from
mileage allowances for official travel. The level of these
allowances is considered to be adequate. Because of the rela-
tively small amount of other equipment (farm implements, office
and irrigation equipment) required for the project, these items
would be acquired in accordance with the normal procedures of
GOBAL after quotations from at least three independent suppliers
have been obtained and compared. The aggregate amount of non-ICB
procurement for equipment would not exceed the equivalent of
US$.650M (inclusive of contingencies).
Disbursements
3.06      Disbursements of the IDA credit would be against:
(a) 90% of the costs of civil works, including design, engineering
and supervision of schemes approved by IDA for financing; and
(b) 100% of foreign exchange cost of goods directly imported;
and 100% of expenditures for locally manufactured goods
ex-factory or 75% of expenditures for other goods procured
locally.



26 -
3.07      Disbursements for all items would be made against full documentation
and according to normal IDA procedures. The Project Management Cell, with the
collaboration of the implementing agencies, would be responsible for preparing
and forwarding the applications to IDA. It is anticipated that the final dis-
bursements of the IDA credit would be made by December 31, 1988, about six
months after completion of the project's implementation. Since there has not
been a comparable project in Pakistan, the projected disbursement profile is
based on a realistic implementation schedule with an initial build-up period
and on IDA's experience of similar projects in the irrigation sector. For
further details, see estimated schedule of expenditure (Annex 3, Tables 1
and 2), and the semi-annual disbursement schedule (Annex 5, Table 4). Dis-
bursements under the parallel co-financing agreements would be made on similar
basis as IDA. The project would include US$250,000 of retroactive financing
for expenditures incurred since August 1, 1981 in order'to enable GOBAL to
complete the project's first year construction program. This funding would
include the purchase of up to four vehicles used to further schemA preparation.
Accounts and Audits
3.08      The project would be subject to normal Government expenditure and
auditing procedures, which are considered satisfactory to IDA. Project accounts
would be maintained separately and in a readily identifiable form to enable
them to be audited separately from overall departmental accounts by the
Accountant General's representative; the Project Management Cell would submit
the audited accounts to IDA (para 6.02). Assurances were received from GOP/
GOBAL that: (i) separate accounts for the project would be maintained by the-
Project Management Cell and the Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture;
(ii) project-related accounts would be audited each fiscal year by independent
auditors satisfactory to IDA; (iii) copies of the unaudited accounts would
be sent to IDA for review not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year, followed by certified copies of the audited accounts and
auditor's report within 9 months of the end of each fiscal year; and (iv)
related accounts and financial statements, with full documentation, would
be made available during IDA supervision missions.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      Overview.  The overall direction of project activities would be
carried out by two types of complementary committees. The project's day-
to-day planning, management, and coordination would be done by a newly
established Project Management Cell. Implementation of project activities
would be the primary responsibility of existing Provincial agencies which
would be assisted by consultants. See Annex 5, Chart 1 for the project's
organization chart.
4.02      Project Direction.  The project-s committees would include a
Project Steering Committee (PSC) and Project Area Committees (PAC), which
would be comprised of already designated Provincial officials who would
provide the project with overall direction and supervision at both the
Provincial and local levels.



- 27 -
(a)  The Project Steering Committee (PSC), chaired by the Secretary
of the Provincial Planning and Development Department (P&DD)
and with the Secretaries of Irrigation and Power, Agriculture
and Livestock as its members, would be responsible for policy
decisions and overall supervision of the project. The PSC would
(i) approve the project-s schemes, the annual planning, prepara-
tion and construction programs, and the corresponding annual
budgets; and (ii) recommend the annual construction programs to
the Provincial Development Working Party (PDWP). From time to
time, the Committee would review the progress of the various
studies and pilot schemes to be carried out under the project
and give broad direction in their implementation. The committee
would meet at least once every six months and in accordance with
the project's requirements.
(b)  A Project Area Committee (PAC) would be established in each
of the four districts included under the project (para 2.01).
The PAC would be comprised of local farmer representatives
(most likely District and Union Council Chairmen), of district
and/or tehsil level staff of relevant technical line agencies,
and designated staff of the Area Planning and Development Team
(APDT, see para 4.03). This Area Committee would be chaired
by the District Director of Local Government, and an appointed
member of the APDT would act as secretary. This committee
would assist the APDT in the initial identification and
selection of schemes to be included in the project and would
help resolve local priorities with regards to proposed project
actions. To ensure full local participation and support, the
committee would consult elected representatives of the Union
and District Councils prior to the implementation of any
scheme, giving careful consideration to local priorities.
Based on the draft scheme agreement discussed in para 2.18(c),
rules of business would be developed for the resolution of
conflicting interests and for ensuring active local partici-
pation and cost sharing.
4.03      Project Coordination and Management.  A Project Management Cell (PMC)
would be established within the Provincial Department of Irrigation to carry
out the day-to-day administration, planning, coordination, and management of
all project activities approved by PSC and PAC. The PMC would be headed by
a Project Director, who would be a senior official with prior experience in
managing comparable and complex projects. As Project Director, he would be an
ex-officio member and secretary of the Project Steering Committee. He would be
assisted by support staff and an interdisciplinary Area Planning and Development
Team (APDT), which would form the core of the PMC in helping to implement the
project's field-level and decentralized approach. The APDT would be comprised
of five senior officials, or Deputy Directors-an Engineer, Agriculturist,
Economist, Local Government representative, and Finance/Accounts Officer-plus
other professional and supporting staff. One of the Deputy Directors of the
Team with suitable project experience would be designated Assistant Project
Director/Team Leader. The economist should have a suitable background in
considering socio-economic issues and beneficiary participation in the design
and implementation of schemes. The team would work in close collaboration with



-28 -
local staff of concerned line agencies and with members of the Project Area
Committee, including representatives from local government (or from the Union
and District Councils). To help attract suitable personnel to implement the
project, its funds include an additional "incentive allowance" for the staff
financed under the project.
4.04      PMC-s principal responsibilities would be:
(a) to prepare project implementation and expenditure schedules,
which would be reviewed by IDA each March 1, beginning in 1983;
(b) to allocate the project-s funds approved by the PSC to the
participating agencies; although they would keep separate
accounts of project-related expenditures, PMC would establish
and maintain a consolidated accounts and reporting system
satisfactory to IDA; PMC would also be responsible for submit-
ting reimbursement applications to IDA and concerned co-
financiers;
(c) to arrange for the required identification, preparation,
appraisal, review, and approval of schemes, which would be
carried out in conjunction with the participating agencies,
the PSC and PAC, and the beneficiaries (see Annex 2, Chart 2);
this responsibility would include preparing an appraisal
report for each irrigation scheme and ensuring that the
schemes comply with the agreed criteria. The APDT would
ensure satisfactory completion of the scheme agreement
between District Council and Water Users Association/
Cooperative;
(d) to review and monitor the project-s progress (overall and by
component/scheme) so as to identify and help resolve bottle-
necks that may arise during project implementation; this
monitoring would include preparing consolidated quarterly
project progress reports, and submitting them to IDA and co-
financiers within 60 days of the end of the reporting period;
(e) to coordinate the technical assistance and training package
provided under the project, including the specific identifi-
cation of TA and training needs required during project
implementation;
(f) to assist line agency staff and the TA experts in formulating,
implementing, and monitoring the project-s pilot schemes and
related studies;
(g) to manage the procurement of the project's civil works,
vehicles, and equipment following procedures acceptable to
IDA; and
(h) to contract the project's evaluation study with a suitable
institution and to prepare a draft Project Completion Report
to be completed within six months after project completion.



- 29 -
4.05      In carrying out these functions, PMC staff would receive on-the-job
training from the TA experts (see para 2.11). This support would include
assistance in designing simplified procedures to assimilate and integrate the
monitoring and evaluation data collected from various sources. IDA has received
assurances from GOBAL that it will establish and maintain until completion of
the project: (a) a Project Steering Committee and (b) a Project Management
Cell within the DI, including a Project Director whose qualifications and experi-
ence shall be satisfactory to IDA. The establishment of the Project Steering
Committee and the Project Management Cell, including the appointment of a
Project Director, whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to IDA,
are conditions of credit effectiveness.
Procedures for Identification, Preparation/Appraisal and Implementation of
Minor Irrigation Schemes (Flow Chart is presented in Annex 5, Chart 2).
4.06      Identification.  A number of potential irrigation schemes have already
been identified for initial investigation and planning. Additional schemes for
the development of reliable minor irrigation would be identified by the APDT
in consultation with the Project Area Committee and concerned provincial Depart-
ments. The schemes identified would conform to agreed criteria, particularly
with regard to total, per ha, and per beneficiary cost limits (see Annex 2,
Table' 1). To help ensure the maximum use of the schemes, identification of
schemes would focus on those areas where land settlement surveys have been
completed and where there is clear evidence of promising agricultural poten-
tial. The APDT would collect the hydrological, topographic, soils, agricultural
and socio-economic information available- for each scheme and would prepare a
scheme pre-feasibility report. It would be submitted through the Project
Director to the Project Steering Committee for review. The Steering Committee
would approve schemes meeting the project's agreed criteria and select the
most promising ones for preparation up to feasibility level.
4.07      Preparation.  In Stage I, a scheme feasibility report would be
prepared by WAPDA in sufficient detail to establish the scheme's viability and
compliance with agreed guidelines and criteria. This would entail detailed
data collection and processing; field surveys and investigations; analysis of
options, including alternative designs and locations (with a focus on settled
areas); preliminary engineering designs; cost estimates, and economic and
financial evaluation; consideration of the required institutional arrangements
for irrigation and agricultural development; beneficiary support of scheme,
establishment of a Water Users Association/Cooperative, and willingness to
fulfill requirements for the scheme s adequate operation and maintenance. The
feasibility report would form the basis for APDT-s appraisal, and subject to
a positive outcome, for the Province's tentative approval. Final GOBAL approval
is subject to incorporating the necessary revisions resulting from the review
process and specified by the APDT, and by the Project Steering Committee. The
revised feasibility study and corresponding appraisal report would then be
sent to the appropriate co-financing agency for review and approval.
4.08      Once the scheme is approved by the various concerned groups as
described above, Stage II would involve the detailed design of the scheme, and
would include: field investigations and surveys for demarcating service areas;
rights of way and firming up of foundation designs of structures; model studies
for design (if required); detailed design of structures with drawings for tender
documents determining quantities and estimates of costs; preparation of the



- 30 -
plan of project execution (including the recommended organizational arrange-
ments for supervision of works); and the drawing up of tender documents. This
stage would also incorporate: detailed plans and schedules for command area
development; specific actions to be taken to increase agricultural production;
satisfactory completion of Scheme Agreement between District Council and Water
Users Association/Cooperative (see para 2.18-b), which would provide clear
indication of agreed land and water rights, and farmer responsibilities for O&M.
4.09      Since the Provincial Irrigation and Power Department is not equipped
to carry out the comprehensive preparation of irrigation schemes, the planning
and preparation of the project-s schemes would be done by WAPDA's Planning and
Investigation (P&I) Organization, or by other suitable Consultants. It is
anticipated, however, that the DI would take increasing responsibility for
planning and design work, particularly during the later stages. The project
would provide for additional staff and facilities as well as technical assist-
ance to DI to enable it to take greater responsibility for detailed feasibility
work and follow-up projects. Meanwhile, the preparation of detailed engineer-
ing designs, cost estimates and tender documents would be undertaken by the
Central Design Office of WAPDA, or other appropriate consultants.
4.10      Appraisal.  During the course of scheme preparation and as described
in para 4.07 and 4.08, the preparation reports at both feasibility level
(Stage 1) and detailed engineering design level (Stage 2) would be reviewed
by APDT's staff to ensure that (a) the designs are appropriate and technically
sound; (b) the proposed command area development and cropping patterns are -
suitable for the area; (c) that the farmers would support the scheme, and that
prior to its construction, the District Council and the WUA/Cooperative would
have satisfactorily completed the scheme aggrement as stated in para ....;
(iv) proposed actions for strengthening the agricultural supporting services
are adequate in relation to the suggested development; (e) implementation
schedules could be realistically achieved; and (f) the scheme meets the agreed
technical and cost/economic criteria. If acceptable, and after incorporating
required modifications identified during the review process as described in
para 4.07, the scheme would then be ready for the construction phase.
4.11      Implementation.  Construction of irrigation headworks and main water
distribution channels in project schemes would be the responsibility of the DI
Executive Engineer in charge of the particular Irrigation Division in which
the scheme is located. The work would be carried out by contractors (see para
3.06) under the supervision of DI engineers. A-dditional supervision to ensure
quality construction would be exercised by WAPDA or other independent consult-
ants acceptable to IDA. The Department of Agriculture would be responsible
for carrying out the extension and CAD program under the project. Under the
IDA-assisted On Farm Water Management (OFWM) Project (Cr. No. 1163-PAK), teams
with primary responsibility for improving existing irrigation areas are being
set up in the Gumbaz, Nal and Greshak, and Las Bela areas. The project would
therefore introduce fullfledged teams for OFWM and CommAnd Area Development
(CAD) in Nisai, and if required, in Las Bela, consisting of an Extra Assistant
Director of Agriculture (EADA), an Agricultural Officer, a Junior Engineer, a
Sub-Engineer, two Field Assistants and support staff. The teams covering the
Gumbaz and Nal and Greshak areas would not have the EADA and Junior Engineer,
and would depend on the existing OFWM teams for technical support.



- 31 -
4.12      To augment the existing extension services of DAE and to coordinate
and facilitate project activities, one additional Deputy Director would be
provided at headquarters with some support staff and equipment. This Deputy
Director would also be responsible for ensuring adequate interaction and liaison
with other related Departments such as Planning and Development, Irrigation,
Agricultural Engineering, Livestock and Forestry. At Tehsil level, three
Agricultural Officers would be appointed; one each at Duki (Gumbaz area),
Muslimbagh (Nisai), and Nal (Nal and Greshak). One training officer would be
posted at Muslimbagh and one at Nal. Three field inspectors of the Cooperative
Development Bank would be located at central locations in each of the project
sub-areas to supervise the provision of short-term credit. Credit facilities
would also be complemented by ADBP-s valley development officers. A field
office-cum-rest house and storage facility would be provided at all three
project locations for the use of field staff in extension, Cooperative Bank,
OFWM and CAD personnel. Field Assistants and Cooperative Bank staff would be
provided with motorcycles and with specific work programs of scheduled meetings
with contact farmers. Weekly training sessions on current problems would be
organized by the Training officers. Some plant protection equipment would also
be -provided under the project. The entire agricultural staff at Tehsil level
would be given training in the basic elements of the T&V system.
Pilot Schemes and Related Special Studies
4.13      Water Spreading for Fodder Production, and Groundwater Recharge.
The final planning and implementation of the pilot projects would be undertaken
by the WAPDA Planning Organization (WPO) for Baluchistan with the help of the
technical assistance team. After review and comment on details and design of
the proposed schemes by IDA (para 2.16 and 2.17), sites would be selected
during project year 1 (PY1). Construction of structures, channels and bunds
would be completed and the necessary equipment and instrumentation for measur-
ing the various items to be monitored installed during PY2. Field staff would
be assigned to carry out the required observations and data collection under
the close supervision of WAPDA and technical assistance staff. Analysis and
interpretation of the data would commence by the end of PY3, and continue
through PY6, to be summarized together with recommendations in a final report
to be submitted at the end of PY6.
4.14      Conjunctive Water Use.  This pilot study would be formulated and
conducted by staff of the APDT, DI, DA, WAPDA and the technical assistance
experts, with WAPDA having the responsibility for overall coordination. During
the first year of project implementation, field and office studies would be
initiated aimed at implementing the individual schemes in the following year.
The studies would include: (a) sociological surveys; (b) the identification of
groups of farmers willing to participate; (c) agricultural surveys; (d) and
water resource investigations. The terms of reference for these studies are
provided in Annex 6.
4.15      Towards the end of first year, results of the sociological, agri-
cultural and hydrological studies would be combined and used as a basis for
selecting the sites where (a) groundwater and surface water is available (with
a view to conjunctive use); (b) farmers- groups can be successfully formed,
and (c) the agricultural potential is good. Detailed designs for pilot schemes,



- 32 -
including the proposed engineering designs and command area-development of
proposed flood schemes (para 2.13) would be formulated for these sites, in
close consultation with participating farmers. Formal agreements for system
operation and maintenance, and water sharing arrangements would be drawn up
with the farmers and submitted to the local administration.
4.16      During the second year of project implementation, the main activi-
ties would be tubewell installation, perennial and flood scheme construction,
command area development, and initial implementation of the monitoring and
evaluation of the pilot schemes. The hydrologist would prepare a water
resources management report, with recommendations applicable in principle
in most, if not all, Baluchistan valleys. Operation of the pilot schemes
and monitoring and evaluation of the results would continue during PY3-6 and
culminate in a report which would serve as a basis for further integrated
development of ground and surface water resources.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17      Responsibility for coordinating overall monitoring and evaluation
of the project would be with the Project Management Cell (PMC, para 4.02).
Since the project stresses data collection and pilot studies to facilitate
project implementation and improve development planning and further project
preparation, a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system would be set up.
In conjunction with participating agencies, PMC would establish and implement
a simplified monitoring system that would report the progress of each project
component and that of the overall project. Monitoring activities would
encompass construction, hydrology, command area development, and the pilot
schemes. Each project component would have a simple but effective procedure
for the collection and analysis of data, and this would be the responsibility
of relevant project staff with the support of the technical assistance team.
To minimize possible coordination problems in carrying out the monitoring
activities, the details would be worked out during the project's first year in
conjunction with the implementing agencies. In particular, special emphasis
would be placed in designing features that assimilate and integrate data from
various sources. PMC would consolidate progress reports of individual agen-
cies and would submit them quarterly to the Project Steering Committee,
IDA, and the co-financiers. In addition to the project monitoring system,
National Fertilizer Marketing Limited (NFML) l/ or another suitable local
institution would be contracted by PMC to carry out an evaluation study that
would focus on assessing the project-s impact on agricultural production.
4.18      Hydrology.  The DI, assisted by the hydrologist in the technical
assistance team, would design and implement a hydrologic data collection
1/   National Fertilizer Marketing Limited (NFML) is a subsidiary of the
National Fertilizer Corporation (NFC), a quasi-public enterprise that
is Pakistan's major fertilizer manufacturer and distributor. NFML has
an interdisciplinary Research Cell that has carried out various farm
level studies. As part of the IDA-financed Fertilizer Imports Credit
(CR 1066-PAK), NFML has successfully carried out two field-level surveys
on farmer fertilizer use in response to its recent price increases.



- 33 -
program, and would be responsible for the analysis and report preparation of
the results.  Instrumentation, field data collection and initial data compila-
tion would be kept simple, so that it can be carried out by semi-skilled
staff.  Detailed analysis of the rainfall probability distribution throughout
the kharif and rabi season would be conducted. In addition, studies on the
quantities and reliability of the available water supplies would be initiated
(on most, if not all schemes) immediately after the project has become effective.
4.19      Command Area Development and Irrigation Efficiency.  Simple measuring
devices (e.g. gauge-equipped weirs, V-notches or flumes) would be installed at
suitable locations in the command area of selected schemes. Local DI or DA
staff, or temporarily hired semi-skilled labor would read and compile daily
data on channel flow, to be collected regularly by designated personnel of the
ID. Information on the reliability of timely water supplies would be obtained
by regular farmers' interviews, based on predesigned questionnaires and con-
ducted by extension personnel. Data on water adequacy and distribution would
be obtained through spot checks at selected field locations and crop yield
sampling.
4.20      Waterspreading.  WAPDA would collect the physical, biological and
socio-economic data required for the sound planning, implementation, and
monitoring of water spreading programs. These activities would include
gathering (a) data on floodwater flow, peak discharge, and frequency and
size of floods; (b) information on soil-moisture relationships and the
amount of increased fodder production (and hence carrying capacity); and
(c) information on livestock numbers and management practices. The entire
system of water spreading, fodder and livestock production as well as crop
production would be carefully monitored over a number of years and its cost
and benefits determined. The conditions under which this enterprise could
become competitive with other forms of agriculture would be established.
4.21      Groundwater Recharge.  Monitoring of the pilot scheme for artifi-
cial recharge would be carried out by the Groundwater Planning Organization
of WAPDA. Monitoring the runoff and infiltration of short and irregular
events is a difficult task which would require careful planning and design
of measurement systems and considerable field-work. The performance of the
scheme would be monitored as closely as possible to obtain data about runoff
characteristics of the catchment, recharge through the stream channel itself,
and the effectiveness of the recharge channels.
4.22      Project Evaluation.  The National Fertilizer Marketing Limited
(NFML) or another suitable institution would carry out an evaluation of the
project's impact, concentrating on agricultural production, farm incomes, and
employment. The technical assistance team, particularly the economist, would
provide guidance in carrying out the study. Emphasis would be placed on
developing a suitable and simple analytical methodology and on collecting
the most essential data. The terms of reference of the evaluation study are
presented in Annex 6. Assurances were received from GOBAL that the Project
Management Cell would complete by December 1, 1984, or one year after comple-
tion of the project's first scheme, whichever is earlier, a contract with a
suitable institution satisfactory to IDA to carry out the project-s evaluation
study under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.



- 34 
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES,
FARM INCOMES & COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Impact
5.01      The project would increase agricultural production by increasing
the efficiency and reliability of irrigation water supplies through con-
structing and rehabilitating a number of minor irrigation schemes, improving
water management, and introducing improved agricultural practices and produc-
tion support services. Total area benefitted by these schemes is expected to
be about 3,800 ha.
5.02      As discussed in para 1.22-1.48, Baluchistan's present low level of
agricultural development is due primarily to unreliable and inadequate water
supplies, limited infrastructure and agricultural support services, tradi-
tional cultural practices, and limited use of modern inputs. "Without the
project", production could be expected to continue along the trends observed
over the past five years (about 1-3% p.a.). "With project" incremental
production would result from increases in crop yields, irrigated area, higher
cropping intensities, and crop diversification. The highest productivity
increases would be achieved in the newly constructed infiltration galleries.
Increased and more reliable water supplies, strengthened extension and input
supply services would together contribute to an expanded cultivated area,
substantial increase in yields, higher crop intensities (from 100% to 120%),
and a shift to higher value crops, particularly orchards. These assumptions
are consistent with available information of currently irrigated areas in
Baluchistan operating at levels envisioned by the proposed project. Moreover,
the areas to be selected would have favorable soil conditions compared with
those prevailing over much of the province. Expected increases in irrigated
area, and incremental production for selected crops are summarized in Table
5.1, with further details on cropping patterns, yields, and input requirements
presented in Annex 7, Tables 1-2.
Table 5.1: AREA IRRIGATED AND PRODUCTION OF MAJOR CROPS
(at full development)
Irrigation Schemes
Infiltration                Incre-
Surface     Galleries         Total      ment
(%)
FW/o   FW      FW/o  FW     FW/o   FW    FW/FW/o
1.  Irrigated Area (000 ha)    2.30   2.8        .2    1.0    2.5    3.8    152
2. Production (mt 000)
Wheat                     1.8    3.7       .1    1.2    1.9    4.9    258
Maize                       .4     .8       -      -      .4     .8    200
Fodder                    2.7    7.0    1.2    4.4    3.9   11.4    292
Fruits                     .8    7.9       -    3.9       .8   11.8  1,475
Vegetables                2.0    4.5        -    2.8    2.0    7.3    365



- 35 -
Marketing and Pricing
5.03      Current marketing arrangements prevailing in the project areas and
the provisions included in the project are considered generally adequate to
handle the project's expected incremental inputs and outputs. Given GOP's
intention to phase out input subsidies over the next few years, GOBAL is
providing conditions for an increased role of the private sector in the supply
and distribution of inputs. To facilitate this transition to the private
sector and yet assure adequate and timely input supplies (particularly fer-
tilizers), the project's on-farm water management wing (para 4.12) would
provide (a) facilities for the distribution of inputs and availability of
short-term credit; and (b) a few tractors that would be available to farmers on
a rental basis at prevailng and non-subsidized market rates. A large portion
of the project's incremental crop output would be used to meet local human and
animal consumption needs, and would be marketed through both public and private
channels. The local market would also readily absorb the additional fodder
produced under the project. The marketing of fruits and vegetables would be
channeled through the existing system of private traders and marketed in the
larger urban centers such as Karachi and Quetta.
5.04      Although Baluchistan's limited marketing and road infrastructure
is expected to absorb the incremental production under the project, market
improvements would be required eventually, especially for the higher valued
crops that are sometimes subject to sharp price fluctuations. The project's
evaluation study would analyze factors affecting income increases due to the
project, including the prevailing marketing system and the scope for further
improvements. The marketing analysis would be based on the evaluation findings
of improved schemes and would draw on the findings of an on-going marketing
study on fruits carried out by FAO. This market related analysis would
contribute to the information needs that would enable GOBAL to continue its
current policies and programs of ensuring adequate marketing infrastructure
and timely supply of key agricultural inputs and services.
5.05      The prices used for the project's financial analysis have been
expressed in mid-1981 currency. Estimates of the 1981/82 average farmgate
prices used in project analysis are based on the following data sources:
latest GOP procurement prices, provincial Department of Agriculture statis-
tics, and project area farmgate prices collected during project preparation
and appraisal. The year-specific prices used for projecting the financial
analyses to 1990 were based on GOP's and GOBAL's intentions to (a) phase out
input subsidies by 1985/86; and (b) periodically adjust prices so that they
provide adequate producer incentives and are consistent with world market
prices as projected by the Bank. The price projections after 1990 assume
that domestic wheat prices would remain slightly below projected world market
prices, therefore providing GOP with a source of implicit taxation on a
portion of incremental output.  Table 3 in Annex 7 summarizes the prices
used for the project's financial analysis.
Farm Budgets and Incomes
5.06      The project's direct beneficiaries would be about 1,700 farm fami-
lies on the 3,800 hectares to be irrigated under the project. To assess



36 -
the project's impact on farm income, four illustrative farm budgets were
derived to represent the principal determinants of family incomes in each
type of irrigation scheme without and with the project. The parameters
include: agro-climatic conditions, land-tenure and benefit-sharing arrange-
ments, availability of inputs and services, the project-s provision of in-
vestments, and other supporting actions, and farmer's production response.
Estimates of net farm income for future "without" and "with" project scen-
arios at full development (after 13 years) include: (a) remuneration for
family labor and management; (b) estimates of off-farm and livestock income;
and (c) expected price policy changes to reflect non-subsidized inputs and
incentive prices for outputs (para 5.05). Table 5.2 summarizes two estimates
of net farm incomes at two levels of full development; one for annual crops
(by year 6), and another estimate includes perennial crops, accounting for
the initial build-up period under the perennial schemes (by year 13). At
full development, direct cost recovery from the benefitting farmers ranges
from 1-2.2% of project rent, varying according to representative farm budget.
Annex 7, Tables 1-5 provide further details and assumptions.
Table 5.2: PROJECTED NET FAMILY INCOME
(Rs, mid-1981 currency)
Future    Future    Project    Number of
Scheme and                          W/out       With      Related  Farm Families
Tenure Status              Present  Project   Project   Increase  Represented
----Rs p.a.----  (FW/FW)
A.   Surface Irrigation                                               1,400
- Owner/Operator      9,120                                     (1,050)
(Year 6)      -      10,070    20,285        200
(Year 13)       -     12,085    41,300         342
- Tenant              5,955                                       (350)
(Year 6)      -       6,575    13,262        200
(Year 13)      -       7,890    26,355         334
B.   Infiltration Gallery                                               300
- Owner/Operator    10,580                                        (210)
(Year 6)      -      11,680    35,145        300
(Year 13)      -      14,015    91,937        656
- Tenant              7,490                                        (90)
(Year 6)      -       8,270    21,325        258
(Year 13)      -       9,924    53,753        542
5.07      The increases in net farm income due to the project are consider-
able and range from 200% to 656%. These increases reflect both the low
starting base and the high productive potential of irrigated land; the
variations are due to differences in the underlying parameters cited in
para 5.06. They represent net increases from a low absolute level of income



- 37 -
to the full-development levels reached thirteen years after completion of
project works. The farmers obtaining the highest increases in net family
income are the owner/operator farmers and those that have access to larger
farm sizes and water supplies. Although their incomes would increase sub-
stantially at full development, almost 90% of the farmers are projected to
have incomes that would still be below Pakistan's average per capita income
six years after completion of project works. Even at full development, the
majority of beneficiaries are estimated to have per capita incomes that are
about equal to the national average per capita income (see Annex 7, Tables 4
and 5).
Cost Recovery
5.08      IDA has consistently emphasized the importance of cost recovery in
its policy dialogue with GOP and in IDA-supported projects. GOP, in its 1980
National Agricultural Policy statement, has agreed to eliminate subsidies on
fertilizers and pesticides by 1985, and to increase water charges to recover
full operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of its Indus irrigation system.
In three out of the last four years, water charges in all Provinces have been
increased by 25% p.a. More generally, GOP and IDA are currently exploring
alternatives to increase revenues and reduce public expenditures in order to
generate additional finances for the country's investment requirements.
In the implementation of this broader objective, GOP-s recent statements on
recovery policies in the water sector include an intention to focus first-on
getting the beneficiaries to pay the charges that cover an adequate level of
O&M. This intention is reflected in the cost recovery proposals of IDA's
proposed Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project. In the future, GOP intends
to implement direct cost recovery policies of irrigation capital costs.
5.09      In Baluchistan Province, there have not been direct recoveries of
capital costs, and only recently GOBAL has introduced water charges in selected
areas, primarily those related to the Indus Irrigation System. This recovery
record is attributed to Baluchistan's special conditions, including relatively
small public investments in irrigation development, particularly in minor
irrigation. Historically, these small and scattered irrigation schemes have
been developed by Baluchistan's tribal population following their customary
land and water rights. GOBAL has never collected water charges in these
isolated schemes. The project provides that adequate O&M of the irrigation
schemes, and full recovery of these O&M costs, would be introduced and carried
out through a scheme-specific Water Users Association/Cooperative (para 2.18-b).
Failing proper maintenance by the concerned Water User Association/Cooperative,
the Provincial Department of Irrigation would incur the necessary O&M expendi-
tures, which would be recovered by the relevant District Council in full from
the beneficiaries in proportion to the water used by them as arrears of land
revenue and reimbursed to GOBAL. This decentralized approach to recoveries,
which accounts for the project's scattered and discrete irrigation schemes
(unlike the continguous Indus System) and for the prevailing tribal customs,
meets the recovery objectives outlined in para 5.08. In addition, the O&M
costs of the eight tubewells included in the project's pilot scheme would
be fully covered by the beneficiary farmers (see para 2.14). The current
subsidies on inputs would be phased out by the mid-1980's (see para 5.05).
Considering Baluchistan's underdevelopment and the low incomes of benefitting
farmers, GOBAL's phased reduction of input subsidies and full coverage of



- 38 -
irrigation O&M costs would represent a significant step toward developing an
active private sector and introducing cost sharing arrangements that could
serve as the basis for future projects in Baluchistan.
5.10      Cost recovery/contributions under the project would consist of
farmer-donated labor for on-farm construction and O&M, implicit taxation
obtained on a portion of incremental production (primarily wheat, see para
5.05), and water charges (to be collected by the concerned Water Users
Association/Cooperative). In terms of present value, as shown below, these
recoveries/contributions would cover 100% of the project-s recurrent/O&M
costs and about 8% of the incremental investment costs. Assurances were
received from GOBAL that it would ensure through the Water Users Association/
Cooperative, proper operation and maintenance of the schemes under the
project, including recovery by the Water Users Association/Cooperative from
all individual beneficiaries of the schemes the full required contributions
in cash and kind towards such operation and maintenance.
Table 5.3:  PRESENT VALUES OF PROJECT INCREMENTAL COST & RECOVERY STREAMS
Present Value at 10%
(Rs M)
Recoveries/Contributions
Donated Labor (Construction plus O&M)                         8.8
Implicit Taxes and Indirect Recoveries                        6.1
Water Charges                                                 3.7
Recoveries/Contributions                                   18.6
Costs
Investment                                                  176.8
Recurrent                                                      .5
O&M (Cash)                                                    3.7
Total Costs                                               181.0
VI.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
Overview
6.01       The proposed project would result in producing immediate and
tangible benefits to about 14,500 persons as well as strengthen the provincial
capacities for planning and implementing future and expanded follow-up irriga-
tion and agricultural development projects. These efforts would contribute
toward developing the province's underdeveloped resources and would help
reduce even the existing imbalance in Baluchistan-s development vis-a-vis
the other provinces. The main benefits expected from the project at full
development (about year 2000) are summarized below:



- 39 -
Directly benefitting persons                  14,500
Irrigation Schemes                         (11,900)
Pilot Schemes                               (2,600)
Area Irrigated                                 3,800 ha
Increase in foodgrain production               3,400 mt/year
Increase in cash-crop production              19,000 mt/year
Increase in per capita income                200-660 %
Increase in farm employment                  236,000 mandays/year
Employment during construction                      1.82 M mandays
Employment Benefits
6.02      The project's direct farm employment effects will largely arise
from the provision of additional and more reliable water supplies and an
improved extension service and greater input use, which together are
expected to increase labor utilization. Employment on benefitting farms
would increase from 144,000 mandays to about 380,000 mandays per year, which
is an increase of roughly an equivalent 980 full-time jobs. Most of this
employment would be in the form of increased on-farm activities for family
labor, thereby reducing the need to rely on uncertain and often remote work
opportunities. Moreover, the medium and larger farmers would hire additional
labor, mostly underemployed rural workers. It is estimated that the project's
construction activities would provide about 1.82 M mandays of employment for
unskilled workers during the project's six-year implementation period.
Direct Foreign Exchange Effect.
6.03      Based on annually projected international prices (until 1990),
expressed in mid-1981 currency units, the annual gross foreign exchange
value of incremental production of exports (a portion of wheat and orchard
production) is estimated at about US$410,000. After adjusting for the annual
foreign exchange costs of traded recurrent inputs (primarily fertilizers) of
US$120,000, the project's identifiable direct foreign exchange impact at full
development would total about US$290,000 per year.
Tribal Impact
6.04      The project's approach to the design and implementation of schemes
recognizes the tribal characteristics of participating farmers and would
not undermine their values and traditions. To help ensure the active partici-
pation of farmers and to ensure a favorable tribal impact, irrigation schemes
would be carried out: (i) where land settlement records have been completed;
and (ii) where a satisfactory agreement was completed with the beneficiaries
(para 2.18-b). Finally, the project's evaluation study would also consider
the project's tribal impact.
Economic Analysis
6.05      The project's economic analysis was based on detailed analysis -
of the two irrigation schemes reviewed at appraisal and their corresponding
farm budgets, which were discussed in para 5.06. The schemes are assumed to



- 40 -
be generally representative of the major types of irrigation schemes proposed
under the project and account for varied agro-climatic conditions expected to
prevail for the project's schemes.
6.06      The economic analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Project life and phasing. The life of the surface irrigation
schemes is assumed to be 30 years. The construction period
is expected to vary from nine to fifteen months per scheme.  The
phasing of project works would be-over the project's six-year
implementation period and is shown in Annex 5, Table 2.
(b) Prices. For internationally traded goods, prices were derived
from the Bank's projected world market prices expressed in
mid-1981 currency values. Appropriate adjustments were made
for freight, handling, processing, and quality differences.
Local costs and local valued benefits were expressed in border
rupees, through application of conversion factors, the principal
ones being the Standard Conversion Factor of .90 and Construction
Conversion Factor of .87. To account for market seasonality of
labor demand, the market wage rate for unskilled rural labor
was adjusted to account for peak and slack periods, resulting
in an average shadow wage rate equal to .80. Year-specific
economic prices have been used for inputs and outputs over
1981-1990, after which 1990 prices were assumed to remain
unchanged. Economic prices used in the analyses are shown
in Annex 7, Table 3.
(c)  Benefits.  Incremental crop benefits are based on the
assumptions summarized in para 5.02, and account for the
project's infrastructural investments, improved extension
services, and the gradual adoption of improved agricultural
practices by participating farmers. For the calculation of
expected benefits, the full-development benefits for an
average  farmer after completion of construction are
assumed to require five years for annual crops and ten
years for perennial fruit-tree crops. Therefore, the
project-s full-development period is expected to be reached
by about the year 2000.
(d) Economic Project Costs. The costs and adjustments included
in the economic analysis were: (i) the estimated investment
costs (construction, command area development, technical
overhead, plus physical contingencies) for all of the
irrigation schemes that aim to irrigate about 3,800 hectares
at full development; (ii) the annual operation and maintenance
expenses of these schemes were assumed to run about 1% of
the initial capital costs; (iii) the incremental capital
and operating costs of the institutional support services,
especially extension.



- 41 -
(e) Farm Production Costs. Production costs include all incremental
input requirements. Total farm labor, including family labor,
was valued according to the economic wages discussed under item
(b). Adjustments were made in the crop production cost streams
to reflect the staggered occurrence of costs and accrual of
benefits relating to farm activities.
(f) Other Project Benefits. The following benefits have been
omitted from the quantitative economic analysis: (a) improved
provincial capacity to plan and implement future irrigation and
agricultural development investment programs; (b) effect of
pilot schemes on (i) production, income, and employment levels
of participating farmers; and (ii) future and investments in
Baluchistan; (c) strengthened farmer participation in programs
tailored to fit local tribal customs.
6.07      Based on the assumptions summarized in para 6.06, the project's
economic rate of returns (ERRs), net present values (NPVs), and switching
values (SVs) for the major types of irrigation schemes and for the overall
project are summarized in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Irrigation                                          Switching Values(%) /b
Scheme                ERR(%)    NPV(RsM) /a      Benefits(-)   (Costs+)
1.      Surface              21.6        107                62           164
(5.0) /c
2.      Infiltration
Galleries            18.9         48                58          140
(5.5) /d
Overall Project              20.6        155                61           156
/a  The opportunity cost of capital (OCC) or discount rate for Pakistan
estimated by the Bank is 10%.
/b  Switching value is the percentage change in the specific stream (benefit
or cost) that equates the NPV to zero at a rate equal to the OCC.
/c  NPV refers to "Kanchogi" surface scheme.
/d  NPV refers to "Rabat" infiltration gallery scheme.
6.08      The overall ERR for the irrigation schemes is about 21%, with a
NPV of Rs 155 M. All of the irrigation schemes would be economically viable,
with ERR-s expected to exceed at least 15% (para 2.18-c). The surface
irrigation schemes have slightly higher returns than the infiltration gallery
schemes because of relatively lower investment costs and current low levels
of production. As expected, the additional and more reliable water supplies
provided under both types of irrigation schemes enable substantial increases
in yields and some shifts toward high-value crops (para 5.02). For these
reasons, the project-s investment costs concentrate on reliable irrigation
schemes, occupying almost 70% of the total project cost.



- 42 -
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests
6.09      The proposed project's principal risks and corresponding counter-
ing measures are:
(a)  Unit Costs and Project Scope   The actual unit costs for the
irrigation schemes to be prepared during project implementa-
tion may exceed the costs assumed at appraisal, and therefore
would lead to a reduction of the number of schemes, and/or
area improved included under the project. This, in turn,
would reduce economic returns. However, this risk is unlikely
to affect the project's viability and implementation because:
(i) the project is highly divisible in terms of the area to
be irrigated and number of schemes to be implemented; and
(ii) the requirement that all schemes be evaluated to ensure
their economic viability. A cutback in the number of schemes
under the project, however, would reduce the number of
beneficiaries.
(b)  Manpower Constraints.  Given the difficult working condi-
tions prevailing in Baluchistan there may be a difficulty
in recruiting suitable staff to implement the project. It is
(i) placing as a condition of effectiveness the recruitment
of a Project Director whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.05); (ii) providing as part of
project costs staff allowances that are additional to the
normal allocation and that would be used for incentive payments
for the project-s staff (para 4.03); (iii) providing technical
assistance to train the staff "on-the-job", emphasizing the
early phases of project implementation and a simplified moni-
toring and evaluation system (paras 2.12, 4.05, 4.17).
(c)  Benefits and Farmer Response.  Although additional water
is provided by the schemes included under the project, the
farmers- production behavior may not respond to the extent
assumed in the farm budgets because of traditional practices,
non-availability of inputs and credit, and an ineffective
extension service. The project is strengthening the critical
role of the area planning and development team (para 4.03),
the extension services (para 4.11), and the active presence of
institutional credit, input supplies and marketing (paras 4.12,
5.04), and farmer participation (para 2.18-b).
6.10      Sensitivity Tests.  The project's economic viability was tested
for its sensitivity to deviations from base-case values for key parameters
that may be affected by one or more of the risks if it (or they) were to
materialize. Corresponding changes in the ERRs and switching values for
each irrigation type and overall project are shown in Table 6.2. Graphical
illustrations of the sensitivity tests are shown in Annex 7, Chart 1. A
disaggregated analyses according to type of irrigation scheme show that the
schemes represented by "Kanchogi" and "Rabat" schemes can ab.scrb a substantial
amount of shock and still remain economically viable. For example, the



- 43 -
incremental yields or cropped area can decrease up to 40-50% and still provide
an economically viable project. Moreover, scheme viability is still achieved
if both yields and intensities decrease simultaneously by 20-25%. If con-
struction costs rise 20%, the project's ERR is about 18%. These findings
confirm the importance that the project is placing on the measures summarized
in para 6.09 to reduce risks  amely, to concentrate the investmints on
reliable irrigation schemes, to emphasize improving the extension service, and
to assure active farmer participation. As a result, the overall project can
experience significant changes in its benefits and investment costs and still
be economically justified. Finally, given the immediate need to support
GOP's and GOBAL's efforts to develop Baluchistan's production potential, the
project s level of risk is considered acceptable.
Table 6.2:   SUMMARY SENSITIVITY TESTS OF IRRIGATION SCHEMES (%)
Infiltration        Overall
Surface Schemes           Gallery Schemes      Project
Switching Values /a      Switching Values   (ERR)
ERR     Benefits   Costs    ERR  Benefits Costs
BASE CASE                    22           62        164   18.9    58       140      20.6
(a) Prices of Major Inputs
(+20%) and of High Value
Outputs (-20%)                17.3         47         86   15.4    45        77      16.1
(b) Yields or Cropped Area
"with project" (-20%)         17.0         49         95   16.0    47        84     16.3
(c) Yields and Cropped Area
"with project" (-20%)         12.9         28        37   11.4    13         15     12.2
(d) Construction Cost (+20%)      18.9         51        133   16.8    51       106      18.2
(e) Delay in Benefits (2 yrs.)   17.2          -          -    15.6    -         -       16.6
/a   Switching value is the percentage change in benefits or costs that would result in
a NPV equal to zero or an ERR of 10%.



-44-
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      Assurances were received from GOP and GOBAL that:
(a) GOP/GOBAL would annually furnish to IDA by March 1, begining
in 1983, a project implementation schedule for review and
comment; and (ii) GOBAL would provide IDA/KFW for review and
approval the feasibility study of each irrigation scheme
(para 2.09);
(b) the TA experts comprising a Hydrologist, Irrigation Agronomist,
and Economist would be employed by October 31, 1982 on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 2.11);
(c)  the completed detailed designs of the pilot scheme on
Conjunctive Water Use would be submitted to IDA for review
and comments by November 1, 1983 (para 2.15);
(d)  the final design of the water spreading program would
be completed and submitted to IDA for review and comment
by April 1, 1983 (para 2.16);
(e) preliminary designs for the pilot project to induce
groundwater recharge, including the proposed monitoring
system, would be submitted to IDA for review and comment
by July 1, 1983 (para 2.17);
(f) each irrigation scheme would be selected, designed and
implemented using technical, organizational and cost/
economic guidelines and criteria satisfactory to IDA
(para 2.18);
(g) (i) prior to the construction of any project-financed
irrigation scheme: a Water Users Association/Cooperative
would be established; and a signed agreement satisfactory
to IDA would be completed between the relevant District
Council and Water Users Association/Cooperative setting out
their mutual responsibilities; and (ii) GOBAL would take
the necessary measures to strengthen the concerned Waters
Users Association/Cooperative to enable it to carry out
its agreed responsibilities (para 2.18(b);
(h) adequate funding would be provided by GOP to GOBAL at the
beginning of each fiscal year according to the project's
expenditure schedule (para 3.04);
(i) (i) separate accounts for the project would be maintained by
the Project Management Cell and the Departments of Irrigation
and Agriculture; (ii) project-related accounts would be
audited eachf fiscal year by independent auditors satisfactory
to IDA; (iii) copies of the unaudited accounts would be sent
to IDA for review not later than six months after the end of



- 45 -
each fiscal year, followed by certified copies of the audited
accounts and auditor's report within 9 months of the end of
each fiscal year; and (iv) related accounts and financial
statements, with full documentation, would be made available
during IDA supervision missions (para 3.08);
(j)  it will establish and maintain until completion of the
project: (a) a Project Steering Committee; and (b) a
Project Management Cell within the DI, including a Project
Director whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.05);
(k)  the Project Management Cell would complete, by December 1,
1984, or one year after completion of the project's first
scheme, whichever is earlier, a contract with a suitable
institution satisfactory to IDA to carry out the project's
evaluation study under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA (para 4.22); and
(1)  it would ensure through the Water Users Association/Cooperative,
proper operation and maintenance of the schemes under the
Project, including recovery by the Water Users Association/
Cooperative from all individual beneficiaries of the schemes
the full required contributions in cash and kind towards such
operation and maintenance (para 5.10).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be that:
(a)  at least five schemes would be prepared to final design
stage satisfactory to IDA (para 2.09);
(b)  the project's PC-1 be approved by ECNEC (para 3.04);
(c)  the project agreements between GOP/GOBAL and the co-financing
agencies (KFW and NMDC) be completed (para 3.04); and
(d)  GOBAL would have established the Project Steering Committee
and Project Management Cell, including a Project Director
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory
to IDA (para 4.05).
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions of effectiveness, the
proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDRs 12.5 M (US$14.0 M
equivalent) on standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
PAnSTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOMElNT PROJECT
Area and Production of Important F'ield Crops
(1971-1972 to 197T-1979V)
1971-72          1972-73          1973-74           1974-75         1975-76           1976-77           1977-78          1978-79
Crop           Area    m.t.    Area    m.t.    Area    m.t.    Area   m.t.    Area    m.t.    Area    m.t.    Area    m.t.    Area    m.t.
Bajra         2,020    2.020    2,020    1,020    3,640    2,040    2,020   1;020    1,700    500    2,500    102       821    314    1,133      430
Barley        7,280   4,080   4,450   3,060  10,930    9,180   5,660  3,060   6,600  4,200    2,400   1,632    4,453  3,001    5,964   3,660
Rapeseed/    9
Mustard     24,200    6,120   23,480    7,140  23,070    7,140  23,070   7,140   11,200  3,400   34,000  11,428   18,578  6,620   31,829  12,160
Jowar        79,350   56,120   83,400   51,020  134,410  109,180   65,580  39,790  62,800  38,000    52,200  28,775   152,137  66,510   86,619  35,268
Maize         5,260   3,060    4,450    4,080    4,850    3,060    4,450   2,040    1,300   2,000    40,000   2,557   3,542   2,451    3,751   2,730
Rice         41,700   42,850   38,460   40,810   35;620   33,670   34,810  35,710   38,300  39,600    18,900  28,163    38,113  38,936   41,300  51,200
Sesamum       4,450    2,040    2,420    2,040    7,280   2,040   5,260   2,040   3,000   1,600    3,600  42,286      6,248   3,094    15,266   7,602
Tobacco       1,810    2,040    1,610    5,100    1,610    5,100    3,640   4,080    1,3Q0   2,300   1,300   2,448    1,282   2,456     1,259   2,456
W,heat      195,540   78,750  149,390   69,380  167,610  112,240  145,740 131,630  134,500 138,400   148,300 126,393   156,916 161,425   167,840 208,B20
Source: Directorate of Agriculture, Government of Baluchistan



-47-                                             ANNEX 1
Table 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area and-Production of   or Fruits
-                     (1971-72 to 1978-790)
(Hectare, m.t.)
1971-72            1972-73            1973-74              1974-75             1975-76             1976-77             1977-78           1978-79
Fruits          Area      m.t.     Area      m.t.    Area        m.t.      Area      m.t.      Area      m.t.      Area      m.t.      Area      m.t.    Area        m.t.
Almonds         5,263   15,510    5,668   26,837   5,668         26,837   5,789   20,714    5,951   21,938    6,029   23,980    6,122   22,062   6,158    22,542
Apples          3,360   22,857    4,049   29,082   4,049    29,898    4,327   29,694    4,818   32,653    5,016   35,408    5,549   42,267   5,922    46,631
Apricots        1,376   14,286    1,579   17,653   1,579    17,755    1,781   18,775    1,903   19,388    1,941   21,224    2,106   23,422   2,196    25,027
Cherry             40       204        40       102       40        102        40       102       81       102       100       102        70       148       82        178
Citrus            202       816       202    2,550       202        918       243      918       243       918       242    1,020        252    1,104       273      1,094
Dates           8,421   75,408    8,542   85,610   8,542    77,245    8,623   77,755    8,664   78,979    8,663   78,879    8,721   83,276   8,823    83,593
Grapes          2,226   24,796    2,267   27,857   2,267    27,449    2,307   27,551    2,348   28,265    2,313   28,265    2,351   28,885   1,374    28,387
Guavas            162       714       162    1,326       162        816       202      816        202      918       202      -          190    1,125       196      1,133
Hangoes           409    2,040        409    3,570       409     2,550       445    2,550        445    2,552        445    2,857        449    3,300       465      3,465
Peaches           486    5,408        526    6,327       526     6,020       567    5,510        567    6,224        603    6,632        622    6,671       637      7,006
Pears              81       918       121    1,326       121       918       121       918       121       918        80       918        95       736       95        717
Plums             526    7,041        567    8,775       567     7,959       648    7,245        648    7,653        648    8,367        714    8,929       732      9,543
Pomegranates   1,053   23,061    1,093   27,449   1,093    22,347    1,093   22,347    1,093   22,347    1,089   22,653    1,071   21,960   1,088    21,728
Others            607    4,284    1,174    5,408   1,174         4,692    1,579    5,000    1,579    5,204    1,526    3,877    1,300    4,902   1,321               4,889
Total          24,212  197,343   26,399  243,372  26,399   225,506   27,810  219,895   28,663  228,059   28,897  234,182   29,612 '248,787  30,362   255,933
Source:  Directorate of Agriculture, Government of Baluchistan.



-48-                                                          ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN                                                        Table 3
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area and Production of Important Vegetables
_1971-T2 to 198-79)
1971-72            1972-73             1973-74             1974-75             1975-76             1976-77           1 1977-78             1978-79
Vegetables         Area      m.t.      Area      m.t.      Area      m.t.      Area      m.t.      Area      m.t.      Area      w.t.      Area      m.t.     Area      m.t.
Beans               324      102        202      102        242      816        243    1,734        202    1,734       N.A.      N.A.        -        -         694    5,837
Brinjals             81    1,020         40      408        162    1,326        202    1,919         81    1,122        121    1,530        422    3,373         -        -
Cabbage              40       408        40      204        121       816        40       612        40       612        81       918        99    1,102         28       342
Carrot              162       612       162    1,020        162    1,428        162    1,632        121    1,530        121    1,632        221    2,729         90    1,162
Cauliflower         243       4816      243    1,938        202    1,326        243    2,448        162    1,836         81    1,224         86    1,128        106    1,409
Lady-finger         567    2,755        364    2,653        445    3,367        283.    2,347       121    1,122        161    1,530        321    2,930        295    2,738
Onion             3,087   37,347    1,417   21,428    1,690   23,877    1,741   25,204    2,551   37,143    1,012                 408    1,913   25,110    2,476   32,170
Peas                 40       204        40       102        40       204       162    1,224         81       510       182    1,530        184    1,320        125    1,052
Potatoes          2,065   23,469    2,713   20,918    3,320   20,408    2,631   21,531    2,146   18,061    4,008   35,204    3,110   27,740    1,811   17,910
Radish               81    1,326        243    1,734        202    2,040        121    1,428         81      918         81    1,122        144    1,862         78    1,085
Spinach             364    N.A.         283    2,040        283    2,244         P1    1,122         81      816         81       918       150    1,839        128    1,775
Tinda                 40      204        40       204        40       306        81       612        40      408         8l       816       109    1,175        105    1,145
Tomatoes             567    3,979       648    4,898    i,012    8,163          931   10,510        486   5,408         729    8,775        138    1,376        176    1,840
Turnip               729    9,082       688    4,598        729    5,306        202    2,449        121   1,530         162    1,836        232    2,910        147    2,083
Others      i8    2              2      769    50           810      4  9        24   j    61      243   2,655               _ _           690 673
Total             10,769 107,446    7,892   67,451    9,461   76,423    7,447   77,853    6,557  75,405               6,901   57,443    8,007   83,394    7,122   80,464
SourceO Directorate of Agriculture, Governmeng of Baluchistan



ANN 1
Table 
-49-
PAISA
BALUCHISTAN MINOR =RRlGAT1ON 'AD 'AGR=TMIDRAL DEVELOMENT PEROJ1T
CropMed Acreage by District
Quetta  Plsahf    Loralai  Zhob   Cbagai  Sibi    Iohlu   Kachhi  Ktlat   Khuxdar  Eharan  Lesbella  Gwvdar Provlnce
Cultivated
area         2591   112846   134501   4172   50821   83934   28011   110145   112960   97339   54333   63626   51621   966439
tHARIF CROPS
mize            -         200     1901   1501      -        100     -       -         -        -        -       -        -       3702
Millet          -          -      2001      -      300    5102      300    78532      -         600     200    8103    3201    98340
Fodder         200         -        20      30     360      600     -         900      800.-   400      600     -        200     4382
Vegetables     900        900      800    200      700      327     -        200       519     100      -       -        612     5260
Orchards      2201       3101     6202   2801      600    1400      200      200      1601    1601    1300    2101    5602    28912
Other           -          -      2701    138    1961    1264        22      210      -        385      -      7003    866      14551
UHARI7 TOTAL: 3301       4202    13626    494    3922    8794       522    80043      2920    3086    2101   17207   10482   155145
RASI CROPS
whet          3602      16507     2511   9004    2501    7703    3802       8303    19008   19808       670)3   400    2801   125251
Vegetables     482       1000      388    249      100    1041      100      -  -    2101       276     -       -        981     6719
Orchards      2201       3101     6202   2801      600    1400      -        200      1601    1601      1300    -       5602    26611
Other           10       1000      102    200       18      370     -      5902       -         13      -       300      422     8338
RABI TOTAL.   6295      21609    31803  12254    3220   10515    3902   14406        22709   21698      8003    700    9806   166919
ANNUAL:       9596      25811    45428  17194    7142   19310    4423   94448        25630   24784    10104  17907   20289   322065
Source: Data are based on the average of last two years, obtained from Agricultural Statistics of Pakistan, 1979.



ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN                                                Table 5
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Pattern and Irrigation Intensities by District
Kharif        Quetta  Pishin  Loralai  Zhob   Chagai   Sibi   Kohlu   Kachhi  Kalat   Khuzdar Kharan  Lasbella Gwadar Province
Maize             -      0.2      1.5     3.6       -      0.1       -       -                -        -        -       -       0.4
Millet            -       -       1.5      -       0.6     6.1      1.1    71.3       _      0.6      0.4    12.7      6.2    10.2
Fodder          0.8       -       -       0.7     0.7      0.7       -      0.8      0.7     0.4      1.1      -       0.4     0.5
Vegetables       3.5     0.8     0.6      0.5      1.4     0.4       -      0.2      0.5     0.1       -       -       1.2      0.5
Orchards        8.5      2.7      4.8     6.7      1.2     1.7      0.7     0.2      1.4     1.6      2.4      3.3    10.9      3.0
Others           -        -       2.0     0.3       -      1.5      0.1     0.2       -      0.4       -     11.0      1.7      1.3                   1
TOTAL     12.8      3.7    10.4    11.8      3.9    10.5      1.9    72.7       2.6     3.1      3.9    27.0    20.4    15.9
Rabi
Wheat           13.9    14.6    19.3    21.6       4.9     9.2    13.6      7.5    17.0    19.3    12.4       0.6      5.4    13.0
Vegetables      1.8      0.9     0.3      0.6     0,2      1.2      0.4      -       1.9     0.3       -       -       1.9      0.7
Orchards         8.5     2.7      4.8     6.7      102     1.7       -      0.2      1.4     1.6      2.4      -      10.9      2.8
Others           -       0.9     0.1      0.5      0.04    0.5      -       5.4       -       -        -      0.5      0.8      0.9
TOTAL     24.2    l9ol    24.5    29.4       6.3    12.6    14.0    13.1    20.3    21.2    14.8         1.1    19.0    17.4
ANNUAL          37.0    22.8    34.9    41.2    10.2    23.1    15.9    85.8    22.0    24.3    18.7    28.1    39.4    33.3
Source:  Data are based on the average of last two years, obtained from Agricultural Statistics of Pakistan, 1979.



ANIE 1
-51-                               Table
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Temperature, Potential Evapotranspiration and Rainfall 1/
at Muslimbagh and Khuzdar 2/
Rainfall (mm/month)
Meau            PET (3/)
Season         Mouth       Temp (C)       (3m)         Max.     Min.        Mean
Mhslimbagh
Kharif                     24.6            896         156.5       .5        39.5
June       26.3            190          40.4       .5         2.0
July       28.0            229         157.7       .5        19.5
August     27.0            188         156.7      1.0        14.7
Sept.      23.4            157          43.4     4.3          1.8
Oct.       18.3            132          33.5      1.3         1.5
Rabi                       11.9            767         243.9       .2       214.1
Nov.       12.3             99          59.7       .5         6.1
Dec.        7.4             84         152.1       .2        32.0
Jan.        5.2             76         245.9    17,8         54.9
Feb.        6.0             76         139.9       .8        44.7
March      11.4            112         125.2      5.1        40.1
Apr.       17.9            142         113.5     1.3         25.9
May        23.3            178          61.5       .5        10.4
Annual Total                             1,663                              253.6
Khuzdar
Kharif                     28.5            945         198.4     1.3         92.0
June       31.1            211          87.4     3.0          8.4
July       30.4            211         198.4     9.1         48.3
Aug.       29.5            198          92.7     4.8         27.2
Sept.      26.9            170          43.9     1.3          7.6
Oct.       24.7            155           8.6     1.8           .5
Rabi                       16.6            888         109.5      .2         97.2
Nov.       16.7            114          51.6     4.8          7.9
Dec.       11.8             99         109.5     1.3         14.2
Jan.       10.0             94          96.5     1.8         25.4
Feb.       12.4             99         101.6     1.3         13.2
March      18.0            137          99.0       .2        16.0
April      20.5            152          36.6       .8         8.6
May        26.8            193          64.8     2.5         11.9
Annual Total                             1,833                              189e2
1/ Temperature and rainfall are based on the data period 1931-1966 for Muslimbagh;
at Kuzdar, temperature and rainfall relate to the periods 1965-'73 and 1948-
'71, respectively.
2/ Meteorological stations close to the project areas.
'f 'ET - Potential evapotrnnspiration.



ANNEC 1
-52-                              Table 7
PAKISTAN
ALUJCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRTCULTVRAL DEVELOPMlT PROJECT
Irrigation Water Reauirements of Crops (mm),!/
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   June   July   Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec
Kanchogi
Maize          -       -    -                    100    163   152        94    66    -       -
Melons               a -            56   153    145    163   152         -     -
Potatoes       -      -    -        56   153    145    163   152         94    -
Wheat          0    20    54        81   135      -       -      -       -    100   69    21
Cumin          0    20    54        81   108      -       -      -       -     -   100    25
Alfalfa        0    20    59    109   180    164    152   124            94    86   69    25
Orchards       0      9    31       66   108    125    142   133    102    79   54    21
Vegetables    0       9    37       73   126    145    163   152    110    79   54    17
2/
Effective
Rainfall   41    33    30        19    -        -       -     -       -      -      -    24
Rabat
Sorghum                                   75    147    143   138    119    -
Melons                      -       75   164    179    132                     -      -
Pulses                                    75    148    133   138    119
Wheat         28    59    91    107    -          -       -      -       -    100   74    59
Barley        28    59    91                   -      -                  -    100   74    59
CumirL        28    59    91    107    -                                 -     -      -   100
Alfalfa       28    59    90    137   193    179    122   109    101   100   80    59
Orchards      28    44    63        91   116    179    112   119    110    93   74    54
Vegetables   28    44    70         99   135    158    133   138    118    93   74    49
2/
Effective
Rainfall   19    10    12        -                      36    20      -      -      -      -
1/  The irrigation requirement for land preparation has been assumed at 75 m  in sprlr-
and at 100 mm in sumer and fall.
2/ Effective rainfall is estimated at 75% of the mean monthly precipitation.



-53-
ANNEX 1
Tible 8
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMZT PROJECT
Systam  Irrigation Water Requirements (HaM)
Area   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   June   July   Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec
(ha)
KaehOgi
Maize         13.6    -      -     -                  1.36   2.22  2.07   1.28    -        -     -
Melons         7.2    -      -     -    .40  1.10   1.04   1.17  1.09    .68    -         -      -
Potatoes       4.5    -      -     -    .25   .69    .65    .73   .68    -          -     -      -
Wheat         51.0    0   1.02  2.75  4.13  6.88    -         -      -      -    5.10  3.52  1.07
Cumin          5.5    0    .11   .30   .44   -         -      -      -      -       -    .55   .14
Alfalfa        5.4    0    .11   .32   .59   .97    .89    .82   .67    .51   .46   .37   .13
Orchards      18.2    0    .16   .56  1.20  1.97   2.27   2.58  2.42   1.86  1.44   .89   .38
Vegetables    4.6    0    .04   .17   .34   .58    .67    .75   .70    .51   .36   .25   .08
Total       110.0
Total Crop Req        0   1.44  4.10  7.35 12.18   6.88   8.23  7.63   4.84  7.36  5.58  1.80
Total Div. Req.       0   2.21  6.31 11.31 18.74  10.58  12.66 11.74   7.45 11.32  8.58  2.77
Total Available   16.1   12.8  16.6  15.8  14.7   14.3   13.4  11.6   13.7  14.5  12.4  15.0
Surplus/Deficit  +16.1  +10.6 +10.3  +4.5  -4.0   +3.7   + .7  - .1   +6.3  +3.2  +3.8. 12.2
Rabat
Sorghum        7.0    -      -     -    -      .52   1.03   1.00   .97    .83    -        -      -
Melons         6.0    -      -     -   .45    .98   1.07    .79   -         -       -     -      -
Wheat         37.0  1.04  2.18  3.37  3.96   -         -      -      -      -    3.70  2.79  2.18
Cumfn          3.0   .08   .18   .27   .32   -         -      -      _-             -    .22   .18
Alfalfa        4.0   .11   .24   .39   .55   .77    .72    .49   .44    .40   .40   .32   .24
Orchards      17.0   .48   .75  1.09  1.55  1.97   3.04   1.90  2.02   1.89  1.58  1.26   .92
Vegetables   12.0   .34   .53   .84  1.19  1.62   1.90   1.60  1.66   1.42  1.12   .89   .59
Total         86.0
Total Crop Req.    2.05  3.88  5.94  8.02  5.86   7.76   5.78  5.09   4.54  6.80  5.43  4.11
Total Div. Req. -  3.15  5.97  9.14 12.34  9.01  11.94   8.89  7.83   6.98 10.46  8.35  6.32
Total Available    11.2  10.2  11.2  10.9  11.2   10.9   11.2  11.2   10.9  11.2  10.9  11.2
Surplus/Deficit    +8.1  +4.2   2.1  -1.4  +2.1   -1.0   +3.3  +3.4   +3.9  + .7  +2.6  +4.9
1   Conveyance and on-farm efficiencies have been estimated at 85 and 75%, respectively.



ANNEX 2
-54-                           Page 1
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines and Criteria for Identifying,
Selecting, and Implementing Minor -
Irrigation Schemes and Pilot Schemes
Initial Selection of Schemes
1.        A large number of minor irrigation development projects have been
identified for rehabilitation, expansion or new construction. Only those
schemes would be selected that: (a) have the greatest immediate production
potential and (b) would provide substantial feedback resulting in enhanced
capability for planning and design of further irrigation development. Specil1
attention would be given to the rehabilitation of existing schemes where rela--
tively small investments in repairs and/or reconstruction would facilitate
the efficient utilization of the available water resources. The availability
of rainfall and streamflow data, their accuracy and the duration of observa-
tions would also be important criteria for the initial selection of project
schemes in order to improve the hydrologic data base.
2.        Schemes that are characterised by relatively higher economic re-
turns, a more reasonably equitable distribution of benefits, and stronger
support from local officials and farmers (see para 12) would receive prior-
ity and be advanced to the prefeasibility stage of evaluation.  Attention
would also be given to the availability and capacity of extension services, t,
the availability of inputs and to market access. Thus, on the basis of these
general criteria, the relatively large number of already identified potential
schemes would be reduced to those projects selected for detailed feasibility
study.
Planning Criteria
3.        The initial selection process would be followed by the collection,
analysis and evaluation of additional data required for more detailed plannin-
A distinction would be made between perennial, reliable non-perennial, and
flood schemes because of their substantial differences in dependability of th:
water supply, and therefore in their ultimate levels of irrigation intensity
and agricultural productivity. Farmers would be approached at this stage to
ascertain their interest in the proposed scheme, and the extent of their
willingness to participate in on-farm development activities and maintenance
of the proposed scheme.
4.        The data required for detailed planning and for determining the
viability of specific schemes would include:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(a) Maps: A map of the proposed diversion, distribution channels
and command area indicating topography and layout (using air-
photos where available). For existing schemes, this map would
show actual and potential land under irrigation, and a deline-
ation of the present and/or proposed canal systems including
structures; existing perennial crops should be indicated. It
would be of a scale of about 1:5000, with contour intervals of
no more than .25 m to facilitate land classification surveys
and the design of the field distribution system. A second map
would show the results of a reconnaissance soil survey and land
classification which would distinguish between areas most suit-
able to perennial and seasonal crops. The need for protection
works to avoid catchment erosion and channel sedimentation should
be assessed from maps depicting slopes, soils, land capability,
present erosion and vegetative cover. The maps would also indi-
cate previous landshaping, levelling or terracing and any addi-
tional works required for optimum water use, erosion control and
crop production. Drainage patterns would be outlined, including
the need for cross structures. Longtitudinal and cross sections
of all existing water channels including natural drains would be
given to enable the estimation of present water carrying capaci-
ties and to facilitate the design of future requirements. With
the aid of the maps, a list of plots and names of owners and cul-
tivators would be prepared;
(b)  Rainfall, Hydrology and Water Availability.  Weekly totals of
daily rainfall (over at least 20 years) would be compiled for
the project area or the nearest location for which data are
available. In addition to monthly means, the dependability of
the rainfall during shorter periods (e.g. 2 weeks) would be
determined throughout the growing seasons. Because of consi-
derable regional variation (related to altitude), additional
meteorological data would be used to determine effective rain-
fall and the quantities and timing of supplemental irrigation
requirements. All relevant hydrological information based
upon formal and informal historic records, or collected in
nearby similar watersheds would be compiled and analyzed with
special emphasis on the reliability of the water supply. At
present, information on localized hydrological conditions in
the project areas based on measurement is practically non exist-
ent. Runoff estimates would, therefore, have to be made using
the best available methods, and compared with gauged catchments
of similar characteristics. Because of the great variation in
rainfall, both in time as well as in space, the project would
install rain-gauges on the larger catchments immediately after
project implementation. In order to improve the hydrological
data base for schemes to be constructed as part of the project
or thereafter, a long-term streamflow gauging program would be
initiated for most of the tentatively selected schemes at the
start of the project. This information would be used to develop



-56-                           ANNEX 2
Page 3
more accurate rainfall-runoff relationships and estimates of
water availability to provide a more reliable base for project
planning.
(c) Cropping Patterns, Infrastructure and Production Constraints.
Areas of crops grown in the present and/or future command area
would be determined by field observation and by asking farmers'
opinions. Farmers- preferences for additional and alternative
crops under conditions of expanded water supplies would be
taken into account as also present planting and harvesting
dates and on how these dates might change if additional (or
more reliable) water were made available. The crop areas would
be delineated on a map and the information used later for the
design of the water distribution and allocation schedules.
Constraints to increasing productivity, including reliability
of water, availability of inputs, support services, credit
and farm power would be identified and used as the basis for
proposing arrangements to expand and strengthen these in the
project areas proposed.
(d) Water Requirements and Crop Production. Irrigation water
requirements for perennial schemes would be determined using
the modified Penman method of estimation, based on climatic
data recorded at the nearest weather station. Where such data
are insufficient, monthly evapotranspiration rates (ETO) would
be calculated for each scheme based on local ETO estimates.
Effective predipitation would be estimated as 3/4 of the mean
monthly values unless long term daily rainfall records provide
for the calculation of monthly rainfall probabilities in which
case 3/4 of the valued expected at the 70% probability level
would be assumed effective. Mean monthly amounts of less than
20 mm in kharif and 10 mm in rabi would be deleted from con-
sideration. Preplanting irrigation requirements would be
scheduled for kharif and rabi crops grown in perennial schemes.
Conveyance losses would be estimated on the basis of channel
characteristics and the degree of lining envisaged; conveyance
efficiencies would be based on soil properties but not exceed
75%. The assumptions of water availability, cropping patterns,
water losses and overall water requirements would be tested by
a month-by-month system operation study carried out for one or
more representative year(s). Existing water rights within the
command area as well as in an entire watershed would be deter-
mined upstream and downstream for an envisaged scheme location
and the implications of project implementation on existing
downstream schemes carefully assessed. The estimated reduction
of the inflows to existing downstream schemes due to a newly
built project would not be allowed to exceed 5% of the design
yield for those schemes. Existing perennial schemes already
have a cropping pattern partially based on the farmers



ANNEX 2
-57-                         Page 4
experience with a given water supply. Although rehabilitation
will frequently improve the reliability of the water supply,
the existing cropping patterns would provide guidelines to
determine the crops to be grown after completion of the project.
Orchards and other high intensity crops would be considered
only in those areas of the command where the probability of
water sufficiency during the most severe stress months (April,
May and June) exceeds 80%.
The total area (kharif, rabi and perennial) that could be
dependably irrigated during each year (at 75% probability)
would be taken as the limit of the irrigated area at the
present time. If later collected hydrologic data and the
system's performance over several years would prove that
further potential for expansion exists, such opportunities
may be realized subsequently. For the purpose of determin-
ing water sufficiency and economic analysis, cropping inten-
sities that could be sustained with available water would
be assumed at 100% (or more in case of perennial crops).
In flood schemes, the unreliability of stream flow in many
areas would result in varying cropping intensities from year
to year.
(e)  Irrigation Schedule and Water Management.  In existing peren-
nial systems, modifications in distribution practices would
be considered only after carefully evaluating the effective-
ness of present practices. Important criteria are greater
dependability of water supply, a close tailoring of water sup-
plies to crop water requirements, and the provision for allot-
ment of water in an equitable fashion among the farmers of the
command area. This would entail assessment of required recon-
struction of water courses, lining of channels, provision of
control structures, and land levelling and grading. In flood
schemes, water management would aim at the best use of the
total available water that can be diverted at any given time.
Although the flood schemes would be designed to operate .auto-
matically", farmers would need to be organized to control the
amount and duration of irrigation on their fields. Given the
normal water storage potential of the profile, a maximum
flooding depth of 25 cm would be adopted. Where water sup-
plies may exceed requirements during the growing season,
drains for excess water disposal would be required to facil-
itate individual control of water. Because of their limited
reliability, flood schemes would allow a much smaller in-
vestment in land development than the perennially irrigated
projects. Field size irrigated as one unit would not exceed
I ha, to attain a reasonably uniform water distribution,
further subdivision by small bunds may be required.



ANNEX 2
-58-                            Page 5
Design Criteria
Structures and Distribution System
5.        Because of the present limited data base, systems should be designed
so that they have flexibility to operate satisfactorily over a range of water
supply conditions. Wherever possible, future expansion should be allowed for
if and when additional data would indicate that this is feasible. For major
structures, a geological exploration supplementing surface observations would
be carried out, to establish the suitability of the site and to provide ade-
quate information for the preparation of reliable designs and cost estimates.
Criteria and standards for design and safety of diversion structures laid down
by GOP and GOBAL would be observed in addition to sound and accepted engineerin-
practice. Designs should be based on improved hydrological data which will
become increasingly available as a result of the project. In the perennially
irrigated projects, the design time frame would be selected about once in
fifty years. Access roads would be provided to the diversion and service
roads or paths along the main and distributory channels. Subsurface examina-
tions of canals and waterways would be conducted with special attention to
determining the probable range of water losses. As much as possible, local
materials would be used in the design of structures to reduce costs.
6.        The distribution system in perennial schemes would be designed down
to the small channels serving individual farm units; water would be supplied
to approximately 1 ha units. Aquaducts and/or syphons would be provided at
all drain crossings. All existing water courses considered for lining or re-
construction would be inspected by section, and water losses measured by the
inflow-outflow or ponding methods. Decisions on lining would be based on an
estimate of the actual value or cost of the water loss. Where seepage and
percolation losses exceed predetermined permissible limits, 1/ lining would
be installed. The design of channels would permit rotational water supply.
Cross regulators in the main channels would permit full discharge at take-off
points when the channel is flowing at less than the design capacity. Control
and measurement devices to provide for an equitable distribution of the avail-
able water would be constructed at the diversion and all major distribution
points.
On-Farm Development
7.        Field application efficiencies would be considerably improved by
additional field channel construction and land levelling. Field channels
would have adequate structures, especially drop structures. Farmers would be
provided with information on water requirements of crops, climatic conditions
and soil properties as part of a more effective extension effort, and equipment
for land levelling and ditch construction would be provided on a rental basis.
The introduction of improved irrigation practices would play an important part
in improving water application to crops.
1/   These limits would be determined based on the value of water and the cost
of lining.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Implementation Criteria
8.        All plans and designs for facilities provided under the project
would be in accordance with commonly applied specifications and guidelines
acceptable to IDA. Sets of guidelines for initially selecting, planning and
designing projects would be prepared and applied by GOBAL.
9.        Construction.  Special care would be taken to align channels in such
a way as to minimize construction costs, i.e. along the ridges. No direct
irrigation would be provided from main or secondary carrier canals. Special
provisions would be made at the headworks to prevent excessive siltation in
flood as well as perennial schemes.
10.       Canal embankments and earthfill around structures should be thor-
oughly compacted. To ensure proper settlement of foundations in minor chan-
nels, sections would be thoroughly saturated by ponding before lining.
11.       Construction periods would be planned not to exceed fifteen months
(two dry seasons) including the time needed for preliminary works such as the
construction of approach roads. Lining in perennial schemes would be tested
by ponding before commissioning. Performance studies would include tests to
determine whether water reaches all parts of the command area.
12.       Farmer Participation.  Before any scheme is constructed, the APDT
would help, formalize an agreement between GOBAL and the benefitting farmers
incorporating understandings of responsibilities of both groups. GOBAL would
be represented by the District Council and would be responsible for providing
the scheme and its adequate O&M, and adequate extension services. Prior
to construction, the benefitting farmers would form a Waters Users
Association/Cooperative (WUA), and as indicated in the scheme agreement,
the WUA/Cooperative, would agree to: (a) donate unskilled labor for the
construction and O&M of on-farm works (similar to the recently approved OFWM
project); (b) recover from all individual beneficiaries of the scheme the full
required contributions in cash and kind towards the adequate maintenance of
the irrigation scheme. GOBAL brought to negotiations a draft of this scheme
agreement, at which time its content and implementation procedures were
discussed and agreed with IDA (see Annex 2, Appendix 1).
13.       Cost Estimates.  Cost estimates would be based on current depart-
mental rates or recent local bid prices. They would include physical contin-
gencies of 10-15% for all works designed in detail and include costs of land
acquisition and of approach and service roads.
14.       Operation.  In perennial schemes, the discharge from outlets to
field channels would normally be about 30 1/sec and generally not less than
15 1/sec. Water releases to farmers should follow a fixed schedule, in exist-
ing schemes based on earlier allocations. As experience with the rehabilitated
system is gained, modifications would be made in consultation with the farmers,
to ensure an equitable water distribution and an efficient use of water.



ANNEX 2
-60-                           Page 7
15.       In all schemes rehabilitated under the project, the benefiting
farmers would be represented through existing village organizations. The
farmers- representatives would be consulted by the ID before finalizing the
designs for a scheme. Although the DI would keep full responsibility for the
physical maintenance of the system above the irrigation outlets, the farmers
would share the responsibility for operation (water scheduling) and maintenanc-
of the systems, especially for the works that require unskilled labor.
Cost and Economic Criteria
16.       Given the project-s objectives and the relatively small number of
subprojects financed, GOBAL would evaluate the remaining perennial irrigation
schemes as part of the appraisal process to ensure each is within (a) a total
investment cost limit per scheme (Rs 6 M for perennial; (b) an investment cost
limit per direct beneficiary person (Rs 50,000 for irrigation schemes) 1/; and
(c) a minimum economic rate of return (ERR) of 15% for perennial schemes, al-
though special effort should be made to maximize the economic returns of each
scheme in terms of net present value. These criteria would account for possi-
ble variations in schemes, would help ensure the selection of schemes produc1n-
the higher and equitable returns, and would ensure an overall project ERR of ai
least 15% or probably higher. To facilitate the initial screening process and
subsequent economic evaluation, Annex 2, Table 1, summrizes (a) the critical
limits of total financial investment costs per ha of irrigated area and per
direct beneficiary person derived for the major types of irrigation schemes
and agro-climatic conditions 2/; (b) the. underlying assumptions (cropping pat-
terns, yields, input requirements, prices) used in the calculation of the
benefit flows (Annex 7, Tables I and 3). The final evaluation would be based
on updated prices and scheme-specific data and ERR. Finally, GOBAL may sub-
mit a scheme to IDA for special approval in cases where GOBAL deems the
project justifiable although its costs exceed the cost limits.
17.       Criteria for Site Selection and Implementation of Waterspreading.
The sites would be selected on the basis of soils, slope, catchment, rainfall,
floodwater runoff and other characteristics. The most suitable sites for
water spreading are located on the lower parts of large (and older) alluvial
fans, and on the large evenly sloping areas of the piedmont plain below them.
Slopes should not be in excess of 2%, and the existing vegetation should be
carefully considered in the selection of sites for water spreading to establis-
the potential for increased plant growth.
1/ Base cost limits are expressed in March 1982 prices. Costs include all
construction costs, technical overhead, and physical contingencies. For
the prefeasibility stage of evaluation, these cut-off cost limits could
be increased each year by the estimated rate of inflation for civil works.
Average farm household is assumed to consist of seven persons.
2/ These investment cost limits are based on production benefits estimated
by IDA for each major category of irrigation scheme, and were derived in
such a way as to ensure a minimum ERR 15% for the irrigation schemes.
For further discussion of the economic returns, see para 6.08.



ANNEX 2
-61-                           Page 8
18.       In planning the location of the pilot water spreading scheme, its
effects would be considered within the broader framework of valley develop-
ment. Traditional water rights and local customs may prohibit the retention
of additional water upstream, and any attempts to do so would lead to serious
conflict. The local socio-economic conditions therefore would be carefully
studied and agreement would be obtained from local farmer groups for any water
spreading activities planned. Any change required in grazing or cultivation
rights would be established in advance as far as possible. The possible need
for the installation of additional water points and greater attention to
husbandry and disease control on account of the more concentrated grazing
would also be considered. All aspects would be closely monitored.
Criteria for Site Selection and Implementation of Artificial Groundwater
Recharge
19.       Several sites would be selected in the Quetta or Mastung Valleys in
project year 1. Since some alluvial fans have well developed layers of silty
fine sand that would not be conducive to artificial recharge, investigations
with deep test pits would probably be required to select suitable recharge
sites. A typical fan would be selected with a stream channel width of about
10 m, and detailed study of the catchment, including measurement of infil-
tration rates, would be carried out. Weirs and recharge channels would be
designed specifically for the site, and criteria would be developed for map-
ping permeable zones on the alluvial fans so that channels would be located
in the best available sites.  Construction and monitoring would comnce in
project year 2 to allow as long a monitoring period as possible.
Criteria for Site Selection and Implementation
of Water Resource Use Pilot Study
20.       Several areas with a potential for conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater would be selected. Data on the quantities and quality of avail-
able water would be collected as well as on the reliability of the water
supply. On the basis of a reconnaissance survey, tentative maps indicating
topography, soils and land holdings would be compiled. Several alternative
plans for the supplementary use of groundwater would be developed based on
this rather fragmentary information. In perennial schemes the plans might
include the use of groundwater only during periods of low flow such that the
dependably served command area could be expanded considerably using existing
distribution systems. In flood schemes there would be alternative options of
serving small areas on several farms from one (or more) well or to concentrate
the water supply on a more limited area with obvious implications in terms of
the cost of the distribution system and conveyance losses but also implicity
requiring land exchanges if widespread access to tubewell water is to be
ensured.



Appendix 1
-62-                          Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Memorandum of Agreement by and Between District Councils
and Water.Users Associations/Cooperatives
Know all men by these present:
This Agreement executed and entered into this                  of
19   , in                   , by and between District Council
and Water Users Association/Cooperative,
The District Council                                , a local body duly
elected in accordance with the laws of Pakistan/Baluchistan, authorized by the
District Councils, hereinafter referred to as District Council.
The Water Users Association/Cooperative, a farmer group established
for the betterment of the benefitting farmers to look after proper use and distr
bution of water and for the development of an irrigation scheme, represented in
this Agreement by (Insert here the name of the Water Users Association/Cooperati-.
hereafter referred to as the Water Users Association/Cooperative.
Whereas the construction of irrigation scheme listed in the attached
schedule appears to be feasible and in accordance with the irrigation and agri-
cultural development program of the Province.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties to this agreement hereby agree as follows
to witness;
(A)  Rights and Obligations of District Council.
(1) The District Council shall coordinate between various implementing
agencies and the Water Users Association/Cooperative. It is under-
stood that the District Council will be assisted by various concerned
Departments, particularly the Departments of Irrigation, Agriculture,
and Local Government, to carryout development activities and to provid:
technical support.
(2)  The District Council shall have the right to participate in the prepalf
tion and implementation of irrigation schemes.
(3)  The District Council, through the appropriate agencies, would render
assistance to the Water Users Association/Cooperative in its organiza-
tion and strengthening.
(4)  In case of disputes:  (a) not resolved among the members of the Water
Users Association/Cooperative inter se or between members of a Water
Users Association/Cooperative or other beneficiaries, the District
Council would take actions to satisfactorily resolve such conflicts;
(b) not resolved between the Water Users Association/Cooperative and
District Council, the Government of Baluchistan would take actions to
satisfactorily resolve such conflicts.



Appendix 1
Page 2 of 2
-63-
(B) Rights and Obligations of the Water Users Association/Cooperative.
(1) The Water Users Association/Cooperative would comply with all the
legal requirements related to operation and maintenance of the scheme,
such as water and land rights, and agreements stated in the Baluchistan
Water Users Association Ordinance 1981 (or any revision thereof), and
the Cooperative Society Act (or any revision).
(2) The Water Users Association/Cooperative shall provide unskilled labor
for the implementation of the on-farm works in the above referred
scheme. In case the Water Users Association/Cooperative fails to do so,
the District Council shall provide the same at the cost of the Water Users
Association/Cooperative and recover the full amount so spent as arrears
of land revenue.
(3) The Water Users Association/Cooperative shall recover from all individual
beneficiaries of the scheme the full required contributions in cash and
kind towards the adequate maintenance of the irrigation scheme. Failing
proper maintenance by the Water Users Association/Cooperative, the Department
of Irrigation will incur the necessary O&M expenditure and the same shall
be recovered by the District Council (or appropriate collector) from the
beneficiaries in proportion to the water used by them as arrears of land
revenue and reimbursed to the Government of Baluchistan.
(4) The Water Users Association/Cooperative shall grant full and free right
of passage from and to their lands without intruding upon their privacy
to concerned agencies at all times.
(5) The Water Users Association/Cooperative shall render every assistance
and cooperation (including the training of the designated representa-
tives of the Water Users Association/Cooperative) whenever required
by the implementing agencies for the execution, operation, and main-
tenance of said scheme.
In witness whereof the parties to this Agreement hereunto sign this
instrument                  this day of                     19   at
Water Users Association/
District Council                              Cooperative
Authorized Representative                Authorized Representative



ANNEX 2
Table 1
-64-
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Cost Limits for Selection of Remaining Irrigation Schemes 1/
(Rs in March 1982 Currency)
Total Cost   Cost Per Direct   Cost per Ha
per Scheme   Beneficiary 2/    Irrigated 3/
(Rs M)         (Rs)               (Rs)
1.  Surface Perennial                         6.0          40,000              60,000
Schemes
2.  Infiltration Galleries                    6.0          50,000              85,000
1/ Cost estimates include construction, command area works, design and supervision,
physical contingencies; all figures are expressed in March 1982 currency,
Costs for future years should be adjusted by the inflation rate for construction
2/  Assumes that (a) the area irrigated per benefitting farm is less than 10 hectare
(b) the investment per hectare used in the calculation is the "cost limit"
and the cost of the three schemes appraised; (c) average family si-ze was assumed
to be seven persons, such that figures represent per capita farm family benefi-
ciaries, excluding hired labor.
3/ The cost limits that correspond to IDA's estimate of a 15% ERR for Kanchogi
and Rabat schemes. Stated otherwise, the "switching values" is the estimate
investment cost per haarebased on an OCC of 15%.  This "cut-off" level is
used to reflect more accurately the returns of alternative investment opportuni-
ties in irrigation.  For a definition of "switching value" and OCC, see footnote
a and b of Table 6.1. Based on the project's agreed criteria, each irrigation
scheme would be evaluated. Therefore, its possible that the cost limits indi-
cated here for Kanchogi and Rabat schemes may vary. Finally, these cost limits
are higher than if the concept culturable command area (CCA) were used; given
the surplus land and shifting cultivation practices followed, this concept is
not meaningful for Baluchistan conditions.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
-65-
PAKISTAN
BALUCEISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumary of Project Cost by Fiscal Year
(Rs/US$ Nillion)
Base Cost
FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88   Rs-M    US$ M
Rs M
1.  Irrigation Development                12.5  18.4  32.1  36.9  30.6  19.4   149.9    14.3
2.  Agricultural Development               5.0   4.8   3.2   3.5   3.2   2.5    22.1         2.1
3.  Pilot Schemes                          5.2  22.0  11.5   0.5   0.5   0.5    40.3         3.8
4.  Technical Assistance
and Training                        3.5   5.0   3.9   2.2   1.5   1.3    17.5         1.7
5.  Project Management and
Coordination                        3.8   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4    10.9         1.0
Total Baseline Cost-/              30.1  51.6  52.1.  44.5  37.2  25.1   240.6    22.9
Physical Contingencies              3.2   6.5   7.0   6.1   5.2   3.4    31.5         3.0
Price Contingencies                 3.6  13.1  20.8  24.5  26.3  21.6   109.9         8.8
Total Project Costs                36.9  71.2  80.0  75.2  68.7  50.1   382.0    34.7
Taxes                               2.6   1.5   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2         4.5     0.4
Foreign Exchange                   12.1  13.1  10.3   7.8   6.4   4.7    54.5         5.2
1/ In March 1982 currency.



ANNEX 3
-66-                 Table 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Summary of Project Cost by Expenditure Category and Fiscal Year
Expenditure Category           FY83       FY84       FY85       FY86       FY87      FY88       Total
Civil Works                   19,283.7  54,575.1  69,222.6  65,854.9  59,592.7  40,673.3  309,192.3
Equipment & Vehicles          10,215.7   5,677.2        -         -          -           -      15,892.9
Equipment                 (2,090.3) (3,889.3)       -
Vehicles                  (8,125.4) (1,787.9)       -        -          -           -
Salaries, Allowances,
and Other Expenses         3,342.7   4,867.2   5,532.4   6,067.2   6,613.8   7,120.1   33,543.4
Technical Assistance
and Training               4,024.7   6,098.5   5,197.3   3,248.1   2,474.5   2,363.3   23,406.4
TOTAL CASH COST             36,866.8  71,208.0  79,952.3  75,170.2  68,681.0  50,156.7  382,035.0
1/ Based on cost estimates according to project component (see Tables 3-7), but classifies
costs by expenditure category and includes physical and price contingencies.



-67-
PAKISTIM
SUCLIST NINOR IRRIGATIOII AtD NSRI)CLTL*A  DEUEL0K4ENT Pli0ECT                             ANNEX  3
RRtON DE           T                                             Table
Ditiled Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Dwntita                                                     kas  Costs                           Phy. For.
Cant. Exch. Tar.
Unit     1983  1994  1995  1996  1997 19M   Total Unit Cost  1983    1984    19        19986    1997    1989     Total   Rate Coa,, Rate
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. PERENIIAL SCHEMES
1. RARCH3OI                   MA         82   29    -    -    -    -   110   34.2   2,9O4.9   957.8               -       -        -       -   30762.7  0.1  0.08   0
2. OTHERS                     HA         140  280  560  700  700  320 2W790    34.2   4,798.9  9.577.9 199155.7 23,944.6 23.944.6 10946.1  92,357.9  0.15  0.08   0
Sub-Total P!WI9AL SCHEMES                                                                    7,593.9 10.535,6 19,155.7 23,944.6 239944.6 10,946.1  969120.7
B. INF - SAlLL SCHEMES
1. RAAT                       HA          64   22    -    -    -    -    86   50.9   3o262.7  1,121.5             -       -        -       -   4,394.2  0.1  0.08    0
2. CTHERS                     HA           -  124  240  248  124  160   904   50.9              - 6,321.4 12,642.8 12,642.9  6,321.4  9,156.6  46,085.0  0.15  0.08   0
Sub-Total ItE - SALL SCHEMES                                                                 3,262.7  7,442.9 12642.8 12.642.8 6h321.4  8,156.6  50,469.1
C, VEHICLES
CAR 4 CYL.                    NO.          1    -    -    -    -    -         1  139.4       139.4       -        -       -        -        -     139.4  0.1  0.75 0.25
STATINI YAI  4X4              No.         2    -    -    -    -    -          2    223.1   446.2         -        -       -        -       -      446.2  0.1  0.75 0.25
IEPS 404                      N.          1    -    -    -    -    -          1  195.2      195.2        -        -       -        -       -      195.2  0.1  0.75 0.25
PICIPS 4X4                     a.          1    -    -    -    -    -         1  195.2       195.2       -        -       -        -       -      195.2  0.1  0.75 0.25
HOTECYCLES                    No.         4    -    -                         4 -    -  4   13.4  53.5   -        -       -        -       -       53.5  0.1 0.75 0.25
Sub-Total VEHICSES                                                                           1,029.6        -       -        -        -       -    1,029.6
D. EQUIPIET
LEVELS                        NC.         2    -    -    -    -    -          2    6.6       13.3        -        -       -        -        -      13.3  0.1  0.25 0.25
STAFF R0DS                   N0.          10   10    -    -    -    -    20    0.5            5.5      5.5       -        -        -       -       11.1  0.1 0.25 0.25
RANGE R1S                     He.         3    1    -    -    -    -          4    0.5        1.7      0.6        -       -        -       -        2.2  0.1  0.25 0.25
M3AMINi EGIinEIIT            LS          -    -         - 44.3                                     -       -                 -       -       44.3  0.1  0.25 0.25
REC0RDERS                   N0.         10   10    -    -    -    -    20    5.5            55.3    55.3        -        -       -        -      110.7  0.1 0.25 0.25
AUT. RAIN4A1                  No.         12    -    -    -    -    -    12    5.5           66.4        -        -       -        -       -       66.4  0.1  0.25 0.25
iWW   RAIN9UES                No.        25   25    -    -    -    -    50    0.5            13.8    13.8         -       -        -       -       27.7  0.1  0.25 0.25
FUJES                         N0.         12   12    -    -    -    -    24    2.2           26.6    26.6         -       -        -               53.1  0.1  0.25 0.25
PHOTOMPY MACHINE              NO.          1    -    -    -    -    -         1    44.2      44.3        -        -       -        -       -       44.3  0.1  0.25 0.25
CALILUTORS (H411)             No.         6    -    -    -    -    -          6    0,6        4.0        -       -        -        -       -        4.0  0.1  0.25 0.25
CALCLTORS (DEK9)                .         2    -    -    -    -    -          2    1.8        3.7        -       -        -        -       -        3.7  0.1  0.25 0.25
E TETERS                     N0.          3                         -      3    22.1      66.4        -        -       -        -       -       66.4  0.1  0.25 0.25
KlmPS                         No.         3-       -     -     -       -      3   27.6       83.0        -        -       -        -       -       83.0  0.1  0.25 0.25
Sub-Total EWIPiENT                                                                             428.1   101.8        -        -        -       -      529.9
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                            12,314.2 18,090.4 31,M.5 36,587.4 30.266.0 19,102.8  148,149.3
11. OPSOATINS COSTS
A. SARIES / ALLOWMCES
EXEMUTIVE ENS.            NAYEARS       0.8    1    1    1    1    1   5.8   1B.4           13.7    18.3    18.3    18.3    19.3    18.3         105.2  0.1      0   0
ASST. DESIGN ENS.         iN WERS       0.8    1    1    I    1    1   5.8   12.2            9.2    12.2    12.2    12.2    12.2    12.2          70.3  0.1      0   0
JIICOR ENS.               WtYEARS       0.8    2    2    2    2    2  10.8    8.6            6.4    17.2    17.2    17.2    17.2    17.2          72.4  0.1     0   0
DRAFTSEI                   AEARS       0.8     1    1    1    1    1   5.8    4.9            3.7      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0       28.5  0.1     0   0
DRIVERS                     AEARS        3    4    4    4    4    4    23    3.6            10.9    14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5          83.6  0.1     0   0
PEONS                      INTEARS      1.5    2    2    2    2    2  11.5    3.3            5.0      6.6      6.6     6.6      6.6     6.6       38.0  0.1     0   0
STAFF ALLWA-NCES             LS          -    -    -    -    -    -          -              36.7    55.4    55.4    55.4    55.4    55.4         313.8  0.1     0   0
Sub-Total SLRIES / ALOMCES                                                                     85,6   129.3   129.3   129.3   129.3   129.3         731.9
B. TRANSPRT 9tiN
VEHICLE 0tH             QEHICLE TEARS    4    5    5    5    5    5    29   26.6           106.7   133.3   133.3   133.3   133.3   133.3    m7.3  0.1  0.S   0
NOTDCYCLE OtN           VEHILE EARS      3    4    4    4    4    4    23    2.2             6.7      8.9     8.9      8.9      8.9     8.9       51.l  0.1  0.5   0
Sub-Total TRANSPERT 01                                                                       113.3   142.2   142.2   142.2   142.2   142.2         924.4
C. OTHER
OFFICE SUPP/CiVRSES          LS                                                             24.3    33.1    33.1    33.1    33.1    33.1         189.9  0.1  0.1    0
Total OPERATING COSTS                                                                             223.2   304.6   304.6   304.6   304.6   304.6   1,746.2
Total ASE.INE COSTS                                                                             12,537.5 19,395.0 32,103.1 36,992.0 30,570.6 19,407.3  149,895.5



-60- 
PAIISTAZ                                                       Page  I of 2
BALUCHISTAN INOR IRRIGATION Ad Ae WICTLTU*    DELDEL T  PROJCT
AGRIOILTURAL DEM    ENT
Bwtilod Cost Table
(RS. '8000
3Outit                                                       BIno COsts                            P?N, Fore
Cant, Exo T
Unit      1983  1984  1985  i96  ts87  1988  Total  Unit Cost   1983      194      19       1986     1997     1988    Total   Rate  Cow.
_..................im ..n  .t.tsm3    sS    sUmS   2.m.  Um. siU.                                      f_,S   m_tS  _UU   _55  aSS t
1. CAPITAL COSTS
A. CAD / SLRF SCH
1. XAAG60
TOTAL                           MA          82   28      -     -     -     -    110     3.3      267.5     9.3          -        -        -        -     3s84.3    1     8
OONATED LAn                     LS           -     -                              -             -106.9   -36.6          -        -        -        -    -143.5   3,1     0
Sub-Total KAWOMI                                                                                     160.6    54.7                  -          -            215.3
2. OTHER
TOTAL                           HA         140  288   560   700   700   320  2,700      3.3      456.7   913.3  1S026.7  2,283.3  2W283.3  1,043.0  8,007.2   o.1        o
DWTED LAS                       LS                                      -                       -181.0  -364.  -730,6  -913.6  -913.6  -417.7  -3,522.0  8.1            8
Sub-Total OTTERS                                                                                    274.8   548,6  1,096.8  1,369.8  1,369.8    626.2   5P285.2
Sub-Total CAD / SUW  SCH                                                                                435.4   603.3  1,096.0  1W369.8  l369.8   626.2  5.500.5
D. CAD X GALL SCH
1. RABAT
TOTAL       -                   HA          64    22     -                       86     4.1      261.0      a97         -        -        -        -     350.7 8.0       8
OONATED LABOR                   LS           --06.5   -3.5                                                             -        -        -        -   -141.9   8.1      a
Sub-Total RABAT                                                                                      154.5    54.2                                              7 -  208.7
2. OTHERS
TOTAL                            A           -   124   248   248   124   160    904     4.1          -    505.6  1.011.2  1,011.2   505.6   652.4   39686.0   8.1        0
DOETED LAE                      LS           -     -     -     -     -    -       -                  -   -203.7  -404.4  -404.4  -201.7  -261.2  -1,475,6   8.1          8
Sub-Total OTlERS                                                                  -                          301.7   606,    606.8   303.9   398.2  2,210.4
Sub-Total CAD / GALL 5SC                                                                                154.5   355.9   606.8   606.8   303.9    391.2  2,419.1
C. COSTRUCTION / OWM  WINS
OF WIN                             LS           -    -                   - - 85.2   085.2                                 -        -        -        -   1,770.4  8.15  0.25
D. VEHICLES
CAR  4 CYL                         NO.          1    -                               1   139.4      139.4        -         -        -        -        -     139.4   0.1  0.75 n-
STATION WAGON 4X4                  N0.          '     -                              2     223.1   446.2         -         -        -        -        -     446,2   0.0  0.75 e
Es  4X4                            NO.          4     4                                 -  -    1?5.2  780.9    7O.9                -        -        -   1,561.7  O.l 0,75 n-
TRAILERS (FOR 4PS)0                             ' 2         -     -     -            4    1314       26.8    26.8          -                          -      53.5  8,1  0.75 n
NOTORCYCLES                        N0.         12   1I      -     -     -     -     27    13.4      160.6   280.0                                     -     361.4  0,1  8,75 n
TRACTORS                           NO.          3     3     -     -    -      -      6    111.8     m.s5   3355                -             -        -     670.9   O.1  8,9
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                    IP889.4  1,343.9        -        -        -            3.233.2
E. EJUIPONT
TRACTOR EOUIPFlNT                  SET          3     1     -                        4     44.2    132.8    44.3           -        _        _177.0   0.1  0.25 n
FR  EOUIPHET                       SET         25   25      -     -                 50     4.4      110.7   110.7          -        -        -        -     221.3  0.1  0.25 e-
ULV SPAYERS                        SET          4     3     -                 -      7      3.3      13.3    10.0                   -       -         -      23.2  0.1  0.25 Q-
PM ER(SAYERS                       SET          4     3     -                        7     8.8       35.4    26.6         -        -         -        -      62.8    .1 0.25 O-
PLANT PROTECTION EQ.               SET         20   20                  -     -     40     2.2       44.3    44.3          -       -         -        -       8.5  0.1  0.25 e-
SLRVEY EQOUIPfT                    LS1 -                          -                  -               77.0         -                                         177.0  0.1  0.25 9-
TRAINING EQUIPNENT                 LS                                                                44.3        -        -        -        -         -      44.3   8.1  0.25 0
OFFICE ED.IFURRNITJRE              LS                                                               130.3        -        -        -        -         -     138.3  0.1  0.25 0-
TYPEiRITER                         NO.          I    _                               1    12.2       12.2        -                                           12.2  0.1  0.25 0-
PHOTO COPYING MACHINE              NO.          I    -                               1    49.8       49.8             -        -            -         -      49.0  0.1  0.25 n-
Sub-Total EQUIPEE                                                                                      758.0   235.7         -        -        -         -     993.6
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                     4v122.4  3.424.0  1.702,8  1.976,5  1,673.7  1rO17,4  13,916.9



a Zs  r,3                                            Z Z'. 0   V ~ ~ ~ -. 
thu                                                            il                                                                                                I |  i    0|0i22iipf  lXg  5 
' '          Y          ~                                      a ,- _           ,St,    flh--,4-_ 04-,_
, . * I     S                                                  ,  inU-h.--lt.-                       ,.4 _        _,4,-.4o..f.                                  I-.                               -
4   5  4  O~~~0                        I           '.a4-  4.4(3~~             Z. 
*    *~,                                                                     ~                                                                                   I. .  .  .  .   .    .    .    .    .   .
. tf&.JVU4 "_,.f.J~ .a... 4_    _nU4CA                                                                              4l_ *_............._|MS 
0-                       0.130-                             534.4---    -a                        - - 0 - C- - -
*3%400,t3A0-~                   ~     ~    ~~      ~    ~ I  @.  W   40C     ,A  cj CA  44  0.fl.         4          4-4   CA    ;3C    (   .4   f
. | || S |*                                                                         4   .|4    14e   ~wF -                                                                                    I;I           e           o           'AF|M |
-    .a-   ~~~~~4I4-- 4-  -4 - -- -- - - I                                                                                                                                                       Oi
| ||1.|4g|     0 Y8_|8.WW|   f t*_0  9 JO  j S >-F-    
-               _      4 0                44                                         44                               O*0  "        ^_q            J4   C    e4 4N 4
||  i  |  |  0                                                                      Y8    |8_  o|0     D0_  0 0_  _0_0   00                         |  
;--44                             _          o      A                       0     0 0 0 0 0 0 0                   0 0 0 0 0_ 0                   o      0_ooo n>e
|~0                           0                         00                 |               0|0 0 0 0'0 0 0 0|80 0 0 q .0 0 0 0 0_- ~uaX| 



AMLEX, 3
-70-
PAKISIAN
AULUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRILTURAL DEVELOPIIENT PROJECT
PILOT SCHEMES
DOtail.d Cost labl1
(Rs. '000)
Quantitv                                                Saw Costs                          Phj. For.
Cont. Exch. T-
Unit      1993  1984  1985  196 197 198M  Total Unit Cost  1983       1984     I985    1986   1987   1988  Total  Rat, Corp, .
2=--= :222 :2522  2222 :232             2322:2222=2222222=222222222222 :in2222  =2222  52222 :====s252 :22=2 =225
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION
GROUNDUATER RECHAE              LS                            -           - -                         8279      27.9 -  -  -                1,655.7  0.15   0.1
HATER SPREADING                 HA         300   300     -    -    -    -   600    10.5   3,145.8  3,145.8         -      -      -       -  6,291.7  0.15   0.1
WATER STUDIES               TV AND AREA      -     3     -    -    -    -      a   597.1         -  4,777.2        -      -      -       -  4,777.2  0.15   0.1
FLOOD STUDIES                   HA           -   400   400    -    -    -   800    25.4          - 10,155.0 10,155.0          -          - 20,309.9  0.15   0.1
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION                                                                        3,145.8 IP905.9 108982.8      -       -      - 33,034.5
8. VEHICLES
PICKUPS X4                      No.          7     -                           7   195.2   1,366-5        -        -      -      -       -  1366.5   0.1  0.75 O0
MOTORCYCLES                     NO,         14     -     -    -    -    -    14    13.4    187.4          -        -      -      -      -    187.4  0.1  0.75 Q-
Sub-Total VIOICLES                                                                            1.553.9        -        -      -      -       -  1I553.9
C. EQUIPMENT
iATER SPREADING EQUIPMENT       LS         -     -      -    -     -     -     -         - 55.3        55.3        -      -      -       -    110.6  0.1  0.25 O-
TU8EHELL EQUIPMENT           TU8EiELL        -     8          -                9    291.1        -  29328.1        -      -      -       -  2,328.1   0.1  0.25 0-
MONITORING EQUIPMENT            LS                            -                               55.3    166.0        -      -      -       -    221.3  0.1  0.25 0-
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                                             110    2M549.4      -      -      -       -  2,660.0
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                              4;810.4 219455.3 10982.8              -      - 37p248.4
II. OPERATING COSTS
A. SALARIES AND ALLOiANCES
ENGINEERS                   MANYEARS        6     7     7    7    7    7    41    12.2       73.4    85.6    85.6  85.6   85.6  85.6   501.5   0.1           0
TECHNICIANS                 MANYEARS       12   14    14   14  14  14   82    5S8            70.1    81.8      81.8  81.8   81.8  81.8    478.7   0.1        0
STAFF ALLOWANCES               LS           -     -     -    -    -    -     -              103.3    129.2    129.2  129.2  129.2  129.2    749.0  0.1       0
Sub-Total SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                                                              246.7   296,5   296.5  296.5  296.5  296.5  1,729.5
B. OMHER EXPENSES
1. TRANSPORT OSIN
VEEHICLE OSII          VEHICLE YEARS     5     7     7    7    7    7    40    26.7    133.3   186.6    186.6  186.6  186.6  186.6  1,066.6   0.1   0.5
MOTORCYCLE Olh         VEHICLE YEARS    10   14   14  14  14  14   80            2-2      22.2    31.1    31,1   31.1   31.1   31.1    177,8  0.1   0.5
MISC. EXPENSES         VEHICLE YEARS     -    -     - -       - -       -                 110      16.6    16.6   16.6   16,6   16.6    93.8   0.1  0,1
Sub-Total TRANSPORT 0Sti                                                                    166.6    34.3        234.3  234.3  234.3  234.3  1,338.1
Sub-Total OTHER EXPENSES                                                                       166.6   234.3    234i3  234.3  234.3  234.3  1,338.1
Total OPERATING COSTS                                                                              413,3    530,9    530.9  530.9  530.9  530.9  3,067.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                              59223.7 21,986.1 119513.7  530.9  530.9  530.9 40,316.1



. ANNEX 3
-71-                                              Table 6
PAIISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MIN(R IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAININ6
Detailed Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Quantits                                                Base Costs                        Ph,  For.
--- -                                         - --- - - - -                        C      o     n     Cont. Exch, Tax
Unit      1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1989 Total Unit Cost  1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    Total  Rate  Coor. Rate
1L CAPITAL COSTS
A. TA ! TRAINING EXPERTS       KANIONTHS    27  48  35  18  10    6   144    94.1  2,540.2 4515.8 3i292.8 1,693.4   940.8  564.5 13,547.5             0     1   0
B. AGRICULTURAL TRAINING       MANNONTHS    25  50  50   50  50  25   250          1.6      41.4   82.8   82.8   82.8   s2.8   41.4   413.9   0.1   0.1    0
C. EVALUATION STUDY            CONTRACT       -    -   -    -    -    -    -                   -   220.6  364.0  364.0  441.2   661.7  2,051.4  0.15  0.05 0.02
D. VECHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
JEEPS 414                      O.         2    -   -    -    -    -    2   195.2    390.4           -       -       -       -       -    390.4   0.1  0.75    0
PICKUPS 44                     NO.        2    -    -    -   -   -        2   195.2    390.4        -       -       -       -       -    390.4   0.1  0.75    0
TA EQUIPMENT                   LS          -   -    -   -    -    -       -              22.1   11.1        -       -       -       -     33.2   0.1  0.25    0
Sub-Total VECHICLES AND EOUIPMENT                                                          803.0   11.1        -       -       -       -   914.0
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                         3,384-5 4,830.3 3,739.5 2,140.2 1,464.7 1,267.6 16,826.9
II, OPERATING COSTS
'EHICLE DIN                 VEHICLE YEARS    3    4    4   2    1          14   26.6       80.0  106.7  106.7   53.3   26.7           -   373.3  0.1   0.5    0
SUPPORT STAFF                    LS          -    -    -   -    -           -              22.1   27.6   27.6   27.6    27.6   27.6   160.1  0.1   0.1    0
MISC. EXPENSES                   LS                                               27.6   33.1   33.1    11.0    11.0          -    115.9   0.1   0.1    0
Total OPERATING COSTS                                                                         129.7  167.4  167.4   92.0   65.3   27.6   649.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                         3,514.2 4,997,6 3P906.7 2.232.1 1,530.0 1,295.2 17,476.1



j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  OC                                                                                -     1.                    m                                       , :  I 0
4 _e~~~~~~~~~~ 111                                                                                                            0           IA) ZOl                                   0110           C 
.-ono- m@G40~    Cot -401&E                                                          0m  *1>B iS        Go -v                         roe,, oor    0 ZZ                                             0 1
r~~~a 0'  I@a    o,o-                               -I a     oM n     =     minO              0 o                   Rs                                      -J_I 
I $ | ~~~~~~~~-0                                                                       S~                               Ae         r         -rw__ ._r 4 r  _weA-  JiI-A        *a A    11    =       
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00                                                                        0    fl.I                        0    *tw- ---  0J~        acf
2~~~~~~~~~~~~ or....,,                                                                                                                -       C* -a
i! li-lwib~~ao ,oj-,lw-J"a,lt;wiIIIa
| st so 1t I o | o0                                                                         00                     0                                        _L_ooi  r;e C  0;r nn ; oII I  f        II*DZ
8!~~ .                                                                                                                                                 j-iwIbo>r  1gtj<o vt Sa  II or Jr 01  i   jjrZ f
J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11                                                                   ^        0                                      0     ;o_o  s; oa   v_;  n;                     
jj~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       0 jjoj0        ,|o h       _ __ _ _  oSS                         
ii  - i~~~~~m1l                                                                                                         -jjDOU |  |WW____ 0 _ 5 __oiS 1IA@I*i&6|@@|@@&I*$iz|* 
11 _jj _| o| _  vI J |00                     b                               a  0     wo                                                                                                                     0 _ 000 |f l  II      *|||*a|
,1  X  lW | W| 4 t* - |- _ |_ W >S _ o _ 0. 0   00 N  0                                                                                                                                           I   OI|_   
FFF~~111 FF00 FFFFFF.FFFFFFFF                                                                                             FFFFFF                                    FFFC  
___~~~Cl                                      __   ______________ _                                             _ _     _____0                          _         _        _        .
FFu~~~~~~~~~I1A                                                                                              00            0o       ~   o              0000   oooooo      FFF FF'1
-   F                                                                                .                                     F u   a F F0FFF 



ANNEX 4
-73-                             Table 1
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Features of Kanchogi and Rabat Minor Irrigation Schemes 1/
Summary                           Kanchogi Perennial                Rabat Infiltration Gallery
Feature                                 Scheme                                 Scheme
1.  Location                      Nisai                             Khuzdar
2.  Soils                         Alluvial, Calcareous,             Alluvial, medium textured
moderately permeable              lomy soils, calcareous, good
permeability
3.  Average Rainfall (mm/year)           240                                 180
4.  CCA (ha)                             182                                 182
5.  Irrigated Area (ha)                  110                                   86
6.  Cropped Area (ha)                    134                                 107
7.  Main Crops                   Wheat, maize, orchards,            Wheat, sorghum, orchards,
vegetables                        vegetables
8.  Main Design Features         Weir and headvorks                 Earthwork, infiltration
Rehabilitation of main            gallery, lining of distri-
watercourse and channels          bution channel
9.  Total Base Cost (Rs)             4,098,785                           4,716,770
10.  Unit Cost (Rs/ha) 2/                40,990                               60,330
11. Beneficiaries
- No. Farmers                           55                                   28
- Total Persons                        385                                 196
12.  Farm Incomes (Rs p.a.)              10,070                               11,680
- Future Without Project            10,070                              11,680
- Future With Project 3/
Year 6                        20,285                              35,145
Year 13                      41,300                               91,940
1/  The characteristics reported for the two irrigation schemes are assumed to be
generally indicative of future schemes to be identified based on agreed criteria.
Some characteristics, however, are expected to vary (such as agro-climatic conditions
and tenureship).
2/ Refers to unit cost per irrigated ha.
3/ Future with project incomes for tenants are expected to be less than for those
shown here for owners (see Annex 7, Tables 4 and 5).



-74-                             Annex 4
PAKISTAN Mable
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION ANfD AGRICULTURAL DEVE0PMENT PROJECT
Suwmary Cost for Kanchogi Surface Perennial Scheme 1/
I.  Construction of Irrigation Works                              Rs
A. Other Works
1.  Preliminaries                                       50,000
2.  Weir and Head Regulator                           644,071
3.  Kanchogi Main Water Course                      i,448,5o4
4.  Dakal Zai Branch                                   413,564
5.  Mulla Mai Branch                                   637,007
6.  Operation and Maintenance Cost (1%)                 31,931
7.  Less 5% for Reduced Capacity                      161,250
Subtotal                       3,063,827
B.  T&P at 0.5% on Item-A                                   15,319
C.  Miscellaneous at 1.0% on Item-A                         30,638
D. Engineering, Design, and Administration at 10%
on Item-A                                              306.382
Subtotal     (A-D)             3,416,166
E.  Physical Contingencies at 10% on Items (A-D)           341,617
Total, Construction (110 ha)            3,757,783
Rs per ha 2/                             34,162
II. Construction of Command Area Works                       Rs per ha
A.  Land Levelling, including field
reshaping                                             650
B.  Renovation Existing Watercourses                       585
C.  Provision of Double Irrigation Control
Structures                                          1,113
D.  Demonstration Plot                                      82
E.  Technical Overhead                                     390
F.  Physical Contingencies (10%)                           280
Total, per ha 3/                          3,100
Total, Kanchogi Scheme (110 ha)         341,000
GRAND TOTAL, Kanchogi Scheme          4,098,783
Total Rs per ha Irrigated,
Kanchogi Scheme:
- July 1981 prices 4/                  37,262
- March 1982 Prices 5/                 40,988
1/  Cost estimates were based on WAPDA's revised cost estimate for Kanchogi scheme carried
out during August/September 1981.
2/  Unit cost, used as basis for cost estimates of other schemes; see Irrigation Developml&-.
component, Annex 3, Table 3.
3/  Unit cost used as basis for cost estimates of other schemes; see Agricultural Develop-
ment component, Annex 3, Table 4.
4/  As provided by WAPDA to IDA in November 1981.
5/  Base costs were adjusted by 10% to express them in March 1982 currency.



ANNEX 4
-75-                               Table 3
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Cost of Rabat Infiltration Gallery Scheme  1/
Item                                                               Rs
I. Constructior of Irrigation Works
A. Land                                                     36,000
B. Other Works
1.  Preliminaries                                       50,000
2. Earth Work                                       1,059,818
3.  Laying of R.C.C. pipes                            171,720
4. Lining of distribution channel                      419,541
5. Structures                                       1,T742,002
6.  Lifts                                               80,000
7. Repair of existing structure                          2,000
8.  Maintenance during construction
(items 1-7)                                         35,251
Subtotal of Item B               3,560,3314
C.  Tools & Plants at 0.5% on Item B                        17,802
D. Miscellaneous (insurance, compensation, etc.)
at 1.0% on Item B                                       35,604
E.  Engineering, Designs, and Administration
(10% of Item B )                                      356.033
Subtotal of Items A to E         3,969,773
F.  Physical -Contingencies  .0% of Items A to E)          396976
Total, Construction           4,366,749
Rs per ha 2/                   50,776
II.  Construction of Command Area Works
Item                                                              Rs ner ha
A. Land Levelling, including reshaping of fields             1,483
B. Renovation of Existing Watercourses                         313
C.  Construction of Nev Watercourses                           874
D. Provision of Double Control Structures                      440
E. Demonstration Plot                                          llO
F. Physical Contingencies (10% of A-E)                         370
G.  Technical Overhead (15% of A-F)                            480
Total per ha 3/           4,070
Total, Command Area Works (E6 ha)    350,020
GRAND TOTAL, Rabat Scheme            4,716,769
Total Rs per ha Irrigated,
Rabat Scheme:                              4l
- July 1981 prices 4/                 54,846
- March 1982 prices 5/                60,330
1/ Cost estimates were based on WAPDA's revised cost estimate for Rabat scheme carried
out during August/September 1981.
2/ Unit cost, used as basis for cost estimates of other schemes; see Irrigation Development
component, Annex 3, Table 3.                                               1
3/ Unit cost used as basis for cost estimates of other schemes; see Agricultural Develop-
ment component, Annex 3, Table 4.
4/ As provided by WAPDA to IDA in November 1981.
5/ Base costs were adjusted by 10% to express them in March 1982 currency.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
-76-
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Sum-ary Implementation Schedule of Project Activities
Component                             FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87   FY88   Total
A. Minor Irrigation Schemes
No. Schemes                    2.5      3.5     6.0     7.0       6.0   3.0      28
No. Ha Improved                286      454     808     948       824   480    3,800
B. Agricultural Development
- Command Area Works                  _
- Extension Activities
C. Pilot Schemes
1  Water Spreading             D        C       C
2.  Groundwater Recharge             D           C  C
3, Conjunctive Water Use
Study                          D  C -    C
D. Technical Assistance & Training
E.  Project Management           ____
Legend:
Refers to implementation of project activities.  In the irrigation and agricultur
components, planning, preparation/appraisal, implementation activities would be
carried out simultaneously during the project period, varying according to each
scheme cycle (see Chart 2) and to the project's implementation schedule (see
Table 2).
D - Refers to completion of designs.
C - Refers to construction activities.



ANNEX 5
-77-                         Table 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of Physical Works (ha) of Minor Irrigation Schemes 1/
A.  Surface Irrigation Schemes          FY83   FY84    FY85       FY86    FY87    FY88       Total
1.  Kanchogi                         82     28       -         -       -        -        110
2.  Others (ha)                     140    280      560       700     700      320     2,700
S-T, No. Schemes             1.75   2.25         4        5        5        2        20
S-T, No. Ha                    222    308      560      700      700     320      2,810
B. Infiltration Gallery Schemes
1.  Rabat (ha)                       64     22       -         -       -        -         86
2.  Others (ha)                      -     124      248       248     124      160        904
S-T, No. Schemes               .75   1.25      2.0      2.0      1.0     1.0          8
S-T, No. Ha                     64    146      248      248      124     160        990
Total Project
No. Schemes 2/                 2.5    3.5      6.0      7.0      6.0     3.0         28
No. Ha                         286    454      808      948      824     480      3,800
C. Co-Financing Agency
No. of Schemes 3/              2.5    3.5      6.0      7.0      6.0     3.0         28
IDA                       (2.5)  (1.5)   (3.0)    (3,0)   (2.0)   (1.0)          (13)
KFW                          -    (2.0)   (3.0)    (4.0)   (4.0)   (2.0)         (15)
1/  Survey and planning, and detailed design engineering for each scheme precede construction
by about six months.  The figures for improved areas provide the basis for estimating the
expenditure schedule of civil works.
2/  Refers to the equivalent number of schemes completed in any given year, although it is
likely that construction work would be carried out for more schemes than shown for the year.
3/ Approximate 'estimates.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
-7-                                                                                                                 PaRge I oC  II
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN HINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR kQUIPMENT AND MATEnIALS
o,sse,e,,O. a, IIL  U O    hh5PBS    I       ost )                  '9 82              19 83                     8      4               8_
MIN  (s 00             -    e     S--S oO(SS                               S    O     S
16 Jeeps  (4.xh Diesel)           ICB    3,1 2 3   stiai      -         -        --
b3 Pickups  (lxii Diesel)    ICE    1,562    hYS                    -
1 ~ ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     O- 4o be acuie   byCbLoIbhl    fZSrP@e]u);c4 (                                                                                fhGFRCRU
6 StaLtion  Wagons                ICB3    1,338
3     *nprCars                    ICB        4)8                 -
2 Jeeps  (Llxi  Dieseli)          Aid                                                                                                                                            _
(fr TA)
2 pickups  (lix)  Diesel)    Aid             390    SiF
LS TA                             Dutofch-
Equipment                     Aid         33"~
a- e5seu  tASSTS  F SSUIIST5  SnSNTS O G,-1,T,0 0S  ,                               *SFS'SSSIIC    OF SFfClf Cip*ONS Ah ND hisSnUSEYTS S       Nihl SEi 51ile, SI SltE              iCn LOCL COU5ITSII.V
C-                                                                                                                                                                                    TtDAoS.aaNsSSnScRIrE,hIS  RI5  I 5LE IhV  his *0  1 5D  i1CDIh-
CISS nLESRsIf ICA10F SS,MSSflc 955 551UsDS iSUEh iVIDTS  IS IID                                                            I 19 I I    I
R-WJ tFhOSLFSao CTaNC le onIn E C#IO 0ST 6F1 SIR 5SI VIAUhRFR   DAADhCUlUl'h  0,>                                                                                                   l p5-FSUSENISh D                                                              P
lMecsI$vsvWI {Aae71NSe,hStOIFie#riD  siOUEOllS E   6D1                      TASISRII (SiSliSICDeUFODA- 55 CF SIOSFOiiN  30s                                                        F   55,f5
4 TraCilerAs                      LCB        54UO^rh                     6  WjpChT^t 
*TASS' SaSTl. FenY55  S5NSEhSTDN IlS                         ISCES*IS5 SeA-NsYstI                                                                                                                                                                   r-h
6N-leactorDDse                    LCBSJNsYIs  I671OnISc
14II To be acquired by COBAL oii behalf of users,jkg4.pAxh,,.U05(b). ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      o 
-1-A '-A   A"T.."'                                                                            Al -1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5



ANNEX 5
79-                                                                                                                Table 3
PAKISTAN                                                                                                           Page 2 of 4
BALUQIISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EOUMIFENT AND MAnERiALS
C_ -G; CWA" O OOU     AS  l(Base   a82 .                             0
|CffOf C Zti FIIGUALFIC I0 DTA    R.                           IA^iUI EV    ID  -OI^DA^DRCbthA                                                                                                    9 0iS~GhGlab,
8 Tubewell Sets                   PS      2.328                              ~~~4                                                                                             4       ~       -
20 Starrf Rods                   P
20 WL Recorders                  PS      109.7                                                                                                                                                                             - - - - - -
12 Automatic lRaingauges    PS             65.8                                                                                                                                                                   I 
50 Manual Raingauges             PS       27.4 
24 Flumes                        PS       52. 6    oap              -         *     - -
2 Levels                           S       1a
14 Hand-Calculators              PS          .                                                                                                                                                                             =:G:t1                    -P
IA IIAATAA   .T  A                                                      CIOI          -ATA --ON 4A001COFNTC-FDA
.,npaToa.nSAaac--A .s 01-*                                     0 ACNSASTWCFCr,NNSAOQETST  INLOrvA  TSf                                                                SCAL COAPIIVMI
c-e  LEOC 01505MT ATt -SIOIA                                   4   NOtITTIT*OANTASI                                                                                     a
*-AMT,10105V--.COSFSEAkLTTNFIASOA-.*      TS FAA-N0OIT                                                                                                                                                                                           f I,TOSF0AAOAOTO.N10ISOgTOANOFAII
G-0*A C"-.)C&a 0. fOC-SSENAT.W0                                         ..Aft1 L-  IAC



Table 3
PAKISTAN                                                                                                           Page 3 of 4
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION ANC ARICULTUyA  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE fOR EQUIPMENT AND MArERIIALS
*1~~IfllA*OP 1004  OP    ESTIAPMAIL8
0U*Alr,V              04I t' C                                                                                                      ,           E 4 1
5 Desk Calculators              Ps         9                                                                                                                4    ----    ti-~1-
3 Current Meters                PS       65.8                --           -
3 PuopA                         PS   82.3  "R---A                                         --           ----- -            -           *-
LS Tractor                      PS       7 5.5    A0CC0AR-NC ---.                     YtC                    N                        I-  -     V   A
Equlpment
4 Sets of Parm
Equipment                   PS       219.3                        *                                                                            -- ---                                - - - -- - - - -
D Seta of Power    C
Sprayers                      Ps       61.4   007                         --                         -   --  -   --               -                                      
40 Beta of Plant
Protection Equipment    PS            87.7
LB SurveyAl-A
Equipment                   Ps       242
LS Training                                        ogs          --    -         ---
Equipment                                     ACU -- -
Puinito*ore          PS         3      AIToU-s                                                                                                                                                                               - ----
LS Office Equipment/                                                               --                                      -- -                                                 -
lS ^EVCAA,bO5 OGWT0AYRtfU&IVC  At1NDAA * *R7NU  0ECrlATUICu0* tOC AND 0WACCOO.1 104UtUII 0*                            Il ANAI04A*CA                                     41C0 NCAAF0A:I,O 010
*-I5OA101 .'OIEITAY~o0CIII1IA                                            0  LCIA.E      .1 C.1 CAI b1AO*ACIITSt  NC*0CI-0h7 CI -ltLI-AAC*II1
C--IS CLOAAMC O 00051010000111011*                    10000I.A.6- ,C W-Al- GA) -  0001*-011.0 
1-YANflIIT OVALUATI( EOO ^ 51, NO71 110CUU4NOATION0 7*0*IO             I ,ACCOCLAIRA0 t 0*ECO**e1,A*OI 0                                                                                                                                             p-|0
G-ISA OACLRtCO*I0000 5 CAISIAEO0*TsD0Y                                * *71011* CIlAbCI
0--



-81-                                                                                                                           Table 3
,Page ~4 of ~4
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOFi EQUIPMENT AND MATElAilS
TTypewriteros                    IS         185    -                -                -   -                             - -
LB Water Spreading                                                                                                                  -I
Equipment                     PS        110       hio        -     -          ..-           -
LS Monitoring
Equipment                       P          1
2 Duplicating
MacbinesPs                                3 3
3 Photo-copying
Machines                        P         4
6 Air Conditioners/
fleaters                        S         4
Tor.alI /
Base Cost
A- i-7iTIAFtATf 0100i0  7 DO ijt5AiiTiC*TiON oocUDtAtST                     I iiiO tDRElP*RDOIlOll I SfLiTC*lclONS*00 010 OOCiU$l.T S          0Rin 1   O11 C DiclV  Al Slill           C  U VIT,OO O T,O_NfLt
D-lii&ODOlITOOCiDJOOYS ANO CDiRERi T 00                                    2 00 CLEOA niCO S   DRl Cifi"^COli  7.1 AhD lOC0C5CL LtS           ii fIni*Erl OiVt,DYAl Sif t              LCD  OCaOPYi,VI,[I5
0-Da, coDA"aaoc 0% OOCSJMOfl00 AN IECO  dRYUA4iSOUliNIViTAIiOU  1)0 *10u
C  .1* PROE00LIPiCATiOS NOTICI                                               <SOPOODiS                                                                                                  ,5 POUCDLII Si.OflOU
E-S,XlDiTOV 0011T0*CTODflEOUOLifgi*iOOOh AOA                               0 T0*SDDI Di/tiiiO  01001110h *07.OR 5iO0NUOiS TOAR CO-ells 0D0 SDi tGolulfl l
P-fOONhIIT OOOCOAfION {O 7%?01 AD E0m.4fOllU iDbSuN 1010 ID  Isa LiD*DO#iC1 f A(COUUE0TOl,OiS 
0.100 CLDo00000 O Oi DCOOD.tDENoTIOh                                       800.0000,i10C1                                                                                                                      
1,'   Includes  equlpacont  financed  under TA  component.                                                                                                                                                                                                             



ANNEX 5
Table 4
-82-
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ M Equivalent)
IDA Fiscal Year                                                Accumulated
and Semester                -      Disbursements             Disbursements
1983
lst                                  .2                         .2
2nd                                  .7                        .9
1984
1st                                  .9                       1.8
2nd                                 1.2                       3.0
1985
1st                                 1.3                       4.3
2nd                                 1.4                       5,7
1986
1st                                 1.5                       7.2
2nd                                 1.4                       8.6
1987
lst                                 1.4                      10.0
2nd                                 1,2                      1102
1988
1st                                 1.2                      12.4
2nd                                  .8                      13.2
1989
1st                                   .8                      14,0
2nd



ANNEX 5
Chart 1
-83-
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Project Direction, Coordination, and Impleimetation
PROJECT DIRECTION                                           PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
OInt                                               |     Dmtmntof Agrcutur.
WAPOA                            Ontofm md P*,                                             (inciudesDirm-eto -to
STEERING COMMITTEE                                                                    I                                                    E
S cernav PDO                               i
S3Cmmv m,itgon                I
Se.rturv Ayricultun                            _
SwcnarV Lioce    _rm            _ -  -  -  -  -  -  -    _    Proi.t Mmmq.n,nt Coil tPMC)
-PO (Seclotarv)l LIncIudm Area Planning and
PD LSaVi                  i                                       Deelop0Wnt Team (APOT)
I :and Technicsl Austame Exowrts
PROJECT AREA COML-1ITTEE            ScI ehm Plarm.g                                                                  Anulu
Rn lmnt,t,on  otfn e              Pnp raion/Aprsl                   Civi                 Comm nd Ar                  Axtunss
Distrbct ad Union Councit          w  PBiot Studi be               Wrks Dctoeont                                      E mCtion                  StudnV''
Officials of Loed            7        Monitoringt                  (d SDics 11'(OAEI'(DAE)-
Govrrmnert end L.inx Agias n          and E.alution(D)                                       OE                        DA)
APOT M mbmn (Team Laodr asl          (PMC. WAPOA.
3 ennstV)                              0 Ol DAE)-
-Imdlenantoacn AgeincaWol   nt-38
*-To bxe rrietd out by suittile Institution. hich ,would be undw contract to PMC.WrdBn238



ANNEX 5
864-                                Chart 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flow Chart of Irrigation Scheme Stage/Cycle
According to Required Activities and Responsible Entities
Scheme Stage/Cycle            Required Activities            Responsible Entity(ies)
(To be assisted by TA experts)
1. Identification        a) Identification and screen-  a) APDT in consultation with
(about 6 weeks)       ing of potential project         DI, DAE, and Project Area
schemes.                         Committee.
b) Collection of preliminary   b) APDT, with collaboration of
hydrological, agronomic, and   DI, and DAE.
socio-economic information.
c) Preparation of scheme pre-  c) APDT, with collaboration of DI
I             feasibility report, and          and DAE; approval of schemes for
selection of most promising    feasibility study to be approved
schemes.                         by Project Steering Committee.
2. Preparation/          a) Securing preliminary           a) APDT.
Appraisal             approval of beneficiaries.
(i) Stage 1 (or          b) Detailed field investi-        b) WAPDA, with some support
Feasibility Report,      gations, collection of hydro-  provided by APDT, DI, and DAE.
about 12 weeks)          logical, agronomic, and socio-
economic information.
c) Scheme design, considering  c) WAPDA, in. consultation with
major alternatives based on    APDT, DI, and DAE.
simultaneous analysis of
I             engineering, agronomic, and
I             organizational considerations.
d) Formation of Water            d) DAE for Water Users Association
Users Association/Coopera-       Registrar of Cooperative Society
I             tive.                             and DAE for cooperative.
e) Review and Approval of        e)
scheme feasibility report
I               (i) Appraisal                    (i) APDT
|              (ii) GOBAL                       (ii) Project Sterring Committee
and Provincial Development
Working Party
v              (iii) Cofinancing Agency        (iii) IDA or KFW
Revised Feasibility      f) Revision of Feasibility        f) WAPDA and APDT.
Report                   and Appraisal Reports
(ii) Stage II (or        resulting from review
Detailed Engineering    process.
Report, about 8 weeks)  a) Required detailed studies.  a) WAPDA, with inputs from DI and
DA to increase over time.
b) Preparation of tender         b) WAPDA, aided by DI.
I                documents.
c) Preparation of scheme         c) WAPDA, aided by DI and DAE.
C                construction schedule.
d) Completion of Scheme          d) APDT, aided by field officers
Agreement between Dis-           of concerned agencies (local
I             trict Council and WUA/            government DI, DAE, and/or
Cooperative.                     Cooperative Society).
e) Final review/appraisal to   e) APDT.
ensure compliance with
|             agreed technical, organiza-
tional, and cost/economic
V       *     criteria.
3. Construction          a) Irrigation Works               a) Work to be executed by contra-
(about 26-36)                                              tor under supervision of DI.
weeks                  b) Command Area Works            b) Contractor for skilled works
Time Required:                                             and WUA/Cooperative for unskilled
Roughly 52-62 weeks.                                       on-farm works.



ANNEX 6
-85-                         Page 1
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the
Technical Assistance Team
and Project Related Studies
Technical Assistance Team
The technical assistance that would be provided under the Project
would consist of a Hydrologist, an Agronomist, an Economist and an Engineer
for 28 manmonths each. The remaining number of manmonths would be allocated
to hire other experts and/or increase the number of manmonths for the desig-
nated experts (such as a sociologist and/or anthropologist) to address
project-related needs as they may arise during project implementation. The
members of the team would have two main responsibilities: (a) strengthening
of existing institutions through training of counterpart personnel; (b)
participation in the preparation and implementation of the irrigation schemes
and pilot studies. This would include the setting up of data collection
networks and contributing to project monitoring and evaluation. The TOR of
the team members are:
Hydrologist
Duties: He will be responsible to, in cooperation with the con-
cerned Government Agencies, set up a monitoring system for surface hydro-
logy in selected areas of Baluchistan; he will assist in the selection of
sites for pilot projects on groundwater recharge and on conjunctive water
utilization. He will develop efficient procedures for data collection and
compilation and will assist in the analysis of hydrologic data including
the testing and adaptation of suitable simulation programs. He will train
local technicians and officers and will cooperate with other technical
advisors on related project studies.
Qualifications and experience: The hydrologist should have a
degree in hydrology or related fields and significant experience in setting
up hydrologic data collection networks and efficient analytical procedures
under semi-arid conditions.
Agronomist
Duties: He will be responsible to work with members of the Area
Development Planning Terms and the Extension Directorate of the DA on the
identification and introduction of renumerative crops and cropping systems and
the generation of efficient irrigation schedules and rotations. He will work
with members of the Area Development Planning Team and DAE in design and imple-
mentation of appropriate soil and water conservation techniques. He will help



-86-                           AN~NEX 6
Page 2
set up pilot projects in profile recharge for improved fodder production.
He will handle the initiation and monitoring of pilot projects on conjunctive
use of different water sources and flood irrigation. He will assist in
formulating the agricultural aspects of the project's proposed monitoring
and evaluation system.
Qualification and experience: The agronomist should have an
advanced degree in the agronomy of irrigated crops and have demonstrated
ability to work as a team member. Previous experience in developing coun-
tries within the tropical or sub-tropical zones will be essential.
Economist
Duties: He will be responsible, in conjunction with other advisors
and local staff, for (a) developing detailed proposals for integrated develop-
ment of valley water resources involving conjunctive use of different sources
of water; (b) addressing sociological issues related to organization of
beneficiaries, land tenure, and water sharing arrangements; (c) initiating
with designated DA staff, studies on marketing constraints and opportunities,
especially for fruit and vegetable crops; (d) organizing project reporting
procedures and the design of questionnaires for the Project-s monitoring
and evaluation needs; and (e) providing on-the-job training to the project's
economists to upgrade their capacity to consider the sociological, financial,
and economic aspects of selecting and evaluating the irrigation schemes.
Qualifications and experience. The economist should have an
.advanced degree in economics with substantial training and experience
in sociology and farm management surveys. In addition, previous work on
organization and management issues, including farmer participation, related
to minor irrigation schemes would be desirable.
Design Engineer
Duties: He will have responsibility to assist in creating improved
design capability (for minor irrigation civil works) within the Baluchistan
Irrigation Department. He will organize training programs and write new
design manuals for innovative low cost structures especially for flood
diversion (sailaba) irrigation. He will also assist the Hydrologist in the
selection of watersheds and locations for hydrologic data collection and the
development of reporting procedures.
Qualifications and experience.  The design engineer would have
a degree in engineering with suitable training and relevant experience in
the design of small irrigation systems in arid and semi-arid environments.
He should also have teaching experience.
Terms of Reference for the Hydrological Study
1.        Of Baluchistan's total cultivated area of about 1.4M ha, almost
half has some form of irrigation. The most important sources of supplemen-
tal water are perennial and seasonal canals, and floodwaters. Although



ANNEX 6
-87-                             Page 3
much of the available perennial streamflow is being used, water utilization
is inefficient, partly'due to substantial conveyance and application losses.
Only a small fraction of flood waters from hill torrents are utilized for
irrigation because of their large fluctuations, unpredictability and silt
load. Little is known with regard to the hydrology of the distinct agro-
climatic zones that are being recognized mainly on the basis of elevation.
A hydrologic study has, therefore, been included in the Project to improve
the information base for the planning of schemes in the current Project as
well as for future minor irrigation projects.
2.        The study will be undertaken by the Survey and Planning Division
of the Irrigation Department (DI) which will make available some of its
permanent staff to organize, implement and supervise the data collection
program with back-up support provided by the technical assistance component of
the Project. The compilation, analysis and publication of the results will
also be the DI-s responsibility. However, because of the unpredictability
of hydrologic events, actual field data collection will have to be done by
semi-skilled staff or by automated equipment. Thus, instrumentation and
data compilation need to be simple because of manpower constraints.
3.        Although rainfall is generally scanty, several sub-zone can be
distinguished each with different rainfall distributions, and probabilities;
such zones are also characterized by varying runoff quantities and crop sup-
plemental water requirements. Records on daily rainfall are available for
several locations and these existing data should be analyzed before study
sites are selected to ensure that these locations are representative of
major agroclimatic zones. Tentatively identified areas should also be sur-
veyed with regard to soils, topography and cropping patterns of cultivated
areas to ascertain that they reasonably represent predetermined categories.
4.        Hydrologic investigations would be conducted on approximately a
dozen watersheds of varying size and complexity. They would involve the
determination of several factors in the water balance and specifically
infiltration from rainfall and runoff quantities. Thus, data on daily
rainfall and intensity, storm runoff from selected sites, and quantities
of eroded material would be measured. Back-up information on evaporation,
soil moisture status and other climatic parameters might also be collected.
This would require the instrumentation of several small experimental plots
with rainfall recorders, water measurement devices and sediment collectors
as well as the monitoring of natural streams through installation of auto-
matic stage height recorders and the determination of the stage height -
discharge curves at accessible sites. Instrumentation of selected sites
should be completed well before the kharif rains; a data collection period
of at least five years would be required to obtain a meaningful record.
5.        These short-term records of rainfall-runoff relationships would
be extended in time making use of available rainfall data. The suitabi-
lity of adapting and using existing hydrologic models would be attempted.
This information, together with knowledge regarding present and potential
water utilization patterns in irrigated areas gained in other studies that



-88-                             ANNEX 6
Page 4
are part of the Project, would provide a sounder base for the design of minor
irrigation facilities in Baluchistan. It also would facilitate improved
estimates of water availability probabilities in relation to alternative
potential cropping patterns in irrigated areas. Thus, the results of these
studies would identify measures that might be more effective in improving
overall resource use efficiency. Regular annual progress reports will be
prepared and a final report will document the entire study. Follow-up
projects may be required if rainfall erraticity and run-off variability are
greater than expected.
Terms of Reference for the Conjunctive Water Resource Use Study
1.        Introduction.  The use of different sources of water (karezes,
tubewells, perennial surface water, flood water) on the same command area
is not common in Baluchistan. An exception is the many small systems
supplied by perennial streams where occasional flood waters are also
diverted towards a temporarily expanded command area. However, siltation
problems and damage to the distribution systems are frequent occurrences
under those conditions.
2.        Recently, the need to consider using different water sources
conjunctively has become more urgent because: (a) rapid groundwater develop-
ment is taking place in a situation of extremely limited total ground water
availability, (b) depletion of traditional kareze-based systems in some
areas, and (c) difficulties to justify, investments in flood schemes without
improving substantially the dependability of the moisture regime. Also,
serious problems have been experienced with regard to water sharing and cost
recovery arrangements in on-going and planned tubewell programs. A study
of the potential benefits of conjunctive water resource development and
complementary water use would therefore be carried out as part of the project.
3.        Objectives.  Basic objectives would be to identify suitable engineer-
ing approaches with regard to water diversion, distribution and utilization
arrangements and to explore viable operational systems. Requirements for
drinking water, and domestic use will be taken into account in this investiga-
tion that would be primarily aimed at determining how best to use limited
dependable water resources to provide a more stable base to agriculture in
areas served by erratic, flood waters in a hostile climatic environment.
4.        Institutional Responsibilities.  Although WAPDA would have the
overall responsibility for coordination of the study, and TA personnel
would participate, DI and DA personnel will be charged with routine data
collection and compilation. Because of the relatively long duration of
these studies and for the reason that several different organizations will
be involved, continuity of the cooridnating staff will need to be ensured.
Constraints to the data collection frequency, the level of training of the
field personnel involved, the uncertain hydrologic environment and the
isolated locations of the study sites, must be recognized.



-89-                            ANNEX 6
Page 5
5.        Approach.  The study would attempt to identify opportunities and
to evolve strategies for the conjunctive development of groundwater and
surface water resources keeping in view the limitations set by the complete
hydrologic balance. It would address issues such as deciding the relative
proportions of groundwater to be developed by tubewells and infiltration
galleries. Effects of additional groundwater development on existing kareze
systems will be determined and questions of water rights and potential means
of compensation responded to. Appropriate levels of government subsidies,
opportunities for cost recovery and possibilities for greater involvement
of farmer-beneficiaries through taking responsibility for operation and
maintenance will be explored.
6.        For the flood diversion schemes, special efforts would be made to
develop alternative engineering approaches regarding diversion and distri-
bution facilities keeping in view the limited returns in terms of increased
productivity in those parts of such systems that would remain relatively un-
dependable. Low-cost intake structures requiring different levels of farmer
involvement in upkeep and maintenance would be tried. The effectiveness of
providing technical guidance to farmers in on-farm development work such as
channel excavation, bund construction and land levelling would be investi-
gated. The economic viability of system rehabilitation and improvement
versus new construction and expansion would be determined.
7.        Alternative plans would subsequently be discussed with farmers
including questions related not only to the sharing of the water but also
to provisions for system operation and maintenance by the beneficiaries.
Farmers' input into the physical construction of the system as well as their
participation in the envisaged organizational set up would have to be ensured
at this time. Implementation of these pilot projects should only proceed on
the basis of the farmers understanding of the project's implications and after
written consent has been obtained from the participants.
8.        Time Frame.  The completed designs of the conjunctive water use
study would be sent to IDA for review and comments by November l, 1983.
Construction activities would be concentrated during PY 2 and 3, with
monitoring and evaluation of the results taking place during the last
three years of the project's implementation period.
Socio-Economic Evaluation Study
1.        Introduction.  The Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural
Development Project will construct and rehabilitate approximately 28 minor
irrigation schemes covering an area of about 3,800 ha. Since the agro-
economic-hydrological conditions are expected to vary somewhat from scheme
to scheme, the technical and economic criteria for their selection need
further refinement to ensure the selection of future schemes that have the
highest economic and social priority. A number of other aspects of the
project's socio-economic impact-such as farmer participation need further
investigation to assist in developing expanded minor irrigation investment
programs in the future.



-90-                           ANNEX 6
Page 6
2.        Evaluation Objectives.  The evaluation study will have the fol-
lowing major objectives:
(a) to establish the impact of constructing/rehabilitating
minor irrigation schemes on agricultural production,
farm incomes, and employment;
(b) to carry out the preliminary cost/benefit evaluation
of selected schemes to establish various factors
affecting the economic outcome of the investments;
(c) to assess constraints affecting farmer participation
in constructing/rehabilitating and operating and
maintaining minor irrigation schemes; based on these
findings, to make recommendations for encouraging
improved farmer response;
3.        Approach.  Approximately 6-9 schemes would be selected for the
evaluation study. The schemes would include 1 flood pilot scheme, 3-5 sur-
face irrigation schemes, and 2-3 infiltration galleries. To allow sufficient
time for the scheme 's impact, the schemes evaluated would concentrate on
those constructed during the first three years. The baseline data used for
the evaluation would be obtained from the preparation and feasibility reports
for each scheme. This would reduce the costs and hopefully ensure the consis-
tency of the impact analysis. Therefore, special efforts would be made to
ensure that the data collected (prior to construction) is reliable and appro-
priate. Although the institution carrying out the evaluation study would not
gather the baseline data, it would help design, review, and where appropriate,
suggest ways in which the data collected can be improved. Follow-up surveys
of the schemes being evaluated would be carried out to assess their impact
over at least two years at the most appropriate times (for example, after the
rabi and kharif harvest). Although the focus of the evaluation should attempt
to quantify the production impact, the evaluation objectives stated above
also include aspects that help determine production and that may require
non-quantitative analysis (for example, farmer participation, marketing
system).
4.        Institutional Responsibilities.  The Project Management Cell (PMC)
would have overall responsibility for ensuring the successful completion of
the evaluation study. PMC would contract the National Fertilizer Marketing
Limited (NFML) or another appropriate institution satisfactory to IDA. NFML
is a subsidiary of the National Fertilizer Corporation (NFGC), a quasi-public
enterprise that is Pakistan's major fertilizer manufacturer and distributor.
NFML has an interdisciplinary Research Cell that has carried out various
farm level studies. As part of the IDA-financed Fertilizer Imports Credit
(CR-1066-PAK), NFML has successfully carried out two surveys on farmer fer-
tilizer use in response to recent price increases. NFML's team of agricul-
tural economists, engineers, agronomists, and sociologists, plus demonstrated
experience in carrying out farm level surveys and in preparing useful reports,
should enable NFML to successfully meet the evaluation study-s objectives.



ANNEX 6
-91-                             Page 7
Also, the cost of evaluation reflects NFML-s staff resources and desire to
contribute some of the evaluation's overhead costs. Some of the data collec-
tion would be carried out by WAPDA and the ADPT (prior to scheme construction)
and by field staff of DI (for hydrological data) and the DAE (for yield data).
NFML would coordinate their activities and participate with its own enumerators
where necessary to ensure that the data is reliable. Emphasis would be placed
on developing a suitable and simplified analytical methodology to carry out
the project's evaluation activities.
5.        Output and Timeframe.  NFML would prepare a progress report each
year (by September 1), summarizing the results of its previous year's work
program. The final report would be submitted by September 1, 1989, and would
provide a full review of the impact of the project. It would also make
recommendations concerning further programs and projects in minor irrigation,
particularly in relation to criteria for selection of future schemes.



Table 1
-92.
PAPaSTAN
BALUCEISTAN  MIDOR IRIGATI0N AND AGRICULTURAL DEVL0PMET PR0JECT
Crgo2ing Patterns and Yields for Selected Irrigation Schemes
Kanchogi Surface Perennial Scheme                  Eabat Infiltration Gallery Scheme
1/    . Fi I/                              3v                          FW
Season       Crop             Area (ha)   Yield 2/    Area    Yield   j         Area (ha)   Yield  /      Area (ha)   Yield r
Kharif       Sorghum (F)         -           -                                   8.0           9.0          7.0         30.0
Maize               13.0      1.15        13.6       2.4                    -                  -            -
Potato              10.0      8.0          4.5      15.0            -                          -            -
Melons              -          -           7.2      23.0            -            -            6.o          23.0
Rabi         Wheat                56.7      1.25        51.0      2.8            8.0           1.0         3T.o          2.8
Barley-G  4/        -          -           -          -              .D           .4          -             _
-F                                                           -             8.0         -             -
C(min                3.0        .46        5.5        .8           -             -            3.0            .8
Vegetables          -           -          44.6      20.0           -                         12.0         20.0
Perennial    Alfalfa               3.2     34.0          5.4      50.0           -                           4.o        50.0
Orchards-E  !        44       7T0          4.4       14.0                                                   -
-N         -                      13.8      20,0           -             -            17.0        20.0
Total Area          90.3       *         110.0        -             20.0         -            86.o          -
Total Cropped Area            97.9        -        133.6        -             20.0          -          107.0
Cropping Intensity           108          -        121.0        -            100.0          -          124.0
1/  F     Future without project; FW - Future with project.
/ All yields expressed in TB/a?, yields without proJect are asaened to increase by about 2% p.s. over present levels.
Barley yields are given both for grain (G) and fodder (F).
-   Orchard yields are given both for existing (E) and new (N) orchards, and assume a mixture of apples, apricots, and g-.



93                                      Annex 7
iAKISTAN  Table 2
PAKISTAN
Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project
Crop Input Requirements Per Ha
Future Without Project (FW)oer
Scheme          Seeds  Fertilizers (kg per ha)  Pesticides   Labor  (bullock pair
and Crop          (kg/ha)   N         p         K       (Rs/ha)  (m-d/ha)  days per ha) 1/
Kanchogi
Wheat                 90     0         0         0          0        48           8
Melons                -      -         -         -          -        -            _
Maize                 25     0         0         0          0        36           8
Potato              370      0         0         0          0       105          18
Orchards Ex)         -      40        10         0         50      148           20
Orchards Xew)        -       -         -         -          -        -
Alfalfa               2     10         0         0                   40          20
Cumin                 9      0         0         0          0        71          10
Vegetables            -      -         -         -          -        -
Rabat
Wheat                90      0         0         0          0        48           8
Melons                4      0         0         0          0        28           6
Sorghum             27       0         0         0          0        23           5
Barley              60       0.        0         0          0        22           5
Orchards              -      -         -         -          -        -
Alfalfa
Cumin                    -        -         -                   -          -
Kanchogi                                  Future With Project (FW)
Wheat                90     70        40         0        100        45          12
Melons                2     55        45         0        250       102          12
Maize                35     60        30         0        140        53          12
Potato             550      80        80         0        390       182          15
Orchards (Ex)       -      180       100        80       1100       246          26
Orchards New)  Rs 1000    200        100        80       1200       300          30
Alfalfa               2     25        40         0          0        18          25
Cumin               12      25        25         0          0        87          12
Vegetables      Rs 750      40        40         0        400       100          12
Rabat
Wheat              110      70        40         0        100        45          12
Melons                2     55        45         0        275       102          12
Sorghum             37      35        20         0          0       36            8
Barley              -       -         -          -        -         -            -
Orchards (New) Rs1000    140         100        80      1000       227           30
Alfalfa               2     25        40         0          0        18          25
Cumin               12      25        25         0          0        87          12
/ An equivalent if tractor power is used.



-94-                               Table 3
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL. DEVELOPMT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices /
(Rs in constant mid-1981 currency)
Item                                            Financial Prices           Economic Prices
1981/82  1990/91          1981/82  1990/91
T I. INPUTS
A.  Seeds (Rs per kg) j
Sorghum                                  .36        .44              .32       .40
Melon                                    .48        .61              .43       .59
Pulses                                  5.26       6.18             4.73     5.57
Barley                                  1.90       2.45             2.30     2.72
Cumin                                  12.2      14.2              11.0     12.8
Vegetable                               1.4        1.68             1.25     1.51
Maize                                   1.8        2.15             1.70     2.15
Potato                                  1.68       1.95             1.50     1.76
Orchard (Rs per seedling)              1000         -                900      -
Alfalfa                                             .64              .46       ._8
Wheat                                   1.         2.45             2.30     2. 2
B. Fertilizers (Rs per kg nutrient)
Nitrogen                                4.43       8.10             6.5      8.10
Phospherous                             3.0        6.o              3.7      6.0
PotAssium                               1.2        3.4              3.4       3.4
C.  Others
Labor  (Rs per manday)  /                30       35.5               24     28.4
Bullock (Rs per pair day)  /             55      64                  50     58
Tractor (Rs per hour)                    55      66                  55     66
II. OUTPUTS (Rs per mt)
Sorghum 2/                                  305      360                275      325
Melon 5/                                    422      500                380      480
Pulses 2/                                 4,575   5,360               4,120    4,825
Wheat 6/                                  1,448   2,040               2,042    2,486
Barley Grain  /                           2,389   2,800               2,150    2,520
Barley Fodder  /                            305      360                275      325
Cumin 2/                                 10,660  12,500               9,600   11,250
Maize                                     1,500   1,790               1,422    1,790
Potato 5/                                 1,355   1,590               1,300    1,525
Onions i/                                   833      975                800      935
Orchards 5                                4,170   4,880               4,000    4,685
Alfalfa  2/                                 445      522                400      470
1/ Economic prices for internationally traded commodities (wheat, maize, and fertilizers)
are based on the Bank's latest updating of commodity price for forecasts (memo from IBRD's
Commdities and Export Division, 12/24/81).
2/ Standard conversion factor of .90 is assumed for the economic prices.
/ To account for peak and non-peak labor requirements, the average shadow wage rate is
assumed to be .80 of the market wate rate (.9 during the peak season and .7 during the
slack season).
j Assumes an average work day of five hours, including the driver.
5/ Assumes a consumption conversion factor of .96.
6/ Import-based price in 1981/82, but export-based price in 1990/91 to account for expected
production increases.  This price switch from a cif to fob basis was phased to occur by
the mid-1980s.



_95_                                                                     ANNEX 7
PAEIaTANT                                                                  Table 4
BALUCHISTAN MINOR MRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVEOMET PROJBEC
Farm Budget for Surface 'rrigation Scheme I/
(Es, in mid-1981 constant prices)
Present Value
Ovner/Operator 2                      Tenant                            Equivalent 15/
Future                                  Future         Future
Without        Future With Project    Without          With
Project            (2.0 ha)            Project         ProJect (1.T5 hs)    Owner/
A.  Inflows                                      (1.7 ha) 3J     Year 6   Year 13        (1.5 ha) 2/    Year 6    Year 13    Operator  Tenant
Value of Farm Production                      9,844        23,727   45,362            8,689        20,762    39,695
(Net Inflow from Tenant) 9/                     520           9To    2,186              NA.         N.A.       NA.
Other Income 2/                              11.500          1.300    1.000           1.ooo            T50       soo
Total Inlows                           11,864         25,997   48,s58           9,689         21,512    40,195
B.  Outflow
Cost of Crop Production                       1,T32         5,126    6,490            1.52T        41485       5,679
(Net Outflow to Owner)  /                      N.A.          NA.       N.A.          1.560          3,395      7,651
Water Charges I/                                  0            240      35                0            210       306
Debt Service 2/                                  62            346      438              2T            160       204
Total Outflow                           1,T94          5,712    7,278           3,114          8.250    13,840
Net Family Incoms                            10,OTO        20,285   1t1,31            6,5T5        13,262    26.355      242,200 16/1483
(24,257)-Lt    (14,85W-
Beneficiary Income per capitt 2/              1,440         2,898    5,900              94         1.894      3,765
Pakistan Income per capita I/                 4,790          4,790    4,790           4,790          4,790     4,790
C.  Project Rent;  1/
Net Income Before Water Charges              10,OTO         20,525   *1.650           6,5T5         13,472    26.6i}
Less
-   Cost of Family Labor 1/                   3,503          5.o86    6,123           3,089          4,450     5,358
(Crop Production)                       (3,323)       (4,726)  (5,763)          (2,932)       (4,135)   (5,043)
(O&M)                                     (180)         (360)    (360)           4157)          (315)      (315)
-   Mangeent Fee and Risk Premium   /         1,21T          2,790    5,830           1,oT4          2,442     5,102
Implicit Land Rent 14/                        5,350         12.649   29,697           2,412          6,!84    16,201.
Project e. t                                   N.A.          7,299   23,2T7            N.A.          3,686     13,307    114,450        61,500
2/  Farm budget assumptions are based on (i) information provided in the project preparation report for Kanchogi Surface
Perennial Scheme; (ii) follow-up socio-economic and land-tenure survey findings collected by WAPDA's Surve  and
Research Organization (September and November 1981); (iii) UNICEF's "Socio-Econic Surveys of Rural Areas of
Baluchistan," 1980; and (iv) IDA mission Judgements gathered during field visits. Assumptions on cropping patterns,
yields, and input requirements are shown in Annex T, Tables 1 and 2.
2/ Assumed-to also represent farmers whose land tenure classification is owner-cum-tenant (see Table 1.1).
3/ Future without project (F7S) assumes an increase in yields of about 2% p.a. (FW/O) over present yteld levels. 8W
refers to Future with project, or five years after completion of construction.
!/  let inlow (prod-ction value lect costs) from tenart assumes:  owner Drovides 40% of total cash production cost
and raceives 25% of value of crop production from tenant (1.5 ha in FW/O and 3.0 ha in F.).
2/   nc_ludes net income from livestock operations (about an average of Rs 30 per livestock head, which includes a
tixt w-e of goats, sheep, and livestock) and from off-farm ecployment, varying from 10-30 days per year valued at
-ihe financial wage rate. Off-farm employment is the dominant source of 'other incoms' for tenants.
6/- :Te  inflow to owner assumes s=e distr'butior as under footnote 4, but tenant's obligation is for entire area (T2/a -
1.5 ha. 8W - 1.75 ha.
7/  FW/C assumes current policy of zero water charges; 8W .asues increased water charges to cover full -sh costs of
-   O&f   (RB 175 per ha) to be collected by Water Users Association/Cooperative.                            -
8   Debt service is for repayment of loans after 9 months at 12X interest   J  in the following proportions (i) owner:
T7W, 40% of cash cost of production; FW, 75X of sam; (iii) tenant: I, 20X for cash cost of production; FW, 402
of same.
Assumes average family size of 7 persons.
0/  Based on projection of a 3% inreas p.a. (in real term) projected to 1993; the Bank's estimated country income per
capita in mid-1981 prices is about RS 3,400; the absolute level of poverty during the same period of tine is about Rs 1,680.
11/ Implicit land rent with project less iniplicit land rent without project for the s=a year. Ptoject Rent represenats
net benefits adjusted for compensation to farm family labor, management, and risk. Benefit taxes or water charges have not been deducted.
12/ Based onprojected financial wage rate family labor as Z of total labor requirements for crop production is assumed
to be: FW7O - 95%; FW - 85%. Family labor for O1M is assued to be valued at about Rs 180 par ha p.a. (FW).
13/ Equivalent to 15% of cash net production returns.
14/ In TW/O, figure shown refers to Year 6; Year 13 figure is about an additional 20%.
15/ Present value over a 30-year period at 10% p.a. (figures refer to future with project).
16/ Parenthesized figures representannualized estimates (30-year period, at 10 p.a. rate of interest) to adjust for
initial development period, particularly of perennial crops.



ANNEX 7
-96-                                                        Table 5
PAltISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget for Infiltration Gallery    hml/
(Re in tid-1981 Constant Prices)
Present Value
0vn r/Operator/                              Tenant                   Ecuivalent 15/
Future                                    Future
Without Proj .     Future With Pro.    Without Pro.          Future With Pro1.
(4.0 ha)           (3.5 ha)               (4. 0 ha)          (3.0 ha)          owner/
Yr. 6       Yr.13                         Yr. 6        Yr. 13 Operator   Tenant
A. Inflows
Value of Farm Production4/                       11,640        41.226        96,981        11.640         35,337        83,127
(Net Inflow  yom Tenant)-                           985         1.987         5,732          NA.          NA.           N.A.
Other Income-                                     1.500         1.300       1000            1.000           750           500
Total Inflows                              14125         44,513       103,713        12,640        36,087        83,627
B. Outflows
Cost of Crop Productio%,                          2,360         8,382        10,458         2,360          7,185         8,964
(Net Outflow to Owner)-                             -             -             -           1,968         6,954        20,062
Weter Charges7/                                     0              420           612           0             360           525
Debt Service8t                                        85           566           706            42           259           323
Total Outflows                              26445         9.368        11.776         4,370        14U758        29.874
Net Family Income                                11,680        35,145        91,937         8,270        21,325        53,753   464,200  277,50C
Beneficiary Incom  Per Capita9/                   1,670         5,020        13,134         1,181          3,046         7,679 (46,490)16/(27,61fl
Pakistan Income Per Capit110/                     4,790         4,790          4,790         4,790         4,790         4,790
C. Proj act Rent-1'
Net Income Before Water Charges                  11,680         35,565       92,549          8,270        21,685        54,278
Less:
Managemnt Fee and Risi Premium12             1,392          4,926        12,978         1,392         4,222        11,124
Cost of Family Labor-3                       4,735          7,304         9,682         4,735         6,258         8,298
(Crop Production)                         (4,420)        (6,674)       (9,052)       (4,420)       (5,718)       (7,758)
(O & M)                                   (315)          (630)         (630)         (315)         (540)         (540)
Implicit Lnd Rent-14                              5,553        23,335        69,889         2,143        11.205         34,856
PROJECT RENT                                         N.A.         17,782        63,225          N.A.         9,062        32,284  288,700 154,700
1/  Farm budget assumptions are based on (i) information provided in the project's preparation report for Rabat
Infiltration Gallery Scheme; (ii) follow-up socio-economic and land-tenure survey findings collected by WAPDA's Survey
and Research Organization (September and November 1981); (iii) UNICEF's "Socio-Economic Surveys of Rural Areas"
of yields, and input requirements are shown in Annex 7, Tables 1 and 2.
2/  Assumed to also repreaent farmers whose land tenure classification ia owner-cum-reemac (Sea  Table 1.1).
3/  Future without project (N/C) assumes an increase in yields of about 2% p.a. (N/0) over present yield levels.
NW refers to Future wLth project, or five years after completion of construction,
4/  Net inflow  (production value less costs) from tenant aseums   owner providee 401 of total cash production
cost and receives 25% of value of crop production from tenant (1.5 ha in N/CO and 3.0 ha in FW).
5t  Includes net income from livestock operations (about an average of RJ30 per livestock head, which includes a
mixture of goats, sheep, and livestock) and from off-farm employment, varying from 10-30 days per year valued at
the financial wage rate. Off-farm employment is the dominant source of "other income" for tenants.
6/  Net inflow  to owner assumes same distribution as under footnote 4, but tenant's obligation is for entire area
(E/O - 4 ha, NV - 3.0 ha).
7/  N/C0 assumes current policy of zero water charges; W asaumes increased water charges to cover full cash costs of
ORM         (Rsl75 per ha) to be collected by Water Users Aasodatior'Cooperative.
8/  Debt service is for repayment of loans after 9 months at 12% interest  .a. in the following proportions (i) owner:
F70C, 401 of cash cost of production; FN, 75% of sam; (ii) tenant; N 0, 20% for cash cost of production;
N, 40% of sam.
9/  Assumes average family size of 7 persons.
10/ Based on project of a 3% increase p.a. (in real terms) projected to 1993; the Bank's estimated country income per
capita in mid-1981 prices is about Rs 3,400; the absolute level of poverty during the same period of time is about
Rs 1,680.
11/ Implicit land rent with project less implicit land rent without project for the same year.  Project Rent repre-
sents net benefits adjusted for compensation to farm family labor, management and risk.  Benefit taxes or
water charges have not been deducted.
12/ Based on projected financial wage rate family labor as x of total labor requirements for cropproduction is assumed
to be: FWO- 95%; FW - 85T.  Fanily labor for 08M is assumed to be valued at about Rs 180 per ha p.a. (FW).
13/ Equivalent to 15% of cash net production returns.
14/ In FW/O, figure shown refers to Year 6; Year 13 figure is about an additional 20%.
15/ Present value over a 30-year period at 10% p.a. (figures refer to future with project).
16/ Parenthisized figures represent annualized estimates (30-year period at 10% p.a. rate of interest) to adjust
for initial development period, particularly of Perennial crops.



-97.                                                                                               ANNEX  7
Table 6
PAKISTAN
BALUCHITSTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGR1ICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC CASH FLOW FORl PROJECT
RS N (Mid-1981 Currency)
TEAR         1983    1984    1908    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    19?91    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1991    1998    1999    2000   21001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
CROSS BENEFITS
CROP PROD DENEFITS           -     2.2      5.4    12.2    20,7    30.2    38.7    44.6    51.2    57,2    64.1    71.6    78,1    83.3    86.9    88.7    09.3    89.2    89.1    89.1    89.1    89.1    89,1    89.1
COSTS
PROJECT INVESTMENTS        9.4    15.5    27.4    31,5    26.1    16.5           -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -          
RECURRENT AND OIM COS       0.1     0.1      0.5      0.8      1.5     1.4      1.4      1.4     1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3     1.3      1.3      1,3     1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3     0.3      1.3      0.3      1.3      1,3
CROP PROD COSTS         0.6      1.9      4.1     7.1    10.1    12.5    14.1    15.1    16.1    16,9    07.7    18.3    18.8    19.2    19.5    19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7
FOREGONE BENEFITS      -0.4        -        -      1.2     2.6      5.0     6.8       7.4     8.0      8.2      8.2     8.3      8.3      8.3     8.3      8.3      8.3      8.3     8.3      8.3      8.3      8.3      8.3     8.3
TOTAL COSTS                 9.7    17.4    32.1    40.7    40.3    35.4    22.4    24.0    28.4    26.4    27.2    27.9   218.4    28,8    29.1    29,3    29.3    29.3    29.3    29.3    29,3    29.3    29.3    29.3
TOTAL NET BENEFITS            -9.7   -08.3   -26.7   -28.8   -19.6    -5.3    16.3    20,6    25.8    30.8    37.4    43.6    49,7    54.5    57,8    59.5    60.0    59.9    59.8    59.8    59.8    59.8    59.8    59.8
YEAR         2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016    2017    2018
GROSS BENEFITS
CROP PROD BENEFITS        89,1    89.1    89.1    89.1    80.3    86.8    04.2    78.3    72.0    60.8    47.4    21 .1
COSTS
PROJECT INVESTMENTS          -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        - 
RECURPRENT AND 018 COS      1.3      1.3     1.3  33           1.3     1.3      1.3      1.3     1.3      1.3      1.3        -
CROP PROD COSTS I/   19.7    19.7    19.7    19,7    19.7    19.7    18.6    36.7    13.3              8.7      4.8     0.5
FOREGONE BENEFITS       8.3      8.3      8.3     8.3      8.3      8.3     8.4      7.7      7.1      5.6      3.6     2.3
TOTAL COSTS               29.3    29.3    29.3    29.3    29.3    29.3    28.3    25.8    21.8    15.6            8.9      2 .6
TOTAL NET BENEFITS            59.8    89.8    59.8    59.8   5888    87.8    88.9    82,5    50.2    48.1    38.4    10 .5 
1/ Production  costs  reflect  the  staggered  occurrence  of  costs  and  benefits,  and  therefore, th    dutet                                              orwrigcptl



ANNEX 7
Chart 1
-98-
PRK ISTRN
BILUCHISTRN  MINOR  IRRIGRTION  RNO  RGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
r 250
Uy225               (a) Locus of Present Values of
- 20S0  _       \     Incremental Project Investment Costs
2CO 15    ~        \and Production Benefits
o175
p50  -
> 125                               \
z 100     -
9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22
DISCOUNT RRTE
LEGEND
- 1--.CO%  - OPPORTUNITYs CGST OF CAPITAL
-     - INCREIENTAI. PROO CENEFI'IS
PROJECT INV COSTS
150  !    (b) Locus of Project Costs and Benefits Switching
a      _      \              Values
z 125
~ 100 _ 
LU
>t- 7 5_
,I-
Lu  2S
0    5   10  15  20   25   30   35  40  45  50  55   60
PERCENTRGE SHORTFPlL  IN BENEFITS
L. EGEND
-  MAXIMUM EXPECTES FRIA.. IN BENEFITS IS   0.0C.
M.AXIMUM EXPECTED RISE IN COSTS IS          0X0
-  TARS'T YIEI.0 IS9              C.C%
BENEFIT SWITCHI?NG POIN'T iS -61.C%
COST SWiTCHJNG POINT IS    156.27



ANNEX 8
Page 1
-99-
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents and Data in the Project File
1. Baluchistan Valley Development Project - Main Report and
Annexes I and II. Government of Baluchistan, Planning and Development
Department. Consultants: WAPDA, May 1981.
2. Baluchistan Valley Development Project Preparation Mission -- Main
Report and Annex 1-6, March 17, 1981.
3. Baluchistan Livestock Development Project ADB Appraisal Report, 1980.
4. Small Irrigation Development Schemes in Baluchistan. National
Engineering Services (Pakistan) Limited, 1980.
5. Baluchistan Valley Development Project - Advance Summary Report.
WAPDA May 1981.
6.  Note on Baluchistan Valley Command Area Development.  October 1981
Survey and Research Organization, WAPDA.
7. Baluchistan Valley Development Project: Socio-Cultural and Agro-Economic
Aspects. October 1981. Survey and Research Organization, WAPDA.
8. Baluchistan Valley Development Project. Survey of Land Tenure Patterns
for Selected Irrigation Schemes. November 1981. Survey and Research
Organization, WAPDA.
9. Infiltration Rates of Soils in Baluchistan Pilot Project area.
October 1981. Survey and Research Organization, WAPDA.
10. Baluchistan Valley Development Project: Kanchogi Diversion. Irrigation
Scheme. October 1981. Central Design Office (Water Wing), WAPDA.
11. Baluchistan Valley Development Project: Rabat Infiltration Gallery
Irrigation Scheme. October 1981. Central Design Office (Water Wing),
WAPDA.
12. Baluchistan Ordinance No. V of 1981. The Baluchistan Water Users
Association Ordinance (1981). Government of Baluchistan Law Department.
Baluchistan Gazette, April 30, 1981.
13. Soil Survey Report on Kanchogi Scheme Area (Baluchistan). October 1981.
Survey and Research Organization, WAPDA.
14. Soil Survey Report on Rabat Scheme Area (Baluchistan). October 1981.
Survey and Research Organization, WAPDA.



ANNEX 8
-100_                        Page 2
15. Special Development Plan for Baluchistan. Government of Pakistan,
Planning Commission, August, 1980.
16. Crop Statistics. 1980. Directorate of Agriculture Extension, Baluchistan.
17. Report on the Marketing and Export Potentials of Baluchistan in the
Agriculture Sector. Department of Marketing and Grading, 1972.
18.  The Baluchistan Ground Water Project Administration Ordinance 1978.
The Baluchistan Gazette, March, 1978.
19.  Government of Baluchistan and Irrigation and Power Department.  Notifi-
cation on the Baluchistan Occupiers Rates (Abiana) Rules, 1981. The
Baluchistan Gazette, September 17, 1981.
20. Nisai Ground Water Development Project (Zhol River Basin). Baluchistan
Development Authority, 1981.
21. UNICEF. Socio-Economic Surveys of Rural Areas of Baluchistan. Prepared
by Investment Advisory Centre of Pakistan, January 1980.



320                                                                                   640 AA/FR
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                          /gs'*   /21
PROJECT AREA
10 N I NlhItAT LIN  I I   I I10ICIl                  '-IIV  11  I           I I I  1 If )                                       > ,-  /
C +   i  i l)IQUAh  f f    h  IAI f-T .   L'1          IP I    I I)    F<(z.\1) p | S  H   I  N y 0tx //Z/1                                                   / *
llC'~~~~~~~               -         I CCI IC') RAIL/I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--m-,
/    ,K;   i Al4( l.f 1c;1  CIJI5 All  IS  f L 1(1 SNIAI T.IIT.1I SCILIM. I  38JUNI;   il-   i  S  St  haamdll t '5 1>w9  / ////'/ i/ > ' / )K-  .g,
SCN,., ~  ~                lIT   I00101                                      P     0 11 4Ith.,                    C          x
- IFNt II 111001 1 -T IICLll I I                                            11 S_ 111111 l Ii       i
*1       -"' )111r1, OllRlt ATI ) . .t:lli :1tS  121t1\' NC AL   1RA L    Al //I,
n 1.lC1AlAR S1                                                                                     4:' I               4'LMHals                                                   C 1/  O//
DEM. REP  OF  AFGHANISTAN    .                                                     ,    /MOstol4    \
<~~~~~~-                                                                            . . _                                                                        MA _         p"S                    -// a    
-D,dh      I                              1/
S  tq    U    E   T          A  vm- $   \  K ,A L A T!
I R A N  * -                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c H A G A I Di                                        W I/                     X             t __               + 0 5|Dr 
A C-
28M '                                                                                                        K            A    /      L, ',,,1 a...........M-m 
* Ellc caact rlUWllzCr an.1 ocdren Se? <F  lts 1o b   * tladMdsilt-                                    )7         Kin    lot                                                      Oeeo/ S.  .
;ClllIleddUlll lloctrlt1llcllE(aiol rdi10|  .K    H    A     R  A   N   9 (/_ihar/ '//S/ND
,II '.1"bly b,,~~~~~ACHI                                                                                                                      \~PINA
/                               41
zzXace lrocc se.S   Il  a1C Ilt d                            h\>                                     /            'y /' A        ;s~~        //    //        ~
280    ll O     tSll,lU roCIOCOOfllllCIle( tuIC J          " .  '                                         K           A'           L< /                   Y< //                       7UlMo
110111I lIltllZldf 1 d11014 IIIOICCI .1~l jell 0010001                                                                                                /                                                 N//X/t  WorSd dant 5 StAft exdTh.b p - h
lOIgleedClll'tla     I                           K      HARA<ON'                        OeSlrO~~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~A,/  Ah                         W,'Id8-k, - S---/  f.
14C010I110      15                150                     K*/ IH1/t0 \                                                                                     ,l                                                                  d - /f
0                                                                                                                                                                           b-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oh'Wrd f-ankh s-ff py
MILES                                                    P      N *5JP 4   G   U   R                                                                                                          -Y *"-q -O  -d--of tuh rader0
M;;b F   K  R  AfA                     - 'N                                                                                                 |
ilJlwdnl  Gwadar                                     Ormaraw~ U R                                                                                                   E A   TX
~~-  ~ --k.,,                                                                   I /                                          0/                      eOOIs,
ICICIIIS11ETERS          .                   \          /               ,,                                                                           110~~~~~~~~~~~0lo  0,0,00 I Is attached~~~~~IRA
'K  .~~~  .0'J~~,  ~~X  K        /            I                                                      TO* ds,,om~~~~~,~~ot~~ooo ,sed ond the~~~
I CCII  0  .71   ,  /    jI                   11                   II                           soyteer.toryoreoooodoesooreot~~~~~~68I 
~~~ 0177~~~~~~~~~~~~  iY~~~~~~~~~<.I  /   >~~~~~~~~~_j0






-32'  1
)                            P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FAKISTAN                                                                N F
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                     4 NWFP
-. 0         A ANNUAL RAINFALL AND  PHYSICAL RELIEF
lsohyets In  ,nches         Elevat,.,,  r  feet
R,vers                      7000
Dry Lakes
Conal                       3000
--D,v,sional Boundar.es
- - Provmnc,al Boundories
Internat,onol Boundor,es
DEM. REP OF AFGHANISTAN
\                           4 w                       w                 \, '   '    /))                >
4                /                                                  1 ,N
Q U E T TA                 /                                                                          W
-28                                                                                                                                      28'
*                                                                               S S I  ND
RA                                                                                                     K - X >        
1    J R    A/ N\,                                                                                         A      X
o      50    100     150
6M LE
hCed,,e hAC,, b- Il~,hC,, 4p,C  h  0CC CCWCO    ~, 
'2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LL REP  '
f  V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    fGHAN:0TA~(
I   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIST~
UAE(_
0                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~64'                                      oP- 






IBRD 16028
ic DECEMBER 1981
,                                                                                            DEM REP. OAN ,
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~IA
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    -___-___-S  67
KANCHOGI LAND SUITABILITY CLASSIFICATION                                                  ==--                         ,              4   g < g $)   --  <N
_        Scheme area boundaries           Land suitability-.
Unn,etalled reeds        |          Highly suitable
Riuers                    [lZModerately suitable
-a  - Cnls[h    Marginally suitable
s p(Iway                     =     Non-su table                                                            "                                ;
Weir
Contour in feet
METERS 0           250         500          750         1000
FEET 0             1000           2000            3000
ZrPedesUUeW~s_Rwene                     et                                                                                                                                 t        0     j     )



I



IBRD 16029
T0o Oueto                                                60  U.S.S.R.             DECEM,BER 1981
.                            '- '-'-, CHINA
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ J                                    ~ *~ 
D0 EM. REP OF                 Ap.J  me
)AFGHANISTAN        -    ~ o oto
_                                                                   i1
I1RAN1             
PAKISTAN                                                                       P
BALUCHISTAN MVINOR IRRIGATION AND                                     _'.                           TAN! /3
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                          '\      zg 
RABAT JHAL LAND SUITABILITY CLASSIFICATION  iitj   5 
7 Scheme area boundaries                                 - 1 >>>>,ja
-    Proposed canal                                                      --     i2 ,3
~-Flood-beds                                                         &               /     
Ma j or road \N Ao XE'.''/i' 
-Unmetalled roads \iSNo///j
Path                                                                          "         .i,/ 
Contours in feet-                                                          '       '' ;           /       |
Land suitability \-,'i  sa'. 
-,".-l,',,,flHighly suitable                                                     \+=    sXljj/s/-  s
F  i7zio  Moderately suitable                                                          \ W W ,,,,,,
F.: -7  I  Marginally suitable                                                           \V+l    ///'
|   |Non-suitable                                                                    \    \o/         o
METERS 0                Soo             1000             1500                                        \--  700
FEET 6        10'00     200I 3T 00          4000      55000 
This map h.. bee, prepared by the World 8ank s staff exclusiely for the conveience 
of the readers of the repont to which it is attached. The de-omzatios used and the                       7oKza
boundaries shown on this map do not im~ply, on the pan of the World Bank and its                       \r  hza
affiliates, any judqnment on the legal swats of any tefitoyj or any endorsen t o ,
accepance of such boundares.  



