Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-327 5-PA}
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 19, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
AUS$    =  Rs 11.0
Rs I    =  US$0.0909
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APDT        -   Area Planning and Development Team
cca or CCA  -   Canal Command Area
DA          -   Department of Agriculture
DAE         -   Directorate of Agricultural Extension
DI          -   Department of Irrigation
ECNEC       -   Executive Committee of National Xconomic Council
FY          -   Fiscal Year
GOP         -   Government of Pakistan
ha          -   Hectare
ICB         -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB         -   Local Competitive Bidding
M           -   Million
m           -   Meter
mt          -   Metric Tons
NMDC        -   Netherlands Ministry for Development Cooperation
O&M         -   Operation and Maintenance
PMC         -   Project Management Cell
T&V         -   Training and Visit System
WAPDA       -   Water and Power Development Authority



wP (Wrw!r! LAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                  SDR 12.5 million (US$14 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Project Description:    The project would increase agricultural production
through minor irrigation and cormand area develop-
ment works, and the introduction of improved
agricultural practices; improve the information
base and institutional capacity for planning,
preparing and implementing minor irrigation
schemes, and introduce appropriate forms of local
participation; and develop technical and economic
criteria and specifications for preparation of
integrated minor irrigation schemes that could
be used in follow-up and expanded projects.
The principal risks faced by the project relate
to possible difficulties in recruiting suitable staff
and other local constraints. The project would
include necessary measures to minimize such risks.
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign     Total
(US$ million)
Irrigation Development                    13.0        1.3        14.3
Agricultural Development                    1.7       0.4         2.1
Pilot Schemes                              3.3        0.6         3.8
Technical Assistance and Training          0.3        1.4         1.7
Project Management and Coordination        0.7        0.3         1.0
Total Baseline Costs                       19.0       3.9        22.9
Physical Contingencies                     2.7        0.3         3.0
Price Contingencies                        7.9        0.9         8.8
Total Project Costs                       29.5        5.2        34.7
Duties and Taxes                           0.4                    0.4
Net Total Project Costs                   29.1        5.2        34.3
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
L oftheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
(US$ million)
Federal and Provincial Governmnents         5.6          -           5.6
IDA                                        11.3          2.7        14.0
Germany                                    12.1          0.9        13.0
Netherlands                                 0.5          1.6         2.1
Total                                 29.5          5.2        34.7
Estimated Disbursements:
FY83     FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87     FY88      FY89
(IJS$ million)
Annual            0.9       1.1       2.7      2.9       2.6       2.0       0.8
Cumulative        0.9       3.0       5.7      8.6      11.2      13.2      14.0
Rate of Return: 21%
Appraisal Report: No. 3772-PAK, dated April 13, 1982.
Map:  IBRD 16026R-16027-16028-16029



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATTON
REPORT AND RECOMMFfNDATION OF THE ,'REZSIDENT TO THE
EXECIJTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
ISTLA4IC REPUBI,IC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recotamendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 12.5 million
(US$14 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a minor
irrigation and agricultural development project tn Baluchistan. The
Federal Republic of Germany and the Kingdom of the Netherlands are expected
to participate in the financing of the project by providing a loan of US$13
million equivalent on concessionary terms similar to IDA's, and a grant of
US$2.1 million equivalent, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (Tlo. 3802-PAK, dated April 14, 1982) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 16, 1982.
3.      The past four years have witnessed a significant economic recovery
in Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY81 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growthl was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging 3% p.a.,
and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by 11%
p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 4.2% p.a. and in
industry by 8.1% p.a. This performance contrasts mnarkedly with the
economic stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP
averaged only 3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was
negligible. Following a number of other favorable developments, including
thLe conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF, a
short-term debt rescheduling arrangement with bilateral creditors of the
Pakistan Consortium and improved external aid inflows, both the budget and
the balance of payments are under reasonable control and the short-term
economic outlook has considerably improved.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakis-
tan's exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops,
rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report No. P-3270-PAK (Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation
Project) dated April 14, 1982.



-2-
Various policy changes introduced by the Governmient have also contributed
significantly to the recovery.
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all
major crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices;
and efforts have been made to improve the fertilizer distribution system by
expanding the marketing network and by ensuring adequate supplies and
timely delivery of fertilizer imports. Steps have been taken to reduce the
fertilizer subsidy (which has been creating budgetary problems) and by
separating it from the development budget for agriculture in order to
protect allocations for other priority agricultural projects and programs.
An Agricultural Prices Commission has been set up to make recommendations
on appropriate changes in crop support and input prices on a consistent and
timely basis.
6.      In addition, the Government has begun to address the deep-seated
problems affecting productivity at the farm leveL.  A start has been made
in improving extension services through the adop:tion of the so-called
training and visit system. Reforms have been in-itiated to the agricultural
research system in line with the findings of a USAID/World Bank study. The
Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricultural policy
based on the main recornmendations of a UNDP studv on irrigated agriculture
which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water delivery
system through the rehabilitation of distributariLes and better scheduling
of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the private
sector, for example, through the promotion of pri.vate tubewell development
in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesticides, seeds, agricul-
tural credit and farm power--have also been strengthened. These initia-
tives are still at an early stage and a breakthrough from the problems of
low productivity at the farm level is yet to take place.
7.      Major changes have been made during the past four years in Govern-
ment policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the early
and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed.  Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized;
constitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against
further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the
private sector have been widened. A wide range of incentives including tax
holidays, excise and import duty concessions, concessionary credit and
income tax provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted to
encourage private investment and exports. These have been supplemented by
a partial liberalization of imports which will improve the availability of
inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has been streamlined. These
measures have led to an improvement in private sector confidence and to a



-3-
sharp increase in proposals for relatively smaller-scale private investment
projects. There is also evidence of increased interest by investors in
larger projects, especially in the cement, chemicals and fertilizer subsec-
tors.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been
completed of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain
skilled technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the
fertilizer subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity
utilization substantially in the public sector. In addition to the
denationalizations mentioned earlier, further public disinvestment is being
considered on a case-by-case basis.
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past four years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introdttce new
taxes and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues.
Nevertheless, the budget remained under strain as expenditures rose as
rapidly as revenues. The Government's policies of encouraging production
and exports through subsidized inputs and export rebates, and the political
and social constraints to making substantial price adjustments on a number
of items of mass consumption, inflated subsidies. Rising debt service,
following the expiration at the end of FY78 of the four-year debt relief
arrangement with member countries of the Pakistan Consortium, and increased
defense spending contributed to the growth in non-development expenditures.
In addition, commitments under the ongoing public investment program and
higher subsidies for agriculture led to further increases in development
spending between FY77 and FY79. Despite the increased revenues, the over-
all budget deficit remained around 8% of GNP and the bank-financed deficit
around 3-4% of GNP.
10.     The budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80 and
FY81. Government revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in
*           FY79, rose by an average of 22% p.a. during the two years as a result of
the continued growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases announced in
the FY80 and FY81 budgets, and intensified efforts to improve tax collec-
tions. Although political developments outside Pakistan's borders led to
unplanned expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on total spending;
the growth of public expenditures was limited to 11%o p.a.  Both development
and administrative expenditures were cut back, while subsidies other than



-4-
those on farm inputs were held to the previous year's level in nominal
terms.  These restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and some
improvement in surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to
increase the availability of non-inflationary domestic resources.  During
FY80 and FY81, the overall budget deficit averaged 5% of GNP and bank
financed budget deficit of 1.6% of GNP; both figures are well below those
of the late 1970s.
11.      Pakistan's export performance has improved considerably in recent
years. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 mil-
lion in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, have also greatly assisted the
external position. These increases have, however, been partly offset by an
increase in the value of imports, mainly POL, fertilizer, edible oil and
capital goods. The current account deficit was US$991 million or 3.3% of
GNP in FY81, comparecd to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in
current prices. The financing of these deficits had presented considerable
difficulties to the Government during the past few years, since
program-type assistance from OPEC countries (whiich was substantial in the
mid-1970s) as well as net aid flows from Consortium sources declined
through FY79.  However, a strong upsurge of remittances during FY80, a
marginal increase in net long-term capital inflows and substantial extraor-
dinary receipts from OPEC countries eased the external financing problem in
the second half of FY80 and helped to build up foreign exchange reserves to
about US$750 million at the end of FY80, the equivalent of six weeks'
imports.
12.      A number of favorable developments substantially improved the
balance of payments situation in FY81.  These included the conclusion of an
Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IIF' in November 1980; a posi-
tive response from aid donors to the country's improved economic perfor-
mance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows; and an agreement
with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of
debt service payments on official concessional debt falling due over an
18-month period beginning mid-January 1981. In addition, both merchandise
exports and migrant remittances expanded by over 20%. As a consequence of
improved performance on both current account and capital account, foreign
exchange reserves increased from US$748 million to US$1,058 million during
the year; the latter is the equivalent of about two months worth of import
of goods and services.
13.      The recent favorable developments represent modest, though welcome,
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially
structural and long term in nature.  Notwithstanding these improvements,
further wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limit-
ing economic growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to
sustain its recently improved economic performance over the present decade



-5-
and bring about a modest improvement in the living standards of its popula-
tion. These issues include the farm-level factors affecting low produc-
tivity in agriculture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial
sector; the need to improve performance of public sector enterprises; the
factors lying behinld continued rapid growth in population; the need to
redirect social service expenditures; and the problems of resource mobi-
lization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Despite recent improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental
factors continue to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below
the potential implied by the resources and technologies already available.
Generally, otutput growth has not been commensurate with the substantial
increases in available inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While
considerable potential still exists for the additional use of fertilizer
and other inputs, it appears essential to give greater priority to evolving
complementary policies and programs which would have a direct impact on
yields at the farm level. The importance of increasing farm productivity
is now more widely recognized in the Government and a beginning has been
made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless, support for programs to
strengthen research, extension, water management and other programs in the
agricultural and water sectors needs to be intensified, while fertilizer
subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary adjustments in
output and consumer prices.
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain well below those
attained in the 1960s.  The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets, while manufacturing growth has been generally affected by
the inadequate performance of public sector enterprises. Although there
have been some recent improvements in the output and profitability of
public enterprises, these improvements need to be carried further through
appropriate reforms to remove distortions in pricing, improve performance
*           criteria and incentives to managers and to further rationalize the sector.
To assist and further encourage the recovery in private investment and to
maintain the increased momentum in the industrial sector will require,
among other things, an adequate supply of local and foreign financing, both
for investments and current inputs, and the more rapid provision of neces-
sary utilities and other infrastructure requirements. At the same time, it
is necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive system supports
those industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage; more
analysis is needed to determine levels of effective protection for for-
mulating an appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s. The



-6-
recovery in industry also needs to be reinforced by improvements in
labor-management relations and by further measures to rehabilitate the
textile industry and generally to increase exports.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by
adjusting domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other
energy forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources,
have met with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been
restrained by the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resour-
ces as well as by petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity
in the oil sector has 'been stepped up, in some iastances through joint
ventures with foreign private companies. Nevertlheless, due to a variety of
technical, geological and other reasons, progress on exploration of new
fields as well as the development of existing fields has been slow; and the
benefits of Pakistan's considerable potential in the oil and gas sector are
yet to be realized. A number of issues relating to such matters as energy
planning, pricing and organization will need to 'be addressed in order to
realize this potential.
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the com-
modity-producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth
in population, current:Ly running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously
handicapped the country's ability to improve liv-Lng standards. Family
planning programs have so far had little effect and there have been few
changes in the socio-economic environment of a ltype that usually accompany
declines in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on
government resources simply to maintain education and health programs at
their current inadequate standards.  However, without higher literacy
rates, improved health facilities and a reductioni in child mortality, it is
doubtful that population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on
social services remain comparably low and undue emphasis has been given to
higher education and urban health facilities.  Hi'gh priority needs to be
given not only to increased allocations for family planning and social
service expenditure but also to its redirection to serve the wider inter-
ests of the population and the economy. While the substantial migration
from Pakistan to the Middle East over the past few years has to some extent
relieved the pressures resulting from rapid population growth, this clearly
cannot be relied upon to provide an answer to the situation in the long
run.  The Government has recently shown more awareness of this problem; a
new population program has been adopted and is inl the initial stages of
implementation.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and exter-
nal resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of pay-
ments, a fundamental imlprovement is required in the overall savings levels
in the economy, particularly in public savings. At 13% of GNP, national



- 7-
savings are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but
are still low for a country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage
of development. The continuation of the Government's recent efforts to
restrain public spending, improve the performance of the public se,tor and
encourage private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between
investment and savings flows. At the same time, an increase in savings
inevitably calls for restraining private consumption through appropriate
price adjustments and selective duty increases on non-essential imports.
While the Government has made several price increase in the recent past,
further adjustments will directly reduce the budgetary burden of subsidies.
Continued restraints on spending and measures to further improve revenues
through improvements in tax administration and tax and rate increases (for
example, property taxes, domestic water rates and irrigation water charges)
are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector. Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral
fuels and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     As described above, Pakistan's policies and economic performance
have improved considerably over the past several years. Improvements in
demand management and in planning, incentives and government programs in
agriculture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more
conducive to rapid economic growth and better international trade perfor-
mance. Wdhile Bank long-term forecasts show that foreign borrowing on
commercial as well as concessional terms would be necessary to support
economic growth of 5-6% p.a., recent policy initiatives have substantially
improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing and for a
blend of Bank and IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of FY80, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding the
undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which US$5 billion was
owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion to
OPEC and US$1.5 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1980, The Bank Group's share in Pakis-
tan's external public indebtedness was 13% and in external debt service was
11%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports
of goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 15% in 1981,
should remain roughly constant through 1985 and, even assuming substantial
commercial borrowing, should rise only slowly thereafter to about 17.5% in
1990.



-8-
PART' II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulativeb total of Bank/IDA commitmnents to P.akistan (exclusive
of loans and credits cor portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
E.ast Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion.  During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has beten involved in almost all
sectors of the economy.  This has included its involvement with other
donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program of worlks to develop the
water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA
commitments to Pakistan have been for public ujtility services, 30% for
agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and
2% for education.  Lending for public utility services has included loans
and credits for railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways,
telecommunications and water supply.
23.     Lendiag operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the econorny; secondly; to
support the expansion of, and to inprove the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy.  Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strenathening research, extension and otlher agricultural supporting
services; improving walter management; reclaiming land by controlling
salinity and water-logging; and providing essential facilities incltuding
tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing.  An important pur-
pose of this lending is to assist the Government's programn to increase the
productivity of available land and water resources in the Indus Basin
throuighi quick-yielding investments, as recommended recently in a
TTNDP-financed study for which the Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, orincipally t:hrough eleven loans/credits amounting to US$270
million for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
(PICIC), and two credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP), totaling US$50 million.  Direct lending for indtustry has also
included assistance to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for
small-scale industry. IFC has made investments in 14 Pakistan enterprises
for a total of JS$73.6 million, of which US$63.9 million was by way of
loans and US$9.7 million by eqtlity participations (these are shown in Annex
II).  About US$36.5 million remains outstanding.  The enterprises assisted
by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in tex-
tiles, two in food and food processing, and one each in cement, steel,
fertilizers, plastics, wood processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a
shareholder in PICIC.



-9-
26.     The focus of Bank group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by itnproving the efficiency of operations and strengthen-
ing the institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi
Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, Telephoae and Telegraph Department, and
federal and provincial highway agencies.  In the power sector, the Bank
Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects
respectively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under
the Indus Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Su-i gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a
petroleum development project and begun to play an important role in
strengthening the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are
assisting in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domes-
tic energy resources.  A second water supply project in Lahore is currently
under implementation. Five IDA credits for education, totaling US$62.5
million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher
technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural exteasion agents.
28.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of March 1, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan lisbursements have been generally satisfactory.  Some
projects have experienced initial delays due to government procedures for
project approval, which are now being strengthened, and to slowness in
appointment of consultants.  The Government has recently increased the
rates charged by some public utilities to improve their financial position.
Rapid turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration
to the Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the
case of some projects.
29.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
structural adjustment, urban development, water supply, oil and gas
development, and fertilizer industry rehabilitation.  Pakistan continues
to have domestic resource constraints for the reasons set out in Part I.
To assist the Government to finance agricultural and other high-priority
projects which have a low foreign exchange component, financing of some
local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
30.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.



-10-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL. SECTOR
31.     Pakistan, withl an area of about 80 M ha, varies in climate fro-m
arid and semi-arid to sub-tropical. Rainfall is low, variable and
seasonal, making irrigation a necessity in most of the cultivated area.
Out of a total cultivated area of 20.1 M ha, about 11.9 M ha are commanded
by canal irrigation, of which 8.2 M ha receive water throughout the year.
A further 4.1 M ha are irrigated by small streams, springs, wells or flood
water. About 3.7 M ha are cultivated under barani or rainfed conditions.
32.     Agricultural production grew substantially in the late 1960s,
averaging about 6% per year. This growth slowed to little over 2% annually
in the early to mid-1970s. A series of adverse developments contributed to
this disappointing performance, including political turmoil in the early
1970s and a succession of floods and droughts during the period 1973-76.
Weaknesses in agricultural support services and worsening in the terms of
trade for agricultural products were contributing factors. Another major
factor preventing higher agricultural production has been the uncertainty
of irrigation water supplies, coupled with inefficiencies in the irrigation
system.
33.     During the pas- three years GOP has modified its agricultural
policies and is now fo:Llowing a strategy to increase agricultural produc-
tion through investments in the rehabilitation of existing irrigation
systems, water conservation, strengthening of agricultural services,
removal of subsidies oni inputs, and the encouragement of private activity
through appropriate pricing policies and other reasures.  The new strategy
is at an early stage of implementation.
Baluchistan Province
34.     Baluchistan, with an area of 347,000 square kilometers, is Pakis-
tan's largest (44% of the total area) but also least developed province.
It is largely arid and barren; its population of 3.4 million represents
only 4% of the national total and is predominantly nomadic and tribal.
Approximately 85% of the population live in rural areas. Traditional
customs and practices, characterized by complex systems of land tenure,
water rights and income sharing, are still followed. The province's
average annual per capita income is about half of the country's average.



-1 1-
Baluchistan Agricultural Sector
35.     The agricultural sector is of primary importance in Baluchistan.
About 65% of the total labor force derives its livelihood from agriculture,
and approximately 56% of the province's gross domestic product was con-
tributed directly by the agricultural sector in 1978-79, as compared to 55%
and 30%, respectively, for Pakistan as a whole; these percentages are even
higher when other directly related sectors are considered, particularly
transport and trade. Out of agriculture's total value of production, crops
contribute 70%, livestock 28%, and fisheries and forestry 2%. Wheat is the
principal crop grown (35% of total cultivated area), followed by sorghum,
rice, fruits and vegetables. The province produces about 50% of Pakistan's
total fruit production.  Livestock production is a major source of income
for much of the rural population. Baluchistan has about 18% of the
national herd of sheep and goats (5 M sheep and 4 M goats), which are
distributed according to available feed supply in sedentary, transhumant
and nomadic flocks.
36.     The province's agricultural output levels are low relative to
national averages. The average cropping intensity of 71% is well below
the national average of 111%. Fertilizer use is negligible, averaging
about 2.8 kg per ha of cultivated area in 1979; agricultural extension
services cover only a small proportion of the area. Large annual fluctua-
tions in crop yields and production make it difficult to discern increasing
trends except for fruit, wheat and rice which have increased in area and
yield production. As a result of the province's low output levels,
Baluchistan has to obtain substantial volumes of food from other provinces
to meet its subsistence requirements. The province has considerable poten-
tial to increase agricultural production by developing existing water
resources for irrigation and introducing improved agricultural practices.
37.     Due to highly variable intermittent rainfall, Baluchistan's
landscape is characterized by large numbers of hill torrents with occa-
sional flows of a few hours to a few days. Most of the flood flow is lost
for agricultural purposes and drains off into larger rivers. The high
fluctuations and unpredictability of stream flows cause difficulties in
harnessing the water for irrigation.
38.     Very little stream flow data have been collected in Baluchistan and
detailed studies are still to be completed to establish the total usable
surface and groundwater resources with greater accuracy. UNDP has sup-
,          ported studies to determine the groundwater potential of selected areas
(which include the proposed project areas), and WAPDA will initiate a
program of comprehensive planning of water resources development and
management in the major river basins in Baluchistan in FY82.



-12-
39.     Out of a total cultivated area of 1.38 M ha, only 0.6 M ha have
some form of irrigation. Canal irrigated areas comprise about 74% of the
total irrigated area, are mainly nonperennial, and are concentrated in only
a small portion of the province. Karezes, or underground channels, account
ror 16% of the irrigated area; the remaining 10% is irrigated by wells and
tubewells. Although much of the available perennial stream flow is being
tapped with varying degrees of efficiency, the province's irrigation poten-
tial is under-utilized. Available information, although limited, suggests
that large conveyance Losses occur along canal areas. Irrigation works
tend to deteriorate rapidly due to inadequate maintenance and low standards
of construction.
40.     Large irrigation works are constructed by the Baluchistan Depart-
ment of Irrigation (DI), which also has responsibility for all major main-
tenance and undertakes routine maintenance on minior schemes.  There is
limited cost recovery from the farmers (see paragraph 67 below).  Operation
and maintenance of small irrigation schemes constructed by farmers are
carried out by the farmers themselves.
41.     Existing flood water schemes constructed by the Government include
some 79 diversion structures, 17 storage dams and 78 delay-action dams
(small dams which hold back runoff water to recharge groundwater). In
addition, farmer groups have cooperated in constructing small earthen dams,
flood flow channels, and bunds to collect flood flows.
42.     Water is distributed according to traditional tribal water rights
that are passed on by inheritance and recorded in the revenue records.
Allotted water shares are rarely transferred or sold. A more common prac-
tice is to sell water on a seasonal basis or to make exchanges and trans-
fers on an ad hoc basis. Although water rights for traditional surface
irrigation schemes and karezes are well defined, both inter- and
intra-tribal water disputes are common. In more modern types of irrigation
development, such as tubewells, traditional procedures of determining water
distribution do not apply; instead, this water is generally considered to
belong to the owner of the tubewell.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.     The project was appraised in July 1981.  Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. during March, 1982; the Pakistan Delegation was led by Mr.
A. Wahab F. Sheikh, Secretary, Water and Power, Government of Pakistan. A
report entitled "Pakistan - Staff Appraisal Report - Baluchistan Minor
Irrigation and Agricultu-ral Development Project" (Report No. 3372-PAK,
dated April 13, 1982) is being circulated to the Executive Directors. A
supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.



-1i3-
Project Objectives
44.     The main objectives of the project are:  (a) to increase agricul-
tural production and farm incomes through minor irrigation and command area
development works, and the introduction of improved agricultural practices;
(b) to improve the information base and institutional capacity to plan,
prepare, and implement minor irrigation schemes, and to introduce
appropriate forms of local participation in irrigation development; and
(c) to develop technical and economic guidelines and criteria for prepara-
tion of integrated minor irrigation schemes.
Project Description
45.     The project would provide for the following:
(a)  Minor Irrigation Development.  The investigation, design and
construction or rehabilitation of about 28 minor irrigation
schemes covering a total area of approximately 3,800 ha;
(b)  Agricultural Extension and Command Area Development.  Command
area development of the area under (a) above, including
improved layout of water distribution systems, lining of
principal conveyance channels, construction of control struc-
tures, land shaping and leveling, and improved field layout,
and the introduction of improved irrigation and agricultural
practices;
(c)  Pilot Schemes.  The development of three inter-related pilot
projects that aim to generate information on: (i) the technol-
ogy of water spreading for increased rangeland and fodder
production; (ii) groundwater recharge; and (iii) finding
solutions to problems of conjunctive use of ground and surface
water for which eight tubewells and about 800 ha of flood
irrigated area would be developed in selected areas that offer
the potential for a future expanded program;
(d)  Institutional Development.  The provision of additional
agricultural and on-farm water management extension staff in
the Directorate of Agricultural Extension (DAE); the estab-
lishment within the provincial Department of Irrigation (DI)
of a Project Management Cell including an Area Planning and
Development Team; strengthening the capacity of the DI in
carrying out detailed engineering designs of minor irrigation
works; the provision of facilities, transport, equipment and
training for existing and additional staff, mainly of the DAE
and DI; and formalization and strengthening of farmers'
organizations to operate and maintain irrigation schemes. The



-14-
project would also include an evalual:ion study to assess the
project's impact; and
(e) Technical Assistance and Training. The provision of: (i) 144
man-months of technical assistance in hydrology, irrigation
design engineering, economics, agronomy and water management;
and (ii) 200 man-months of practical skill-oriented training
in engineering, agricultural extension, on-farm water manage-
ment and farmer organization.
Project Area
46.     The project area would comprise selected valleys in the Districts
of Zhob, Loralai, Khuzdar and Las Bela. The project activities would be
concentrated in the small sub-basins of Nisai, Nal, Greshak, and Gumbaz.
Nissai is part of the Zhob River Basin, Nal and Greshak are parts of the
Hingol River Basin, and the Gumbaz sub-basin is a part of the main basin of
the Nari River. The areas lie towards the northeast of the province and
are composed of narrow inter-mountain alluvial-fill valleys.
47.     The Nisai area is the most accessible and also the most developed
of all the project areas in terms of infrastructure and services. The
Nal-Greshak area in Khuzdar District and the Gumbaz sub-basin are more
remote and less developed. Centers for the supply of inputs and credit,
irrigation and agricultural extension services, and marketing outlets are
available in nearby towns.
Project Components
Minor Irrigation Development
48.     The project would include about 28 minor irrigation schemes.  Water
use efficiency in existing schemes is generally low because of high con-
veyance losses, absence of systematic command area development, and ineffi-
cient on-farm water management. In the rehabilitation of existing schemes,
high water losses would be reduced by redesign and lining of delivery
channels and by developing farm irrigation systems in the command areas.
In the construction of new irrigation schemes, and considering the limited
availability of perennial irrigation supplies, the project would tap under-
ground stream flow through the construction of infiltration galleries using
low cost structures such as connected wells or buried pipe.
49.     Preparation of Schemes.  Two minor irrigation schemes have already
been prepared to detailed engineering level (Kanchogi Surface Perennial
Scheme and Rabat Infiltration Gallery Scheme). A total of five schemes,
including Kanchogi and Rabat, would be prepared to final design stage by
the time of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The remaining schemes would be prepared during the



course of project implementation according to agreed technical and economic
criteria and to an implementation schedule which would he arnually sub-
mitted to IDA for review and comment. The feasibility study Eor each
scheme to be financed with the proceeds of the proposed Credit would be
provided to IDA for its review and concurrence (Section 2.08(b) of the
draft Project Agreement).
50.     Each individual scheme would be selected according to guidelines
and criteria satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.08(a) of the draft Project
Agreement). Construction of each scheme would normally not exceed 12
months and prior to construction, the benefiting farmers would form a Water
Users Association or Cooperative and there would be an agreement between
the provincial government through the respective District Council and the
benefiting farmers setting out the responsibilities of both groups.  The
benefiting farmers would agree inter alia to donate unslcilled labor for
the construction and O&M of on-farm works and to recover from all
individual beneficiaries the full required contribution, in cash and kind,
for the adequate maintenance of the irrigation scheme (see paragraph 68
below). The DI would be responsible for providing the design of the scheme
and the DAE would ensure provision of adequate agricultural extension
services.
Agricultural Extension and Command Area Development
51.     Existing agricultural extension services in the project area need
substantial strengthening for the successful implementation of the project.
The long-term aim of the provincial government is to establish an improved
extension service based on the Training and Visit (T&V) System. Although
this objective is beyond the scope of the project, it is proposed that
agricultural extension services would be improved in the project areas and
that the existing On-Farm Water Development Wing within the Directorate of
Agricultural Extension would also be strengthened by providing qualified
staff, transport, equipment, training and technical assistance. Efficient
water use would be promoted in project areas through reconstructing and
lining watercourses where required; providing control structures; land
leveling and grading; and demonstrating improved irrigation techniques on
holdings of progressive farmers. New concepts in farmer participation and
organization would also be tested through the formation and strengthening
of Water Users Associations or Cooperatives.
Pilot Schemes
52.     Conjunctive Water Use.  At present, there is little coordination in
planning and implementing agricultural development based on different
sources of irrigation water. Tubewells, Derennial surface diversions,
infiltration galleries and flood schemes are constructed ia isolation of
each other, without attempting to exploit the advantages that may be gained
through conjunctive development. Because total available groundwater is



-1<,
limited and tubewell irrigation is generally more costly than surface
irrigation, the utilization of groundwater through tubewells should be
fully integrated with the varying supplies of reliable surEace water sup-
plies to ensure optimum use and economic returns of the combined water
resources.  Similarly, the unreliability of flood flows can be substan-
tially offset if the use of flood waters is combined with a perennial
source.  A pilot study to address the optimum use of com1plementary water
sources and to resolve issues in the efficient and equitable use of
tubewells has therefore been included in the project. The following
related issues would be addressed in this study: (a) water rights and
water sharing by farmers and farmers' groups; (b) operation and maintenance
of irrigation systems,; (c) government subsidies; (d) cost recovery; and
(e) public versus private sector tubewell development.
53.     Fight tubewel-Ls would be installed as part of this pilot study.
Some of tnese would be located in areas without alternative water sources
and issues particular to groundwater development would be studied.
However, the majority of these tubewells would be developed concurrently
with two or more floodl schemes commanding a total area of about 800 ha.
The project would colLect the necessary data for planning and would develop
innovative, low-cost engineering designs which, in conjunctior. with the use
of more reliable water sources, would place flood irrigation on a more
reliable, permanent basis.  Harnessing of surplus flood water upstream
would reduce erosion and other damage downstream and would contribute to
improved water utilization. The results of the pilot study on conjunctive
water use would provide the basis for guiding future development of
groundwater in the province within sustainable yields of the aquifers and
in conjunction with other sources of water.  The detailei designs of the
pilot study would be sent to IDA for review and comments by November 1,
1983 (Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreemernt).
54.     Water SpreadirLg for Improvement of Range Production.  Excess flood
water would be diverted from small drainage channels and spread evenly on
bunded fields. This water spreading offers considerable scope for increas-
ing crop and forage production.  water spreading would he initiated under a
closely monitored pilot scheme on about 800 ha. Alternative water spread-
ing methods would be investigated to utilize water emergilng from the catch-
ment areas. The final, design of the water spreading program would be
completed with the assistance of the Hydrologist provided under the Techni-
cal Assistance component and submitted to IDA for review no later than
April 1, 1983 (Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement).
55.     Groundwater Recharge.  Present groundwater withdrawals in several
of Baluchistan's valleys exceed available recharge. A pilot scheme would
increase groundwater recharge in selected areas by constructing channels
and bunds to induce a larger proportion of the runoff to infiltrate below
the ground surface.  F'reliminarv plans and designs for this scheme, includ-
ing the proposed monitoring system, would be firnalized in the first year of



-17-
project implementation with the assistance and guidance of the Hydrologist
(see paragraph 56 above) and would be submitted to IDA for review by
July 1, 1983 (Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement).
Technical Assistance and Training
56.     The technical assistance experts would assist in the preparation
and implementation of project activities and would emphasize on-the-job
training of local staff. About 144 man-months of technical assistance
would be provided under the project at an average cost of about US$8,500
per man-month. The technical assistance team would consist of: (a) a
Hydrologist to plan and initiate the systematic collection of hydrological
data; (b) an Irrigation Agronomist to assist in developing appropriate
cropping systems and in implementing improved water management practices;
(c) an Economist to assist the project staff in setting up and implementing
the monitoring and evaluation system, to help carry out scheme preparation
and appraisal and studies on conjunctive water use and project impact; and
(d) a Design Engineer to assist in improving design capability within the
DI. Other technical assistance would be provided as determined during the
course of project implementation.
57.     About 200 man-months of training would be provided under the
project. Emphasis would be placed on local on-the-job and practical train-
ing in specific technical skills. Training at local and overseas training
institutions in the fields of engineering, agricultural extension and
on-farm water management would be directed towards the needs of the staff
of the Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture.
Organization and Management
58.     Overall direction of the project would be carried out by the fol-
lowing committees:
(a) The Project Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary of
the Baluchistan Planning and Development Department and with
the Secretaries of Irrigation and Power, Agriculture and
Livestock as its members, would approve schemes to be carried
out under the project, their planning, preparation and the
corresponding budgets. It would also periodically review the
progress of the various studies and schemes and give broad
direction in their implementation. The committee would meet
at least every six months. The establishment of this commit-
tee would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
(b) A Project Area Committee would be established in each of the
four districts involved in the project (see paragraph 46) and
would comprise local farmer representatives (most likely



-18-
District and Union Council Chairmen) and district and/or
tehsil level government staff of realevant line agencies, and
designated staff of the Area Planning and D)evelopment Team
(see below paragraph 59). This committee would be chaired by
the District Director of Local Government, and an appointed
member of APDT would act as secretary. The committee would
assist APDT in the initial identification and selection of
schemes to be included in the project. To ensure full local
participation and support, the comnittee would consult elected
representatives of the Union and District Councils prior to
the implementation of any scheme, giving careful consideration
to local priorities. Rules of business would be developed for
the resoLution of conflicting interests and for ensuring
active local participation and cost sharing.
59.     A Project Management Cell (PMC) would be established within the DI
and would be responsible for the implementation, general administration,
coordination and management of all project activities agreed upon by both
committees. The PMC would be headed by a Project Director, to be recruited
in consultation with IDA. The Project Director would be an ex-officio
member and Secretary of the Project Steering Committee and would be
assisted by support staff and an interdisciplinalry Area Planning and
Developmnent Team (APDT). The APDT would form the core of the PMC in help-
ing to implement the project at the field level and would include five
senior officials (an engineer, agriculturalist, economist, local government
representative and a finance and accounts officer) and other professional
and supporting staff. The establishment of the PMC, including the appoint-
ment of a Director with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The PMC would: (a) drawT up project
implementation and expenditure schedules; (b) allocate project funds
approved by the PSC to the participating agencies; (c) arrange the neces-
sary identification, preparation, appraisal, review and approval of irriga-
tion schemes.  ADPT would ensure that an agreement is completed between the
District Council and the Water User Association or Cooperative prior to
construction of each scheme (Section 2.08(c) of the draft Project Agree-
ment); (d) review and monitor the project's progress; (e) coordinate the
technical assistance and training activities provided under the project;
and (f) manage the procurement activities (see paragraph 62 below).
Project Costs
60.     Total project costs are estimated at US$34.7 M equivalent, includ-
ing about US$0.4 million in taxes and duties, and excluding the coatribu-
tion that farmers are expected to make in construction of on-farm works,
estimated at US$0.7 M. Physical contingencies vary according to major
expenditure items, averaging about 13% of base costs. The estimnated for-
eign exchange component is about US$5.2 M4 or 15, of total costs.



Financing
61.     The proposed IDA Credit of US$14 M would finance approximately 40%
of project costs, covering about 52% of foreign costs and 38% of local
costs excluding duties and taxes. The Federal Republic of Germany has
agreed in principle to cofinance on a parallel basis civil works for a
total of US$13 M equivalent, covering about 17% of foreign costs and 41% of
local costs. The Netherlands Ministry for Development Cooperation (NMDC)
has also agreed in principle to finance 100% of the technical assistance
and training costs totaling US$2.1 M. The remaining funds (US$5.6 mil-
lion), or 15% of total net project cost, plus $0.4 million in taxes and
duties, would be provided by the federal and provincial governments.
Approval of the PC-1 document for the project by the Executive Committee
of the National Economic Council (ECNEC)1/ would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
German and Dutch funding would be a further condition of credit effective-
ness (Section 6.01(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
62.     Procurement would be carried out by the Project Management Cell.
Because of the seasonal, scattered, and minor nature of civil works (with
an average cost of US$400,000 per scheme), it would not be practicable or
economic to group the work into contracts suitable for international com-
petitive bidding (ICB). Therefore, execution of civil works would be
through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. When
feasible, a number of separate schemes would be grouped into one contract.
Draft tender documents and award recommendations for contracts exceeding
US$250,000 would require prior review.
63.     Vehicles would be procured through ICB in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Local bidders would be given a preference in bid evaluation of
15% of the c.i.f. costs or the import duty, whichever is lower. Where
feasible, these items would be grouped according to category, with
deliveries as required by the project's implementation schedule. The
aggregate value of items to be procured through ICB would be about US$0.5
million (including price escalation, but net of taxes and duties). Motor-
cycles would be purchased directly by participating project staff who would
be provided with a medium-term loan for this purpose by GOP; loans would be
repaid from allowances for official travel. Other equipment (farm, office
and irrigation equipment) required for the project would be procured by
1/ A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal government
appraisal document necessary for GOP approval procedures.



-20-
prudent shopping by comparing prices From at least three independent sup-
pliers. The aggregate amount of non-ICB procurement for equipment would
not exceed the equivalent of US$0.65 million (inclusive of contingencies).
The consultancy services which will be financed by NMDC (see paragraph 61
above) would be obtained in accordance with Dutch governiment procedures.
Disbursements
64.     Disbursements of the IDA Credit would be against:  (a) 90% of the
costs of civil works, including related design, engineering and supervi-
sion; (b) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of goods directly imported and
of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured goods; and (c) 75% of
expenditures of equipment and vehicles procured locally off the shelf.
Disbursements for all items would be made against full docuTnentation in
accordance with normal IDA procedures. The Project Management Cell, with
the collaboration of the implementing agencies, would be responsible for
preparing and forwarding withdrawal applications to IDA. It is anticipated
that the final disbursements of the Credit would be made by December 31,
1988. The project would include US$250,000 of retroactive financing for
expenditures incurred since August 1, 1981 on the preparation of the
project's first year construction program; this funding would include the
purchase of up to four vehicles required for project preparation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
65.     Responsibility for coordinating the overall monitoring and evalua-
tion of the project would rest with the Project Management Cell. In con-
junction with participating agencies, PMC would establish and implement a
monitoring system that would report the progress of each project component
and overall project progress. Monitoring activities would encompass con-
struction, hydrology, command area development, and the progress of pilot
schemes. Each project component would have a simple but effective proce-
dure for the collection and analysis of data, which would be the respon-
sibility of relevant project staff with the support of the technical assis-
tance team. PMC would consolidate progress reports of each agency, and
would submit them quarterly to the Project Steering Committee and IDA. In
addition to the project monitoring system, an appropriate local institution
would be contracted by the Project Management Cell to carry out an evalua-
tion of the project's impact (Section 2.09 of thLe draft Project Agreement).
Cost Recovery
66.     Cost recovery contributions under the project would consist of
farmer-donated unskilled work for on-farm construction and operation and
maintenance (O&M), implicit taxation obtained on, a portion of incremental
production, primarily on wheat, and water charges. These contributions
would cover 100% of thue project's recurrent costs and about 8% of incremen-
tal investment costs.



-21-
67.     The Baluchistan Government has only recently introduced water
charges in selected areas, primarily in those related to the Indus irriga-
tion system. In the recently negotiated Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation
Project, Baluchistan agreed to increase revenues from water charges peri-
odically to cover an increasing percentage of the cost of O&M of irrigation
facilities so as to achieve a full recovery of O&M costs by 1992.
68.     The low cost recovery record in Baluchistan is attributable to the
province's extreme poverty and other special conditions, including small
public investments in irrigation development, particularly in minor irriga-
tion. Historically, small and scattered irrigation schemes have been
developed by the tribal population following their customary land and water
rights, and there has been no collection of water charges. Taking into
consideration the special characteristics of the province, the scattered
and discrete nature of the project's irrigation schemes (unlike the con-
tiguous Indus system) and the prevailing tribal customs, the project
provides that O&M of the irrigation schemes and recovery of costs in cash
and kind would be undertaken by the beneficiaries themselves through Water
User Associations/Cooperatives (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Failing proper maintenance by the Water User Associations/Cooperatives, the
Irrigation Department would incur the necessary O&M expenditures, which would
be recovered by the relevant District Council in full fron the
beneficiaries in proportion to the water used by them as arrears of land
revenues and reimbursed to the provincial government. IDA has reviewed a
draft agreement between the various District Councils and the Water User
Associations/Cooperatives (see paragraph 50 above) setting forth the rights
and obligations of each party and found it satisfactory. The O&M costs of
the eight tubewells included in the project's pilot scheme (see paragraph
53) would be fully covered by the beneficiary farmers. The full coverage
of irrigation O&M costs in this project represents a significant step
toward developing an active private sector and introducing cost sharing
arrangements that could serve as the basis for future projects in Baluchis-
tan.
Benefits and Risks
69.     The proposed project would produce early tangible benefits in terms
of higher agricultural output as well as strengthen the provincial
capability for planning and implementing future irrigation and agricultural
development projects in Baluchistan. These efforts would contribute toward
developing the province's under-developed resources and correcting the
existing imbalance in its development vis-a-vis the other provinces. About
12,000 persons would increase their per capita incomes by 200 to 660% and
another 2,500 would receive substantial benefits from the pilot schemes.
There would be an increase in foodgrain production of 3,400 mt/year.
Employment created during construction would amount to 1.8 M man-days.  The
project's direct farm employment effects would largely arise from the



-22-
provision of additional and more reliable water supplies. Employment on
benefiting farms would increase from about 144,000 man-days to about
380,000 man-days per year, equivalent to the creation of about 980
full-time jobs. Most of this higher employment would benefit family labor;
however, medium and larger farmers would also hire additional outside
labor, mostly under-employed landless workers.
70.     The project's approach to the design and implementation of schemes
would recognize the tribal characteristics of participating farmers and
should not undermine their values and traditions. To help ensure the
active participation of farmers and a favorable tribal impact, the project
would require an agreement with the beneficiaries that would clarify the
responsibilities of the provincial government and the farmers (see
paragraph 59 above).
71.     The overall economic rate of return (ERR.) for irrigation schemes
is estimated at 21%, with a net present value (NPV) of about Rs 155 M. All
of the irrigation schemes are expected to be economically viable, with
ERR's to exceed at least 15%. The additional and more reliable water
supplies would enable increases in yields and shifts towards high-value
crops. The investment cost per ha and per beneficiary are within the
acceptable range of similar IDA-supported projects.
72.     The actual unit cost of irrigation schemes to be prepared during
project implementation may exceed the costs assumed at appraisal, therefore
leading to a reduction in the number and/or area of schemes which could be
financed under the project. This in turn would reduce the economic returns
and number of expected beneficiaries. However, this risk in unlikely to
affect the project's viability and implementation because the project is
highly divisible in terms of the number and size of schemes to be imple-
mented, and because all schemes would be evaluated to ensure their economic
viability.  Given the difficult working conditions prevailing in Baluchis-
tan there may be difficulty in recruiting suitable staff to implement the
project. To lessen this difficulty, the project would provide additional
staff allowances for incentive payments for project staff. The project
would also provide technical assistance to train staff "on-the-job."
Finally, farmers' procuction behavior may not respond as assumed in the
farm models because of traditional practices, non-availability of inputs
and credit and ineffective extension services. To reduce this possible
risk, the project would strengthen extension services and would emphasize
the critical role of the Area Planning and Development Team and the Project
Area Committee in iderLtifying possible local constraints as well as in
obtaining active farmer participation.



-23-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Province of Baluchistan and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document for the project, the preparation of
five schemes to final design level, the establishment of a Project Manage-
ment Cell including the appointment of a Project Director acceptable to
IDA, the establishment of the Project Steering Committee and the fulfill-
ment of all conditions precedent to the German and Dutch funding would be
additional conditions of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
74.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
75.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 19, 1982



ANNEX I
-24-
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHITED AV5RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                 PAKISTAN                             -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            803.9                                MOST RECENT           LOU INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     249.9              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA 6 PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  60.0       130.0     260.0*              232.3              1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KlLOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALNT)     136.0       196.1     218.2              4 ".4               1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (ThOUSANDS) 45850.5    60448.9  79705.0 *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1        24.9      27.8               17.3                 40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     141.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       340.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       57.0        75.2      99.1              153.6                373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    201.0       249.0     309.4              360.3               2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.8        46.3      46.4               37.4                 39.8
15-64 YRS.                         51.8        50.5      50.7               59.2                 56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.4         3.2       2.9                3.5                  3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.3         2.8       3.1                2.1                  2.3
URBAN                              4.6         4.0       4.3                3.4                 3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     48.4        47.3      44.4               27.7                 29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAtD)     22.6        17.4      14.3               10.2                  7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         3.7       3.2                2.5                  1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TEOUSANDS)       ..      1908.1    2085.0
USEXS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   .,           ..       6.0               20.4                44.1
FOOD AND NLTRITION
INDLS O  kOO P!SODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       102.0     101.0              107.1                123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIASMEr'TS)                  83.0        97.0      99.0               98.6               112.6
PROTEINS (GSAMS PER DAY)          55.0        60.0      63.0               55.9                62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       22.0        20.0      20.0               14.2                 19.7
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     24.0        18.4      14.8               14.6                  4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.5         48.8      52.2               57.7                64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          135.0/c        ..        ..               89.1                 50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        21.0      29.0               30.1                45.9
URBAN                               ..        77.0      60.0               65.8                68.0
RURAL                               *-         4.0      17.0               20.1                34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Of POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0       6.0               17.6                 53.4
URBAN                               ..        12.0      21.0               71.0                71.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                4.8                42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         11000.0/d    4299.0/e  3758.0/e           3857.7              4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..     13305.9/e  9984.87e           6411.8              2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1742.9      1860.1    1894.8             1132.8               588.5
URBAN                            507.2       648.5    709.2               322.3               579.6
RURAL                          22850.0     12476.0   11819.6             5600.5              1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVE RAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         5.3
URBAN                              5.5         5.5
RURAL                              5.4         5.2
AVERAGE FUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOH
TOTAL                              3.1         2.8/f
LIRBAN                             3.1         2.77       ..
RURAL                              3.1         2.87       ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWLIL.INGS)
TOIAL                               ..        17.9/f
IRBAN                               ..        54.4/f
RURAL                                         -4.9T



-25-                                                      ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DAT. SHEET
REFERENCE Ci0UPS (SEICP'ED AV'g81S
PAKISTAN                              -  MOST RECENT Elt;) -
MOST RECENT           LOW  ICO-E           1IDL'LE  J.CUAR
1960  ib    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA i PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0        44.0       51.0                85.9                  99.8
MALE                  46.0         62.0      69.0                 94.4                100.6
FEMALE                13.0         24.0      32.0                 64.5                 98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0        14.0       17.OZl              38.0/aa               53.5
MALE                  18.0         22.0      25.O/                34.67a               58.4
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0       8.a 0               18.07                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.5       1.5/I               3.8                  21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         41.0       40.0                32.8                  34.2
SECONDARY                           24.0        20.0       19.0ZI              19.9                  31.7
ADWLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0/[       20.7      24.0                 52.8                 86.5
CONSUMPTICN
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0         2.6        2.8                 1.7                  12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0          17.1      66.8                35.3                 174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         1.6        8.3                 3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSANbD POFULATION                   7.0           ..      13.3                 14.6                106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATEENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3.0/h      ..                  3.4                  4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LkBOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.6       17364.1   21787.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6         9.3       10.4                29.3                  37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               60.8        58.9       57.2                69.8                  50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.9        18.7       19.9                14.1                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5        28.7       27.3                39.7                  40.2
MALE                                  55.2         50.4      47.5                 51.5                 49.8
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5       5.9                 23.3                 31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.1                  1.1
INCOMTE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSFHOLDS   20.3/1i        17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3/i        41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4/i         8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/i        20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..        68.0      176.0               134.1                 248.6
RURAL                                 ..        47.0      122.0               111.6                 193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..        34.0       88.0                   ..                249.8
RURAL                                 ..        22.0       58.0                   ..                234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..        42.0       32.0                41.7                  21.2
RURAL                                 ..        43.0       29.0                51.7                  32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-welghted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China included En total only.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estloate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962-65;  /d Includes Bangladesh;  /e Registered, not all practicJng in the country;  /f 1973;
/_ 1960-62;  /h 1972;  /i 1963-64;  LI 1975.
*   lhe updted 15:0 CNP pe- c2pita and Tprul:Lion c,Li,atcF o:e
M3I0 (at 197S-193'i a         re:a,. pcics) anl  82,153,000 re.p^ctf. ly.                 May, 1981



-26-                                                                                    AMUE  I
f   17~ ~~~~~OPOflOt 7OCtI 00270
bThtt,      efl  odoobocdt   f.totd.  c  ot.0.d.cd  troe.e eot                                            .....dtteto.ebt.,
The  ofctot  ;ooot  re  1)  Oo  eocotooty  00c  ofbOa  ottot  ootof  ad  7 )eooao7   oot;coo  occceet ......      bot..t......      coc...    roo
tat baibtotto  acetic. octo  Ott cootboor oto9d tofo...o.cF.o..toot..
Lot 70 -t A 1t979o   oe(                                                                             Sooto   o   o pa bdd-  ote   ote                         ..at .ot. ..0tteta(tt
ttotfteetfoooeoaoetotetooaotlod.oo.toot   oooot(toddtoootoaeotco-hoch.tttbd
Aebolcot     et.oetteotcooetetooedtrdtott   r  ooeeot o..c..t.-cot  tttoottt9ctood0ooeloo19ototcd   c
too  rooe.  ecococ,acoot  od atohf todod  doto  ie   olto; 279  eta. tophlotto  oetato    ooetotte  oo  ot-1         tootto -oaetet.--oc  fe
tottee   -- cootd. b    ealotcooo-oodpotcftyot
to?  Ot ortd  (Lf  -to.  toooette   ottatocet  ootot coke  ottote  Ott--          dEn      t oetcocttoXe.iothopot    otot                                 d.hot
oeltodfeetoooodto-ectod.eiotdoodtt.ftf-dcf t c'fo.- toe                                    oodleooocoo;ooot.oetdooyc<otoy
110.td  Ot  ee.cdte  otltot   ooo  ottf.00-,eoocott1dtoto7ot
P'.'-,                                                                    n-.- Zf~~~~~~~~~~~~dottoo     Etooode   ttooe    t tte     otoo     ooott- Ptoc
flOCYOoltaIto70   000     dcct  ooepto    fodtooloeoy(oeP                                     Ood   tpoo    oo   t  tteeto o-   -0C   ot_tot  ett   rorioo
eslgot.  ototooo-ocetteododo-   coecoopttc.ttt-c                                                       ....tettt. ......etotooadtocotteot
tolbt)  b  ilotee  f  oeto0tttot dt   edc;tOo.   0(,  oo  dO     ttot..tpocttoo    oopttt  et  ttlde   ootodetoet
dote.                                                       Odaftoteoc tet Ooo~~~go1 fec - fooct ocehco of odoltocoocodot o.t..... c.. c.
Ott( Poottto.  dd-oootooceedo  -  .0t_  c(yB  tdd  tote.  -h l-t                      dOtI
2tOt22,        otd 2000 feedottctot   o--toooo    c-ot 
raocbotio  footootte                                  ttmteeootootottteoce    ttocot-    oot  t-ho
Pooeoc    oto ...             tteofottodottotoeo  ttdoof                                              to   ttoc00   o.   etobe.co  ottooo;ddtttoO
.  ob   odto t.ooottoItoobooo1t-.1.ot                                       .ot-Coot tctdot(0e                                            --etotoo   to tlt fto  -otoc   tttOttt
.ettefo  fto;oy   co.otc   ott  fomo(to ..00000dtlto  ooof  ott.otho,  odtoel   atlc3e.eoolttf
feotbttoycoOoooO-otootoooooocoteodcoeotcaoto  t.cootootoooooaOooe. ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      ~    ~     1
...o.. tI.tt  0, ooe   c  ta   00o        9to.   ltooo.  ooo    dtIt                           CA0
etd.-fa-otoooeoeotoootooo7oe.-                                                                     oe oto>ootoo
totocooootoo-ooeooeoot.eoc   ftett   aooOto                                                  oot,ooo 979ct   o    ot-oe                             oe,  e.cdfl
thbotoeo            etotdooteD-te   edlottood-oott-ooo;ooocteooot-tetototcoeoo                                                                                     Cte         .,ototr
-  tol  00opoccodooy  foc    eo t(o   0000dottt t              oo-ootoodteoapooceotto  odcotycoo0 ot  ooclt.e cd   -I
th   toctct    toto   tttotoooooto   ee   000OO  lootOdpoo   ooe(oodfo    otertOo~h  o   oOoftdoooo    o
aft.tt~coe0otfnot.   ta.cooao-o.oltoooote                                          ootot-ct  ootoetdooooooOt(coao-...lOtOoo
Eott.tdoooOotcc.ootodoc.ooeoofooootoo                                                               odtt0(tOOtltocooocfotcooe
toot A   itet                                                                                            oot.ob     tooo        (c      i fooof    fe,ood(te-                ttotd
0.00 ooococoo toto to o  toooC     d-Io   ot000ec   teftpOto                                    t.oe   .ott-ooooe    000  0   oooatotott   o   .l.
tit   te  oo  ooo0to.                                                                ocolyof2.001   feo  o  et;  oo.ooodoo  botet  oeaeotll
FoolttoOooo                                                                                         olod
!!.!o.?.'.Oototoottld   teoot   itoeot(Xootoo.(ftoooocttoottttooo.oo.oodty,Oo.ooott.ot9oto
too    to.(t   90   o   9:   oo h-(dtoooot.   oo.tot  00000 . t.                                                                                       ot  oto...t.    0dtad
!!2f0.0-_ctOOot007   eo-  - tttotc  tootot  t 0 ...otot I.  (sdeto   00070-Oo  o   00000t.totot
bto... 190-2. ~      6111 17  co  OO                                                              ....tot-t.. ttd 1179    fltoOooeoot1-oc    toot    aoddt
letotIt.    0C cO709ot. I  C                                                                    docf  (0020tec000 I                   ocrtedle   ot  to ...d ... P-1000
p000 poot(tooe  to  7-0  >7.-7. .....   .O.t-...
pooo(ttoo0 220. ((7. co f1 O   0oo .            ~c.f1                                                                                                          5-
yo1c(o tool-> - 1-1.   too  200do d-todceo oata    -h                                                                                ottooo.4o   cotto               otc      o
bttetetod-oooooce-coooo  tootoof     -oot ". L"oocnoAth.ood                              toIot  tieoo           ocottalt cashandtateoo-coo--ltttbdto
boo  0000  toooooo Ot oooood00 t   e.oooeco.   oe.ooc.c.taitootoo-ett  coottettot Otto00000000fodO  -ttot  0 Ot-e20(t  tad
tlifoo;totto-oooooof             otto1   0006 0     7,9dttt. dO9                                           0tct   too
leaoylccot-ootootooclootooo-oooltaoofeoctoe -b-   f.o-oo.....ta.tet .tbteoftt
ofoo-      ooot  oOoeOe              -ooO.1Oo.ooo              -f.-ttooeOoot                          o.oto                                   o;e(ottoo.df    eooo
ToothTtoct~j-eooyooorooo  oooooooooo7  -(ooooooi.oO ttote                                        oooeo-cOtetto0.eot-o0 --00000000 ob ofeot                    I
tooocoofIt.00o0tte                  -rto.octlt-oto                    ttco                     o.ooo700.O.ott    o(otoootceh                                        oteo
oleetidatotocoea    to-o.otctocf                                                                   ,a.--eooooooatopootfedcecrWdtt
potooIoOotodp00.  ttt   oottt  te-too.It0   otooe
7040 0000 forotooto                                                          to ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to  dt( F 0t  eott
hOotof  otoocoot oo  00...t....      9.(ott    co    of pa   010coot-oa  occ-oOOtot(o,  t   tofot00tcotAto
f                   ..le  fot .....Oto  . ooooo  I(dete  *dfe   00ttto   00oolo   h   ot    02*20oeocott   ote  ect
10 oooetotoo  yeo teeoe    Coctto.to ocoe  to;ceo  ao~oo   o-a. ottocoot  04 tob-t totto-
P". otco(hlfco.oboodocooooooIto-                             Oto-fotf
tteaeooldt).   tttttooocooooottehoooo......oo.ddOFf.



-27-
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IS 1980/81                                                                                          APNUAT. FATE OF GROWTH (., co-staso  prices)
US$ billion        Z                                                             1969/70-1974/75      1975/76-1980/81      1980/81
GNP at Market Prices                       29.99        100.0                                                                 3.5                  6.3               6.2
Gross Donestic Investwent                   4.87          16.2                                                               -5.5                  5.4               4.4
Gross National Saving                       3.94          13.1                                                               -2.1                  8.2              10.3
Current Accosut lolance                   -0.95           -
Resource Gap                              -2.93          -9.8                                                                 6.7                 15.1             -29.4
OUT1PUT, lAR  FORCE 7AND PRODCTIVIT' (N 1973/801
Value Adied            Labor Force      V.A. Per Worker
US$ million   _        Million    I        GS  million    Z
Agriculture                   7,538          30      13.2       54          571          56
Industry                      6,490          26       4.5       18       1,442          141
Services                     11,127          44       6.9       28       1,613          158
Totla/Average              25,155         100      24.6      100       1.023          100
GOVERN'ENT FISARCE
General GooCroc-ot                                          Central Govurnoost
(Es billies)               Z of GD                      (RNs billion)                Dof GP
1980/,81         1980/51      1976/77-1940i81          1980/81           1980/81      1976i77-1980/81
Current Receipts                  46.8              16.9            16.2                  36.1              13.0            12.4
Current EI4enditores              36.8              13.3            14.0                  28.6              10.3            10.5
Current Sorpl,s/Def-cit          100.0               3.6             2.2                   7.5               2.7             1.9
Capital Enpuoditares              25.0               9.0             9.7                  21.5               7.8             7.8
External Anoistance (nut)          5.7               2.0             3.0                   5.7               2.0             3.0
MONEY, CF.2.7IT AND PRICES
1974/75     1975/76      1976/77     1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      I9SI/RlLb
Monev and Quasi Money                       33.1         41.6         51.7         63.7        76.5         90.7         104.0
Bank Cr-dit to Poblic Sector (set)          17.7         22.9         29.5         34.3        43.1         48.1         53.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)       19.7         23.1         30.1        35.7         42.7         50.6         58.7
Money and Quasi Money as Z CDP              31.6         34.3         38.1         40.5        42.8         42.7         41.7
Wholesale Price lnden (1969/77 = 100)    211.3          229.4        255.3        271.4       289.7        316.7         358.8
Annual Percentage Chonge in:
lW'holesale Price Loden                     23.6          8.6         11.3          6.3         6.7          9.3          13.3
Bank Credit to Puolic Sector (net)          21.2         29.4         28.8         16.6        25.6         11.6          11.8
Bank Credit to Private iector (gross)       26.3         17.3         30.3         18.6        19.6         18.5         16.0
/a  Labor force data are official figores of the MinisLry of Finance and Planning.  Serious underesnueration nay exist, especially of women
/b Provisional.
Not applicable.
February 1982



-28-
ANNEX I
MI,&90L.QLY.bOF cPAs                                                          (IRS million)                                             MESCRXDS1SE EXPORTS 7ACERAGING 1977/75-590/-l)
1976/17      1977/7LI       1978/79        1979/80       1980/': Ia                                          US$ millIon
Exports of Goods, NFS                                  1.$04        1,651          2.107          2,955          3.cSC,               Raw Cotton                      259.4             8.5
ImPorts of Goods, SFS                                  2,87:      _3,297           4.485          5.709         6.,RS                 Cotton Yarn                     179.3             9.8
Resource Gap (deficit - - 7                           -1,473       -1.646         -2,378         -2,754        -2.937                 Coto  Cloth                     219.2            12.4
Ric-                           395.2             19.6
Interest Payments                                       -172         -183           -261           -285          -322                 All Other Commodities        1,034.6             49.7
Workers' RPoit t-nce-                                    578         1.166         1.395          1,748          2,117                  Total                       2,085.7           100.0
Other Factor PayEosts (let)                               Ii            62            134           151            193
Nec Trosfer                                               ..         _.                ..            ..             ..                       EXTERNAI DET. DEC'H8R 31. 1980
Balunee on Curreot A -eouot                           -1.052         -601         -1,110         -1.140           -947
Direct Foreign l-oeotrncns 00$ nil 1 i-n
Net SML  Rorrowiog                                                                                                                    Poblie Debt. t, cldiog Gu-.rateed           8,775.3
Disb_-sec,eets                                         961          841            613          1,134         1.067                 Non-o-ar-nteed Peouto Dtbt /if
AIort,oation                                          -17          -122           -235           -310          -358                   Total Ot-tandiog tod Diuburoed            8,775.3
SRb Tetul                                              786          719            578            804            709
Tran..ctiono "ith IMF .b                                  44            41           -14             78            331                    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80 f
Other It-os n-e.i. /c                                     24           163           238            600            217                                                           USS nillion
Increane in R-s,eroo  (-J                                198         -322            308           -362          -310,                Public Debt, locldiog Guaranteed              12.1
Ren-oarc e,  nldl  Ganteed Fe2.e1eb
Groos R-eurrs (yvar e d) /d                              372           694           386            748         1,058                   P-,i-a   Debt11
Net  Roer-es (y00r ec-) _e                              -146           150           -92            340            330                   oal12
Off ieial Gold (yo.r end;  Illion  ouncee)               1.6           1.7           1.8            1.8            1.8                 IBR13/IDA LE5DIN  (SEPTEY.SER 1991) (:SS nilli-n'
Fuel and Reloocd Materials
Petroulnu  Imaports                                      413          497            530          1.079         1,535                Courtanding and Disbursed                   312.2    -25.6
Petroleum o7oc./tn                                       27            63            61            178            169                Godisbu_ed                                  36.5    549.9
Sutstundioc,inolodine Cdiohoe-d     348.7  1,375,5
RATE OP XCiGAN.E
T,robgh Rue 11, 1972        Man 11, 1972_Febr:aro 25, :973           _eb rero 15, :973 - Jancaro 8. 1932    8anu.r.  8, 19?2 /h
US1 $   Rs 4.7bl                US0   11.00                                  UsS  - 9.90                        *SS - :0.1
R.  . US$0.2100                 Rs  - 0.0909                                 Rs  = 0.1010                       R.    0.09
/a  Guner--eot -oti-otre.
Lb  Itcludi-c Tr-st Fond.
/e ISnledcnc not short-toe,b bhorowio.g and o---or. and o-iuniocs.
/d  Foreig.  e:c-h--ce od 58R hoidiocs of cOn State So-s.
/e  Et-lodiog use of IMPF credit.
/f  Prioare dlc is n-el ip ible.
/g  Ratio of dcor s-r-ice to  xports of goods, non-factor uer-i.es  -od workers  reoettocco; not i-c)odin.; 05004-tern or IHF charges.
/h  Since J--oory 8, 1982. value of rupee is bSio;  -aoged  ilh reference to a weig. ted bucket of currencefo
Not  .a.ilable.
Febr-ary 1982



-29-
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKIS-AN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 1, 1982)
US$ million
Loan/                                                         (Amount net of cancellation)
Credit                                                                                 Undis-
Number   Year   Borrower   Purpose                            Bank    TW       IDA    bursed
Seventy-nine loans and credits fully disbursed /a             611.2            616.3
422      1973   Pakistan   Karachi Port III                    --                18.6    0.1
492      1974   Pakistan   Karachi Port IV                     --                16.0    0.4
1107     1975   SNGPL       Gas Pipeline IV                    53.0              --      0.7
546      1975   Pakistan   Industrial Dev. (NDFC)              --               30.0    0.5
1208T    1976   Pakistan   Power Transmission                  --      32.0      --      1.9
620      1976   Pakistan   Seed                                --               23.0    7.5
1326     1976   PICIC        Industrial Development            25.0              --      0.4
630      1976   Pakistan   Lahore Water II                     --               26.0    7.4
648      1976   Pakistan   Irrigation and Drainage             --               14.0    7.0
1366T    1977   Pakistan   Livestock                           --      10.0      --      9.8
1372     1977   Pakistan   Railways                            35.0              --    14.2
684      1977   Pakistan   Railways                            --               25.0    1.5
678      1977   Pakistan   Education III                       --               15.0    7.9
751      1977   Pakistan   Hill Farming                        --                3.0    1.6
754      1978   Pakistan   SCARP-VI                            --               70.0   69.1
755      1978   Pakistan   Hazara Forestry                     --                 1.7    1.5
313      1978   Pakistan   Punjab Extension                    --               12.5    7.8
846      1978   Pakistan   Fauji Fertilizer                    --               55.0    6.6
867      1979   Pakistan   Toot Oil and Gas Development    --                   30.0    3.1
877      1979   Pakistan   Salinity Control & Reclamation  --                   60.0   58.8
892      1979   Pakistan   Primary Education                   --               10.0    8.6
922      1979   Pakistan   Sind Agricultural Extension         --                9.0    9.0
957      1979   Pakistan   Fourth Agricultural Dev. Bank   --                   30.0   17.6
968      1980   Pakistan   Third WAPDA Power                   --               45.0   40.2
974      1980   Pakistan   Third Highway                       --               50.0   42.4
1019     1980   Pakistan   PICIC Industrial Development    --                   40.0   30.4
Total                                                         724.2   42.0  1,200.1  356.0
of which has been repaid                                    429.6    --       27.7
-    Total now outstanding                                          294.6   42.0  1,172.4
Amount sold                           23.9
of which has been repaid              23.9                   --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                             294.6   42.0  1,172.4
Total undisbursed                                              15.3   11.7    329.0  356.0
/a Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly
for projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over
by Bangladesh.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.



-30-
ANNEX II
B.  STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (as of March 1, 1982)
Credit                                                   Amount in SDR Million
Number   Year   Borrower   Purpose                       Original   Undisbursed
1066     1981   Pakistan   Fertilizer Imports              38.2         20.2
1109     1981   Pakistanl  Vocational Training             19.7         19.7
1113     1981   Pakistan   Small Industries                23.6         23.5
1157 lb  1981   Pakistan   Grain Storage                   26.1         26.1
1158 /a  1981   Pakistan   Agricultural Research           19.7         19.7
1163 7T  1981   Pakistan   On-Farm Water Management    33.4             33.4
1186 /a  1982   Pakistan   Second IDBP                     26.7         26.7
Total                                                     187.4        169.3
of which has been repaid                                  --          --
Total now outstanding                                      187.4
Total now held by IDA                                     187.4
Total undisbursed                                                      169.3
/a Not yet effective.
T7 Effective in March 1982.



-31-
ANNEX II
C. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 1, 1982)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel          0.63      --        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries   Textiles                0.75      --        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                5.25    0.42        5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development            --      0.52       0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent .Jute         Textiles              1.84    0.11        1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        4.43    0.84        5.27
1980
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                 5.38    2.02        7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92        3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper        5.60    0.63        6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food         2.40    0.40        2.80
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals and          29.00    1.62       30.62
Ltd. and Attock       Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-      1.78      --        1.78
lene bags
1980     Premier Board          Particle Board        2.70      --        2.70
Mills Ltd.
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.20        3.35
Total Gross Commitments                     63.91    9.68      73.59
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                36.15    1.01       37.16
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           27.76    8.67      36.43
Undisbursed (including participants)         5.85    0.57       6.42



-32-
ANNEX II
D. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works which, together w-Lth work in the downstream channel, were completed in
June 1980. Similar protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool is virtually
completed. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the dam have been met.
Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. Construction of a
second power plant with six units is in progress. All Credit proceeds have
been disbursed; the Bank continues to administer the Tarbela Development
Fund.
Loan No. 1372          Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and                 Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684         Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The telecommunications and
signaling scheme is makiing good progress and the complete network is expected
to be commissioned before mid-1983. Procurement has been completed and the
total proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-
Credit No. 422         Third Karachi Port:  US$18 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Physical work on the project is expected to be conpleted in April
1982; undisbursed Credit funds (about US$0.1 million) are committed and final
withdrawals are expected by end-April 1982.
Credit No. 492         Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date:  September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project is completed and, as of March 1, 1982, disbursements
amounted to US$15.6 million. The balance is committed and final withdrawals
are expected by end-April 1982.
Loan No. 1326          Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date: November
29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This Loan was closed on December 31, 1981. The undisbursed amount
(about US$0.4 million) will be cancelled in April 1982.
Credit No. 546         National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):  US$30
Million Credit of May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July
17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1981. The undisbursed amount
(about US$0.5 million) will be cancelled in April 1982.
Loan No. 1107          Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of May 15,
1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Closing Date of the Loan has been extended to December 31, 1982
to allow the Borrower to utilize undisbursed funds toward increasing the
capacity of the Islamabad/Rawalpindi natural gas distribution system. Con-
struction should be completed in June 1982.
Credit No. 620          Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1983
Project imnplementation remains behind schedule, with the most impor-
tant delays being the construction and equipping of three processing plants
in Punjab due to disputes with civil works contractors. As presently
scheduled, the Punjab component should be completed by June 1983. The plant



-34-
in Sind is complete except for some silos and the machinery is installed.
The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1981, has been extended to June 30,
1983.
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All major works have been contracted. Construction delays, however,
continue and will probably cause a further delay in project completion.
Loan No. 1208-T        Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Most of the project components were commissioned in the last quarter
of 1980. Some payments are outstanding pending final comnissioning of the
remaining components. GOP has requested an extension of the Closing Date to
September 30, 1982 to accommodate payment of these sums.
Credit No. 648         Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22,
1976; Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date:
July 31, 1982
Overall progress is currently about two years behind schedule due to
delays in employing consultants and procurement problems. Canal remodeling,
surveys, and extension services are proceeding satisfactorily but the tile
and collector drain construction has progressed slowly. Actions have been
initiated with the Association's concurrence to curtail cost overruns and
reduce completion delays.
Credit 678             Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
T977; Effective Date:  July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is generally making good progress. Nearly all of civil
works contracts have beesn awarded and about 80% have been completed. One
project study has been completed and the two others are nearing completion.
About 70% of the projeci: equipment has been procured and the balance is in
the process of procurement. Technical assistance specialist services are now
being provided satisfactorily and about 90% of the fellowships have been used
or committed. Project implementation in Sind and Baluchistan is behind
schedule by about one year, due to initial delays in building construction.



_ 5-
Loan No. 1366-T        Punjab Livestock:  US$10 Million Third Window Loan of
February 18, 1977; Effective Date; August 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Government and the Bank have conditionally agreed on a revised
project which would aim to rehabilitate the Lahore Milk Plant and to estab-
lish about 300 Village Livestock Associations and their related service
activities. The contract of the milk plant consultants has been extended to
cover the period of construction and commissioning of the plant.
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff vacancies are causing implementation problens, and the com-
ponents dealing with fodders, demonstration farms, apples and land-use are
progressing slowly. Nevertheless, most technical developnents are progress-
ing satisfactorily and the training program is on schedule. A draft proposal
for a follow-up project has been received. Expenditures and disbursements
have been less than expected because of cost savings and procurement delays.
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule, sig-
nificant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Progress has been made
in awarding the first civil works contracts and obtaining necessary equip-
ment, vehicles and materials.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project activities.
The Guzara socio-economic study, chir pine forest inventory and pulping test
for chir pine, and the first phase of the feasibility study have been com-
pleted. As a result of these developments, the final phase of the
feasibility study is expected to commence in the Fall of 1982.



-36-
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and AgricuLtural Development:  US$
12.5 Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite some progress in staff
recrtuitment, acquisition of buildinig sites and construction work.  Implemen-
tation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages continue to be
weak. Low salaries for village level staff and delays in recruiting consult-
ants remain problems.
Credit No. 846         Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Mi:Llion Credit of September
14, 1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The plant is nearing completion and commercial production is due to
start in April 1982.
Credit No. 867         Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date:  April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Two new producing oil wells in the Toot field have recently been
completed despite very difficult drilling problems.  However, serious
well-drilling and management problems still persist.  Project implementation
is about 15 months behiird schedule.  The Closing Date, originally December
31, 1981, has been extended to March 31, 1983, to allow completion of the
original 8-well drilling program.
Credit No. 877          Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mar-
dan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effec-
tive Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Initial budgetary and other problems have been resolved and CIDA (the
project co-financier) is assisting W4APDA ii scheduling implementation
activities as well as in preparing subsurface drainage design and specifica-
tions. The project is about two years behInd schedule.
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Good progress is being maintained. About 80% of the project inputs
including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training have been
provided with less than six months' delay. The evaluation program is being
redesigned after the experiences gained in the first 18 months of evaluation.



-37-
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the agricultural credit component has been satis-
factory and the agricultural engineering training component has begun. It is
anticipated that project completion will be about one year behind schedule.
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Effective Date:  July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement action schedules and
construction targets for substations and transmnission lines are generally
being met.
Credit No. 922          Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Effec-
tive Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Critical staff has been recruited and project implementation has
started. Recruitment of consultants has been delayed pending signing of a
project agreement between UNDP and GOP.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion, one
has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and re-awarded,
and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts.  Discussions
are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of technical assis-
tance to two provincial governments to improve road maintenance, and several
contractors have showTn interest in using loans through IDBP for purchase of
mechanical equipment.
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980; Clos-
ing Date: March 31, 1984
As of March 1, 1982, about US$29 million had been authorized for
subloans and IJS$9.6 million disbursed. GOP and PICIC have taken corrective
measures to improve collections on past sub-loans and the implementation of
the project is proceeding well.



-38-
Credit No. 1066         Fertilizer Imports Credit:  SDR 38.2 Million Credit
(US$50 Million equivalent) of October 17, 1980; Effec-
tive Date: December 1, 1980; Closing Date: September
30, 1982
As of February 1982, about US$21 million had been committed. The
Closing Date, originally June 30, 1981, has been extended to September 30,
1982 to accommodate the award of contract for and shipment of the remaining
fertilizer under the project.
Credit No. 1109        F:ifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7 Mil-
lion Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24,
1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
Agreements have been reached with ILO for the provision of technical
assistance services and for procurement of equipment, and a contract signed
with architectural consultants for the provision of design services. The
institutional and in-plant training components are about six months behind
schedule.
Credit No. 1113         Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective Date:
October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Subloan commitment started in January 1982 after key commnercial bank
loan officers were trained in November/December 1981. Bidding for equipment
and selection of consultants for the service centers are in progress.
Evaluation of proposals and selection of consultants for the export promotion
and the project development components are ongoing.
Credit No. 1157        Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Million
equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date: March
15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
(This Credit was declared effective on March 15, 1982).
Credit No. 1158        Agricultural Research:  SDR 19.7 Million Credit (US$24
Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effective Date:
April 29, 1982; Closing Date: Decenber 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.



-39-
Credit No. 1163         On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
(This Credit was declared effective on March 30, 1982).
Credit No. 1186         Second Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan  (IDBP
II):  SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million equiv-
alent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date: May 19,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



-40-                               ANNEX III
Page I
PAKISTAN
BALIJCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Fourteen months.
(b) Agency which has prepared the project:
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and first
IDA Mission to consider the project:
August 1980 and November 1980, respectively.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
'June, 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
March 29, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1982
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



-41-                               ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:    Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  Preparation of five schemes to final design level
(paragraph 49);
(b)  Establishment of a Project Steering Committee
(paragraph 58);
(c)  Establishment of a Project Management Cell,
including the appointment of a Project Director
satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 59);
(d) Approval of the PC-1 by ECNEC (paragraph 61); and
(e) Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
German and Dutch funding (paragraph 61).
Other Conditions
(a) Submission to IDA of the project implementation
schedule (paragraph 49);
(b)  Submission to IDA of the design of the conjunctive
water use pilot study, the water spreading program
and groundwater recharge study (paragraphs 52, 53,
54 and 55); and
(c) Proper O&M of the schemes under the project, including
recovery by the Water Users Association/Cooperative
from all beneficiaries of the full required
contributions in cash and kind towards such O&M
(paragraph 68).






320                                                                                    64                                                                                                6Ip' 
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRGTO PAKNDAGRCLTRLDEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                    .                                                          
PROJECT AREA 
0    NRA  At, AR  ROLL~. A...   AU                      1,1<1  I Al IA
RIIA"LNI  A      1    OII AIU NITIA 10                   IR~R!        (00                                                                                  7         y   ;A1              u"-I
)       A1:11       AF 0000   AI IMN I  1          11(1                           na,Sl                                              
III- IN'IAI   I,--I'llA<                                                                                                                           R
00(1    (0(00   (                        ,,..     .      ~     ~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AI
DEM, REP  OF  AFGHANISTAN                                                                   otR<<BMA                                                  'I/
U   El  T    T   A
-\K A LA  T~
16  Big'                             'S/I           B      In  *0
C H A G A I N,.7  /                                                                           /KbCCR/d,BUGT    'PUNJAB
280                                                                o                                           K           A            L          A'                       ~         ~        0tL4,Ro
P*  ,              All,b,1-  I(11                                                              RAh-OA                      /   1o    /7/
AsU A  IRIOIC  ((1 (0  I~~~~~~~~ HA                                       A   N           LI /7,                                                                  S           I D
,,~~~~~~~....  -  oft ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,,dh                                                                                           W,,Rd 8-k I -ffooloe0o
RIUILME-IERS        ,                     -- ~~~~~~    ,Z   \              /<K'~~~H    U~~Z~~A~                                                                          The deoooonatT ,ooo  -sd-nOth
Word B.ok -nd, ,s ff,,ae.- .,y
O50                            SR 5,                                                                                                                                                                     1odg-entR  the leg.l ttoof
MILES                                                     P,'N JG U R- 0 .11 oAetOR  of 00,`! -ood--,e
M   E  K R  A:' N                                        ~           "'wI~                                
Too  TURBAT ~~~~~~~~~.01,    /   /                                                                     IRAN~~~~~~IA
B B~~~~~~~~~~IA
*,o.ao,~~~~~~~~~~~~oN                                                                                                                                         U A          .                               13
lI,b CIt-ok,                                        .-
-0'
0                            o~~~~
p411                                                                                                      680                                                       0-






Y  -,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
PAKISTFANNW 
)     BALUCHISTAN  MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNUAL RAINFALL AND PHYSICAL RELIEF                                                                                   A
-'~--- Isohyets in inches         HEeval,ons in feet                              |
Rivers
d7 Dry Lokes                     50
/   - -   DDvisional Boundaries
-   -  - Provincial Boundaries
.rternationac Boundaries
DEM. REP OF AFGHANISTAN
k.~~~~7
IRAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I   R   A         N                                                                                               p           4 j
3                                                                               5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~0 ,,yooW00
/  |    -        /    M(t K    R:  g N                gk           \       '   \                  --,,                                 ,
7                                                 N         c                          / /     -                U A E (       A
Ars ____ _ ___f_ __      .         ___ _        _     .      _      _      _     _            -8_ _ 






IBRD 16028
-DECFMBER MI1
U. S S R    ~ ~~'HINA
r -' -, ;  \  ~--~10  .,.;,  .>,
DEM RP OPF
AFGH4,TA,,x' Ineo
N 'P8 K'   j  ; >  >                                          I R A N                    I
P A K I S T A N 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KANCHOGI LAND SUITABILITY CLASSIFICATION
-    Scheme  orea boundaries            Land sutability                                                         ----,
Uenreralled reeds         +  ;      Highly siotable                                                   '             N  &-o                              .
Rvers,                               Moderately suitable                                                         '         ,                                                       '
Canals                   --         Marginally suntable                                                                   ir                                                                               / .
-- Spilway                                Nan-suitable                                                                                   -
W."~
Contours n feet
METCRS 0           2S0          500          750          1800
FEET 0             1000            20e0            3000
zI_



I        I



IBRD 16029
To Quetto                                                 60-  U S.S.R.              DECEMBER1981
,?CHINA
EM  REP OF                       A     i
AFGHAN STAN    *.            .    of costr 
Islraa      , ,a
-IRAN//                   i        /
PAKISTAN                                                                         PS
BALUCHISTAN MINOR IRRIGATION AND \
AGRICUlTURAL DEVElOPMENT PROJECT                                                2>    / 
RABAT JHAL LAND SUITABILITY CLASSIFICATION                                                 \;s-r
Scheme area boundaries                                           \
Proposed canal 'k..
:Flood-beds                                                         \         
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Major road ' -. ;-
-Unmetalled roads                                                           \g;        -
Path                                                                    \-;-,.  
Contours in feet                    -\ .~-s. .                                                     .
z                            ~~~~~~~~~~Land suitability-,XN                                                            ,d-        
. , Highly suitable              \       @        .                6                  ,   70
Moderately suitable\   i-                                                                    
Marginally suitable\  8 -                                                                              ' 
Non-suitable                                                                     \              
METERS 0                500              1000             1500        S                                       ,           ,
FEET 0        1000      2000       3600       4000      56000                                           9        
This-mph-sbe-nprprdbthWolSakssaferJsvlforecne;ne\i
of the r-eadr of the report to wh,ch it is at-ahed. The -eomti   sd and the                                T O Khuzdor
b-udares shown on this map do not imply. on the part of the World bank and ts                    
affiliates, any judgment on the legal status of any territory or any endorsemet or 
acceptance of    Shmh boandab.os.        ie



