Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23332-EGYT
PROJECT APPRAISAL )QCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSEID LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION BNHANCEMENT PROJECT
Marsh 7, 2002
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 7, 2002)
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (LE)
LE 1 = US$0.22
US$1 = 4.6 LE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAA        Central Auditing Agency                            MIS       Management Information System
CAO        Central Auditing Organization                      MOE       Ministry of Education
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                        MOF       Ministry of Finance
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment        MOHE      Ministry of Higher Education
CQ         Consultant's Qualification                         MTI       Middle Technical Institute
DfiD       Department for International Development (UK)      NCB       National Competitive Bidding
EDLP       Egyptian Digital Libraries Program                NGO        Non-governmental Organization
EEP        Education Enhancement Program                      NQAC      National Quality Assurance Council
EIHS       Egypt Integrated Household Survey                 NS         National Shopping
EMP         Enviromnent Management Plan                       OD        Operational Directives
ETEP       Engineering and Technical Education Project        OECD      Organization for Economic Cooperation &
EUN        Egypt University Network                                      Development
FMM        Financial Management Manual                       PFS        Project Financial Statement
FMR        Financial Management Report                       PHRD       Population & Human Resources Development
FMS        Financial Management System                        PIP       Project Implementation Plan
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                             PIU       Project Implementation Unit
GOE        Government of Egypt                                PMR       Project Management Report
GPN        General Procurement Notice                         PMU       Project Managemnent Unit
HEEPF      Higher Education Enhancement Project Fund          QBS       Quality-Based Selection
HEEPFC     Higher Education Enhancement Project Fund Committee QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
HEEP        Higher Education Enhancement Project              RFP       Request for Proposal
HERS       Higher Education Reform Strategy                   SA        Special Account
IBRD       Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development  SAU    Special Account for Universities
ICB        Intemational Competitive Bidding                   SBD       Standard Bidding Document
IDA        International Development Agency                   SBEF      Standard Bid Evaluation Form
IFC        Intemational Finance Corporation                   SCTC      Supreme Council of Technical Colleges
ILS        Integrated Library System                          SCU       Supreme Council of Universities
IS         Intemational Shopping                              SEEP      Secondary Education Enhancement Program
IT         Information Technology                             SIL       Specific Investment Loan
IT&DL      Instructional Technology and Distributed Leaming   SOE       Statement of Expenditures
KFW        Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau                    TC         Technical College
LIDO       Library and Information Development Officer       UNDB       United Nations Development Business
LOI        Letter of Invitation                              UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation                         USAID      US Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:      Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Director:     Jacques F. Baudouy
Task Tearn Leader:       Mae Chu Chang



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
HIGHER EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional refonns supported by the project                     I1
3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         18
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                 19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           20
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          21
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Environmental                                                                      23
6. Social                                                                             23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25



2. Critical risks                                                                   25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   27
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         27
2. Other                                                                            27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       27
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       38
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                            39
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            48
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   60
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                61
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                64
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          66
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy                                                      68
Annex 12: Proposal for Higher Education Enhancement Fund (HEEF)                        70
Annex 13: Structure of the Public Education System by Age and Level                    73
MAP(S)



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Higher Education Enhancement Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSHD
Date: March 7, 2002                              Team Leader: Mae Chu Chang
Country Manager/Director: Mahmood A. Ayub        Sector Manager/Director: Jacques Baudouy
Project ID: P056236                              Sector(s): ET - Tertiary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ 1 Credit   [ Grant      r1 Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): US$50.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: N Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Currency Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5
Commitment fee: 0.75%                          Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      9.50           0.00          9.50
IBRD                                                         25.00          25.00         50.00
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                      0.25           0.25          0.50
DEVELOPMENT (DFID)
Total:                                                       34.75          25.25         60.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION
Contact Person: Mohsen Elmahdy Said
Tel: 2-02-795-3571           Fax: 2-02-794-3384           Email: piu-mohe@,hotmail.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYlUS$m):
FY'        2003       2004       2005      2006      2007
Annual    11.59      13.37      10.68      9.57      4.79
Cumulative   11.59      24.96      35.64      45.21     50.00
Project implementation period: 2002-2007
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
OCS PAD FRlv Rev MWrR, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project will create the conditions fundamental to improving the quality and efficiency of the higher
education system in Egypt through legislative reform, institutional restructuring, and establishment of
independent quality assurance mechanisms and monitoring systems.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following key indicators will be used to monitor and assess the progress made towards project
objectives. The key indicators are as follows:
* Key legislative reforms enacted for the universities to become effective self-governing institutions;
*   Legislative reform enacted to establish independent quality assurance mechanisms;
* Legislative framework in place for the Technical Colleges to become self-governing institutions with
linkages to the private sector;
*   Consolidation of 47 Middle Technical Institutes into 8 Technical Colleges accomplished;
*   Management Information System developed and operational for the post-secondary sector.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: R2001-0115 Date of latest CAS discussion: 7/03/2001
The latest CAS (June 5, 2001) for Egypt stresses the need to accelerate Egypt's economic development and
build its competitiveness in a global market. Accordingly, the CAS recommends World Bank Group
support in four key areas: (a) promotion of export-led development; (b) encouragement of private sector-led
growth; (c) development of the human resources base; and (d) promotion of natural resource management.
In the education sector, the CAS recommends expanding dialogue and support for basic and secondary
education, and for increasing the market orientation of technical education and vocational training
institutes. The CAS acknowledges that Egypt's capacity to build human resources will be central to its
long-term economic and social development.
The CAS identifies the development of the education sector, and specifically higher education and skills
development, as being critically important to ensuring adequate and balanced social development in Egypt.
It also stresses that the improvement of the higher education system is critical in ensuring competitiveness
of the Egyptian labor force in the globalizing economy.
The Government of Egypt (GOE) rightly accorded first priority to expanding and improving the quality of
its basic and then secondary school systems. Since 1990, the Government increased its pre-university
education budget by 150 percent in real terms, achieving near universal access at the basic level and
expanded secondary enrollmnent rates to over 64 percent at the secondary level. Consistent with the CAS
recommendations, the World Bank has, since 1997, expanded its dialogue with the Government on basic
and secondary education and provided support under the Education Enhancement Program (EEP) and
Secondary Education Enhancement Project (SEEP). These Programs' objectives directly support the
Govermment's 20-year Education Sector Strategic Framework (1999-2019), developed with technical
support from the World Bank. With the reforms of basic and secondary education already under
implementation, the World Bank is supporting Egypt's efforts to improve the market orientation of the
higher education sector by improving quality and relevance and enhancing sector efficiency. The Project
-2 -



specifically aims to help the Government restructure and change the higher educaltion system so it produces
the type of graduates needed to underpin a private sector-led, export-driven economy, competitive in a
global market.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government acknowledges that it is confronting a crisis in the higher education system. It realizes that
the globalization of trade, finance and information flows is intensifyiing competition and raising the danger
that Egypt will fall behind its competitors. The Government recognizes that there are real challenges to be
faced in the sector, foremost amongst which are the need to significantly improve sector governance and
efficiency, increase institutional autonomy, significantly improve the quality and relevance of higher
education programs, and maintain coverage at existing levels. Recent Government actions to build political
consensus on issues critical to reforn have created a climate that is ripe for change. The Ministry of
Higher Education (MOHE) acts as a champion for reform. The Minister, appointed in 1997, quickly
established a committee for the reform of higher education (known as the HEEP Committee) which drew in
a wide range of stakeholders including industrialists and parliamentarians. A National Conference on
higher education reform was held in February 2000, and a Declaration for action emanating from the
Conference was endorsed by the President and the Prime Minister. The Declaration identified 25 specific
reform initiatives. The Bank agrees with, and supports, the Declaration. A range of multilateral and
bilateral agencies also concur with the Declaration's proposals, and are committed to supporting various
aspects of the reform process.
The Govermment's Higher Education Reform Strategy (HERS) consists of 25 sub-projects, including a
sub-project to improve the quality of the Faculties of Education (pre-service teacher training) which is
supported with an IDA credit of US$13 million from the ongoing EEP. The Government has also sought
donor financing to fill the funding gap, including a US$0.5 million grant for legislative reform from DflD.
An IBRD loan of US$50 million will cover eleven sub-projects of the Government's reform strategy, and
the GOE is contributing approximately US$10 million to support the first phase of the HERS. The
Government is now well positioned to implement the measures needed to create a more efficient,
quality-driven higher education system underpinned by better governance and greater efficiency. The key
sector issues and the Government's emerging strategy for responding to these are as follows:
Overly centralized governance and widespread inefficiencies
Improving system governance and efficiency is an imperative that takes on added urgency given that a
significant population bulge has reached the higher education system. While system coverage remained
relatively constant over the past decade, the actual number of students entering higher education grew by
17 percent per year between 1992/93 and 1997/98. The consequence was a sharp decline in per student
spending of around 40 percent in real terms over that period. The higher education cohort is projected to
continue to increase by close to 6 percent (60,000 students) per annum through 2009. This means that
significant efficiencies will need to be introduced into the system just to maintain quality at its current
inadequate level.
The performance and quality of higher education is currently severely compromised by overly centralized
control of the system and pervasive and widespread inefficiencies. Addressing these issues is difficult and
often politically contentious, but fundamental for meaningful and sustained reform. The current system
suffers from excessive control and over management. The sheer size of the system - with over 1.5 million
students - and its complexity - including different types of institutions serving a diverse set of clients -
mitigates against a centralized system. A rigid and outdated legislative framework governs the system, a
- 3 -



moribund civil service code regulates staffmg and promotion policies, public sector control over mundane
operational details raises costs, and inefficiencies in resource allocation and utilization destroys incentives
for improved performnance and quality.
Budget allocations to higher education institutions are not informed by sector policy or linked to the
respective needs of individual institutions. Currently, the Supreme Council of Universities (SCU) and the
MOHE are the governing bodies for the university and Middle Technical Institutes (MTI) systems,
respectively. Although the SCU goes through the exercise of establishing program guidelines for
universities, budget allocations to the different institutions are determined unilaterally by the Ministries of
Finance (recurrent budget) and Planning (investment budget) and are assigned by line-item categories.
Institutions do not have the latitude to shift resources across line-item categories. And, usually, budget
allocations received are simply mechanical incremental adjustments to the previous year's budget and
line-item allocations. Under this kind of system, it does not make sense for sector institutions to invest time
or resources in developing the management information systems (MIS) needed to guide strategic planning
and resource allocation decisions. While they do collect some data, they make little use of them and do not
routinely report on the data. Budgetary discretion is very limnited in the universities, but is most limited for
the MTIs. The MOHE exercises tight fiscal control over their day-to-day operation, requiring approval
even for purchases of simple equipment and requisitions for basic maintenance.
Employment and staffmg policies in the sector mirror those of the public sector at large, fostering
commensurate problems of overstaffing, promotion by years of service, and poor remuneration. This
ultimately works to the detriment of higher education quality. Almost all higher education staff become
permanent irmmediately upon employment, are not evaluated on their performance, receive salary increases
based on years served, and cannot be terminated. The career ladder in the university system is highly
compressed and promotion happens quickly, and is based on years of service. The vast majority of new
university recruits are recent graduates of that particular institution; this is the case for more than 90
percent of instructors at one representative university. Few new ideas and approaches to teaching infuse
the system because of this practice. Faculty absenteeism rates are reportedly very high amongst faculty,
probably because most hold multiple jobs. Absenteeism is especially high in professional programs,
reportedly being over 75 percent in the medical and engineering faculties. The fact that unqualified
graduate students and assistants assume most of the teaching responsibilities in this situation must
adversely affect the quality of instruction. In both universities and MTIs, heads of faculties/departments
have no ability to offer incentives for better performance, and no system exists to encourage professional
renewal or training.
Inefficiencies permeate the system in many ways. In all higher education institutions, large numbers of
administrators are employed whose functions are ill-defined. The ratio of administrative to teaching staff is
1.25:1. And, while there are definitely instances in which the ratio of students to instructors is high, there
are also many instances in which it is extraordinarily low, as in the medical, basic science, and dentistry
faculties where it is 4:1 or less. Repetition and dropout rates are, by all accounts, high, and a special
problem in the universities where average costs per student are significant. Aggregate data on these rates is
unavailable, but data from specific institutions illustrates this clearly; just 60 percent of first year
engineering students at one representative university pass the year and, of those that continue, less than 80
percent manage to complete the full program. In the MTIs, just 50 percent of students who begin programs
complete them. Because higher institutions do not work on a credit system, a failure on one examination or
project can mean that a student must repeat a full year's study. It is also clear that many of the MTIs are
too small, given their equipment and resourcing needs, to ever hope to be cost-effective.
-4 -



Low quality of university education
There is widespread acknowledgement in Egypt of the need to significantly upgrade educational quality in
the university sector. Quality is low and sliding. It is a drag on Egypt's economic competitiveness,
especially when its free trade agreement with the European Union has been signed. Incomplete, yet
convincing, evidence indicates that local employers are increasingly preferning foreign skilled and
semi-skilled graduates over Egyptian workers. Employers and students alike are displeased with the quality
of education and attest to its limited relevance. However, little hard data are available with which to assess
quality. Neither institutions themselves nor the system-wide governing body systematically monitor and
assess their performance. Student flows through institutions are not routinely monitored. And, no
mechanisms are in place to systematically evaluate student learning outcomes.
Instructional practices contribute significantly to the low quality and relevance of university education.
While universities in highly competitive economies are training students to think creatively, solve problems,
work collaboratively, and adapt quickly to new technologies and changing work environments, universities
in Egypt stress rote learning and memorization of facts. There is an inordinately heavy reliance on the
lecture system and, while a mandatory program of pedagogical training for new university faculty exists, its
effect is minimal because instructors have a 15 year window within which to undertake training. There is
scant encouragement for independent research and analysis; a survey revealed that the typical
undergraduate checks out just one university library book per year; and resources to encourage faculty to
undertake independent scholarship and research are exceedingly limited.
Technology alone will not change quality and relevance, but it will encourage adoption of more creative
instructional methods and provide broader and quick access to academic materials and global knowledge
through the Internet. Laudable efforts have been made by universities to expand access to information
technology (IT). However, these efforts have not been guided by an articulated acquisition and replacement
plan and the number of students and even faculty with ready access to IT is extremely low. While 12 of the
13 public universities are connected to the Egyptian University Network (EUN), no content materials
(research materials, library catalogues, learning media, etc.) are currently available via this system. A
survey revealed that university students are highly dissatisfied with their level of access to IT and its
integration into their instruction; they consider IT skills imperative to their competitiveness in the labor
market.
Poor quality and relevance of mid-level technical education
The MTI system, operating separately from the university system, exhibits some particular deficiencies and
problems. They provide the only opportunity for further education for graduates from vocational
secondary schools, who constitute around 75 percent of secondary school enrollments. They are, however,
the weakest institutions in the higher education system, offering a very poor quality education with little
relevance to labor market needs. The employment rate amongst MTI graduates is exceptionally low; some
60 percent remain unemployed 2 years after completing the program. The poor quality of MTIs is evidence
by the high dropout rate of their students; only 50 percent of enrollees complete and graduate from the
program.
MTIs have considerably less autonomy than universities, being governed by the MOHE. Various factors
contribute to their very poor quality. As in universities, the employment conditions governing staff and
instructors provide few, if any, incentives for better performance and quality. And, no mechanisms are in
place to monitor student flows and learning outcomes, or assess instructors' performance. Additionally,
and very importantly for a system such as the MTIs, no structures are in place to encourage and ensure
- 5 -



close collaboration and liaison with private employers. Consequently, MTI curricula are outdated and
unresponsive to labor market needs. Instructors, the majority of whom have no practical work experience
beyond the MTIs, have little capacity to train students in practical and applied subjects. Equipment and
laboratories in the MTIs are limited, old, and in very poor repair. Some are beyond repair. Computers and
IT have not yet been introduced into the MTI system.
The Government's Strategy
The Government is very cognizant of the challenges facing the sector and has already initiated serious steps
to position itself to deal with them. Specifically, it has:
*   Appointed high level, consultative committees to identify and draft needed reforns to the legislation
since the National Conference in February, 2000. Consideration is being given to changing or
modifying regulations applying to governance structures, institutional autonomy, the degree of control
institutions exercise over budgetary resources, and their capacity to mobilize extra-budgetary
resources. Institutions would receive their resources as a block grant, based on a per student cost
formula. Preparation of a legislative framework governing the new TCs is being initiated and is
expected to provide for private sector involvement in governance and curriculum development in the
TCs.
*   Proposed the creation of a Higher Education Enhancement Project Fund (HEEPF) to support
competitive proposals designed to support improvements in teaching and learning in academic
departments and program and course innovation.
* Initiated steps to introduce and operationalize an effective institutional and system-wide MIS which
will support better monitoring of system operation and performance and inform policy decisions.
Specifically, it will support monitoring of student flows (including repetition and dropout), student
performance, and faculty teaching and research performance. Supported by the introduction of a
National Quality Assurance Council (NQAC), this system will also establish conditions under which
universities and associated faculty can be held more accountable on issues of quality and student
performance.
*   Committed to restructure the MTI system to improve govemance and performance and raise quality.
Preparation of a new legislative framework for the system is already underway. This supports
consolidation of the 47 MTIs into 8 Technical Colleges (TCs), introduction of new management
structures for the TCs so they are better able to work collaboratively and responsively with private
enterprise, increased TC autonomy to allow institutional control of budgets and provide institutions
latitude to raise extra-budgetary resources; infrastructure rehabilitation and development, and
preparation of a new curriculum with significant private sector input.
*   Decided to significantly enhance universities' and MTI's access to integrated IT systems with the
objective of ensuring that instructors incorporate these new technologies into classroom instruction.
Used effectively, and supported by in-service training on the use of this technology in the classroom,
these systems should help change instructional practices to be based more on problem-solving. In
addition, improved and ready access to international research and publications via the internet and a
digitized and Arabized library system should help faculty and students engage in more critical analysis
and assessment.
The Government's strategy is clear and is already taking significant steps to implement its strategy.
However, it is important to recognize that very significant issues affecting governance and efficiency
remain to be dealt with, including the political exigencies involved in capping higher education enrollments;
developing and introducing a formula-driven system for higher education financing, and the civil service
conditions regulating conditions of employment which go much beyond the education sector.
- 6 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Government's reform strategy is comprehensive and ambitious. The National Conference on Higher
Education helped shape the reform agenda into 25 specific reform initiatives which will be implemented
over a 15-year period. While the Bank supports the entire reforn strategy, it has made a strategic choice to
fund 11 of the 25 specific reform initiatives. This is complemented by IDA funding of US$13 million for
one of the initiatives - improving the quality of the Faculties of Education - under the ongoing Education
Enhancement Program  (ITF-N0008).  Other donors are supporting other reform initiatives of the
Governments 25 sub-projects, including:  Prince T'alal and Ford Foundation (US$ 1.2 million) are
supporting the accreditation process for higher education and DflD (US$0.5 million) is supporting
legislative reform. The 11 initiatives to be supported by the IBRD under HEEP are those deemed most
fundamental to bringing about meaningful, systemic changes in quality, relevance and efficiency. The
initiatives include:
* Initiatives to improve governance and efficiency: the development and diversification of funding
sources for higher education; the establishment and modernization of an MIS for the university system;
and the establishment of a national center for education administration and management.
*   Initiatives to improve quality and relevance: the reform of legislation governing the higher education
system; establishment of a National Quality Assurance Council; establishment of centers of excellence
in higher education; the development of an IT and networking system; the establishment of a National
Learning Technologies and Multimedia Center; consolidation and upgrading of mid-level technical
education; training and upgrading of faculty/instructors; and expansion and Arabization of library and
learning resources.
The World Bank has, in part, chosen to fund these initiatives because of its ability to form strategic
partnerships on these issues with other donors, as outlined above.
The World Bank has made a strategic choice not to provide funding for reform initiatives which involve:
* Structural changes within universities: It was felt that such changes would be better made and
implemented within the institutions concerned, with appropriate input from the SCU. Efforts to
restructure scientific departments, develop graduate studies, and establishment of alumni centers will
therefore not be supported by Bank funds.
* Expanding access: The expanding population of young adults seeking access to higher education
opportunities and the need to improve quality in a meaningful and sustainable manner, present major
challenges. The World Bank is encouraging the Government to cap higher education enrollments at
their present level of around 20 percent until the reform objectives are attained and consolidated. The
IBRD will, therefore, not finance system expansion, including promotion of open and distant learning
centers whose objective is to expand access, albeit at significantly reduced per student cost. The IBRD
is continuing to discuss the problems of further expansion with the Government which is showing signs
of accommodation on this issue.
* Funding the private sector: There is a small, but growing private university and technical institute
sector. A decision was made not to provide funding to these private institutes under this Project as the
International Finance Corporation (IFC) intends to expand private sector involvement in these areas
under a separate initiative.
*   Employment conditions: The IBRD has also made a strategic decision not to directly address issues
relating to broader civil service employment conditions under this program, notably the salary
structure, stafl redundancies, early terminations, and career path structures. This is principally
because these are issues which need to be addressed under a broader civil service reform initiative. The
- 7 -



Government is, however, introducing some more limited, but still significant, initiatives to address these
issues. For instance, new legislation will provide greater autonomy to universities to determine
employment conditions separate from broader civil service employment conditions, including payment
scales. This creates conditions for the introduction of a new, performance-based salary structure.
C, Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project will have three components, each of which will support a range of activities. A summary of the
Project components is provided here:
Component 1: Improve efficiency throuah the reform of zovernance and management
This Component will support Government's efforts to restructure system governance and management so
conditions are in place to support improved sector efficiency and quality. The initiatives included under
this component are the building blocks necessary for greater efficiency and improved quality. The
component initiatives represent a challenging, yet feasible, attempt to address long-standing, entrenched,
and politically-charged practices governing operation of the higher education system. The specific
activities to be supported by this Component include:
1 .(i)  Reforming legislation ,eoverning higher education
This activity will support legislative reform necessary to grant universities more autonomy over their basic
operations and procedures, and particularly over their budgetary resources. It will also establish conditions
for more effective operation of the universities' umbrella governing body, the SCU. The initiative will also
support the development of a legislative framework for the new TC system which will supplant the current
MTI system. This will define the new management practices for governing the TCs. It will grant TCs
greater autonomy over their day-to-day operations, including enrollments, staffing and expenditures. It will
also detail how the TCs' umbrella governing body, the Supreme Council of Technical Colleges (SCTC),
will operate. The project will support communications strategies to ensure widespread knowledge and
understanding of the legislative reforrn efforts.
l.(ii) Rationalizing funding allocation mechanisms
In an initial effort to rationalize higher education financing practices, this activity will finance international
and local technical assistance to design an improved system for allocating resources across higher
institutions. This system will be based on a rational finding formula, whose design will reflect the
widespread consensus of stakeholders. Additionally, a social assessment of parents, students and other key
stakeholders will be undertaken to identify acceptable and feasible cost recovery mechanisms for the higher
education system.
1.(iii) Establishing a National Ouality Assurance Council (NOAC)
This initiative will finance technical assistance to guide the establishment of a NQAC. The NQAC will
have considerable autonomy and will establish a performance standard and benchmarking system for both
the universities and the TCs. Ultimately, the NQAC will work towards development of an accreditation
system for higher education institutions.
-8 -



I.(iv) Capacity Building and Management Training
This activity will finance training for members of higher education governing bodies and higher education
administrators in management and financing practices and in the use of technology to rationalize and
routine administrative procedures. This activity will also finance the establishment of an integrated
administrative and MIS system for both the university and TC institutes. These MIS systems will be
structured to meet the needs of individual institutions as well as oversight/umbrella governing bodies. The
activity will finance technical support, equipment and training necessary for the establishment and
operationalization of the MIS.
1 .(v) Establishing a Higher Education Enhancement Project Fund (HEEPF) (see Annex 12)
This activity will help establish the HEEPF fund which will fund competitive proposals submitted by
higher education institutions to improve teaching and learning, build collaboration between universities and
TCs, and between the respective institutions and the private sector, and enhance institutional management
and efficiency. A similar fund was trialed under the Bank-supported Engineering and Technical Education
Project and was deemed to have been highly effective in the project ICR.
Component 2: Improve the qualitv and relevance of university education
This component will support efforts to improve the quality and relevance of university education. The
activities being supported under this component aim at addressing quality concerns by responding to needs
for new learning technologies, equipment, and human resource development. The HEEPF (see paragraph
l.(v) above) will earmark resources specifically to support university-, department-, and faculty-led
initiatives to enhance the quality of instruction and research activities in public higher education
institutions. It will finance competitive proposals which support development and employment of new
instructional pedagogy, development of new curricula which integrate new information technology,
fellowships for study and sabbaticals abroad, initiatives which directly strengthen research capacities, and
relevant technical assistance. It will also support partnership programs with industry to improve relevance
of curriculum and research. The NQAC (see paragraph l.(iii) above) will also play a vital role in ensuring
the quality of university programs.
2.(i)  Establishing an integrated computer and network infrastructure
This activity will finance the establishment of a university IT system which is robust and includes
standards-based infrastructure, including hardware, software, associated applications, intra- and
inter-university connectivity, and global connectivity through the Internet. The activity will support
important technical assistance in integrating all aspects of hardware, software, communication links,
training, and support into a coherent, sustainable structure. The activity will also finance in-service
training for university faculty and instructors to develop their competencies in the use and application of
instructional technology in their teaching. Professional faculty development will be supported for about
5,000 faculty over the life of the Project. Additionally, the activity will finance the establishment of pilot
Instructional Technology and Distributed Learning centers in two universities (Cairo University and Suez
Canal University) which will operate as "centers of excellence." They will build university faculty capacity
to integrate instructional media into coursework and deploy instructional media in distributed learning and
online education.
-9-



2.(ii)  Traininz for faculty and staff
This activity will finance in-service training for university faculty and instructors to develop their
competencies in the use and application of computer technology, particularly in terms of integrating IT into
their teaching methodologies. The activity will support training for about 5,000 staff (10 percent of
academic staff in public universities) over the life of the Project. Training will consist of instruction in
computer software operation, Internet operation, distributed learning methods, instructional design
processes, course administration, and learning assessment and evaluation.
Component 3: Improve quality and relevance of mid-level technical education
This component will support efforts to improve the quality and relevance of institutions providing mid-level
technical education. This will entail extensive restructuring of the system and a comprehensive overhaul of
teaching content and practices. The component will specifically finance:
3.(i)  Consolidation of the MTIs into TCs
This activity will finance audits of existing physical and human resources in the MTIs in order to
consolidate 47 MTIs into 8 TCs, rehabilitation of physical facilities, management training for staff who
will assume responsibility for the TCs, and the establishment of working linkages with sirnilar regional and
international institutions. Funds will support training of each TC cluster with one or more foreign
institutions or professional association with similar mission statement.
3.(ii) Curriculum design and instructor training
This activity will finance the development of a new, more relevant curriculum, prepared in consultation
with employers. The activity will specifically support technical assistance in the preparation and design of
the curricula, and support training for instructors in technical, IT, English and teaching skills. It will also
finance the establishment of new units in the TCs which will provide customized in-service employee
training programs for industry on a cost-recovery basis. The HEEPF (see l.(v) above) will also earmark
specific funds to support competitive proposals submitted by TCs which will enhance instructional quality,
including fellowships and sabbaticals abroad for faculty, curriculum design undertaken in partnership with
the private sector, relevant technical assistance, etc.
3.(iii) Strengthened academic administration and management
A new management structure, holding greater autonomy and, consequently, greater responsibility, will be
established to administer the TCs. Management will be expected to foster improved quality and promote
greater efficiency and effectiveness in service delivery. Management structures will also be required to
work in close partnership with employers. To build and support these key management functions, this
activity will finance training to ensure administrators effectively adopt a competency-based student
evaluation and records system, and that they can effectively utilize IT and MIS systems.
- 10 -



Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)    financing
Improve efficiency through the reform  Tertiary Education  33.13  55.2    30.26      60.5
of governance and management
through: (i) changing/ introducing
legislation; (ii) rationalizing resource
allocation mechanisms; (iii)
establishing NQAC and quality
assurance mechanisms; (iv) building
planning and management capacity
(training, TA, equipment, MIS); and
(v) establishing a HEEPF.
Improve the quality and relevance of  Tertiary Education  9.37   15.6       6.20      12.4
university education through: (i)
establishing integrated computer and
networking systems; (ii) faculty
training; and (iii) developing an
inter-university library system.
Improve the quality and relevance of  Tertiary Education  17.00  28.3      13.04     26.1
mid-level technical education through:
(i) consolidation of MTls into TCs; (ii)
designing new curricula and upgrading
instructors; and (iii) strengthening
academic management and
administration.
Total Project Costs                  59.50      99.2     49.50       99.0
Front-end fee                     0.50       0.8      0.50       1.0
Total Financing Required                    60.00     100.0     50.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support systemic reforms outlined in the Declaration emanating from Egypt's National
Conference on Higher Education (February 2000) and in the Government's 15-year Framework for Action.
The reforms will underpin improvements in governance, efficiency, quality and relevance. Key policy and
institutional reformns to be supported include:
*   Changes in the legislative framework governing higher education: Modifications of key legislation
and regulatory frameworks for university institutions, and the creation of a framework for
non-university institutions will increase institutional autonomy, allow for institutional diversification,
and introduce incentives which will stimulate greater efficiency, productivity and, ultimately, quality
improvements.
*   Fiscal rationalization: Important policy and institutional reforms which will foster greater efficiencies
in resource use, as well as improved budgetary planning and management, are being supported under
the Project. These include changes in legislative framework which will accord institutions greater
- I 1 -



control over the use of their budgetary resources, and the introduction of a competitive fund system
(HEEPF), which will finance workprograms furthering enhancements in management, quality and
relevance.
*   Restructuring of mid-level technical education: The Project will support the consolidation of 47 MTIs
into 8 TCs. This is an important institutional reform: it will ensure mid-level technical education is
cost-effective; that institutions provide an enhanced and more relevant training; and that they offer a
quality, but lower-cost, alternative to university education. The Project will also strengthen private
sector involvement in the TCs by including private sectoT representatives on the governing board for
the TCs (the SCTC) and by encouraging private sector consultation on curriculum development issues.
Once fully operational, TCs will be required to progressively reduce their reliance on public subsidies
and attract funding from the private sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: A range of benefits will be derived from the Project. Improvements in the governance,
management and efficiency of the higher education system will ensure better utilization of resources, fairer
deployment of those resources, and help Egypt maintain higher education coverage rates at a time when the
population of young adults is increasing significantly, at close to 6 percent per year. Improvements in the
quality and relevance of higher education, and expanded access to IT and related skills and knowledge, will
ensure that graduates gain higher-levels skills which are better matched to market needs. In the
universities, more applied and practical learning will help develop a professional and managerial cadre that
will be more competitive in a local market increasingly open to foreign investment and international
workers. In the TCs, a significantly better quality of education, supported by instructors with up-to-date
knowledge, improved equipment, and closer ties to industry and business will respond to private sector
demands for employees with mid-level skills.
Beneficiaries: These will include:
*   higher education students who will receive a better quality education and be better prepared for, and
more productive in, a rapidly changing economy;
*   public and private sector employers who could recruit better-trained workers at mid-skill, professional
and managerial levels from the local market, and who would invest less in initial on-the-job training;
and
* faculty and instructors in higher education institutions who would upgrade their skills, work in more
dynamic and interesting institutions, and have improved access to resourcing for applied research and
professional development.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Project will be implemented from 2002 to 2007.
4.1    Institutional arrangements:
The main institutions responsible for the HEEP are: (i) the Ministry of Higher Education; (ii) the Supreme
Council of Universities (SCU); (iii) the participating universities; and (iv) the Project Management Unit
(PMU). These agencies will provide all necessary expertise and supervision for the policy aspect of the
Project. The PMU will be the unit responsible for managing the Project on a day-to-day basis. Some of
the entities will have to be established to harmonize the national higher education framework: these entities
are (i) the Supreme Council of Technical Colleges (SCTC); (ii) the Higher Education Enhancement Project
- 12 -



Fund (HEEPF); and (iii) the National Quality Assurance Council (NQAC). The clustering of MTIs into
Technical Colleges will also require new organizational arrangements within some departments of the
MOHE itself.
HEEP Organizational Structure
Ministry
of
Higher Education                  - ------
Project
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~MI
4.2  Eecutngagemncis
Supreme Couns l oupreme Couna l                         Higher Education
of                of                             Enhancement Projec
Universities    Technical Colleges                         Fund
[~~~~~ Committee (HEEFC)
4.2    Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Higher Education (MOHEI
The MOHE will play a political and a guiding role in the reform activities by: (i) introducing new higher
education legislation; (ii) establishing learning technologies and a multimedia national center; (iii)
establishing library and learning resources; (iv) modernizing the MIS system for university administration
and management; (v) establishing a national center for developing tertiary education administration and
management; (vi) establishing centers of excellence in higher education; and (vii) establishing a NQAC.
Some departments within MOHE and the Councils need restructuring to enable them to perforrn their new
roles and functions. Technical assistance will be provided under the Project to assist this transition
process.
The Supreme Council of Universities (SCU)
The SCU will play a pivotal role in ten of the eleven higher education reform initiatives being financed
under HEEP. The SCU is piloting different reform initiatives in different universities and will follow up on
progress made and assess the results of each pilot before replicating it in other universities. The SCU will
- 13 -



establish guiding principles for the key activities listed below:
*   Introduction of new higher education legislation
* Establishment of a national center for learning technologies & multimedia
*   Development of network infrastructure for new information technology
* Faculty development
* Modernization of MIS system for universities administration & management
*   Establishment of national center for developing university education administration & management
*   Diversification of funding sources
*   Operationalization of NQAC
The Supreme Council for Technical Colleges (SCTC)
SCTC, once established within two years after Effectiveness, will focus on the establishment and
development of the TCs. The SCTC will need further capacity building and restructuring to enable it to
undertake its role effectively. Full coordination between the SCTC and SCU will be sought in order to
learn from successful experiences on both ends and to avoid duplication.
The Higher Education Enhancement Fund Committee (HEEPFC)
HEEPF is a critical structure for establishing incentives for improved performance and quality in the higher
education system. A HEEPF permanent committee will be established within two years after Effectiveness
of the HEEP Project. This committee will consist of eight members and will be responsible for setting up
specialized committees which will evaluate the proposals submitted by the different universities and
institutes. Proposals will be solicited in the areas of (i) pedagogic and quality enhancement; (ii)
entrepreneurial development and private sector/TC partnership; and (iii) upgrading management. Adequate
private sector representation will be required in all specialized committees to ensure that the selected
proposals are responsive to labor market conditions and needs. Approved proposals will be implemented
by the submitting university or institution.
Universities
Universities will be responsible for preparing pilot proposals within the areas of their interest for pilot
experimentation. To encourage decentralization of procurement and financial management the World Bank
Cairo Office staff will conduct several procurement, disbursement and financial management seminars for
participating universities. World Bank staff will also be instrumental in the university procurement and
financial management certification process. After certification the university will be entitled to conduct its
own procurement (other than ICB) and will have its own financial management system. If a university is
not certified, the PMU will continue to procure the required materials/goods, works or services on behalf of
the university until certification is granted.
4.3    Project Management
The former Project Implementation Unit of ETEP has more than nine years of experience in Bank project
management, including familiarity with the Banks procurement and financial management guidelines. This
unit has been reinstated as the Project Management Unit (PMU) for HEEP. The HEEP PMU will be
responsible for coordination with newly established organizations, including SCTC and NQAC and
HEEPFC. The PMU's activities will include: (i) opening and maintaining separate Special and local
accounts; (ii) implementing the different procurement actions and procedures in full conformity with the
- 14 -



Project procedures; and (iii) monitoring performaance of the Project overall.  Under HEEPF, the
procurement and financial management capacity of participating universities and other higher educational
institutions will be assessed. If their capacity is satisfactory to the Bank, each of these certified institutions
will have its own Special Account to manage the funds they receive through the HEEPF. For all other
universities and institutions, the PMU will maintain overall responsibility for the procurement actions,
documentation and record keeping, as well as for all overall financial management tasks. The PMU will
also administer in parallel the second special account of the Education Enhancement Program (EEP)
supported by IDA through an Interim Trust Fund ITFN0008 (project no. P005169).
For service contracts, the technical commnittees established by the SCU/SCTC or the MOHE will be
responsible for reviewing and following up on the technical input of the technical assistance and
recommending actions for the approving authority. The HEEP PMU will be responsible for all necessary
procurement actions. A detailed procurement plan for the first year of project implementation is part of the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The plan has been appraised by the Bank and found to be satisfactory.
The PIP will be updated during supervision missions and extended to cover subsequent years.
NQAC, once established within two years after loan effectiveness, will be a fully independent organization
which will report directly to the Minister of Higher Education.
4.4    Financial Management
The PMU will be responsible for the overall projec.t procurement, budgeting, financial, accounting and
reporting functions.  The financial management arrangements of the PMU  satisfy the minimum
requirements of the Bank. More specifically, the accounting and procurement staff have significant
experience in general accounting and Bank-specific financial management, procurement, and disbursement
matters.
The management of the HEEPF grants component of the project will eventually be handled by eligible
post-secondary institutions. At present, however, the accounting system and internal controls used at
universities are based on governmental norms and do not meet the IBRD's requirements for proper
financial management. As such, the Project's financial management functions, including budgeting,
procurement, recording financial transactions, maintaining accounting records, treasury functions, and
preparing periodic and annual financial reports, will be managed through the creation of a Special
Accounts for Universities (SAU) within each targeted university to handle financial and procurement
aspects. Until the SAU with adequate FM systems are put in place, the PMU should handle all financial
management and procurement issues for all universities. The triggering mechanism for the transition from
PMU to university managment will be the certification by a Bank Financial Management Specialist that the
univeristy's SAU meets the Bank's FMS requirements.
Accounting and Financial Reporting: The PMU director will ensure the issuance of the annual project
financial statements (FS) and quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR), as well as the submission of
these documents on a timely basis to the Bank and to the auditors. The format and content of the FMRs
were determined as part of project appraisal, agreed at negotiations, and included in the Financial
Management Manual. The PMU's financial officer is currently finalizing a comprehensive set of
accounting policies and procedures manual. The PMU is also finalizing the organizational structure with
detailed job descriptions for all staff. At the recommendation of the appraisal mission, the PMU has hired
an additional accountant and has agreed to hire one more accountant and an MIS supervisor after loan
effectiveness.
- 15 -



Audit: The PMU is in the process of appointing a private independent auditor acceptable to the IBRD to
carry out an annual audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing. The audit report
(together with management letter) will be submitted to the IBRD not later than 6 months from the end of
the fiscal year. The appointment of the auditor will be in accordance with the IBRD's guidelines with the
cost of the audit financed from the loan (see Annex 6).
PMU audit arrangements: Auditors should be engaged before loan effectiveness. A copy of the audit report
together with a management letter should be communicated to the Bank no later than six months following
the closing of the fiscal year subject of audit. The external audit report should encompass all project
activities under the loan agreement (including implementing agencies and uncertified universities) and
should be in accordance with the Bank auditing requirements and conducted according to International
Standards on Auditing. It will cover the project's financial statements, reconciliation and use of the SA,
use of direct payments, and withdrawals based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).
Universities audit arrangements: Before a university is certified as capable of handling its financial and
procurement functions and allowed to have a separate special account, qualified and independent auditors
should be engaged. Once a university's SAU is certified, a copy of the audit report together with a
management letter should be communicated to the Bank no later than six months following the closing of
the fiscal year subject of audit. The external audit report should encompass all sub-project activities
handled by the university and should be in accordance with the Bank auditing requirements and conducted
according to International Standards on Auditing. It will cover the sub-project's financial statements,
reconciliation and use of the SA, use of direct payments, and withdrawal based on SOEs.
Disbursements: Disbursements would be made against SOEs with full documentation and direct payments.
4.5    Project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
The PMU would be responsible for coordinating monitoring reports from Implementing agencies on
progress against agreed-upon performance indicators (Annex 1). For this purpose, it would develop and
maintain a project information system which would generate annual progress reports for the MOHE and
relevant donors, including the IBRD. The MOHE's technical units and universities responsible for
implementing each Project component will provide the PMU with regular (quarterly) progress reports
summarizing the current status of Project implementation, including financial records, explanations for
deviations from agreed-upon implementation plans, constraints and corrective measures to be taken. The
PMU will also contract independent technical auditors to undertake a technical review of each Project
component. These reports will be consolidated by the PMU and included in the quarterly FMR and Annual
Progress Reports. The PMU would prepare a detailed mid-term report and submit it to IBRD by
December 31, 2004, to serve as the basis for the mid-term review which the IBRD and the Borrower will
conduct by March 31, 2005. The PMU would also prepare an Implementation Completion Report within
three months of the closing date of the loan.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Support fewer specific reform initiatives. IBED is supporting 11 of the 25 specific reform initiatives
identified by National Conference participants, and endorsed by the Government in its Framework for
Action. The idea of providing support for a defined and narrower set of initiatives, such as those which
- 16 -



specifically support IT, was considered. However, it was decided that a narrower focus would not help
ensure that fundamental obstacles to improved system-wide performance would be addressed. Hence, a
decision was made to provide broad-based support to ensure that all strategic areas of the Egyptian higher
system will be covered.
Support only reform of the university system. The idea of providing support only for reform of the
university system was considered. This option was rejected because the MTI system (a) constitutes a
significant proportion (22%) of higher education enrollments; (b) has a potentially key role to play in
economies such as Egypt's in meeting the need for technicians and middle managers; and (c) provides a
lower cost alternative to a university education which cannot feasibly be expanded.
Predefine all investments. This option was rejected because it would not bring about the needed procedural
and operational changes in resource allocation. The introduction of a competitive grant system, such as
HEEPF, creates incentives for individual- and university-driven improvements which are more likely to be
sustained in the longer term.
- 17 -



2. Major related projects fmanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.                          J    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Apprentice training for industry;  Cr.68 I-EGT Education I        S            S
Technical training; Skilled worker  (1977)
training; Vocational instructor training.
Manpower development: training   Cr.868-EGT Education II          S            S
skilled workers, technicians,    (1978)
management.
Training primary and secondary
teachers.
Training skilled workers; technicians,  Cr. 1069-EGT Education III  S          S
and managers; Training secondary  (1980)
mathematics and science teachers;
Improving university-level teaching
skills.
Vocational training workers in   Ln.2264-EGT Vocational           S            S
construction and industry; Upgrading  Training (1983)
and expanding instructor training.
Manpower training for technicians and Ln.2594-EGT Vocational      S            S
engineers.                       Training, Electricity (1985)
Engineering education development  Ln.3137-EGT Engineering &      S            S
Technical teacher education dev't.  Technical Education (1989)
Distance education; In-service teacher  Cr.2476-EGT Basic Education  S         S
trainig; MOE institutional       Improvement (1993)
development; Educational MIS.
Sector wide reform; Access and equity; ITF N0080 Education        S            S
System efficiency; Student       Enhancement Program (1997)
performance.
Reform of secondary education to  Cr.3194-EGT Secondary           S            S
improve equity, opportunity and  Education Enhancement
relevance.                       Program (1999)
Other development agencies
USAID                            Basic Education Program
(1981-1994)
UNICEF                           Multigrade comnunity schools
(1992)
UNDP                             Institutional Development,
MOE (1993)
KFW                              Building and renovation of
primary schools (1997 - 1999)
African Development Bank         School construction
- 18 -



USAID                             Girls' education (1997)
USAID                             Alexandria experimental
education reform project (2001)
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Egypt has had nine World Bank-supported projects since 1997 addressing issues in general education and
manpower development. The proposed Project would be the second operation in higher education. The
following lessons of implementation have been derived from higher education sector work in Egypt, from
the just completed Engineering and Technical Education Project, from the ongoing World Bank-supported
EEP and SEEP projects, and also from ongoing higher education projects in Tunisia, Argentina, Brazil and
Indonesia. The following lessons have been incorporated in the Project preparation and design:
*   Project design should take a comprehensive approach to sector reform, given the complex and highly
politicized nature of most higher education systems.
* Large-scale reform initiatives are always politically contentious. A broad range of stakeholders and
interest groups should be consulted and involved in the design of the reform agenda.
* Integrated planning systems and good system-wide management information systems are critical in
undertaking, monitoring and assessing progress on higher education reforms.
* To be cost-effective and sustainable, higher education technical education programs must provide
students with general, not specific, skills, which prepare them to learn quickly on the job, be flexible
and adaptable, capable of solving problems and working collaboratively as part of a team.
* Higher education institutions training mid-level employees need to establish strong links with local
industry and business and be driven by their requirements.
* Efforts to improve the quality of higher education institutions are most likely to be effective and have
sustained results if individuals and institutions are encouraged to own and participate in the reform
through incentive programs. Top-down reform initiatives yield few positive or lasting outcomes.
* Procurement of equipment funded under a competitive grants program, such as the HEEPF, should be
done by selected individual institutions rather than in bulk through a project implementation unit.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Higher Education Reformn Strategy (HERS) has been a Govermment-driven initiative, with technical
support and input provided by the World Bank, which has involved a wide array of stakeholders and
interest groups. The MOHE constituted a HERS Commission in 1997 at the recommendation of the World
Bank team to drive the reform agenda and build national agreement around the specifics of the reform.
Consensus on the reform was gained in the course of consultations held over an 18-month period. A
detailed Declaration outlining the reformn agenda and identifying 25 strategic refomm initiatives was agreed
upon at a National Conference held in February 2000, which was attended by 1,200 participants. The
National Conference was funded by the Prime Minister's Office with contributions from all of Egypt's
higher education institutions. The Declaration was officially endorsed by the President and the Prime
Minister.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has added value to the reform initiative by acting as a catalyst for the reform momentum and
providing technical assistance from intemational experts. The Bank initiated the first consultations and
discussions on the need for higher education reform. These consultations stimulated broader Govemment
- 19 -



discussion on this issue and ultimately fostered widespread commitment to sector reform. The Bank was
able to provide extensive information on "good practice" experiences in other parts of the world and
identify and attract international experts who could work collaboratively with local specialists in defining
the reform agenda. British DfID worked with the Bank to provide technical assistance to the Government
in the preparation of this Project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Both social and private rate of returns have been estimated for Egypt using the 1997 Integrated Household
Survey (EIHS). The returns are estimated for each successive educational level. The results are clear: the
returns to higher education are significant, and are particularly high for university education. The social
return estimates are particularly informative, given that they take into account the high public subsidies
accorded to higher education. They still show what are not insignificant returns to higher
education-slightly more than 9 percent at the university level and close to 5 percent at the technical
institute level. The difference between the private (19.4 percent) and social returns (9.3 percent) signals the
high demand for higher education. This points to the scope for increasing private sector provision of higher
education and indicates the potential for the introduction of cost recovery in public institutions. The HEEP
will create an environment which will foster diversification of financing to stimulate (a) private sector
provision of higher education; and (b) cost recovery in public institutions. Within the public sector,
irnportant steps to rationalize financing are included in HEEP which support and build on initial steps
Government has instituted to recover costs, albeit only in limited altemative programs (see also financial
analysis).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
In terrms of budgetary commitment, Egypt's spending on education is high, considerably higher than that of
most OECD countries. It allocates close to 19 percent of the public budget to education, as compared to
the OECD average of 13 percent. By intemational standards, Egypt's education expenditure is also high
relative to GDP: Egypt allocates 5.9 percent to education as compared to the OECD average of 3.4
percent. The Government has financed expansions in education spending by reallocating budget from other
sectors, with the result that education spending as a percent of GDP rose by 1 percent between 1990/91 and
1998/99.
Primary and secondary education have benefited significantly from the budgetary expansion; per student
spending increased even during a major demographic surge. Government has reallocated financial
resources from higher to lower levels of education. Pre-university education now absorbs around 70
percent of the education budget, a major achievement. However, the Government has, while reallocating
resources to pre-university levels, allowed very significant expansions in university enrollment to occur.
The net result has been a rapid decline in per student spending at the higher education level; decreases in
per student expenditures of the order of 9 percent, 3 percent and 1 percent in 1995/96, 1996/97 and
-20-



1997/98 occurred. In the absence of efforts to improve efficiencies in resource use, these cuts have
adversely affected quality and performance in most faculties and institutions.
Given the already high budget effort to education, it is unlikely-and, indeed, undesirable-that public
expenditures on higher education be increased. A key way of ensuring system sustainability under existing
financing scenarios would be to put a cap on the number of students who would be enrolled under full
subsidy. If students on full subsidy were reduced to the 1995/96 level of about 1 million by 2020 (implying
a decline of 1.5 percent per year from the 1999 enrollment of 1.4 million), per student current cost could
increase by 387 percent in real term. This increase would more than offset the recurrent costs incurred
from introduction of new information technology under HEEP. No increases in overall staff numbers nor
major civil works would be needed given the consequent reduction in publicly funded enrollment. This
projection is carried out under a conservative assumption that education as a percent of GDP be held at 5.0
percent of GDP until 2020 (instead of the current 5.9 percent). This projection also assumes that, of those
on full public subsidy, only 80 percent are attending full four-year university programs. The other 20
percent would be enrolled in the restructured TC system, or in the growing private university sector.
The issue of which students would qualify to receive full subsidies for higher education needs further
consideration. Ostensibly, students fulfilling higher academic admissions standards would qualify, but
some form of targeted subsidies for applicants from poorer backgrounds would need to be carefully
considered. However, students not meeting the required admissions levels would have several options still
open to them in pursuing higher education: (a) attend fee-paying alternative programs in public universities;
(b) attend subsidized high quality technical colleges; and (c) attend full cost recovery private universities
and technical institutes, which will be encouraged to expand under reformed regulatory framework, and
whose quality would be assured given the higher education accreditation system being introduced under
HEEP. Over a 20-year period, private institutions as well as public technical colleges should be able to
gain sufficient credibility to attract a doubling or tripling of students.  Over time, charging for
non-education services in public institutions may also become more acceptable with improved quality of
higher education institutions overall.
It should be noted that the current analysis does not take into account possible efficiency gains that might
be achieved under the HEEP. The introduction of a formula system for allocating institutional resources,
for example, and the introduction new efficiency measures introduced under the HEEPF, may improve
efficiencies and, undoubtedly lead to a more rational staff: student mix in different disciplines.
3. Technical:
Technical Assistance: Project development has benefited from expert technical assistance which will be
continued during implementation, particularly in the areas of legislative reform and development,
rationalization of funding allocation mechanisms, development and utilization of MIS, development of the
integrated computer and networking infrastructures, and curriculum development. Plans for needed
technical assistance are included in each of the Project components, and will build up existing technical
expertise in the country.
IT Hardware and Software: The IT aspects of the Project will involve introduction of new technologies
and systems. Technical assistance has been, and will continue to be, provided under the Project to ensure
hardware and software appropriate to Egypt's needs and compatible with Egypt's technological capacities
are selected. The establishment of pilot Instructional Technology and Distributed Learning Centers in two
universities will ensure that technology is well-integrated into higher education instructional and learning
- 21 -



systems.
Competitive Grants Program: The proposed Higher Education Enhancement Project Fund (HEEPF) can
be effectively managed by local institutions. Experience already exists in the management of such funds; a
competitive fund already operated effectively under the Bank-supported Engineering and Technical
Education Project. The Operations Manual governing this fund has been drawn on and adapted for use by
the proposed HEEPF.
Rehabilitation: Proposed rehabilitation, which focuses principally on the TCs, are well within the proven
technical capacity of the nationals. Rehabilitation will be in accordance with internationally recognized
standards.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agency is the Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE). The MOHE will provide support and
guidance in the following areas that require particular attention in terms of ensuring effective Project
implementation:
*  Submission to Egyptian Parliament of the necessary changes to the legislation to prepare the Project for
implementation
* Improvemnents in coordination and communication between the various units within MOHE
*  Restructuring of the SCTC under the Project during the first two years to prepare the agencies to be
able to play their new role within the higher education system
* Establishment of the committee for the Higher Education Enhancement Fund during the first two years
to ensure a fair and transparent selection process for the proposals submitted by the universities.
*  Establishing the National Quality Assurance Council within the first two years.
4.2 Project management:
Current MOHE staff have gained considerable experience in project management through implementing the
former ETEP project. The former PMU of ETEP has been reinstated as the HEEP PMU; this will enable
the MOHE to draw on the implementation capacity of this unit. This PMU has over nine years of
experience in administering and implementing a Bank-financed project working with Bank procurement
guidelines and disbursement procedures. The current staff possess a diverse skill mix to cope with all
implementation issues related to the project. The PMU is currently updating the procedural manual, has
hired an additional accountant since Project Appraisal and has agreed to further strengthen the Unit by
additional staffing. In addition, the HEEP PMU will receive technical assistance in reviewing and updating
the existing financial management systems and procedures in order to develop a computerized Project
Management Information System that would generate the quarterly Financial Management Reports
(FMRs) and establish auditing arrangements.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement capacity in the HEEP PMU has been assessed and found to be adequate for the
implementation of HEEP (see Annex 6). The Government has prepared the first year procurement plan
and the PIP. The documents have been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
4.4 Financial management issues:
There are two main issues relating to financial management: (i) difficulties in coordinating project
-22 -



activities; and (ii) delays in generating FMRs. Both issues are considered manageable due to the various
risk-mitigation measures taken. Nonetheless, these are highlighted here in view of their potential for
adversely affecting project performance. These aspects will be monitored closely as part of project
supervision. These risks are mitigated by the following factors:
* A well-staffed PMU for the project (HEEP's senior management has hired one additional
accountant since Project Appraisal and has agreed to hire another accountant, as well as an MIS
supervisor after loan effectiveness);
*   Clear and relevant financial policies and procedures (The PMU's financial officer is currently
working on finalizing a comprehensive set of accounting policies and procedures manual);
*   A competent, independent and qualified extemal auditor (A private firm is being recruited based on
a Bank reviewed TOR and according to the Bank procurement guidelines);
*   Installment of an integrated/automated accounting package to be tailored to meet the exact needs of
the PMU and other concerned parties - after loan effectiveness;
*   Close supervision by the World Bank.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
None foreseen.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The main social issue relevant to the project relates to inequity in reaching the higher education level.
Secondary students must pass a final examination in order to enter a university. In practice, students
whose parents can afford to pay for private tutoring have a distinct advantage over lower income students
to pass the exam. This issue is currently being addressed through ongoing World Bank projects for basic
and secondary education (EEP and SEEP). MTIs do offer an optional route into higher education for
students from disadvantaged parts of society; but the quality and relevance of their provision are poor,
many students drop out in mid-course and those who graduate in general have limited employment
prospects. A key objective of this project is to transform this situation, and achieve major improvements in
the quality of MTIs and in the education prospects and employment outcomes of students from the more
- 23 -



disadvantaged parts of society.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Government has ensured that the preparation of the higher education reform initiative has been a highly
participatory process. Indeed, the degree of consultation and participation elicited is unprecedented. The
consultative process spanned more than 18 months, involved a wide array of stakeholders in a series of
consultative forums and working committees, and culminated in a National Conference in February, 2000,
attended by 1,200 participants. The MOHE convened the National Conference, which resulted in
consensus being achieved around a Declaration for change. The Declaration was endorsed by both the
President and the Prime Minister. A Framework for Action, identifying 25 specific reform initiatives to be
pursued, was issued. The Bank has provided the Government with considerable support in this consultative
effort, including technical assistance input from intemational experts on key issues, and logistical and
financial support through a Japanese PHRD grant.
The Govermment recognizes the importance of continued consultation and information sharing with the full
range of stakeholders as the reform initiatives begin to get underway. It also acknowledges the special
emphasis that needs to be given to reaching key stakeholders such as students, parents, and communities
which often have less voice in policy making. Provision is made in the proposed project to specifically
support consultative and communications initiatives with stakeholders in the project components supporting
systemic reform initiatives and the restructuring and consolidation of the MTIs into upgraded TCs. A
social assessment will be undertaken early in Project implementation to gather information on parents' and
students' attitudes towards cost recovery at the higher education level. This will be important in informing
thinking on the rationalization of funding allocation mechanisms, an activity to be pursued under the
Project.
The HEEPF initiative is also designed to provide support for innovative projects which will be identified
and implemented by key stakeholders - higher education institutions, departments within them, and
individual faculty and instructors. Provision is also made under the HEEPF initiative to ensure that
stakeholders in the private sector - employers of university and mid-level technical graduates - are
integrally involved in the reform and further development of the institutions. The Project would also
support the development of the SCU and the SCTC, the key policy making body for the universities and
TCs, respectively. Each body includes a diverse mix of stakeholders amongst its representatives.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Stakeholders and NGOs will have a political and guiding role in the reform of higher education. NGOs and
the private sector will play a key part in determining the required skills of higher education graduates and
subsequently the curriculum of the higher education colleges and institutes. They will also play an essential
role in the tracer studies to be performed on higher education graduates during and after the reform
activities. The role of NGOs and stakeholders will not be limited to the above, but may exceed it to
support and establish new private institutionslMTIs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The HEEP Committee structure will continue in order to monitor reform progress and requirements.
6.5 How will the project monitor perforrrmance in terms of social development outcomes?
Tracer studies and attitude surveys will be conducted and surveys of employer perceptions will be
undertaken.
-24 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes S No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         O Yes O No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             L Yes S No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The following factors are likely to be critical to the sustainability of Project benefits:
The Project will contribute to the overall sustainability of tertiary education in Egypt through capacity
building at the system and institutional levels. Component 1 would support enhancement of national and
university planning and management capacity.
Sustainability of the competitive fund (HEEPF), which will provide incentives for improved sector
performance and efficiency beyond the lifespan of the Project, has been considered. Govermment has
responded to this issue by committing US$10 million to support the Project. This is an important
indication of the Government's commitment to HEEPF and indicates its intention to foster its continuing
development. Ultimately, however, the sustainability of HEEPF will hinge on its ability to identify and
fund highly successful initiatives. If its track record in this regard is good and is well documented, HEEPF
should have no difficulty in mobilizing the resources needed to ensure its continuance.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
SCU does not maintain strict admissions    H         During project implementation, a series
standards to cap the number of publicly              publicity campaign will be instituted to convince
funded students.                                     the public of the need to upgrade admission
standards to ensure quality. Furthermore,
admission standards will be made public and
transparent.
Institutions do not buy into NQAC          M         The process of developing the NQAC standards
standards assessment system.                         will be highly participatory so that institutions
would "own" these standards from the start.
-25 -



Senior administrators in higher education  M        A highly participatory approach will be used in
institutions do not support and endorse             change management, and pressure from all
changes in governance and administrative            stakeholders will prompt the change to take
procedures.                                         place
Institutions are not able to introduce and  S       Technical assistance will be provided to
implement performance criteria in the               introduce and monitor selection of and
selection and management of personnel.              management of personnel
From Components to Outputs
Parliament does not approve draft         M         Involving members of the parliament in the
legislation.                                        process of drafting the legislation would ensure
safe passage through Parliament.
MOF no longer supports higher education    H        Involving all stakeholders including MOF and
reform objectives.                                  parliamentarians in the reform process together
would help bring ownership and sustainability to
the reform objectives
SCU and SCTC are not fully                M         Technical assistance would be provided to
operationalized and efficient.                      support institution building
Institutions do not buy into NQAC          H        Technical assistance and benchmarking against
benchrnarking system and selection of               international standards would mitigate against
members to ensure competency and                    non-transparency
transparency is not done
Changes in administration and financing   H         Technical assistance and involving the
practices are not accepted by                       administrators in the process of designing the
administrators in the respective                    new process would mitigate against
institutions.                                       nonacceptance
HEEPF fails to elicit sufficient interest  N        Based on experience from previous project,
and competition in desired reform areas.            faculty interest became very high once full
participation in the process is ensured.
Institutions and faculty do not fully buy  N        Based on experience from previous project,
into and support the reform initiatives.            faculty interest became very high once full
participation in the process is ensured.
HEEPF does not create sufficient          N         Based on experience from previous project,
incentives for faculty to pursue and                faculty interest became very high once full
promote quality reform initiatives.                 participation in the process is ensured. Criteria
for HEEPF should be revised after a pilot phase
based on feedback from faculty members.
TCs do not fully support the reform       H         Selection of the head of TC based on objective
agenda.                                             criteria will be written into draft legislation. A
strong head will be crucial to implementing the
-26 -



reform agenda
SCTC does not become a fully effective     H         Technical assistance will be provided to support
governing body.                                      the SCTC
TCs are not successful in engaging the      H        Twinning arrangements with foreign institutions
private sector in their administration and           will assist and demonstrate successful
operation.                                           engagement with private sector.
TCs cannot positively influence public      H        Implementing an effective communication
and employer perceptions of middle                   strategy is part of the HEEP.
technical education
Demand for workers with technical skills   M         Full partnership between TC and employers
is decreased.                                        would mitigate this risk
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
A social assessment on cost recovery will be undertaken by the project. The assessment will identify
mechanisms for changing attitudes of policy makers, parents and students. The current interpretation of the
constitution is that higher education should be provided at no cost, and that any cost recovery is seen by the
public as unconstitutional and a violation of their rights. Emerging interpretation of the constitution in
order to change this attitude is that the core curriculum be provided at no cost to students and that parents
and students should be able to choose alternative education at cost. This, however, is not widely accepted
and awareness campaigns will need to be conducted in order for this change in attitude to be realized.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
None
H. Readiness for Implementation
C1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
- 27 -



L] 4. The following items are lacking and are discuissed under loan conditions (Section G):
3. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
LI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recomrnmended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Mae Chu Chang                           s Baudouy                   Mahmood A. Ayub
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Higher Education Enhancement Project
Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators                     .            Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To develop human        Increased employability and Government employment  Egypt will continue to
resources to build Egypt's productivity of higher  survey and tracer studies  pursue a private sector-
competitiveness in a global education graduates from                      led, export-driven economy
market, reduce          universities and TCs.    Surveys of employers'     which will be competitive
unemployment rates, and                          perceptions               in a global market.
increase living standards.
SCU/SCTC annual reports
produced from MIS
Project Development      Outcome / Impact        Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
To create conditions      Key legislative reforms  PMU Reviews             Political support for
fundamental to improved   enacted for the universities                    reform initiatives sustained
system quality and        to become effective     Supervision mission
efficiency through       self-governing institutions;  reports
legislative reform,
institutional restructuring,  Legislative reform enacted  SCU and SCTC reports
and establishment of      to establish independent  based on MIS output
independent quality       quality assurance
assurance mechanisms and  mechanisms;             Reports from NQAC on
monitoring systems.                               academic benchmarking of
Legislative framework in  institutions and
place for the Technical  departments
Colleges to become
self-governing institutions
with linkages to the private
sector;
Consolidation of 47
Middle Technical Institutes
into 8 Technical Colleges
accomplished;
Management Information
System developed and
operational for the
post-secondary sector.
Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Restructure the
governance and
administration of the
- 29 -



higher education system:
Increase institutional   Legislation in place granting Supervision missions  SCU maintains strict
autonomy on fiscal and   institutions greater fiscal                       admissions standards to
governance matters;      and management autonomy; PMU supervision reports  cap the number of publicly
funded students.
Establish governing bodies  Supreme Council of   SCU and SCTC published
with oversight, monitoring  Universities (SCU) and  annual reports
and reporting            Supreme Council for
responsibilities;        Technical Colleges (SCTC)
in place and overseeing
sector and institutional
performance;
Align technical institutes  Operational MIS guiding
with private sector interests, sector and institutional
establish HEEPF council to planning, management and
review competitive grants  budgeting practices;
proposals.
SCU and SCTC publishing
annual reports on system
performance and quality
based on MIS data;
Competitive grant fund
(HEEPF) being utilized to
support improved
management practices in at
least 50% of universities by
2007.
2. Create conditions for  All faculty and student have Supervision missions  Institutions buy into NQAC
improved quality and    access to IT and new                             standards assessment
relevance of instruction in teaching methodologies in  PMU supervision reports  system.
universities:           all 12 public universities by
infrastructure;  2007;                 MOF annual budget and
expenditure reports
Improve faculty use of  Two-thirds of all publicly
modem technology and    university students utilizing SCU and SCTC published
pedagogy;               internet facilities by 2007;  reports
Create competitive grants.  Around 5,000 instructors  Annual MIS reports issued
trained in integration of IT  by respective institutions
into instructional methods
and learning assessment and
evaluation by 2007.
3. Restructure mid- level Restructuring of 27 MTIs  PMU reports           Senior administrators in
technical education to  into 8 autonomous TCs                             higher education institutions
provide conditions for  linked to the industry   Supervision missions     support and endorse changes
- 30 -



improved quality and    completed by 2007;                              in governance and
relevance linked to local                       SCU and SCTC published  administrative procedures;
economy.                Redesigned curriculum,  annual reports
reflecting private sector                       Institutions able to introduce
input, introduced in TCs by NQAC reports        and implement performance
2007, benchmarked against                       criteria in the selection and
international standards;  Number trained by     management of personnel.
Instructional Technology
Each TC generating private and Distributed Learming
revenues equivalent to at  centers
least 10% of their public
recurrent budget by 2007;  Surveys of employer
perception
Proportion of higher
education enrollments
accounted for by TCs raised
by 5 percent by 2007.
Project Components I    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                       Outputs)
1. Reform system-wide   US$33.13 million
governance, management
and efficiency
Reforming Legislation:
Reform legislation                               SCU/SCTC reports        Parliament approves draft
governing universities;                          Progress reports       legislation
Draft legislation to govern
new TC system.
Rationalize funding
allocation mechanisms:
Design and implement a                          Progress reports         MOF continues to support
rational system for                             Disbursement reports     higher education reform
allocating sector resources;                    MOF budget and           objectives
Assess public perceptions of                    expenditure reports      SCU and SCTC are fully
cost recovery measures.                          Social assessment report  operationalized and effective
prepared
Establish a mechanism for
overseeing and monitoring
quality improvements:                           Progress reports        Institutions buy into NQAC
Establish a National Quality                    Disbursement reports     benchmarking system and
Assurance Council;                              NQAC reports             selection of members done
Develop performance                                                      to ensure competency and
standards and benchmarking                                              transparency
system.
Upgrade management and
governance capacity
- 31 -



Provide training to SCU and                      Progress reports         Changes in administration
SCTC governing bodies and                        Disbursement reports     and financing practices are
key institution                                  SCU and SCTC annual      accepted by administrators
administrators in                                reports                  in the respective institutions
management and financing
practices;
Design and operationalize
university and TC
system-wide and
institution-based MIS.
Create incentives for
improved governance and                          Progress reports        HEEPF elicits sufficient
performance:                                     Disbursement reports    interest and competition in
Establish fund to support                        SCU and SCTC annual      desired reform areas
competitive proposals                            reports
(HEEPF) which will
encourage innovations in
teaching and learning,
private sector collaboration,
and improved management
and administration
practices.
2. Improve the quality and US$9.37 million
relevance of university
education
Improve access to IT and                         Progress reports        Institutions and faculty fully
global knowledge base:                           Disbursement reports     buy into and support reform
Establish fully integrated IT                    Sinitiatives
network;
Operationalize pilot
Instructional Technology
and Distributed Learning
centers.
Train faculty in use and
application of IT:                               Progress reports         HEEPF creates sufficient
Develop and provide                              Disbursement reports    incentives for faculty to
training to faculty in IT                        SCU annual reports       pursue and promote quality
skills, instructional design                                              reform initiatives
processes, and learning
assessment.
3. Improve quality and  US$17.00 million
relevance of the MTI
System
Consolidate MTIs into
- 32 -



Technical Colleges (TC):                         Progress reports        TCs buy into and fully
Undertake audit of MTI                           Disbursement reports    support reform agenda
resources;                                       SCTC annual reports      SCTC becomes a fully
Refurbish facilities and                                                  effective governing body
provide equipment;                                                        with all members actively
Develop IT backbone;                                                      participating and being
Provide leadership training                                               selected for their experience
for new TC administrators.                                               and competency
TCs successfully engage
private sector in their
administration and operation
Redesign TC curriculum                           Progress reports        TCs can positively influence
and upgrade instructor                           Disbursement reports    public and employer
knowledge and teaching                           SCTC annual reports     perceptions of middle
skills:                                          Surveys of employers'   technical education
Design and develop new                           perceptions              Demand for workers with
curriculum with private                                                  technical skills is maintained
sector collaboration;                                                     or increased
Provide training for
instructors;
Operationalize Divisions for
Continuing Education to
develop customized
in-service training for
private sector employees.
Strengthen academic                              Progress reports        HEEPF creates sufficient
management and                                   Disbursement reports    incentives for faculty to
administration                                   SCTC annual reports     pursue and promote quality
Design and operationalize                                                 reform initiatives
MIS;
Design and introduce
competency-based student
evaluation and records
system;
Provide training to
administrators in IT and
MIS
- 33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Higher Education Enhancement Project
Egypt launched a significant and comprehensive effort to expand and enhance its education sector in the
early 1990s. It rightly accorded first priority to expanding and improving the quality of its basic education
system and sought support for this from the World Bank under the Education Enhancement Program
(EEP). There is now almost universal access to basic education. Egypt subsequently increased its focus on
secondary education, where great strides have been made. Secondary enrollment rates are now over 64
percent and concerted efforts are underway to improve quality and relevance. The Bank-supported
Secondary Education Enhancement Project (SEEP) is supporting these efforts by upgrading both general
and technical schools through the provision of quality improvements including the use of a wider range of
assessment methods and improved teaching techniques. Moreover, the Government has initiated steps to
strengthen its higher education system. The Minister of Higher Education consulted a wide range of
stakeholders in meetings and through the establishment of a National HEEP Commission consisting of
industrialists, parliamentarians and academics. The consultation culminated in a National Conference held
in February, 2000, which was hosted by the Prime Minister and attended by 1,200 participants, including
representatives of all higher education institutions. Consensus was reached at the Conference on a
Declaration for action and change. The Declaration was publicly endorsed by the President and the Prime
Minister. The Declaration has been translated into a Framework for Action which comprises 25 reform
initiatives. The Bank has elected to support 11 of these reform initiatives in this Project. This detailed
project description outlines the components and describes the activities to be supported under them.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$33.13 million
Improve efficiency through the reform of governance and management.
Project Component 1 supports 5 activities. All focus on issues of governance, management and efficiency,
but several are fundamental to, and play a key role in, improving system quality.
(i)    Reform legislation governing higher education: Legislation governing the university system is
complex and rigid, granting institutions limited autonomy to make decisions on even basic issues relating to
budgeting, enrollment and management. The MTIs are not governed by a legislative code, falling under the
direct supervision of the MOHE. The Project will support legislative reforrn necessary to allow universities
more autonomy and the development of legislation to cover the structure and operation of the new TCs
which will replace the MTIs. Specifically, it will support:
* Communications strategies necessary to inform and involve stakeholders in legislative reforms for
universities and TCs;
* International and local technical assistance for the reform of legislation governing universities, and the
development of legislation governing the TCs.
(ii) Rationalize funding allocation mechanisms: The allocation of resources to institutions is driven
by historical budgeting practices. Allocations do not reflect institutional needs or system priorities. Budgets
are usually simply incremental adjustments over the previous year. Budgets are allocated by line-item
category. Monies are not fungible across line-item categories. Budgetary practices stifle rationale
planning, do not promote efficiency, and discourage development of sound management. To move the
system towards adoption of more rational resource allocation mechanisms, this activity will finance:
- 34 -



* A social assessment of parent and student perceptions of cost recovery in higher education;
* International and local technical assistance to help design and implement a rational system for
allocating sector resources. The new system will allocate sector resources to institutions according to a
transparent, equitable, and formula-driven approach;
*   Stakeholder consultation and consensus building necessary during development of the funding formula;
* Staff training and equipment needs associated with operationalization of the funding mechanism.
(iii) Establish a NQAC: Currently, neither system nor institutional performance is systematically
assessed and monitored. Standards against which performance and quality are assessed are not in place.
Institutions and departments within them pay scant attention to evaluating teacher performance or student
learning outcomes. To redress this situation, the Project will finance:
* International and local technical assistance necessary to establish a NQAC. The NQAC will develop a
performance standard and benchmarking system for both universities and TCs. The NQAC will be
vested with a high degree of autonomy and will include representatives of higher institutions within and
outside the country, as well as employers;
* A consultative and communications strategy to support the NQAC initiative;
* Development of a full accreditation system for higher education institutions which will be overseen by
the NQAC.
(iv)   Build capacity, Develop MIS system, and train management:  Changes in the legislative
framework and in funding allocation mechanisms will significantly increase institutional autonomy and
confer new planning, management, and budgeting responsibilities on both institutions and their governing
bodies. An institutional assessment undertaken during Project preparation showed the need for capacity
building and management training. Governing bodies and administrators require significant training in
management and financing practices and also in the use of technology to rationalize and speed up routine
administrative procedures. Additionally, the operationalization of an MIS and provision of training for
administrators in its utilization will be necessary. This activity will therefore finance:
*   Training, technical assistance and equipment for governing board members and institutional managers
necessary to strengthen basic planning, management and budgeting responsibilities;
* Technical assistance, equipment and training required for the design and operationalization of modem
MIS systems for universities, TCs, and associated governing bodies.
(v)    Establish HEEPF (see Annex 12): Incentives to encourage higher efficiency, quality and
performance are all but absent from the higher education system. Deep and sustainable change will be
brought about most effectively if it is generated and supported by the key players in the higher education
system - administrators, departments, and instructors. The Project will support establishment of the
HEEPF, a fund which will provide incentives for institutions, departments and instructors to introduce
"owned" initiatives which will support improved system management, efficiency, quality, and relevance.
The HEEPF will fund competitive proposals submitted by institutions (universities and TCs) through 3
windows: (a) an academic window, which will encourage program and course innovations to improve
teaching and learning in academic departments; (b) an entrepreneurial window which will support
collaboration between universities and Technical Colleges, and between each of these institutions and the
private sector; and (c) a management window which will support projects intended to enhance management
and administration in the higher education sector. The HEEPF will have a designated Fund Coordinator
and an advisory committee of five members who will be key stakeholders in higher education institutes and
the private sector. A HEEPF Operational Manual has already been prepared to ensure transparency in the
- 35 -



selection and award processes. The HEEPF follows on from a very similar and successful competitive
Fund run under the Bank-supported Engineering and Technical Education Project.
Project Component 2 - US$9.37 million
Improve the Quality and Relevance of University Education
Project Component 2 focuses on needed improvements in quality and relevance at the university level and
finances three activities. The specific activities to be financed include:
(i)    Establish an integrated computer and network infrastructure: Improving access to IT is
central to updating and improving educational quality in the universities. Broader faculty and student
access to the internet will quickly expand access to information and academic materials, enhancing research
and learning. Better access to IT and computer systems will also provide students with skills which are
widely sought after by employers. Furthermore, the increased productivity that IT makes possible will
improve universities' capacity to deliver information to, and assess the performance of, the very large, and
expanding, number of entering university students. The foremost objective of this Project activity is to help
the university system establish a robust, standards-based infrastructure, including hardware, software,
associated applications, intra- and inter-university connectivity, and global connectivity through the
Internet. While a good part of the infrastructure has already been established in the university system, the
Project will provide important support in integrating all aspects of hardware, software, conmmunication
links, training, and support into a coherent, sustainable structure. The Project will specifically support:
*   Deployment of a high-speed network infrastructure, based on intemational standards, at each university
campus. The main principles for the network will be a high-speed ATM or Gigabit backbone, modular
switches at the Faculty levels, edge switches at the departmental level, and shared/switched hubs at the
labor or faculty office level. Local area networks will be financed by individual faculties and
departments;
o Establishment of pilot Instructional Technology and Distributed Learning (IT&DL) centers in two
universities (Cairo. University and Suez Canal University). These centers would be established as
"centers of excellence", with an official management structure and an allocated budget. Their core
objectives would be to build faculty capacity in integrating instructional media into their coursework
and to deploy instructional media for distributed leaming and online education. The Project will
support international and regional technical assistance for the establishment of the centers, for the
design and delivery of a faculty professional development certificate program, for courseware design,
and for the development of distributed and online learning methodologies.
(ii)   Train Faculty and Staff: University instructors currently have only the most limited access to
computer technology, networking systems, and the intemet. This activity will therefore finance in-service
training for university faculty and instructors to develop their competencies in the use and application of
instructional technology in their teaching. Professional faculty development will be supported for about
5,000 faculty over the life of the Project. The training will consist of instruction in computer software
operation, Intemet operation, distributed learning methods, instructional design processes, course
administration, and learning assessment and evaluation.
Project Component 3 - US$ 17.00 million
Project Component 3 supports three activities, these include:
- 36 -



(i)    Consolidate 47 MTIs into 8 Technical Colleges (TCs):
The 47 MTIs provide what is widely acknowledged to be substandard education and training. Most MTIs
are small-scale and, because of their resourcing and equipment constraints, have no hope to be
cost-effective. This activity will support the consolidation of the 47 MTIs into 8 TCs, required facility
refurbishment, upgrading of technical equipment, and introduction of an IT infrastructure.
The Project will support needed updating and modification of technical and computer equipment, and the
establishment of a networked library system. Financing will be provided for:
*   Audits of the MTIs human, physical, and technical resources to facilitate their consolidation and to
assess and cost new investment needs;
* Refurbishment of old facilities to acceptable international standards;
*   Specification and procurement of generic equipment for basic laboratories and workshops;
* Technical assistance for design and development of an IT backbone;
* Phased procurement of computers and associated equipment;
*   Establishment of a networked library system connected via the proposed Intranet;
* Training for TC governors and administrators in management, budgeting and communications skills,
and training for administrators and instructors in networking systems;
*   Establish training program with foreign institutions or professional associations.
(ii)   Redesign curriculum and train instructors: The curriculum of the MTI system is outdated and
does not meet labor market requirements. An MTI education has little reputational value and graduates
struggle to find employment. A better quality, more relevant curriculum will be introduced in the TCs.
TCs will also deliver in-service training courses in response to industry demand. This activity will finance:
* International and local technical assistance for development of a new curriculum and technical
specializations;
*   Design and implementation of communications strategies to engage employers, students and the public
in curriculum development decisions;
*   Auditing of qualifications of TC personnel and the development of personnel databases;
*   Training in technical, IT, English and teaching skills for all TC instructors;
* Scholarships so instructors can undertake studies and practicums locally and abroad;
*   Establishment of TC affiliations with regional and intemational higher technical institutes;
*   Establishment of Divisions of Continuing Education in TC's and development of customized in-service
employee training programs for industry.
(iii)  Strengthen academic management and administration: New managers will be appointed to
administer the TCs. These managers will oversee large, relatively autonomous institutions with close ties
to employers. This activity will finance training for key administrators to ensure institutional effectiveness
and efficiency, including:
*   Adoption of competency-based student evaluation and records systems;
*   Effective utilization of IT and the MIS.
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Higher Education Enhancement Project
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million  US $million
Reforming System-wide Govenance, Management and          22.27         7.28        29.55
Efficiency
Improving the Quality and Relevance of University Education  5.14      2.53         7.67
Inproving the Quality and Relevance of Higher Technical   8.12         5.56         13.68
Education
Total Baseline Cost                                      35.53        15.37        50.90
Physical Contingencies                                   1.79        I1.17         2.96
Price Contingencies                                      4.39         1.25         5.64
Total Project Costs              41.71        17.79        59.50
Front-end fee                    0.50         0.50
Total Financing Required             41.71         18.29        60.00
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category               US.$million   US $million  US $million
Goods                                                      10.39          7.10        17.49
Works                                                      4.02           2.74         6.76
Services and Training                                      11.60          7.85        19.45
HEEPF                                                      12.00          0.00        12.00
Operation and Maintenance                                   3.80          0.00         3.80
Total Project Costs     41.81          17.69        59.50
Front-end fee                    0.50         0.50
Total Financing Required     41.81          18.19        60.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.8 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 57.2 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 87 .41% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 38 -



Annex 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Higher Education Enhancement Project
Economic Analysis
The economic evaluation of this Project attempts to answer these questions: (i) Why should higher
education be the focus of this Project, as opposed to other levels of education? (ii) What is the rationale for
supporting public higher education? (iii) What would happen without this Project? (iv) What is the
economic rationale for the components of this Project?
Why an investment Project in higher education?
The proposed Project comes at a critical time in Egypt's economic development. The country is
restructuring its economy to better compete in the global environment and has recently signed a partnership
agreement with the European Union. To successfully compete in this international marketplace requires
that Egypt have the capacity to fully participate in new knowledge-based enterprises. The speed with
which Egypt makes this economic transition will be either facilitated or hindered by the relevance of its
higher education system-its universities and middle technical institutes (MTIs)-and its capacity to bridge
the growing digital divide. The system must produce graduates who contribute to a dynamic economy, in
which the private sector carries an increasing weight, and help bridge the expanding scientific gap between
Egypt and industrialized countries.
It is also important to note that the proposed project is part of a comprehensive strategy for education
reform in Egypt.  The Bank is already supporting basic education reform through the Education
Enhancement Project (EEP) (US$200 million) and the Secondary Education Enhancement Project (SEEP)
(US$50 million). Both EEP and SEEP are supporting Government's efforts to significantly upgrade the
quality and relevance of education, by changing pedagogies so students' conceptual and problem-solving
capacities are developed, and by introducing information technology into classrooms and instructional
practices. Additionally, SEEP is supporting reform of the secondary technical and vocational stream to
shift current focus on narrow specialization towards generic skills which are more fungible across
industries and which will increase the employability of graduates. SEEP is also supporting a shift in the
balance of vocational vs. general secondary schooling; the existing vocational:general mix of 70:30 will
change to 50:50 over the lifespan of the project. The profound changes being undertaken under the EEP
and SEEP projects will underpin, and feed into, the higher education reform effort, much of which is based
on changes in pedagogical method, vastly strengthened research and analytical capacity among faculty and
students, and widespread adoption of information technology for instructional and research purposes.
- 39 -



Earnings
400
350
300X -
250-p
200 4        
150                       ~                      | El Earnings
50-*
E E                          >
What is the rationale for supporting public higher education?
Egypt recognizes that it is not feasible to publicly finance all higher education. Secondary school
enrollment rates are increasing and this, together with the population increase, will raise higher enrollment
rates to between 1.25 and 1.66 million within five years. If, in addition, unit costs increase at the same rate
as real GDP, higher education spending as a share of GDP is predicted to increase from the current 1.6
percent to between 1.9 and 2.6 percent. The consequence of this growth, should it all occur in public
institutions, would be an increase in the percent of the Governnent's budget destined to higher education
from 5.6 percent to as high as 10.2 percent. This is clearly neither desirable nor sustainable. Consequently,
under HEEP the Govemment is working to establish a cap on student enrollments, and specifically a cap on
student enrollees receiving full subsidization. Specific mechanisms for cost recovery for non-education
services in higher education (e.g. student housing) will be identified, following extensive social assessments
of parents and students during the Project. Initial infomnal assessment during HEEP preparation has
indicated strong resistance, such that administrators felt that the risk of student uprising is not worth the
benefit of cost recovery for such services. On the other hand, cost recovery for altemative programs which
are perceived to be of higher quality and relevance has received strong demand. For example, a degree
program in Commerce which uses English as the medium of instruction charges LE1,000 in tuition in
public universities. The applicants for the program exceeds available space by nearly three times. While
the tuition is still only about 33 percent of the actual average unit cost of the program, this sets a precedent
towards cost recovery in public institutions.
This predicted fiscal burden of publicly financing all higher education demonstrates why the Government
wishes to encourage private supply. However, since the higher education system is currently almost
entirely public, it is unrealistic to expect to rely on nascent private sector providers to absorb the expanding
higher education student base.  The HEEP initiates the development of a more friendly, enabling
environment for higher education-and ultimately, private education-to ensure its future growth, while in
the short run addressing the serious problems of quality and efficiency in public higher education
institutions. And, the establishment of the National Quality Assurance Council (NQAC) under HEEP will
introduce accreditation based on objective quality criteria and external assessment. Such an accreditation
mechanism should bolster the confidence of the public to apply to private institutions. There will also be a
need to reform the legislation governing the higher education sector and undertake a careful assessment of
-40 -



what type and extent of cost recovery measures might be politically feasible and acceptable.
It will, also, require the creation of new financial aid mechanisms to ensure that private supply does not
limit equality of educational opportunity for the poor. In OECD countries, scholarship or student loans are
possible financial aid mechanisms. During Project preparations, IFC conducted an extensive feasibility
study (The Market for Student Loans in Post-Secondary Education in Egypt, June 1998). The study
recommended against launching a student loan program at this time. Key reasons were: (a) limited market
size; (b) underdeveloped debt/credit market; (c) cultural attitude uncomfortable with personal debt and
loans; and (d) lack of a consumer credit agency. In the future when students from low SES will have an
opportunity to enter and complete secondary education, a scholarship program could be considered during
the Project. Currently 98% of graduates from general secondary schools enter higher education. Greater
inequality, therefore, occurs at preparatory to secondary stage when disadvantaged students either drop out
or are streamed into the inferior vocational education schools.
What would happen without this Project?
A continuation of the status quo is clearly unsustainable. The nearly exclusive reliance on highly
subsidized public provision, together with the high level of inefficiency inherent in the system, will result in
further deterioration in the quality and relevance of education, and spiraling costs. Already, the increasing
numbers entering the higher education system has meant that resources have been stretched, with a
resultant 8 percent decline in per student spending. (Enrollments increased by a phenomenal 42 percent
between 1997/98 and 1998/99. The teaching staff increased by 7 percent.) The decrease in spending has
reportedly adversely affected quality and exacerbated disparities between faculties in resource allocations.
Recent data show that the four faculties which enroll three quarters of the students-commerce, arts and
humanities, education, and law-have an average student-teacher ratio of 119:1. If associate faculty
(teaching staff without a PhD.) are excluded, the ratio increases to 201:1. The situation is very different
for the faculties enrolling the other quarter of the students, notably medicine, agriculture and economy, and
political science, where faculty:student ratios can be as low as 2:1.
Quality and internal efficiency are significantly lower in the MTI than university system. This is reflected
in the high student failure rates, as shown in Table A4.1, below:
Table A4.1: Global Examinations Results in Industrial MTIs in May 1997.
Category                        Male              Female             Total
Nunber of Candidates                          19,649              14,530           34,179
Number of Students Taking the Examinations    19,288              14,166           33,454
Number Passing and Graduating                 9,610               7,673            17,283
% Graduating from Graduating Class Cohort      49%                53%               50%
Table A4.1 clearly shows that only around 50 percent of students in the final (second) year of study
actually graduate. Similar results are also observed amongst first year students, and the overall throughput
(intemal efficiency) is estimated to be less than 30 percent. Without intervention and support from the
proposed HEEP, these already low rates will likely decline further as resources become more stretched as
- 41 -



additional students from the population bulge are accommodated in the MTI programs.
What is the economic rationale for the components of this Project?
This section examines the sub-components for which benefits could not be easily quantified, in order to
determine whether there is a more cost effective way to achieve their respective objectives. The discussion
will focus on the NQAC, information technology (IT), management information systems (MIS), library
systems, and faculty development sub-components, as well as on the competitive window of the Higher
Education Enhancement Project Fund (HEEPF).
National Quality Assurance Council (NQAC)
Option 1                                        Option 2
To set up a NQAC with the mandate to accredit  To set up a NQAC whose mandate will be too coordinate
institutions and programs.                    institutional initiatives and to develop standards and
methods for an evaluative framework
Advantages                                      Advantages
Institutions and their respective units may be forced  There will be extensive consultations at all levels and as
into changing their practice toward becoming  a result, the academic community will become a
accountable more quickly.                     stakeholder in this process.
There will be sufficient practice time with built-in
support mechanisms to introduce a fundamental change
in institutional practice.
Adopted benchmarks and standards will take into
account the national context as well as intemational and
globally accepted professional standards.
It will provide sufficient time to develop local expertise
for running an accreditation agency.
Disadvantages                                   Disadvantages
Will anger academics and could result in major  There will be resistance from many faculty members and
resistance and disruption.                     programs since accountability has not been enforced in
the current system.
The decision would be top-down and will not have  There might be insufficient resources available to assist
drawn on any input from the grass roots.      units or individuals who want to improve.
It will ignore the efforts of those who have started  If there are no consequences for performance that does
work in this area in their respective institutions.  not meet standards, there will be no motivation to
change.
There will be insufficient practice time and resources
to help raise both awareness of and knowledge about
the process.
-42 -



Management Information Systems (MIS)
Purchase "off-the-shelf" package
Advantages                                Disadvantages
Pre-designed Higher Education "templates".  Requires substantial customization.
Faster development.                      Egyptian system too complex for off-the-shelf
package.
Few Arabized packages available.
High cost
Develop New System "in-house"
Advantages                               Disadvantages
Start with new "greenfield" requirements.  Slow implementation
Builds in-university technical capacity.  Requires substantial project management and
Easy to Arabize.                         monitoring skills
I Higher cost
Adapt and customize existing systems for system-wide deployment
Advantages                               Disadvantages
Builds on existing systems and efforts   Attaining consensus on which systems to use
Requires minimal new development         Assuring equitable division on labor in adapting
Little adaptations required               systems.
Easy to Arabize
Less costly
-43 -



Faculty development
Options
Establish a National Center for Development and Develop local expertise in faculty through intensive
link with local faculty based Faculty Development training at individual universities.
Center at the universities.
Advantages
It is centralized and can coordinate all.   Investment would be in human development rather than
structures.
The training sequence is hands on and extensive
opportunities to apply content as well as to mentor
colleagues in the same institution.
Training is focussed and is immediately applicable.
All institutions can benefit at the same time.
Disadvantages
There are insufficient number of who are trained  Training is intensive and requires commitment and
as faculty.                                 dedicated time from individual.
The initial investment would go toward up a Its success depends on the individuals selected to be trained
structure  without having the ones who have as faculty.
specialized in pedagogy.
A centralized unit will need extensive staff to deal
with very large numbers of program.
-44 -



Higher Education Enhancement Project Fund (HEEPF)
By the very nature of the HEEPF competitive window, sub-projects approved for funding can be expected
to be more cost-effective than projects approved without competition. The key to this reason lies in the
peer review process. All proposals received will be graded by the Peer Review Committees, and only
proposals judged good or excellent will be funded. Furthermore it is expected that, as the HEEPF gains
experience and recognition in the country, competition for funding will grow stronger. Peer review
committees and the Fund Committee will take into account such factors as the likelihood that the project
will achieve its stated objectives, the likelihood that its actual achievements will be socially or economically
important to Egypt, as well as to the scientific and technological community in general, and the degree to
which educational and training benefits are to be expected from the project. The successful introduction of
such an open peer review process for these decisions will be one of the major accomplishments of the
project.
Option 1                                   Option 2
To set up the HEEPF as a noncompetitive     To set up the HEEPF as a competitive fund that
development fund that supports projects identified  supports projects proposed at any level on the
as important by the SCU.                    basis of technical merit of the proposal and the
competency of the applicant(s) for
implementation.
Advantages                                  Advantages
SCU has a global picture of all institutions and  It will be a fair and transparent system so long as
their needs and can recommend projects that  the process follows the Fund Operations Manual.
would have a broader impact.                It could support sector-wide projects as well as
innovative ideas generated by individuals.
It could provide greater incentive and source of
motivation to acquire skills for systematic
planning, implementation, evaluation and
accountability.
Being awarded a grant could be used as an
indicator of academic performance.
The competition process will engender a desire to
learn how to prepare proposals and may lead to
the acquisition of other funds from international
organizations.
Disadvantages                               Disadvantages
The decision-making process will be in the control  May not be able to engage in a peer review
of a limited group.                         process because of inviolability of qualified
Its benefits will not reach a wider base.   individuals.
Some institutions may be favored.           The competition process may further separate
productive and accountable individuals from
their colleagues.
-45 -



Middle Technical Institutes (MTI) Reform
Strategies
Proposed Strategy     Alternative Strategy 1  Alternative Strategy 2
Defining        Development of the sector  Separate development  Franchising the MTls to the
Characteristics  through "clustering" of the  of 47 MTls through  Private Sector, and the
of Strategy     47 MTIs into 8 regional  traditional capacity   creation of a TEVT Fund to
Technical Colleges (TCs)  building and          support training in industry
institutional support.
Links to        Advantages: division of   Advantages: none      Advantages: Directly linked
Industry and    labor in the provision of                       and accountable to
Enterprises     skills between the TCs and                      employers.
the employers is possible,
with the former providing                       Disadvantages: International
basic and generic skills, and  Disadvantages:   evidence shows that the
the latter providing the  Difficulty in         private sector is more
advanced and work-related  establishing meaningful  interested in funding
skills.                  links to employers from  programs for the
a small and weak      development of advanced and
Disadvantages: Achieving  institutional base.   work -related skills than for
the objectives of the                           the development of the
proposed reforms needs                          "generic" and
political will and the                          "basic" skills for which the
adoption of major reforms                       TCs are intended.
in legislation and the
governance of higher
education.
Diversification  Advantages: Public funding  Advantages: None   Advantages: A Training
of Funding      for the TCs to develop basic                    Fund jointly funded by the
Sources         and generic skills is                           public and private sectors.
complemented by private                         The private sector - managed
sector support for provision                    fund can respond efficiently
of advanced and work                            to identified needs in
specific skills by employers.                   industry.
Disadvantages: The above-  Disadvantages: The   Disadvantages: Equity
mentioned expected support  lack or relevant links to  concerns related to the
from the private sector is  employers precludes  allocation of public resources
dependent on the          any meaningful        to a Training Fund intended
development of a shared   contribution from the  for benefit of the private
vision among all          private sector.       sector.
stakeholders; MOHE, the
TC sector and employers.
-46 -



MTI Reform (continued)
Autonomy in    Advantages: The proposed   Advantages: Familiar   Advantages: Control of
Governance     structures of governance   structures of          policy formulation and
and            including the Board of     governance and control  implementation resides with
Management     Trustees of the TCs would  represent a more      the employers and their
remove the direct          acceptable strategy to  organizations and
bureaucratic control of    MOHE.                  associations.
MOHE and ensure the
effective participation of
employers in policy        Disadvantages: This    Disadvantages: The lack of
formulation and decision   strategy will perpetuate  experience in the joint
making.                    the bureaucratic control  governance and management
that MOHE exercises   of a Training Fund would
Disadvantages:             over all non-university  create great difficulties in
Achievement of autonomy    institutions of higher  implementation initially.
objectives depends on the  education and would
willingness of MOHE to     frustrate all initiatives
relinquish control and the  to provide the MTls
political will of GoE to pass  with reasonable degree
the necessary legislation.  of autonomy.
Efficiency     Advantages: The clustering  Advantages: None      Advantages: Outsourcing the
of MTls into TCs will                             design and delivery of
provide the framework for                         training programs on a
sharing of resources to    Disadvantage: cost of  competitive basis to private
maximize the efficiency in  networking 47         providers of technical
resources' allocation and  scattered small MTIs  education and training could
utilizations.              would be prohibitive.  lead to improvement in
efficiency and cost-
Disadvantages: The sharing                        effectiveness.
of resources is dependent on                      Disadvantages: The global
the establishment of a viable                    track record of private
and reliable ICT network to                       delivery of technical
allow effective                                   education and training
communication among MTls                          services is inconclusive on
in the cluster.                                  the issue of efficiency and
cost-effectiveness especially
for basic and generic skills
formation.
Quality and    Advantages: The proposed   Advantages: None       Advantages: Methods of
Relevance of   involvement of employers                          quality assurance can be
Programs       (through program advisory                         readily incorporated in the
committees) in the design of                      design and delivery of
programs and the                                  services to ensure the quality
development of curricula will                     and relevance of programs.
ensure improvement in the
quality and relevance of                          Disadvantages: The lack of
TCs' programs.                                    knowledge and experience in
Disadvantages: The         Disadvantages: The     the private sector concerning
potential for continuous   participation of       the methodologies of
involvement and meddling   employers in program  technical and vocational
by MOHE in program review  design and curricular  education and training has led
could hinder the achievement  development is more  to poor outcomes in many
of quality and relevance   difficult to achieve in  countries such as the
objectives.                the small and scattered  Philippines where private
MTIs.                  service provision is the norm.
47 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Higher Education Enhancement Project
Implementation Period                                    Operational Period                     |
2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007     Total   2008    2009    2010    2011    2012
Project Costs                    =                                =
Investment     0.21    12.67    15.41   12.34   10.58  5.00     56.19
Costs__                                                    ___              ___             _   _  _ _
Recurrent      0.16    0.35     0.46   0.79     1.30   0.77     3.80    1.49     1.56   1.64     1.72   1.64
Costs                                  _I_
Total           0.37   13.02    15.86   13.13   11.88   5.76    60.00
Financing Sources (amounts)
3BERD          0.00    11.59  J 13.37  10.68   _9.57   4.79     50.00
DF1D 0.25              0.25     -      -        -      -        0.50
Republic of    0.12    1.18     2.49   2.45     2.31   0.97     9.50    1.49     1.56   1.64     1.72   1.64
Total          0.37    13.02   15.86    13.13   11 88  5.76     60.00   1.49     1.56   1.64    172     1.64
Financing Sources (as % of Project Costs)
IBRD          |0O/     890/o    84%0  | 81%     81%    83%    | 83%     00/o    0%    |0 0%     0%     | 0%
DFID           67%     2%       0%     0%       0%     0%               0%/O     00/  T 0%    0r/0     0%
Republic of    33%     90/a     16%    190/o    19%     17%     16%     100%   | 100%   100%     I00 /o  100%
Total           100/o  1000/c   1 000h  100p%   1000/c  100%  0I W     1000/     100%   100%     1000/c  100%
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Loan amount includes the capitalized Front-End fee of US$0.5 million
-48 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Higher Education Enhancement Project
Procurement
1.     General. Procurement of works and goods for the proposed Project will be carried out in
accordance with the "Guidelines- "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," January 1995
(revised in January and August 1996. September 1997, and January 1999); as well as those for "Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," January 1997 (revised September 1997 and
January 1999). A Geeneral Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in United Nations Development
Business (UNDB) upon approval of the Loan. All subsequent International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procurement of goods and all Requests for Proposals (RFPs) for consulting services with an estimated
contract value above UJS$200,000 equivalent will be advertised in UNDB. Procurement activities under
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be advertised in at least two national newspapers of
wide circulation.
2.     Works. (US$6.76 million) Works will include mainly the rehabilitation of the Middle Technical
Institutes (MTIs) and possibly some of the umversitv colleges (such as faculties of education) and other
buildings. Since these works are below an estimated value of US$600,000 equivalent and geographically
dispersed, they are unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders. Therefore, civil works will be procured
using NCB procedures: [BRD Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) and Standard Bid Evaluation Form
(SBEF) adapted to NCB will be used. The NCB bidding documents used under both Loan No. 2476-EGT
and ITF N0080-EGT have been previously reviewed and are acceptable to IBRD under this Project.
3.     Goods. (US$17.49 nio li '-il. Procurement of goods will include information technology equipment
such as servers, computers. equirpment for laboratories and libraries, technical books and special training
materials in addition to fLrniiture and general equipment for MTIs. To the extent possible, all the goods
will be packaged in lots suitable for ICB procurement. The procurement of goods with an estimated
contract value below U'S$250,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.3 million, will be
procured through NCB. The PMU will use modified SBD and SBEF for Goods. These documents have
been reviewed and are acceptable to IBRD. The procurement of goods with an estimated contract value
below US$100,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.6 million, will be procured through
Intemational Shopping (IS) procedures by obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers in two
different countries. National Shopping (NS) may be used for the procurement of goods with an estimated
contract value below US$50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregated amount of US$1.1 million, provided the
desired goods are available from more than one domestic source at competitive prices.
4.     Services and Training. (US$19.45 million). Services will include short-term  consultancies,
long-termn technical assistance, training services, architectural services, construction supervision and
financial auditing. For consultancies with an estimated contract value above US$100,000 equivalent, the
Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method and IBRD's Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) will
be used. For consultancies with an estimated contract value above US$50,000 equivalent and for all
specialized consulting services. the Quality-Based Selection (QBS) method and a simplified invitation for
competitive proposals will be used. For all other consultancies, Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) method
will apply and simplified contracts will be used. Single-source (SS) selections may be used with IBRD's
prior concurrence for consuitantcies with an estimated contract value below US$10,000 and for short-term
assignments.
-49 -



5.     HEEPF. (US$12.00 million). A HEEPF permanent committee will be established within the first
two years of the Project. This committee will consist of eight members and will be responsible for setting
up specialized conmmittees which will evaluate the proposals submitted by the different universities and
institutes. Proposals will be solicited in the areas of (a) pedagogic and quality enhancement; (b)
entrepreneurial development and private sector/TC partnership; and (c) upgrading management. Adequate
private sector representation will be required in all specialized committees to ensure that the selected
proposals are responsive to labor market conditions and needs. The evaluation process will follow the
procedures spelled-out in detail in the HEEPF Manual. Approved proposals will be implemented by the
submitting university or institution with assistance from the PMU in all areas related to procurement and
financial management.
6.     Prior Review.  The following procurements will be subject to IBRD's prior review and
concurrence: (a) all ICB procurement of goods; (b) the first three NCB procurement of works and goods,
irrespective of their contract value; (c) all selections of consulting firms with an estimated contract value
above US$100,000 equivalent and all selections of individual consultants with an estimated contract value
above US$50,000 equivalent; and (d) all single source selections of consultants; all other contracts will be
subject to post review during periodic procurement audits.
7.     Responsibilities. The PMU will be the unit responsible for managing the Project, opening and
maintaining separate Special and local accounts as well as implementing the procurement plan per World
Bank Guidelines and Procedures in full conformity with the Project. These responsibilities will be carried
out in full coordination with the Supreme Council of Universities (SCU), the Supreme Council of Technical
Colleges (SCTC), the Higher Education Enhancement Project Fund (HEEPF) and all other entities
participating in the implementation of the Project. The PMU is currently staffed with a procurement
specialist, a financial management specialist, an information specialist and a secretary. These experts are
familiar with IBRD procurement procedures and have implemented other Bank-financed projects. This core
PMU unit will be responsible for the proposed Project in relation to the procurement needs of the SCU, the
SCTC, the HEEPF, the MTIs and all other project entities. These implementing entities will work with the
PMU to finalize all necessary documentation. The PMU will take the lead in regard to procurement. The
implementing entity will be participating in finalizing the specifications (in case of goods and works) and
the Terms of Reference (TOR). The implementing entities will assist in the procurement process and will
be represented in the evaluation committees of every procurement. For training activities, the implementing
entities will receive from the PMU in advance, the estimated amount of travel and subsistence costs
necessary for conducting the training activity for two months. While the implementing entities keep all
necessary documentation for record keeping and audit purposes, they shall also send copies of all
documentation to the PMU for record keeping and facilitating the work of the reviewers and supervision
missions. Additional staff will be added and training will be provided to the PMU and the implementing
entities to improve their capacity in implementing and managing the project and to familiarize them with the
Bank new reporting requirements (FMRs).
8.     Procurement Planning and Monitoring. A detailed procurement plan for the first year of project
implementation is part of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)- see Annex 8. This plan has been
appraised by the Bank and found to be of satisfactory quality. The PIP will be updated during supervision
missions and extended to cover subsequent years.
- 50 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement Method
Procurement Arrangements          International  National
(US$ Million)                     Competitive  Competitive     Other
Bidding      Bidding                   N.B.F.    Total
A. Civil Works                               -        6.76             -        -      6.76
(4.73)                           (4.73)
B. Goods                                 14.66        1.85          0.97        -      17.49
(10.42)      (1.32)         (0.69)            (12.43)
C. Services and Training
Consulting Service                         -           -         14.02        -      14.01
(13.52)            (13.52)
Training Activities                        -           -          5.44        -       5.44
(5.36)             (5.36)
D. HEEF Fund                                -            -         12.00        -      12.00
(12.00)            (12.00)
E. Operating Expenditures
Operating Cost                             -           -          3.80        -       3.80
(1.47)             (1.47)
Total                                    14.66         8.61         36.23        -     59.50
(10.42)      (6.05)        (33.04)      -     (49.50)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
US$ 0.5 million Front-End Fee will be capitalized through the IBRD loan of US$ 50.0 million.
- 51 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review1
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method                (US$ millions)<
1. Works                     < US$600                  NCB               First three contracts
2. Goods                       > 250                   ICB                 All Contracts
> 100 and <= 250             NCB               First three contract
> 50 and <= 100               IS              First three contracts
<= 50                    NS               First three contracts
3. Services
Firms:                         > 100                  QCBS                  All contracts
< 100                   QBS               First three contracts
Individuals:                    > 50                    QC                  All contracts
< 50                   LC/QC             First three contracts
4. HEEPF                       < 100          See selection mechanism in  First three contracts
> 100               HEEPF Manual             All contracts
5. Operation &                  < 25                                     First three contracts
Maintenance                     > 25                                        All contracts
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$20 million- ALL
ICB Contracts and
approximately 10% of
all other contracts
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-52 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The Loan of US$50.0 million will be disbursed during Project implementation according to Table C. The
Loan is expected to disburse over a period of five years. The estimated Loan disbursements over the
five-year period are presented on page 2 of this Project Appraisal Document. All Project activities are
expected to be completed by June 30, 2007, and the Loan will close on December 31, 2007. Preparation
and submission of disbursement applications will be the responsibility of the PMU.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Works                                      4.50                         75%
Goods                                      11.00          100% of all foreign expenditures; 100%
ex-factory; 75% of all local cost
Services and Training                      16.00                100% of all expenditures
HEEPF                                      12.00                100% of all expenditures
Operation and Maintenance                  1.50                         80%
Unallocated                                4.50
Total Project Costs                        49.50
Front-end fee         0.50
Total                                      50.00
All expenditures are net of taxes and duties.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
9.     Withdrawals from the loan account may be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) on the following expenditures:
*   US$250,000 for civil works
*   US$250,000 for goods
*   US$100,000 for consulting firms
*   US$50,000 for individual consultants
All supporting documentation for SOEs, including copies of invoices and bank statements, must be
maintained by the for at least one year after completion of the Project. Special Accounts would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and all records must be made available for
review by the extemal auditor and visiting supervision missions from the World Bank.
Special account:
10.    To facilitate Project implementation and make timely payments of the Bank's share of eligible
expenditures to contractors, suppliers, consultants and others, the Borrower's MOHE will open and
maintain a local currency (Egyptian Pounds) Special Account (SA) in the Central Bank of Egypt, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The PMU will have access to, and manage, the SA. Disbursement
will be made by the PMU directly from the SA. The authorized allocation of the SA will be equal to four
months estimated expenditures, equivalent to US$4.0 million. At the start of the Project, the initial deposit
to the SA will be limited to US$2.0 million. The remaining amount of the authorized allocation may be
- 53 -



requested only after cumulative disbursements reach the equivalent of US$10.0 million. Requests for
replenishment of the SA will be submitted on a monthly basis.      A bank statement of the SA and a
reconciliation of the SA against the bank records will support the replenishment applications. The
minimum amount for applications for direct payment and for special commitments will be 20 percent of the
authorized allocation to the SA. Replenishment of the SA will follow Bank procedures. There is no
minimum amount applicable to replenishment requests (Withdrawal Applications), which will be submitted
on a monthly basis.
Project Account for Counterpart Funding and Disbursement
11.     The project will open a bank account for the counterpart funding from GOE for both the Value
Added Tax compensation and the part of expenditures being financed by GOE. Total GOE funds needed
for the project is US$ 10 million (excluding taxes) for the five-year project period.
Table D: Estimated Counterpart Funding
Local
(USS Milion)                    DFID          IBRD      The Govemment    Total     For.  (Exci.
Amount       Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   %    Exch.  Taxes)
1. Works                        -      -   4.73  70.0   2.03   30.0  6.76   11.3  2.74   4.02
2. Goods                        -          12.43  71.1  5.06   29.0  17.49  29.1  7.10  10.39
3. Services                   0.50   3.5  13.75  96.5   0.00     -   14.25  23.7  5.82   8.43
4. Training Activities          -      -   5.58  100.0  0.00     -   5.58    9.3  2.28   3.30
5. HEEP FUND                    -      -  12.00  100.0    -      -   12.00  20.0     -  12.00
6. Operabon and Maintenance /a  -      -   1.51  38.6   2.40   61.4  3.92    6.5  0.05   3.87
Total                           0.50   0.8  50.00  83.3   9.49   15.8  60.00  100.0  17.98  42.02
ba Year 1: 80%. Year 2: 60%, Year 3: 40%, Year 4: 20% ,Year 5: 0%
Note: US$0.5 million front-end fee will be capitalized through the IBRD Loan
and is included in the total amount of US$50 million.
Assessment of the Financial Management System
Project Implementation
12.     The former Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Engineering and Technical Education Project
(ETEP) has been reinstated as the HEEP Project Management Unit (PMU). Staff currently hired by the
PMU have nine years of experience in administering and implementing Bank-financed projects.
13.     The PMU will be tesponsible for procurement, budgeting, financial, accounting and reporting
functions, and management of all components of the project. It will ensure that all project-related activities
and related documentation are appropriately maintained and recorded. It will consolidate all information
generated during the implementation of the project by all concerned parties. The PMU would be responsible
for overall project financial management and accounting. It would maintain a cash accounting system for
the project, open and maintain the special account and handle the disbursement process. Prepare and
disseminate Financial Statements (FS) and Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR). The PMU will ensure
that the project FS and related reports are audited in a timely fashion and that audit reports are submitted to
the Bank according to loan agreement provision.
14.     During the course of implementation, targeted universities will receive technical assistance to
- 54 -



strengthen their financial management systems. Following Bank reviews to ascertain their respective
capability in handling financial management and procurement functions, additional special accounts will be
opened for each of these qualified universities. However, at the beginning of the project, all universities'
financial management, disbursement, and procurement transactions will be conducted by the PMU.
Financial Management System
15.    The Financial Management Systems (FMS) of the reinstated PMU was found acceptable to the
Bank and selected universities (i.e., Ain Shams and Cairo universities) were also reviewed to assess their
adequacy.
Main characteristics of the PMIU system are as follows.
16.    Staffing: The PMU has a director, finance manager (supported by one accountant), procurement
manager (supported by one assistant), and a MIS officer. The finance and procurement managers have vast
experience with Bank funded projects and have attended numerous Bank courses in the past. In addition,
both managers are experts in governmental policies and procedures, especially those relating to MOHE.
The PMU has a tentative organizational chart and written job descriptions for key staff.
17.    Accounting Policies and Procedures: The accounting department follows a set of accounting
policies and procedures to ensure that all transactions are correctly made and disclosed. The policies and
procedures ensure that recording, custody, and authorization fimctions are separated. A cash basis
accounting system is in place and is maintained regularly. However, Excel sheets are used for the analysis
of accounts, suppliers, and banks. The current accounting system was able to meet the needs of a project
the size of ETEP.
18.    Budgeting System: The PMU does not have a formal budgetary or planning system capable of
linkage between physical outputs and financial reporting. This weakness must be addressed to ensure that
PMU has a budgeting system capable of laying down physical and financial targets; preparing budgets for
all significant activities in sufficient detail to monitor subsequent performance; comparing actual
expenditure with budgets and investigating variances; planning project activities; collecting information
from various units, and later preparing the budget.
19.    Audit Process: The ETEP project was audited by the Central Auditing Organization (CAO), but
as the CAO auditors did not perform an audit for three consecutive years, a private auditor was hired upon
project completion to do an audit for the project as a whole in accrodance with Intemational Standards on
Auditing and a clean/unqualified opinion was rendered.
20.    Overall Conclusion: Based on the recommendation of the appraisal mission, the PMU has
strengthened its capacity by hiring one additional accountant, and has agreed to hire another accountant and
an MIS supervisor after Effectiveness. Furthermore, the PMU is currently carrying out the following
activities to meet Bank's requirements:
*   Creating a formal and written organization chart to be finalized together with job descriptions for
all staff;
*   Updating financial policies and procedures to reflect the exact needs of HEEP together with
developing a simple and effective budgeting and planning system;
*   Engaging an independent, qualified, and competent extemal auditor.
Main characteristics of targeted universities' financial management system are:
- 55 -



21.    University Assessments: An initial assessment of two out of thirteen universities revealed that the
FMS is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the public sector
and more specifically to governmental institutions. An accounting system based on the cash basis and the
outline of budget components is operational and reflected in the legal books maintained manually. An
annual approved budget is issued by the university and its various faculties and is submitted to MOHE and
MOF. Universities follow a strictly defined set of policies and procedures issued by MOF.
22.    General Accounting Department: General accounting department in the universities (average 130
accountants) consists of the following sections: (a) Secretary (mail and correspondence), (b) Control
function (review before disbursing), (c) MOF representative (review before disbursing), (d) Journals
(prepare manual journal entries), (e) Recording (maintains manual journals and ledgers), (f) Treasury
(preparing checks to be signed by MOF representative and Finance director of the university), (g) Final
Accounts (prepare quarterly financial statements under the supervision of MOF representative and MOF
forns), (h) Filing (manual filing of all documents), (i) Budget (prepares budget under supervision of MOF
representative), (j) Research (research work on behalf of the accounting department).
23.    Central Auditing Agencv: Central Auditing Agency (CAA) has a permanent presence at the
university where they spend the whole year auditing all transactions. CAA issues an annual audit report
together with their findings (e.g., internal control weaknesses).
24.    Separate Accounting Units: University bylaws allow the creation of "Separate Accounting Units"
(SAU) reporting directly to the university's president and have accounting and finance personnel from
within the university. These units do not have to follow MOF rules and regulations and are free to develop
their own accounting policies and procedures. Creating such a unit within target universities would
facilitate running the project's operations, link with the project's PMU, and control/separate the project's
funds from other university resources. These units can hire private audit firms to conduct annual audits for
the project (subject to the university's president approval).
25.    Overall Conclusion: The accounting system and internal controls used at universities are based on
governmental norms, and do not meet the Bank's requirements for proper financial management. As such,
the Project's financial management functions, including budgeting, procurement, recording financial
transactions, maintaining accounting records, treasury functions, and preparing periodic and annual
financial reports, will be managed through creating a SAU within each targeted university to handle
financial and procurement aspects. Until SAUs with adequate FM systems are put in place, the PMU
should handle all financial management and procurement issues for all universities.
Flow of Funds
26.    The allocation of funds would include both counterpart funds from MOHE budget and funds from
the Bank. Annual budgetary allocations would be based on programmed project activities and expenditures
as prepared by the MOHE and PMU. It is envisaged that two Project Accounts, managed by the PMU,
will be opened. One account is the Special Account (SA) and will be in foreign exchange funded by the
Central Bank of Egypt. The second account is the Local Currency Account and will be funded by the
Government. Deposits into, and payments from, the SA will be made in accordance with provisions in the
Loan Agreement. Withdrawal applications and replenishments of the SA would be prepared and sent by
PMU carrying the authorized signature.
- 56 -



Financial Management Arrangements
27.    Project accounting will cover all sources of project funds and all utilization of said funds. All
project-related transactions would be recorded in the books of accounts. Direct disbursements made by the
Bank and from the Special Account will be included in the project accounting system. Funds received from
different sources (World Bank, Government budget and other possible financing sources) would be
identified separately and reflected in the project accounts and the FS.
28.    During an interim period the PMU will issue the agreed-upon FMR using Excel sheets. Later, an
automated financial system for the project will be maintained by the PMU using a computerized FMS
system.
29.    Targeted universities which have the capacity both for procurement and financial management will
handle both functions under PMU supervision and guidance. The following steps would be followed:
*   The Bank will review SAU's to determrine whether they have the financial management and
procurement capacity.
*   In case the SAU does not have the minimum requirements, the Bank together with the PMU and
the university should agree on an action plan to improve SAU's capacity.
*   The Bank will follow-up to ensure that recommendations included in the action plan have been
adequately implemented.
30.    Once a university is deemed qualified, and later certified by the Bank to handle its financial and
procurement functions, direct disbursement to their special account can begin based on request by the
university. The university should:
*   open a special account in US dollars at the Central Bank of Egypt, and submit the account number
and bank address, along with the names of two signatories and a specimen signature to the Bank.
The signatories are the only persons authorized to sign the withdrawal application.
*   certify that the SAU is responsible for keeping proper accounting records of all funds received and
used by the project, including from all sources (the Bank, own sources, government funding, and
other donors) and the uses of these funds.
*   ensure that SAUs will release quarterly FMRs and annual financial statements, which should be
audited by competent, qualified, and independent external auditors.
*   ensure that PMU staff (finance and/or procurement departments) undertake visits to the qualified
universities, when needed, to guide SAU staff and to ensure compliance with project agreements.
Also, the PMU will be responsible for consolidating data for the project as a whole.
31.    However, for universities that lack the capacity to handle their financial management and
procurement functions, the PMU will be responsible for handling these tasks.
Financial Reports
32.    The PMU will be responsible for issuing quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) and
annual Project Financial Statements (PFS).
33.    Quarterly unaudited FMR (45 days from each quarter closing): The format and content of the
FMRs were detennined as part of project appraisal, to be agreed at negotiations, and included in the
Financial Management Manual. FMRs include financial, physical progress and procurement information.
- 57 -



There should also be an introductory narrative discussion of project developments and progress during the
quarter, to provide context to, and explanation of, information reported in FMRs.
34.    Annually audited PFS (6 months from fiscal year) would be submitted to the Bank, and would
include:
*   a statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from
various sources, project expenditures, assets and liabilities;
*   appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by components, expenditure categories, and
sector
*   a Special Account Reconciliation Statement;
* a Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
Auditing Arrangements
35.    An audit should be performed for the project as a whole (i.e., PMU, Universities and other
implementing agencies). This audit should be conducted by a private, extemal, competent, and independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank.
36.    PMU audit arrangements: Auditors should be engaged before loan effectiveness. A copy of the
audit report together with a management letter should be communicated to the Bank no later than six
months following the closing of the fiscal year subject of audit. The external audit report should encompass
all project activities under the loan agreement (including implementing agencies and uncertified
universities) and should be in accordance with the Bank auditing requirements and conducted according to
International Standards on Auditing. It will cover the project's financial statements, reconciliation and use
of the special account, use of direct payments, and withdrawal based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).
37.    Universities audit arrangements: Before a university is certified as capable of handling its financial
and procurement functions and allowed to have a separate special account, qualified and independent
auditors should be engaged. Once a university's SAU is certified, a copy of the audit report together with a
management letter should be communicated to the Bank no later than six months following the closing of
the fiscal year subject of audit. The external audit report should encompass all sub-project activities
handled by the university and should be in accordance with the Bank auditing requirements and conducted
according to International Standards on Auditing. It will cover the sub-project's financial statements,
reconciliation and use of the special account, use of direct payments, and withdrawal based on SOEs.
Risks
38.    There are two main risks relating to financial management aspects: (a) difficulties in coordinating
project activities; and (b) delays in generating FMRs. Both risks are considered manageable due to the
various risk-mitigation measures taken. Nonetheless, these are highlighted here in view of their potential for
adversely affecting project performance. These aspects will be monitored closely as part of project
supervision. The above-mentioned risks are mitigated by the following factors:
*   A well-staffed PMU for the project (HEEP's senior management has hired one additional
accountant since Appraisal, and has agreed to hire another accountant and an MIS supervisor after
Effectiveness);
*   Clear and relevant financial policies and procedures (The PMU's financial officer is currently
worldng on finalizing a comprehensive set of accounting policies and procedures manual);
- 58 -



*   A competent, independent, and qualified external auditor (A private firm is being recruited based
on a Bank reviewed TOR and according to the Bank procurement guidelines);
*   Installment of an integrated/automated accounting package (The package will be tailored to meet
the exact needs of the PMU and other concerned parties - after effectiveness);
*   Close supervision by Bank.
- 59 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Higher Education Enhancement Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             04/12/1998                   04/12/1998
Appraisal mission departure                      10/27/2000                   11/06/2001
Negotiations                                    01/07/2002                   02/19/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/01/2002
Prepared by:
Mae Chu Chang
Preparation assistance:
A Japan PHRD grant for US$216,161(TF025659) was received and used for project preparation by
contracting consulting services to carry out six studies in higher education in the areas of labor market
analysis, quality assurance and relevance, private sector role, financial diversification, governance and
accountability, and developing policy framework.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Mae Chu Chang                      Cluster Leader, Principal Educator
Maris O'Rourke                     Director of Education
Francis Steier                     Sr. Education Economist
Richard Hopper                    Tertiary Education Specialist
Carolyn Winter                     Sr. Education Specialist
Hishain Waly                       Sr. Financial Management
Mahmoud Gamal El Din               Sr. Operations Officer
Ghassan Alkhoja                    Sr. Information Officer
Raja B. Kattan                    Education Specialist, Consultant
Iqbal Kaur                        Research Analyst
Douglas L. Adkins                 Economist, Consultant
Alenoush Saroyan                  Faculty Development Specialist, Consultant
Robert Davies,                    Library Specialist, Consultant
Roddy Begg                        Consultant
Sam Mikhail                       Technical Education Specialist, Consultant
Serge Goursaud                    Consultant
Haris Lambropoulos                Consultant
Eleni Karadjia                     Consultant
Elaine El-Khawas                  Consultant
Alia Achsien                      Prograrn Assistant
Hans Korb                         Implementation Specialist, Consultant
Christina Djemrnmal               Operations Analyst
- 60 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Higher Education Enhancement Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) is located in the Project files.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Albrecht, Douglas and Adrian Ziderman, "Financing Universities in Developing Countries", UNDATED
Albrecht, Douglas and Adrian Ziderman, "Financing Universities in Developing Countries", UNDATED
Alkhoja, Ghassan "Egypt: Higher Education Enhancement Program: Information Technology Components",
Draft, May 2000
Begg, Roddy "Report to the World Bank on Management, Govemance and Funding of the Egyptian Universities",
June 2000.
Barr, Nicholas, "The Economics of the Welfare State ", 1993, Stanford University Press.
Bloomqvist, Ake and Emmanuel Jimenez, "The Public Role in Private Post-Secondary Education", UNDATED
Chang, Mae Chu, "Sector Assistance Strategy, Education and Training", DRAFT, June 23, 1998
Crawford, Michael, Lauritz-Holm Nielson, "Brazilian Higher Education: Characteristics and Challenges",
UNDATED
Davies, Robert "Library Systems: Consultant's recommendations and analysis", June 2000.
E1-Khawas, Elaine "Quality and Relevance in Higher Education: Analysis and Recommendations", June 1999.
El-Said, Mohammad Kamel "Project to develop Middle Technical Institutes of the Ministry of Higher Education",
undated.
Gibbons, Michael, "Higher Education Relevance in the 21st Century", 1998
Hohn-Nielson, Lauritz B., "Higher Education in Brazil: The Political Economy of Change", UNDATED
Johnstone, Bruce, "Institutional Differentiation and the Accommodation of Enrollment Expansion in Brazil", 1998
Kells, H.R., "Performance Indicators for Higher Education: A Critical Review with Policy Recommendations",
UNDATED
Kudat, Ayse and Helen Abadzi, "Women's Presence in Arab Higher Education", UNDATE
Lambropoulos, Haris, Eleni Karadjia "The Financing and the Economics of Higher Education in Egypt", July
1999.
Levine, Arthur "The Coming Revolution in American Higher Education", June 1999.
Mikhail, Sam "Diversification of Higher Education: A Study of the Non-University Sector (NUS) of Higher
Education in Egypt", February 1999.
Mikhail, Sam "The Development of Polytechnic Sector of Higher Education in Egypt", undated.
Mikhail, Sam, "Engineering and Technical Education Project: Evaluation of projects outcome and results",
UNDATED
Richards, Alan, "Higher Education in Egypt", UNDATED
Regel, Omporn, "The Academic Credit System in Higher Education: Effectiveness and Relevance in Developing
- 61 -



Countries, UNDATED
Said, Mohsen El-Mahdy "Institutional Capacity Assessment of Government Agencies/Institutions selected to
Implement the Proposed Development Project (Higher Education Enhancement Program), Draft, July 2000
Saroyan, Alenoush "Quality of Teaching and Learning in Egypt's Public Higher Education: Analysis and
Recormmendations", December 1999.
World Bank Resident Mission in Egypt, "Arab Republic of Egypt--Country Economic Memorandum, Egypt:
Issues in Sustaining Economic Growth, Main Report," March 15, 1997
World Bank, "Implementation Completion Report, the Arab Republic of Egypt--The Engineering and Technical
Education Project", June 18, 1999
World Bank, Higher Education: The Lessons of Experience, Washington, D.C., World Bank
World Bank and UNESCO Task Force on Higher Education and Society. 2000. Higher Education in Developing
Countries: Peril and Promise.
World Bank. 1997. World Development Report: The Role of the State.
World Bank. 1998. World Development Report: Knowledge and Information for Development.
C. Other
Christiansen-Wagner, Toni "Private Sector Role in Public Sector Education", June 24, 1999
Datt, Gaurav, Dean Jolliffe, and Manohar Sharma, "A profile of poverty in Egypt: 1997"
Datt, Gaurav, Dean Jolliffee, and Manohar Sharma, "A profile of poverty in Egypt, 1997", Food Consumption and
Nutrition Divisionm, August 1998
El-Salmi, Ali and the HEEP committee "The Strategic Framework for Developing the National System for
University and Higher Education: A Concept Paper", January 1999.
El-Salmi, Ali, "A report on Higher Education Reform--a product of the study tour to Australia and New Zealand,
April 23 - May 6, 1999", Cairo, May 16, 1999
El-Salmi, Dr. Ali, "Highlights on the current HEEP reform initiative", June 24, 1999
HEEP Committee, "New structure of the universities", UNDATED
HEEP Committee, "Asssessment of skills", UNDATED
HEEP Committee, "Assessment of existing IT capabilities", UNDATED
HEEP Committee, "Regulation of Higher Education", UNDATED
HEEP Committee, "Financing of Higher Education", UNDATED
HEEP Committee, "Study on Middle Technical Institutes", UNDATED
HEEP Committee, "Study on Faculties of Education", UNDATED
HEEP Committee, "Proposal for by-laws of the universities (faculty of law)", UNDATED
HEEP Committee, "Geographical distribution of universities (current and future proposal)", UNDATED
Ministry of Higher Education, "A report on Higher Education Reform". A product of the study tour to Australia
and New Zealand, April 23 - May 6, 1999.
OECD, "Defining Tertiary Education: Comparative Report on the Thematic Review of the First years of Tertiary
Education, Paris, 1998.
Ragab, Mohamed A. Fattah "Business and Community Needs and Expectations from the Reform Process", June
- 62 -



24, 1999
Saad El-Raghy, "Quality Engineering Education: Student Skills and Experience", Vol. 3, no. 1, 1999.
Wagner, Alan "Redefining Tertiary Education: New Policy Directions and Recent Experience in OECD Countries,
June 1999.
Westerheijden, D.F., Brennan, J. and Maassen, P.A.M. (eds.) (1994), "Changing Contexts of Quality Assessment"
Recent Trends in Western European Higher Education", Utrect: Lemma".
*Including electronic files
- 63 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Higher Education Enhancement Project
01 -Mar-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                  GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P045499        2000 EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II                           50.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      48.29      0.62       0.00
P050484        1999 SEC EDUC ENH PROG                                  0.00     50.00                 0.00       0.00     42.78       5.35       0.00
P052705        1999 SOCIAL FUND III                                    0.00     50.00                 0.00       0.00      46.68     41.81       1.36
P053832        1999 PRVTSECT.& AG. DEV.                              225.00     75.00                 0.00       0.00     167.81     95.22       5.93
P066336        1999 SOC PROT INIT PROJ                                 0.00      5.00                  0.00      0.00       4.21      1.09       002
P041410        1999 P.S. REHAB. III                                  120.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     111.89     62.43       0.00
P040858        1999 SOHAG RURAL DEV.                                   0.00     25.00                  0.D0      0.00      22.43      9.64      -0.15
P049166        1998 EG-EASTDELTAAG.SERV.                               0.00     15.00                 0.00       0.00      12.60     11.14      -015
P054958        1998 POLLUTION ABATEMENT                               20.00     15.00                  0.00      0.00      18.18     11.58      -7.87
P045175        1998 EG-HEALTH SECTOR                                   0.00     90.00                 0.00       0.00      77.71     51.13       000
P005169        1997 EG-ED.ENHANCEMENT PROG.                            0.00     75.00                 0.00       0.00      35.65     33.17      2446
P005163        1896 POPULATION                                         0.00     17.20                 0.00       0.00      12.44     14.45      1108
P005173        1995 EGYPT IRRIGATION IMP                              26.70     53.30                 0.00       0.00      46.40     41.80      29 57
P004981        1993 EG-RED SEA COASTAL                                 0.00      0.00                 4.80       0.00       0.20      0.91       0.03
P005153        1993 MATRUH RESOURCE MANA                               0.00     22.00                 0.00       0.00       0.59      1.15       112
P005161        1993 BASIC EDUCATION PROJ                               0.00     55.50                 0.00       0.00       7.01     10.65       324
P005168        1993 PVT SEC TOURISM INF & ENV                        130.00      0.00                 5.00     189.50       8.00     67.50       466
P005152        1992 SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL                            0.00     26.84                 0.00       0.00       8.64      9.75       4.14
Total:      571.70     574.84               9.80       189.50     671.52     469.38     77.43
- 64 -



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999               HC Investment                 0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
2001               IT Worx                      000     2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1997               MGDK                          0.00    1.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.47    0.00    0.00
1986/88/92         Meleiha Oil                   0.00   13.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               Misr Compressor               9.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/99            Orascom                       0.00    0.85    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.85    0.00    0.00
1996/01            Orix Leasing EGT              6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Port Said                    45.00    0.00    0.00  152.50    2.28    0.00    0.00    7.72
2001               SUEZ GULF                    45.00    0.00    0.00  152.50   10.94    0.00    0.00   37.06
1997/01            UNI                           3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1983/91/92/94/96/98  ANSDK                       0.00   11.15    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.15    0.00    0.00
1994/96/99         Abu Soma Develop              0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00
2001               Amreya                        3.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.08    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               CIL                           0.00    1.65    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.65    0.00    0.00
1992/97,'98        Carbon Black-EGT              7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Club Ras Soma                 2.17    2.37    0.00    0.00    2.17    2.37    0.00    0.00
1993               Cmrcl Intl Bank               0.00   15.59    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.59    0.00    0.00
2001               EFG Hernes                   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00     0.00   0.00
1997               Egypt Trust                   0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       151.45   55.06    0.00  305.00    53.67  42.06     0.00   44.78
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2000              ACB Expansn III                  9.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2002              Gava Sanitary                    6.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1999              Sidi Krir                       70.00      0.00     0.00    122.00
Total Pending Commitment:       85.00     0.00      0.00    122.00
- 65 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: Higher Education Enhancement Project
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          & North   middle-
Egypt     Africa  Income      Development diamond*
2D00
Population, mid-vear (millions)                      63.8      296     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  1,490     2,040    1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     95.3      602     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        1.9       2.0       1.0     GNI
Labor force (%l                                       2.8       2.8       1.3    PrI                             Gross
per                            primar
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  23
Urban DoDulation (% of total population)              45        59        42
Life exoectancy at birth (years)                      67        68        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)              47        44        32
Child malnutrition 1% of children under 5)            11                  11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  95        89        80
Illiteracv (% of Population ape 15+)                  45        35        15
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-age population)  101      95       114              Egypt,Arab Rep.
Male                                               108       102       116        -     Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              94        88       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratloae
GDP (US$ billions)                          22.9     35.6      89.1     98.7
Gross domestic investmentlGDP               27.5     28.8      25.5     23.9                     Trade
Exports of qoods and serviceslGDP           30.5     20.0      15.1      16.1
Gross domestic savinqslGDP                  15.2     16.1      16.9      17.3
Gross national savInqslGDP                           26.8      23.5     23.0
Current account balance/GDP                 -1.9     -1.8      -1.9     -1.2      Domestic                   Invsten
Interest DavmentslGDP                        1.5      3.9       0.8      0.7     savings                     Investment
Total debVGDP                               83.5     97.4      33.4     28.8
Total debt servicelexDorts                  13.4     37.7       9.2      7.9
Present value of debVGDP                                       27.4
Present value of debtexports                                  126.9
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999     2000    2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 5.4      4.6      6.0       5.1      5.5           -   Egypt, Arab Rep.
GDP oer capita                      2.8      2.6      4.1       3.2      3.9               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services       5.2      3.5      6.8      10.3      7.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GDP1%)
(%6 of GDP)                                                                      3
Aqriculture                                 18.3     19.4      17.4      16.6    30
Industry                                    36.8    28.7       31.5     34.0    20
Manufacturing                             12.2     17.8      19.5      19.4    10 
Services                                    45.0     52.0      51.1     49.4      0           f
Private consumption                         69.2     72.6      73.0     73.0            95   9S    97   9a    99    00
General povernment consumption              15.7     11.3      10.1      9.7                     GDI        GDP
Imports of qoods and services               42.9     32.7      23.7     22.7
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averaqe annual growth)
Aqriculture                                  2.7      3.1       3.7      3.4     15
Industrv                                     3.3     4.9        3.6     12.7     10
Manufacturinq                                       6 .3      9.7       7.9 s
Services                                     7.8      4.5       8.2       1.1                      95 -e ,          DF0
Private consumPtion                          3.4      4.0       3.6      3.9     .9
General qovernment consumption               3.1      3.0       5.4      0.8     10
Gross domestic investment                    0.0      6.3       7.0      1.8                 Exports         Imports
Imports of qoods and services               -2.0      3.1       1.7      2.5
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qroup average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 66 -



Egypt, Arab Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                    15
Consumer prices                              ..    21.2       3.8     2.8    10
Implicit GDP deflator                      18.0    18.4       1.8     5.8
Govemment finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                           o
Current revenue                             ..     17.7      22.2    21.5            ss   96    97    98    99   or
Current budget balance                      ..     -5.6       2.0     1.1                 GDP deflator     CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     ..    -15.1      -4.2    -3.6
TRADE
(US$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         ..    3,145     4,445    6,388   20.DOO
Cotton                                     ..   1,229     1,000    2,273
Otheragriculture                            .     220      208       167    15,000
Manufactures                               ..   1,302     2,080    2.845                *         *   *
Total imports (cif)                          ,   11,441    16.969   17.861    100.
Food                                       ..   2,328     2.374    1,395     50ODO
Fuel and energy                            ..     781     1,319    2,451
Capital goods                              ..   3,151     5,575    5,639       0
94  95   96   97  9o   99   0
Export price index (1995=100)               ..     101        92      101
Import price index (1995=100)             *         89        87       87               * Exports    *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..    114       106      116
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980    199111110  1999    2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of qoods and services            6,246    9,151    13,537   15,975    1-
Imports of goods and services            9,157   13,710   21,109   22,756        *    -
Resource balance                         -2,911  -4,559   -7,572    -6,781    o
Net income                                -318    -912       995      932    -1.-_
Net current transfers                    2,791    4,836    4,869    4,679     -
Current account balance                   -438    -634    -1,709    -1,171
Financinq items (net)                      270   -1,088     -409    -1,.854
Changes in net reserves                    168    1,722    2,117    3,025     _
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      ..    2,555    18,763   15,795
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)           0.7      2.7      3.4      3.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1"0       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    19,131   34,668   29,771   28,432
IBRD                                     421    2,006    1,871      639                    A: 639
IDA                                      307     908      1.273   1.266            G:4,104       B: 1,266
-     D:1.911
Total debt service                       1,235    5,147     1.769    1,708
IBRD                                      36     301       214      128         F:635
IDA                                        3      12        27       32
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                          165       0         0        0
Official creditors                     1,752     413      -298     -587
Private creditors                        585     472      -224     -201
Foreign direct investment                548       0         0        0
Portfolio equity                           0       0         0        0                       E: 19,877
World Bank program
Commitments                              460     236       225       50     A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            210     106       136       55     B-IDA    D-Othermultilateral  F-Private
Prncipal repayments                        7     175       166      110    CC-IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                 203     -70       -31      -54
Interest payments                         32     138        75       51
Net transfers                            172    -207      -105     -105
MNSED                                                                                                        9117/01
-67 -



Additional
Annex 11
LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
~ S          * '  CL
~A"" Ofy oP(Wer TwAfiDn
Mfr. Jean Louf Sarlb 
Vise Preddeat
Middle Easu & N!~ortht Africa Region
The World hank
2114Q0o0
i am pleasd to mhrsitut our t  sZrys confitked cominnunaw in Ezypt'x goiw fo  e 21"
cwxury , Abich is to desin and iuplament * comprebaust  plan  mfEim kr aa educ*Oon
symc   tt will provide all tuden  wia qity ed,ctoelevant to their cwrent and
fitie nds. Thbee refiorms am lendedto enhane continued Egyptian ecotoio   and socia
deve_pment IhartAirn. I take 1his apostuity tosbhukyou for yaw ongoing supportad
coiaboradoc with us il tIWs "oWle efftim
it is clewtly frppwtaz that 4ypts odocation systwm should provide graduates who are
erficiot cennibutor to the countcys economic aDd social developcrnti WiMh the help of the
Wodd Ba. Egpt is      ahiDg a signilceany subsai promss iu addessg educaoal
needs and priorities at the bsc aid secordary educxto  lvels. Egpt has aIso iitiuatd
effort to enhance its highwr edcatiou  syste   As you know, an imporant nazional
confkenee an higher educaion was hlWd in Febnry 2000 with over 1200 stakholders, mI
which a conseosus declar     was mchod outding secoznesded legikave, finacia and
xwmcuinal refo in the hicg1  education.
Out local expeVt wth e     wsive collaboro  fam Me World Bank tem have
developed a pgoposed Higher Edc    n co Euhancumt Promn  which will support key
reforms initiadves owllned in the deelatio. The _Prpoaed o na  will thus support he
Egyptian  vrnmt's efforts to enhanc the gver canacney andiiyW        the hiChdiF
education sm     t    help E    h    ms                 igh l    ofssi   ls ad
technical wkes qua1ited for promotng econmy so b6inturpatibgElly competftive
The proposed  Higher Educato   Enhaicement Program wi rteinforce important
rfunu in the gpvernance of the higber educaloor sym. Speolically, ltwill belp Egypt
modif~y the legis1latiari governing fte higher oducation system. This,, comined with steps to
retiodaize higher education mnding aUmcto    nicmni4a, will geay biprov the
efficncy of   e sysT    h  opThe           of ao improved o_manaeent infomaion
sylum  and 'w ino    io of a naIonal quality assurace orwuittee will underpin plandinf.
nuiaiagenmet ad evaluaitw   of the sysmia pefonnance The pogaram  will also support
imortant inives t enanc. the quaity of the hihe education system. In urvasitis. the
program  will asit Egt in establIsg a modem and iegrated compue network
infsuurure to tv&ee sw tahving ubodog.ies ad cipw aean %* the most up to
date research materials. The cotpetitive higher education ehancerfe w fund will provide
higher educou instudion with real ice   s to impove esarch,  aching and cks wivh
indusuy. The program  will also amsist Egypt with the much needed retuchuing and
- 68 -



9cra6 !Rgn6& of Egypt
~Gnsat~y of (if kar E4&oafon
improvement of the non-university middle technical insitutes to be rtsponsh'e to the needs of
the industy. Thse instutes will be consoidated inzo fewer and morn effiient bigher quality
clusters where an improved curriculum taught by rtrained teachers and rinforced by zredy
access to appropriate  chnoloa  and close links to cnaerprises wil provke graduates beser
qualified for an evr-changiu and increasingly tehology drive economy.
Our national countepat team has been fully engagd with the World Bnk team in
preparing this proram tbrougn a highly colhat.orative process. I would like again to convey
the govemnmens commitmzent to the goal of promoting a quality education and ensure dat
our nional tea at the vaious iompesnotng agencies will recive thc financial and
institutional support required to bring our plwas to fruiton.
I look Obrward to flather support and mon:  efrts for the realization of our
natinlw ultimate goa.
M6ite     l    E    d uctIon
and o         r! cisnlfc Reach
- 69} -



Additional
Annex 12
Proposal for Higher Education Enhancement Project Fund (HEEPF)
Rationale:
Providing innovation funds is a way to promote and finance improvements in university quality and
empower university staff to undertake quality improvements not provided by the education system. An
innovation fund serves as a funding pool that can be accessed by groups within the university community to
carry out new initiatives and innovative approaches to existing problems in teaching, learning and
management. The innovation fund is a tool that enables university units to link their strategic planning with
actual prospects for strategic implementation of these plans. Innovation funds have been used as policy
tools to help university systems: improve academic and management quality, introduce innovations aimed
at greater academic relevance and increase university cost-effectiveness. Innovation funds accelerate
processes of constructive change and institutional modernization by promoting both cooperation and
competition among participating departments, faculties and universities
Objectives:
The Higher Education Enhancement Project Fund (HEEPF) will support initiatives that will lead to
improvements in the quality, relevance and efficiency of higher education at Egyptian public universities
and non-university institutes. The HEEPF will support initiatives through three windows:
(i)  The academic HEEPF will encourage program and course innovations that will improve teaching
and learning in academic departments.
(ii)  The entrepreneurial HEEPF will support collaboration between university or post-secondary
technical education and the private sector to provide advisory, technical, and training services and to
conduct applied contract research and initiate activities that contribute to the enhancement of
incubator and multi-disciplinary centers.
(iii) The management HEEPF will support programns that enhance management and administration in the
higher education system.
While HEEPF's main mandate is to administer the competitive fund, it will play a significant role in
capacity building by developing competencies in project planning, proposal preparation, implementation,
evaluation and reporting
Projects and activities funded by HEEPF:
(i)  Through the academic window, HEEPF will finance projects in the areas of: (a) course and
curriculum development, (b) pedagogical improvements which might include the acquisition of
equipment, materials, to support the proposed project, including instructional technologies, (c)
training courses, (d) program evaluation, and (e) innovative Egyptian Digital Libraries Program
(EDLP) projects.
(ii) Through the entrepreneurial window, HEEPF will finance projects such as (a) advisory or technical
services, (b) applied contract research, (c) training, (d) MTIs training, including specialized
equipment and the (e) development of incubator and multi-disciplinary centers.
(iii) Through the management window, HEEPF will finance (a) performance enhancemnent interventions
including academic management and leadership, (b) training, (c) use of technologies in administration
- 70 -



and management, and (d) teamwork.
Organization and management:
Higher Education Enhancement Project Fund Committee (HEEPFC)
The HEEPF unit will have a designated Fund coordinator and an advisory board, representing various
stakeholders from universities, non-university institutes, the MOHE and the private sector. The HEEPF
committee will be formed by the minister of Higher education upon the recommendation of the HEEPF
director to serve as an advisory technical body responsible for the development of procedures for the
management of sub-projects and for actual evaluation and supervision thereof. Membership will be on a
rotating basis to allow equal participation from all institutions. The committee would include the HEEPF
director as chairman and compose of eight members:
two members of the SCUs,
two university academics, and
four independent members representing 2 persons who are represented on the governing councils of
the TCs and 2 who are from the private sector.
The HEEPF director will have the principal responsibility for overall management responsibility for normal
program implementation, which includes, with the collaboration with the HEEPF committee, the
solicitation of the proposals, supervision of their refereeing, implementation and evaluation. The Fund
director will also prepare an annual report on behalf of the Advisory Committee and will present it to the
SCU's Secretary General.
Procedures
H-EEPF will issue requests for proposal 6 times during the life of the Project. In the first year after Project
effectiveness, there will be one call for proposals (US$3 million). In the second and third years, there will
be two calls in each year, with a total budget of US$12 and US$7 million respectively. In the fourth year of
the Project, there will be one competition (US$2 million).
The competition process will be completely transparent and will strictly adhere to procedures spelled out in
the Fund Operations Manual, which will be widely distributed with sufficient advance notice so that
applicants can develop their project with accurate knowledge of the criteria based on which their proposals
will be evaluated. Competitions will be announced around specific themes that will be determined at the
HEEPF committee level based on the input from NQAC, surveys and needs assessment studies conducted
by HEEPF.
Public Universities or Institutes seeking enhancement funds would be requested to provide proposals
meeting wider policy goals, specifically supporting activities that enhance teaching, learning including
academic programs and curricula, and targeted to maximize the use of educational resources and provide
better educational services. Proposals can fall into one of the three categories-academic, entrepreneurial,
or managerial according to the type and nature of the proposal.
All endorsed projects are required to commit an equal contribution from their respective affiliation in funds
or in kind. In the case of Academic projects, the university of the applicant(s) could make a contribution of
kind. In the case of Entrepreneurial projects, the proposal would require 50 percent, in funds or in kind
financing by the nonacademic partners, who maybe private firms, NGOs or community organizations.
- 71 -



Administering the Fund
Six steps precede the release of funds to public Egyptian universities and non-university institutes:
(i)  Proposal submission period: HEEPF will organize workshops to guide applicants in the process of
project preparation.
(ii)  Pre-qualification period: a special committee set up by HEEPF will check proposals for completeness
and conformity to project objectives.
(iii) Peer-Reviewer Selection: The HEEPF committee will select peer reviewers for each project from the
database of local and external reviewers maintained by the HEEPF. The peer reviewers will be
provided with specific guidelines for review when they are invited to participate in the process.
(iv) Selection of Projects by the HEEPF committee: The HEEPF director will collect the reviewed
proposals and make a summary of scores and ranking. Based on the rankings, and the qualitative
comments, the HEEPF Committee will select the proposals to be fumded for each type of project.
(v)  Award notification and Grant contracting: HEEPF director will notify the grantee, the institution, and
the PMU of the selected projects.
(vi) Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements: Once the project is awarded, HEEPF will sign a
contract, including a procurement and disbursement schedule, with the affiliated institution of the
grantee and will inform the PMU to disburse project-related funds to that institution.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and Evaluation of HEEPF and subprojects will be conducted by project participants, designated
peer monitors and evaluators, and the HEEPF Committee at three levels: the subproject levels the level of
the fund, and at the level of the University system. In addition to the interim and final reports that the
guarantee will prepare for HEEPF, assessment used to evaluate the projects will be both quantitative and
qualitative at the three levels and will take place at the beginning during the middle, and once when the
funded project is completed.
(i)  At the subproject level, each project will be required to produce an annual report summarizing the
project's implementation progress and impact on inproved teaching and learning.
(ii)  At the level of the Fund, a peer evaluator will write a brief report assessing the project's quality and
impact.
(iii) At the university level, an assessment of any trends within higher education that have been affected
by the activities of the fund.
(iv) Tracer studies will be conducted to establish graduate employment patterns, for subproject
participants and university graduates in general as well as random sample surveys of students and
professors on several impacts of fund impact.
Finally, HEEPF will hold two evaluation conferences during the life of the project for disseminating
informnation about funded projects and the evaluation of their impact on quality, efficiency and relevance of
higher education. This will also serve to strengthen networks for future collaborations and bring together
individuals and unit representatives who are likely to benefit from the outcome of completed projects.
- 72 -



Additional
Annex 13
STRUCTURE OF THE PUBLIC EDUCATION SYSTEM BY AGE AND LEVEL
AGE & LEVEL__
3 1  1 5 6 1 ~7  8 1 ~911l0 11l1 12 113 114  15 16 167t  1 11    20 1 21 1 22 1 23
IPirschool          Bask Education            Secondary         HirEducation
Educalion           (Compusry)                Education
NURSERIES
AND          PRIMARY      PREPARATORY       GENERAL            UNIVERSIIES
KNDMzGA                                      SECONDARY        4, 5, amd 6 yeam pogrms
SF9nCOMA^RY  .                           Postgraduate
.. NOFHHlMERAND
AGRICUL111RAL  . S MDDLE  iCA NTnuES
SCONDARY    .        2, 4 and 5 year progas
ICCIMMAL                  I
SEMNDARY
PREPARATaRY OR
WoRIS FORCE|     |TE
LABOR MARKEFn AND SOCI0F
- 73 -






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IBRD 27759
28,                          320                     2  136 
Mediterranean Sea 
I Aor~a Id 5r luh o  -undnrF_ --                               K tonal ; A (  JORDAN
*     -~~~~ Cana)
/                                       Shibin el-   , * ~rn-bliymaiIy
1AIRO 1Suez                 \ A
t                             [~~~~~~~                                    ~~~~~~~~~ake  /
E
ARAB         REPUBLIC                      niSuef        'V 
O   F   E G   Y P T         El Miny3                  3                       SAUDI
280                                                                                       ARABIA 2'
0
Assiut            tuqac
!  Sohag                           Red
eno _erlSea
0     SELECTED CITIES                          Lr
(A)   NATIONAL CAPITAL
I                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Matea_
-----~   RIVERS
-        CULTIVATED AREAS
Kom Ombo
2A'                                                                                              24.,
0     50    100   150 MILES
0   50 100 150 KILOMETERS
This map was produced by the Map Lsesign Unit af The WforiJ Bank.
T| e boundaries, cabrs, denom;nations and anyotherinrmation shown anSUDAN
*this map do nat imply, an the part of The WorlBa Gnk Group, any judgment  SU A
an othe lega status a  any territory or any er*seAent or1acceptanceOf  ,  32997
such boundaries. 
APRIL 1 997



