Report No. PID9033
Project Name                     Egypt, Arab Republic Of-Higher Education (@)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Higher Education
Project ID                       EGPE56236
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION
Contact Person: Mohsen Elmahdy Said
Tel: 2-02-939811
Fax: 2-02-588-3362
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                May 3, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         November 11,2000
Projected Board Date             March 13, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector BackgroundSince 1990, the Government has increased its
pre-university education budget by 150% in real terms.    This has helped to
bring about nearly universal access at the basic level and an enrollment
rate of 64% at the secondary level. Combined with an expanding age cohort,
this success has created strong demand for post secondary education.
[Note: as the expression "tertiary education" carries a negative
connotation in Egypt, "higher education" will be used instead throughout
this document to encompass all post-secondary education] Approximately
20% of the 18-22 age group (1.5 million students, of which 40% are female)
were enrolled at that level in 1998/99. Three quarters attended
universities, and 25% were enrolled in non-university institutions. The
overwhelming majority (99% of all students) attended public institutions.
The system is comprised of 12 public universities (spread over 20
individual campus sites), 51 public non-university institutions, and only
4 private (for profit) universities. Applications are pending with the
Ministry of Higher Education to open 18 additional private for profit
institutions.Of the 51 non-university institutions, 47 are two-year middle
technical institutes (MTI), and 4 are four or five-year higher technical
institutes (HTI). There were approximately 111,500 MTI students in
1998/99, mostly enrolled in industrial (48,000) or commercial fields
(48,100). The rest are enrolled in MTIs providing training in hotel and
tourism services (2,200) and faculties of education (13,000). There has
been steady increases in enrollment prior to 1996/97 and a slight decrease
since 1997/98. Main Sector Issues Egyptian higher education faces a
number of challenges: (i) antiquated system-wide governance and
management; (ii) low quality and relevance at the university level; (iii)
low quality and relevance at the middle technical level; and (iv) fiscal
sustainability of publicly financed enrollments.A. System-wide Governance
and ManagementThe governance and management framework suffers from four
fundamental deficiencies: (i) complex and antiquated legislation and
institutional organization; (ii) inefficient resource allocation



mechanisms; (iii) the absence of quality assurance mechanisms; and (iv)
the absence of strategic planning and management, both at the system-wide
and the institutional levels.B. Quality and Relevance of University
Education An alarming figure in university statistics is the number of
repeaters that encumber the system year after year. This suggests that
neither the existing student selection criterion nor the process of
allocating them to programs are very robust. Another contributing factor
may also be the absence of a credit system, and the fact that failure in
some courses requires repeating a full year for all courses.Low quality
and relevance can be attributed to deficiencies in educational inputs
(infrastructure, faculty) and in educational processes (teaching methods,
teaching workloads, working conditions, performance assessment and
accountability, academic responsibility, lack of technology use). C.
Quality and Relevance of Middle Technical Training The most dramatic
example of this mismatch between training and labor markets occurs in the
case of Middle Technical Institutes (MTI), which enroll too small a share
of all students given the needs of a modern economy (less than 10%) . The
graduates of the MTIs have the worst employment rate in the non university
sector (over 60% remain unemployed for at least two years). Because the
quality of education provided in these MTIs is miserable, a "vicious
circle" results in which (i) an insufficient number of mid-level cadres is
produced, (ii) those that are produced are of insufficient quality for
employment at their level, and (iii) the jobs for which they were
supposedly prepared are taken by graduates from higher level schools
(Higher Technical Institutes or Engineering Schools) at a much higher unit
cost to the State. D. Fiscally sustainable enrollmentsEgyptian education
at all levels is funded by the Government. By OECD standards, education in
Egypt receives a similar allocation of available public resources (5.9% of
Egyptian GDP in 1997/98, equal to the OECD average), a commensurate
proportion of which is allocated to higher education (28% of total public
expenditures on education in Egypt were allocated to higher education in
1997/98). Overall expenditure on education as a proportion of GDP has
grown from 3.9% in 1991 to 5.9% in 1998.   In spite of the expansion of
public spending on education in Egypt (in both absolute terms and as a
proportion of GDP), the growth in the higher education student population
has caused a compression of per-student resources at that level. In
addition to compressing resources, the mere size of the Egyptian higher
education system poses special challenges to the provision of quality
education. Egypt has one of the world's largest higher education systems
(1.2 million students in 1998/99). The Government's dilemma can also be
summarized as follows: given the high population growth, to simply
maintain the share of the 18-22 age group at its present 20% level would
require on average an additional 60,000 new enrollments each year over the
next ten years.Government StrategyRecent government actions toward
building political consensus on issues critical to higher education reform
in Egypt have created a climate that is ripe for movement to take place on
concrete reform efforts. The Government has come to realize that the
growing globalization of trade, finance and information flow is
intensifying competition and is raising the danger that Egypt will
continue to fall behind its competitors. Implications of the information
revolution and knowledge economy need to be made part of the development
agenda. Encouraged by the success of a rising enrollment in primary
education (to almost 100%), and the on-going enhancement of learning and
adaptability skills through reforms in secondary education (both programs
supported by the Bank) the Government is advancing to make the best of
-2 -



these on-going efforts by improving the quality of education and
opportunities for lifelong learning at the higher level. The outcome of
the Government's process was a National Conference, held in Cairo on Feb.
13 and 14, 2000, with over 1,200 stakeholders of higher education
participating and coming to a consensus on a Declaration recommending
legislative, financial and structural reform of higher education. the
Delcaration was endorsed by the President and the Prime Minister. Press
reviews and public reactions to the Declaration have propelled the reform
initiative into almost a "movement" with the public calling on the
Government to act on the Declaration. The political conditions have
clearly set the stage for Egypt to begin engaging in meaningful and
necessary higher education reforms.The Declaration's reform agenda is
ambitious. The Government is deliberately deciding to address all the
issues above and has started work on their sequencing and logical
articulation.
2. Objectives
The objective of this project is to improve the quality of higher
education to international standards, to increase its relevance to
national economic needs, and to improve the efficiency of public resources
used while maintaining access in a fiscally sustainable manner.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank support will bring value added in six areas: Analysis of
cross-sectoral labor markets issues; Worldwide perspective on analysis of
higher education issues (e.g. the Bank's policy study Higher Education:
the Lessons of Experience, presented to the Board in 1994, higher
education projects under implementation in every region); Specific
analysis of Egyptian higher education issues, as demonstrated in the Bank
commissioned sector reports; Comprehensive sector perspective. With 8
projects in Egypt's education and training sectors since 1977, the Bank
can help to prioritize sector issues, putting them in a context which
ensures that tertiary education measures are not adopted which might
adversely affect the rest of the system; Translating policy and technical
analysis into implementable recommendations; andBeing the major donor in
developing a comprehensive framework for education and training, which was
able to attract co-financing from other donors.
4. Description
The project will have three components:Component 1 will reform system-wide
governance and management through: (i) Reform of the legislative and
administrative framework (ii) Establishment of a Supreme Council of Higher
Education (SCHE) (iii) Establishment of the National Quality Assurance
Committee (NQAC) and quality assurance mechanisms (iv) Establishment of a
funding formula to allocate resources between institutions. (v)
Improvement of system-wide planning and management, including preparing
institutions for transition to autonomous governance and administration.
Component 2 will improve the quality and relevance of university education
through : (i) supporting system-wide educational inputs (IT, library
systems, and faculty) :(ii) establishing the competitive Higher Education
Enhancement Fund (HEEF). Competitive funding mechanisms will be instituted
for new program investments through a Higher Education Enhancement Fund
(HEEF). The HEEF will be aimed at improving, quality, relevance and
efficiency by selecting for funding, on an annual or semi-annual
competitive basis, proposals made by public universities, higher technical
-3 -



institutes, or their departments. The HEEF would have two 'windows', each
with different criteria and sections in the overall Operations Manual: (i)
the academic HEEF, to encourage innovation and the improvement of teaching
and learning in academic departments; and (ii) the entrepreneurial HEEF,
which would provide money to fund joint proposals between university or
higher technical institute departments and the private sector, for such
activities as advisory and technical services, applied contract research,
training, incubator centers, and multi-disciplinary centers. Component 3
will improve the quality and relevance of middle technical training
through:(i) restructuring the Middle Technical Institutes system by the
conversion of the 47 public MTIs into 7 regional Polytechnics (through
clustering) and by reforming system-wide governance and management(ii)
reforming system governance and management       (iii) designing new
programs and curricula              (iv) training instructors and staff
(v) Upgrading of equipment and facilities.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               50
IBRD                     50
IDA
Total Project Cost       100
6. Implementation
These will be determined during project preparation. They will include
structures and staff capable of executing complex system-wide and targeted
pre-determined investments, as well as ensuring a fully transparent and
impartial selection process for sub-projects to be funded by the HEEF,
according to a pre-determined Operations Manual. The former PIU for the
Engineering and Technical Education Project has successfully implemented a
competitive funding program will become the HEEF PIU. Its coordination
with to be created SCHE and NQAC and other agencies will be defined during
preparation.
7. Sustainability
The following factors are likely to be critical to the sustainability of
project benefits:The project will contribute to the overall sustainability
of tertiary education in Egypt through capacity building at the system and
institutional levels. Component 1 would support enhancement of national
and university planning and management capacity.Sustainability of the HEEF
and its implementation structure beyond the project is more questionable,
and will depend on successful implementation during the life of the
project, and Government commitment to finance the HEEF beyond the life of
the project.System-wide financial sustainability will be reviewed during
project preparation. The team's dialogue with the Government on the
fiscal implications of various enrollment and cost recovery scenarios will
be continued, and a summary analysis presented as part of the project
economic analysis.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Egypt has had eight Bank-supported projects addressing issues in general
education and manpower development, and the proposed project would be the
second in higher education. The following lessons of implementation have
been derived from higher education sector work in Egypt, from the just
completed Engineering and Technical Education Project, from the ongoing
- 4 -



Bank supported EEP and SEEP projects and ongoing higher education projects
in Tunisia, Argentina, Brazil and Indonesia. The lessons have been
incorporated in project preparation and design:Project design needs to
take into account the complex nature of tertiary education institutions
and the potential impact of inter-university politics on the project;
Universities need to improve planning and management practices and tools,
including management information systems;Short-term technical training
programs need to establish strong links with the local economy (through
flexible and responsive curricula and through the formal inclusion of
business community leaders in MTI advisory boards);Client focus ought to
be high, and this is achieved through the highly participative project
design process. As indicated in the just completed ICR for the
Engineering and Technical Education Project, a full time project
management team is key to the successful implementation of a competitive
Fund. This team ought to be in place before project implementation; andA
competitive fund by itself, such as the one implemented in the ETEP,
improves only the specific program that it funds and is limited in two
important ways: (1) if it is not accompanied by a system-wide framework,
it does not result in the cultural change necessary for systemic reform,
and (2) if the government does not provide counterpart funding, it will
not be sustainable.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  None foreseen.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mae Chu Chang
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: +1-202-458-0650
Fax: +1-202-477-0036
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 12, 2000.
- 5 -



