Report No. 23343
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/11/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF         Project ID: P056236
Project: EG-Higher Education Enhancement Project          Task Team Leader: Mae Chu
Chang
Appraisal Date: November 6, 2001         IBRD Amount ($m): 50.00
Board Date: September 2, 2002    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSHD     Sector: ET - Tertiary Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)          Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objectives of the 3-phase APL are to: (a) restructure the legislative,
governance, and financing systems of the higher education system to
support efficiency and quality enhancement initiatives; and (b) improve
the quality and relevance of higher education so graduates have the
knowledge and skills demanded by Egypt's developing and globalizing
economy.
The key development objectives of Phase 1 of the APL are to restructure
the legislative, governance and financing systems and to introduce
measures to improve quality and efficiency. The key development
objectives of Phase 2 will be to achieve significant improvements in
system quality and efficiency. Phase 3 will aim to achieve further
rationalization of the system, particularly regarding financing structures
and private sector involvement.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Program will have three components, each of which will support a range
of activities. Each APL phase will finance activities under the three
Program components. (See Annex 2 for a detailed description of Program
Components, and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown.) The first Phase
of the APL will finance the following initiatives under the various
components:
Component 1: Improve Efficiency Through the Reform of Governance and
Management
This Component will support Government's efforts to restructure system
governance and management so conditions are in place to support improved
sector efficiency and quality. The initiatives included under this
component are the building blocks necessary for greater efficiency and
improved quality. The component initiatives represent a challenging, yet
feasible, attempt to address long-standing, entrenched, and
politically-charged practices governing operation of the higher education
system. The specific activities to be supported by this Component include:
1.(i) Reforming legislation governing higher education
This activity will support legislative reform necessary to grant
universities more autonomy over their basic operations and procedures, and
particularly over their budgetary resources. It will also establish
conditions for more effective operation of the universities' umbrella
governing body, the SCU. The initiative will also support the development
of a legislative framework for the new TC system which will supplant the
current MTI system. This will define the new management practices for



governing the TCs. It will grant TCs greater autonomy over their
day-to-day operations, including enrollments, staffing and expenditures.
It will also detail how the TCs' umbrella governing body, the Supreme
Council of Technical Colleges (SCTC), will operate. The program will
support communications strategies to ensure widespread knowledge and
understanding of the legislative reform efforts.
1.(ii) Rationalizing funding allocation mechanisms
In an initial effort to rationalize higher education financing practices,
this activity will finance international and local technical assistance to
design an improved system for allocating resources across higher
institutions. This system will be based on a rational funding formula,
whose design will reflect the widespread consensus of stakeholders.
Additionally, a social assessment of parents, students and other key
stakeholders will be undertaken to identify acceptable and feasible cost
recovery mechanisms for the higher education system.
1.(iii) Establishing a National Quality Assurance Council
This initiative will finance technical assistance to guide the
establishment of a National Quality Assurance Council (NQAC). The NQAC
will have considerable autonomy and will establish a performance standard
and benchmarking system for both the universities and the TCs.
Ultimately, the NQAC will work towards development of an accreditation
system for higher education institutions.
1.(iv) Capacity Building and Management Training
This activity will finance training for members of higher education
governing bodies and higher education administrators in management and
financing practices and in the use of technology to rationalize and
routine administrative procedures. This activity will also finance the
establishment of an integrated administrative and MIS system for both the
university and TC institutes. These MIS systems will be structured to
meet the needs of individual institutions as well as oversight/umbrella
governing bodies. The activity will finance technical support, equipment
and training necessary for the establishment and operationalization of the
MIS.
1.(v) Establishing a Higher Education Enhancement Fund (HEEF) (See Annex
12)
This activity will help establish the HEEF fund which will fund
competitive proposals submitted by higher education institutions to
improve teaching and learning, build collaboration between universities
and TCs, and between the respective institutions and the private sector,
and enhance institutional management and efficiency. A similar fund was
trialed under the Bank-supported Engineering and Technical Education
Project and was deemed to have been highly effective in the project ICR.
Component 2: Improve the quality and relevance of university education
This component will support efforts to improve the quality and relevance
of university education. The activities being supported under this
component aim at addressing quality concerns by responding to needs for
new learning technologies, equipment, and human resource development. The
HEEF fund (see 1.E above) will earmark resources specifically to support
-2 -



university-, department-, and faculty-led initiatives to enhance the
quality of instruction and research activities in public higher education
institutions. It will finance competitive proposals which support
development and employment of new instructional pedagogy, development of
new curricula which integrate new information technology, fellowships for
study and sabbaticals abroad, initiatives which directly strengthen
research capacities, and relevant technical assistance. It will also
support partnership program with industry to improve relevance of
curriculum and research.
2.(i) Establishing an integrated computer and network infrastructure
This activity will finance the establishment of a university IT system
which is robust and includes standards-based infrastructure, including
hardware, software, associated applications, intra- and inter-university
connectivity, and global connectivity through the Internet. The activity
will support important technical assistance in integrating all aspects of
hardware, software, communication links, training, and support into a
coherent, sustainable structure. The activity will also finance
in-service training for university faculty and instructors to develop
their competencies in the use and application of instructional technology
in their teaching. Professional faculty development will be supported for
about 5,000 faculty over 5 years of the first phase APL. Additionally,
the activity will finance the establishment of pilot Instructional
Technology and Distributed Learning (IT&DL) centers in two universities
(Cairo University and Suez Canal University) which will operate as
"centers of excellence". They will build university faculty capacity to
integrate instructional media into coursework and deploy instructional
media in distributed learning and online education.
2.(ii) Training for faculty and staff
This activity will finance in-service training for university faculty and
instructors to develop their competencies in the use and application of
computer technology, particularly in terms of integrating IT into their
teaching methodologies. The activity will support training for about
5,000 staff (10 percent of academic staff in public universities) over 5
years during the first phase of the APL. Training will consist of
instruction in computer software operation, Internet operation,
distributed learning methods, instructional design processes, course
administration, and learning assessment and evaluation.
2.(iii) Developing an inter-university library system
This activity will support the redevelopment and updating of a 'hybrid'
(print plus electronic), Arabized library system serving all
institutions. The activity will also support the development of a
strategic plan for future library development and establishment of a
management system.
Component 3: Improve quality and relevance of mid-level technical
education
This component will support efforts to improve the quality and relevance
of institutions providing mid-level technical education. This will entail
extensive restructuring of the system and a comprehensive overhaul of
teaching content and practices. The component will specifically finance:
- 3 -



3.(i) Consolidation of the MTIs into TCs
The activity will finance audits of existing physical and human resources
in the MTIs in order to consolidate 47 MTIs into 8TCs, rehabilitation of
physical facilities, management training for staff who will assume
responsibility for the TCs, and the establishment of working linkages with
similar regional and international institutions. Funds will support
training of each TC cluster with one or more foreign institutions or
professional association with similar mission statement.
3.(ii) Curriculum design and instructor training
This activity will finance the development of a new, more relevant
curriculum, prepared in consultation with employers. The activity will
specifically support technical assistance in the preparation and design of
the curricula, and support training for instructors in technical, IT,
English and teaching skills. It will also finance the establishment of
new units in the TCs which will provide customized in-service employee
training programs for industry on a cost-recovery basis. The HEEF fund
(see 1.E above) will also earmark specific funds to support competitive
proposals submitted by TCs which will enhance instructional quality,
including fellowships and sabbaticals abroad for faculty, curriculum
design undertaken in partnership with the private sector, relevant
technical assistance, etc.
3.(iii) Strengthened academic administration and management
A new management structure, holding greater autonomy and, consequently,
greater responsibility, will be established to administer the TCs.
Management will be expected to foster improved quality and promote greater
efficiency and effectiveness in service delivery. Management structures
will also be required to work in close partnership with employers. To
build and support these key management functions, this activity will
finance training to ensure administrators effectively adopt a
competency-based student evaluation and records system, and that they can
effectively utilize IT and MIS systems.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
No construction involved in this project.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: N/A
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)       No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
- 4 -



the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
N/A
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
- 5 -



Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Mae Chu Chang   12-5-01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Hocine Chalal/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Concepcion Esperanza Del
Castillo/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Sherif Kamel F. Arif     12-7-01
Sector Manager/Director:         Jacques Baudouy 12-10-01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\Dec.14,2001\I056236.txt
December 11, 2001 11:01 AM
-6-



