Page  1
December 1, 1998
H.E. Zafer Selim El-Beshry
Minister of State for Planning
  and International Cooperation
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Re:
Japanese Grant for Higher Education and Scientific Research Project
Grant Number TF025659                                                                      
Your Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding five hundred forty 
one thousand and twenty five United States Dollars (US$541,025) (the Grant) to the 
Arab Republic of Egypt (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective upon the Bank being informed by the Recipient 
of completion of the Recipient’s domestic constitutional procedures; provided, 
however, this Letter Agreement will lapse if such effectiveness does not take place 
within 90 days of its countersignature unless the Bank shall have established a later 
date for such purpose.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Khalid Ikram
Country Director, Egypt
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED:
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Zafer Selim El-Beshry  
Authorized Representative
Page  2
Date: January 28, 1999           
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient through the Ministry of 
Higher Education and Scientific Research in the preparation of the Higher Education 
and Scientific Research Project, with the main objective of reforming the sector of 
higher education and scientific research in order to produce the human resources 
required to support a more competitive economy.  The activities (the Activities) for 
which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
to conduct a labor market study that would determine the direction and 
need for professional manpower in the next two decades;
(b)
to assess the measures needed to improve the quality and relevance of 
higher education and to develop a quality assurance system;
(c)
to assess the role and responsibilities of private universities and how 
they can respond efficiently and flexibly to changing student demands and labor market 
conditions;
(d)
to conduct a study on financial diversification of higher education that 
would help lead to less reliance on public funds;
(e)
to conduct a study that would help improve the governance and 
accountability of higher education institutions; and
(f)
to develop a research and development plan to provide better focus, 
direction, and support to the national plans bearing on higher education.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by March 31, 2000.  After 
that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities.  Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
Page  3
