                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR2033



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-057315)



                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF GBP 43.98 MILLION (US$88.04 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                   PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION

           (FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY)

                                       FOR THE

                  EMERGENCY SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT

                  MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND (ESSP MDTF)



                                December 27, 2011


Human Development Sector
MNCO4
Middle East and North Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 5, 2011)

                 Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel (NIS)
                      US$1.00 = NIS3.73 = JOD 0.71
                      GBP1.00 = NIS5.85 = JOD1.11
                 NIS1.00 = US$0.27 = GBP0.17 = JOD0.19

                             FISCAL YEAR

                         January 1 - December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AA          Administration Agreement
CMU         Country Management Unit
CMWU        Costal Municipalities Water Utility
EC          European Commission
ESSP        Emergency Services Support Project
ESSP MDTF   Emergency Services Support Project – Multi-Donor Trust Fund
FM          Financial Management
FMR         Financial Management Report
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IBTF        Initiating Brief for Trust Fund
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IERC        Interim Emergency Relief Contribution
INT         World Bank Integrity Vice Presidency
ISN         Interim Strategy Note
ISR         Implementation Status Report
LCS         Least Cost Based Selection
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MDTF        Multi-Donor Trust Fund
MENA        Middle East and North Africa
MOE         Ministry of Education
MOEHE       Ministry of Education and Higher Education
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOH         Ministry of Health
MOSA        Ministry of Social Affairs
NGO         Non-governmental Organization
OM          Operations Manual
OPCS        Operational and Policy Services
PA          Palestinian Authority
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PEGASE   Mécanisme Palestino-Européen de Gestion de l'Aide Socio-Economique
PENRA    Palestine Energy & National Resources Authority
PLO      Palestine Liberation Organization
PM       Project Management
PO       President‘s Office
PWA      Palestine Water Authority
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RFP      Request for Proposal
SA       Special Account
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
SSNRP    Social Safety Net Reform Project
TACT     Trust Funds Accounting Clearance Team
TF       Trust Fund
TFC      Trust Fund Coordinator
TFGA     Trust Fund Grant Agreement
TFO      Trust Funds Operations Department
TIM      Temporary International Mechanism
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNRWA    United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the
         Near East
US       Utility Sectors
WBG      West Bank and Gaza
WHO      World Health Organization

           Vice President:        Inger Andersen
           Country Director:      Mariam J. Sherman
           Sector Director:       Steen Lau Jorgensen
           Sector Manager:        Roberta Gatti
           Project Team Leader:   Samira Ahmed Hillis
           ICR Team Leader:       Samira Ahmed Hillis
                                          WEST BANK AND GAZA

                          EMERGENCY SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
                               MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND



                                                     CONTENTS


Data Sheet
       A. Basic Information
       B. Key Dates
       C. Ratings Summary
       D. Sector and Theme Codes
       E. Bank Staff
       F. Results Framework Analysis
       G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
       H. Restructuring
       I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 42
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 43
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 46
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 47
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 48
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 67
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 68
  Annex 10. Contribution of Donors to the ESSP MDTF ............................................... 69
  Annex 11. Context at Appraisal .................................................................................... 72
  Annex 12. Detailed Program/Project Description ........................................................ 77
  Annex 13. Other Significant Changes .......................................................................... 80
  Annex 14. Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance........................................................ 83

MAP
                                    PROJECT DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                         Emergency     Services
Country:                  West Bank and Gaza      Project Name:          Support Project Multi-
                                                                         Donor Trust Fund
Project ID:               P104993                 L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-57315
ICR Date:                 12/05/2011              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                         PALESTINIAN
Lending Instrument:       SIM                     Grantee:
                                                                         AUTHORITY
Original          Total
                          USD 65.44M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 81.32M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           USD 65.39M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
 Ministry of Social Affairs
 Ministry of Education and Higher Education
 Ministry of Health
 Public Utilities (CMWU, PWA, and PEA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Department for International Development UK (DFID)
Italy Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Norway Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Belgium
Switzerland
Spain
France
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)
European Commission (EC)
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
Austrian Development Agency

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process               Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:                        Effectiveness:          09/18/2006        09/18/2006
Appraisal:                             Restructuring(s):
Approval:             09/18/2006       Mid-term Review:
                                       Closing:                06/30/2008        06/30/2011
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                          Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                       Substantial
Bank Performance:                                                  Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                                               Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                       Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                            Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                                   No                                   Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                                   No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                               Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                           20                    36
Health                                                             40                    52
Other social services                                              30                       2
Power                                                               5                       5
Water supply                                                        5                       5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction               67                      20
Other human development                                            33                      80
E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                      Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Mariam J. Sherman                   A. David Craig
Sector Manager:            Roberta V. Gatti                    David J. Steel
Project Team Leader:       Samira Ahmed Hillis                 Sima W. Kanaan
ICR Team Leader:           Samira Ahmed Hillis
ICR Primary Author:        Paul Geli


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
According to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the objective of the Project was to
mitigate the deterioration of service delivery to the Palestinian population in the parts of
the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO has not been revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target         Completion or
                                               documents)          Values          Target Years
                Education, health and social service facilities operate at the same or higher levels
Indicator 1 :
                than baselines
                                                                                Same as for the
                                                                                intermediate
                Same as for the
                                                                                outcome indicators.
                intermediate outcome
                                           Same as for the
                indicators.
                                           intermediate                         Schools operating:
Value
                                           outcome indicators                   1,155
quantitative or Schools operating: 1,615                        NA
                                           - same or higher                     Hospital
Qualitative)    Hospital occupancy:
                                           value than baseline                  occupancy: overall
                overall 76%
                                           values                               78%
                MOSA training centers:
                                                                                MOSA training
                13 with 1,300 students
                                                                                centers: 13 with
                                                                                1,600 students
Date achieved 09/30/2007                   06/30/2008                           06/30/2011
                Targets met. Facilities continued to operate at about the same level as the 2007
Comments
                baselines for education, health and social services. Note: in baseline, there was a
(incl. %
                mistake in the # of public primary school as of Sept 2007; the actual # was 972,
achievement)
                not 1,615.
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                Number of public primary schools operating and number of students attending
Indicator 1 :
                those schools, per school, compared to a baseline from end September 2007.
                                                                              No. of schools:
                No. of schools: 972
Value                                       Same or higher                    1,155
(quantitative                               values than       NA
                No. of students per
or Qualitative)                             baseline values                   No. of students per
                school: 400
                                                                              school: 542
Date achieved            09/30/2007             06/30/2008                         06/30/2011
Comments
                Targets met. Actual numbers are 19% higher than baselines for the # of schools
(incl. %
                operating and 36% higher than baselines for the # of students per school.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Number of professors and students in the 9 universities supported by the project.
                Number of academic                                            No. of academic
Value           staff: 3,209                Same or higher                    staff: 3,209
(quantitative                               values than       NA
or Qualitative) Number of students:         baseline values                   Number of
                123,429                                                       students: 132,750
Date achieved            06/30/2010             06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Targets met.
achievement)
                Utilization rates (overall, gynecology and outpatients) in the Shefa and Rafedia
Indicator 3 :
                hospitals, compared to a baseline of end-September 2007
                Overall occupancy:
                                                                              Overall occupancy:
                                                                              Shefa: 70%
                Shefa: 76%
                                                                              Rafedia: 87.2%
                Rafedia: 67%
                                                                            Gynecology
Value           Gynecology occupancy: Same or higher
                                                                            occupancy:
(quantitative                         values than            NA
                                                                            Shefa: 91%
or Qualitative) Shefa: 78%            baseline values
                                                                            Rafedia: 102.5%
                Rafedia: 95%
                                                                          Outpatients (Nos):
              Outpatients (Nos):
                                                                          Shefa: 17,775
              Shefa: 12,683
                                                                          Rafedia: 10,782
              Rafedia: 3,243
Date achieved        09/30/2007             06/30/2008                         06/30/2011
Comments      Targets met. With the exception of the overall occupancy for the Shefa hospital,
(incl. %      actual values exceed baseline values. Particularly noteworthy is the sharp
achievement) increase in numbers of outpatients (40% for Shefa & 232% for Rafedia)
              Number of facilities (training centers, youth centers and disabled rehabilitation
Indicator 4 : centers) that are able to operate normally, compared to a baseline of mid-
              November 2007.
                                                                       13 training centers
                                                                       with 1600 students
                13 training centers with
                1300 students
                                                                       8 youth
                                                                       rehabilitation
Value           3 youth centers benefiting Same or higher
                                                                       centers benefiting
(quantitative   125 youths                 values than        NA
                                                                       413 youths
or Qualitative)                            baseline values
                7 disabled rehabilitation
                                                                       7 disabled
                centers benefiting 800
                                                                       rehabilitation
                disabled people
                                                                       centers benefiting
                                                                       850 disabled people
Date achieved         11/15/2007         06/30/2008                         06/30/2011
Comments
              Targets met. There has been some increase in the number of beneficiaries of
(incl. %
              social services
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP         Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1     06/26/2008           Satisfactory               Satisfactory             57.11
  2     12/30/2008           Satisfactory               Satisfactory             67.11
  3     06/10/2009           Satisfactory               Satisfactory             71.50
  4     12/29/2009           Satisfactory               Satisfactory             78.71
  5     06/29/2010           Satisfactory               Satisfactory             80.85
  6     01/14/2011           Satisfactory               Satisfactory             81.49
  7     04/26/2011           Satisfactory               Satisfactory             81.96



H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The     reason    behind    the
                                                     restructuring request was to
                                                     extend the closing date from
                                                     June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2011.
                                                     This was the second request for
 06/24/2010       N       S       S          80.85
                                                     closing date extension and
                                                     required RVP approval, since
                                                     cumulative extension was over
                                                     2 years. The reason for the
                                                     second extension was to allow
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     the completion of ongoing
                                                     activities/contracts using the
                                                     remaining undisbursed balance
                                                     and to assimilate the EU's
                                                     commitment of Euro 10 million
                                                     to the ESSP MDTF.




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background

1.1.1 In early 2006, Israel made the decision to suspend the transfer of clearance revenues
that it collected on behalf of the Palestinian Authority (PA). This led to a severe fiscal
crisis that undermined public institutions and the delivery of essential public services by
the PA. Monthly revenues and external financing fell from US$135 million in 2005 to
roughly US$30 million; the PA had full control over only US$15-20 million per month.
The economic and social implications of the crisis were evident in deteriorating
performance in the social sectors – including health, education, and social services.
Insufficient domestic revenues squeezed operating budgets, leaving limited resources for
these services, and resulted in disruptions and declines in service provision.

Donor Response to the Emergency and the Initiating Brief for Trust Fund (IBTF)

1.1.2 In 2006, the European Commission (EC) proposed a Temporary International
Mechanism (TIM) for providing direct delivery of assistance to the Palestinian
population. The World Bank and other donors launched the Emergency Services Support
Project – Multi-Donor Trust Fund (ESSP MDTF) as a window of the TIM financed by a
donor trust fund (TF) and administered by the International Development Association
(IDA). The ESSP MDTF would finance non-salary recurrent expenditures of the PA‘s
social sector ministries (Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of Education and Higher
Education (MOEHE), and the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA)) based on the PA‘s
expenditure programs for these ministries, and the non-salary recurrent costs of other PA
entities.

1.1.3 The Initiating Brief for Trust Fund (IBTF) was approved on July 31, 2006 and,
following the signing of the Administration Agreements (AA) between IDA and some
donors, the Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TFGA) for GBP 24.34 million was signed
between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and IDA on September 18, 2006.
With additional contributions from donors, the Grant was increased four times
(December 2006, December 2007, March 2008 and April 2009) to a total of GBP 43.98
million (US$88.04 million equivalent).

1.1.4 The EC and ten individual countries (Australia, Austria, Belgium, France, Italy,
Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom) financed the ESSP
MDTF1. In the following table, donor contributions in their own currencies have been

1
  More detailed information on the contributions of the eleven donors that financed the ESSP MDTF is
included in Annex 10.


                                                 1
converted into US Dollars equivalent based on the exchange rates on the dates their
contributions were received by the Bank. Donor contributions were as follows:

           Donor                    Currency and amounts               US$ equivalent
                                                                         (million)
 European Commission                   Euro 20,000,000                     27.44
 Spain                                 Euro 15,000,000                     19.50
 United Kingdom                   Pounds Sterling 6,000,000                11.38
 Sweden                           Swedish Krona 45,000,000                  6.53
 Switzerland                         US Dollar 4,300,000                    4.30
 France                                 Euro 3,000,000                      3.98
 Australia                        Australian Dollar 4,000,000               3.60
 Norway                          Norwegian Kroner 21,696,711                3.53
 Belgium                                Euro 2,500,000                      3.28
 Italy                                  Euro 2,277,000                      3.24
 Austria                                Euro 1,000,000                      1.26
 Total                                                                     88.04


Rationale for Bank Assistance

1.1.5 The PA‘s emergency program in social services was launched with the help of the
World Bank in 2002 through the ESSP with the aim to provide a means of rapidly
channeling donor funds to priority social services in a coordinated manner. ESSP I and II
were instrumental in sustaining the PA‘s social service delivery system. In response to
PA and donor requests, the Bank agreed to administer the ESSP MDTF for provision of
donor financing to sustain the delivery of basic services. In January 2008, the Bank
approved and financed a third ESSP (ESSP III) that is closely linked to the Bank-
administered ESSP MDTF. These two operations have the common objective of helping
to mitigate the deterioration in the provision of essential public services in education,
health and social services. Both projects also have the same components and fiduciary
requirements. The main difference is the funding source. The ESSP MDTF is a Bank-
administered TF financed by eleven donors. Within the Bank, the ESSP MDTF was
processed under TF arrangements.

1.1.6 Detailed information on the context at appraisal is included in Annex 11.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 There are three slightly different wordings for the project development objectives
(PDO), but the substance is the same because all three wordings include mitigating the
deterioration of service delivery to the Palestinian population under the PA. For the
purpose of assessing project outcomes, the Implementation Completion and Results
(ICR) Report will use the wording included in the TFGA. According to the TFGA
(TF057315), the objective of the Project was to mitigate the deterioration of service
delivery to the Palestinian population in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza (WBG)

                                            2
under the jurisdiction of the PA. In the IBTF, the PDO is summarized as follows: ―The
development objective of the Emergency Services Support Project is to mitigate the
deterioration of service delivery brought about by the inability of the Palestinian
Authority to meet its non-salary recurrent costs‖. In the Program Document (Technical
Annex), the PDO is defined as follows: ―The Project‘s objective is to mitigate the
deterioration of basic services brought about by the inability of the Palestinian Authority
to meet its budget requirements by providing financing for non-salary operating
expenditures in key social and service delivery sectors‖.

1.2.2 The TFGA states that the PA shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the project
and prepare quarterly project reports on the basis of the indicators agreed with the World
Bank, but it does not indicate what those indicators are. The Program Document
(Technical Annex) does not discuss monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and does not list
any key performance indicators. The ESSP Operations Manual is also silent on M&E and
indicators. However, the IBTF included a list of key performance indicators. As
mentioned in Section 2.3 on M&E, the indicators selected for the ESSP III were
monitored also for the ESSP MDTF.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

1.3.1 The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The Program Document (Technical Annex) and the ESSP Operations Manual do
not include a discussion of the Project‘s main beneficiaries. However, it is clear from the
PDO and the implementing entities to be supported under the ESSP MDTF that the whole
Palestinian population in both the West Bank and Gaza would benefit from the Project.
The distribution of benefits between the West Bank and Gaza would vary over time
depending on the estimates of the financial needs of the relevant ministries and other
implementing entities and the allocations of the proceeds of the trust fund grant.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 The Project had two components: (1) Financing non-salary recurrent expenditures
and other expenditures; and (2) Project management and monitoring.

Component 1: Financing Non-Salary Recurrent Expenditures2 and Other Expenditures
Part A. Education Services, covering (i) the recurrent expenditures of MOEHE, (ii) the
costs of general examinations, (iii) support for schools and vocational training centers,


2
  Non-salary recurrent expenditures include (a) rent payments; (b) transportation costs, including fuel,
vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance; (c) water and electricity; (d) communications, including
telephones and mail; (e) consumables; (f) maintenance of equipment and buildings; (g) fuel for heating and
generators; and (h) office supplies.

                                                    3
(iv) support to higher education institutions, and (v) minor rehabilitation of school
buildings.

Part B. Health Services, covering (i) non-medical recurrent expenditures, (ii) the
provision of essential drugs, supplies and medical consumables, (iii) treatment in
private/non-governmental clinics, (iv) nutrition supplements, and (v) hospital food and
cleaning contracts.

Part C. Social Welfare Services, covering the recurrent operating expenditures of the
MOSA and its shelters, rehabilitation and training centers, and support to the centers,
including the provision of tools, equipment and materials as well as food.

Part D. Recurrent Expenditures in Other Key Sectors. Support to selected ministries and
institutions for sustaining basic water, sanitation and electricity services.

Component 2 – Project Management and Monitoring
Part E. Support to the President‘s Office (PO) of the PA to strengthen its implementation
capacity for project management (PM). This component would finance the costs of
consultancies, technical assistance, essential equipment and external financial and
physical spot audits, as well as management operating costs.

1.5.2 A detailed project description is included in Annex 12.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1 Information on other significant changes3 (extensions of closing date, amendments
of TFGA and new allocations of Grant proceeds) is included in Annex 13. The main
points are as follows:

    a) The closing date was extended twice for a total of three years, mainly to fully
       disburse the additional donor contributions. Also, the PA was keen on ensuring
       that the ESSP MDTF would remain open due to its prominent role in the
       management of the PA‘s emergency response.
    b) The TFGA was amended five times, once to reflect a change in implementation
       responsibility, and four times to reflect increased budget based on additional
       donor contributions.
    c) There were five new allocations of the proceeds of the Grant to accommodate the
       increases in donor contributions. More importantly, in order to speed up
       disbursements, the allocations of the new donor contributions were towards fast


3
  Only the second extension of closing date on June 30, 2010 was processed in accordance with the
restructuring guidelines. For earlier changes, the restructuring guidelines did not apply to trust funds.

                                                   4
       disbursing items, such as incremental operating costs and higher education
       salaries that do not require lengthy procurement procedures.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 The PA and a number of donors had asked the Bank to establish a mechanism for
providing financial assistance to the Palestinians, particularly in the areas of health,
education and social assistance. The Bank proposed to use the ESSP model which had
been successful; since it did not include any conditionality and reform requirements, it
proved to be an efficient and effective vehicle for responding to emergency and crisis
situations. In collaboration with the PA and donors, the Bank worked on the modalities
and structure of a TF to channel donor funds to the Project. The Bank-administered ESSP
MDTF would be one of the main instruments to finance the PA‘s social sector emergency
program. It complemented other Bank operations financed through the Trust Fund for
Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB), such as the Bank‘s Social Safety Net Reform Project
(SSNRP).

Assessment of Project Design

2.1.2 A review of ESSP I and II conducted by the Bank in late 2004 had concluded that
the projects‘ performance was satisfactory since they were achieving their objectives.
Stakeholders also confirmed that ESSP financing was critical for maintaining adequate
levels of municipal, social, health and education services. The design of the ESSP MDTF
was informed by the lessons learned from the implementation of the previous and
ongoing ESSPs. However, there were significant differences between the ESSP MDTF
and earlier ESSPs:

Financing. Early on for ESSP I and ESSP II, the Bank was the main provider of funds;
other donors contributed through a series of individual trust funds that specified the use
of resources. All funds were administered by the Bank. Under the ESSP MDTF, donors
pooled their resources in a single trust fund, the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF). The
Bank provided no resources to the Fund, but acted as Fund administrator. About one-half
of the financing was unconditional beyond the general requirement that it be spent on
non-salary budget support for social services. In five instances (Austria, EC, Italy,
Switzerland and the United Kingdom), donors have been more specific about the use of
their funds.

Coverage. Under ESSP I and II, coverage included not only non-salary recurrent
expenditures of social sector ministries, but also, selectively, non-salary expenditures of
other ministries and municipal utilities, and the printing of scientific textbooks. These
earlier ESSPs also included elements of explicit capacity building. The ESSP MDTF was




                                            5
focused solely on non-salary recurrent expenditures4 of social sector ministries and public
utility companies.

Management structure. Previously, line ministries had managed program implementation,
supported by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The
PCU was the first line of contact with the World Bank, and it was responsible for the
overall financial management (FM) aspects of the program. Under ESSP MDTF, an
additional management layer was introduced – the PO – which had overall program
oversight and sign-off authority on program activities.

2.1.3 An excellent Concept Note for the ESSP MDTF included a clear presentation of the
project design and implementation arrangements, covering in particular the legal
framework, eligible expenditures and supervision.

The Legal Framework

2.1.4 The ESSP MDTF would be administered by the Bank. As the fiscal crisis was
expected to persist in the medium-term, the TF‘s duration would be two years. Each
donor would enter into an AA with the Bank; the AA would include standard terms and
provisions governing the operation of the ESSP/MDTF as a whole that would be identical
for all donors. Each AA would also include the amount of the donor‘s contribution and
the donor‘s preferences for the windows (sectors) to which it should be allocated. Donor
contributions would not be conditional upon PA implementation of policy measures. For
each window, the Bank would accept donor contributions up to the annual estimated
needs for this window and thereby ensure de facto that donor contributions are not spent
on other than the donors‘ preferred window(s). The list of windows would be attached to
the AA. The Bank would send donors‘ updated attachments whenever new windows
were added.

2.1.5 The Bank would enter into one or more Grant Agreement(s) with the PA,
represented by the PO. The Grant Agreement would be for the estimated needs of the
annual recurrent expenditure program. However, the agreement would state that
disbursements to the PA would be limited to the amount actually received from the ESSP
donors for each of the windows. Additional funds would be added to the Grant as donors
make additional contributions to the ESSP MDTF.

2.1.6 Supervision responsibility for ESSP MDTF implementation would rest solely with
the Bank, which would convene a steering committee of participating donors on a
quarterly basis to discuss implementation progress and problems encountered. ESSP
MDTF donors would receive quarterly unaudited financial statements and annual audited
financial statements from the Bank, together with quarterly unaudited summaries of
donor contributions and expenditures by window. Moreover, donors would receive
quarterly financial management reports (FMRs) that would be prepared by the PO for
each window. The Bank would also submit a progress report after each supervision

4
  However, as an exception to the rule, the Project financed also the salaries of contractual (not civil
servants) university professors.

                                                   6
mission. Within six months after closing, the donors would receive a final
implementation report and a final audit report of the Bank‘s TF account issued by the
Bank‘s external auditors.

2.1.7 A customized fee structure would be designed to enable the Bank to recover the full
incremental costs (staff time, benefits, travel and consultants) of administering the ESSP
MDTF on the donors‘ behalf. The fee would be paid by the donors in proportion to their
contribution to the overall TF budget.

Eligible expenditures

2.1.8 The TF would disburse against an annual PA recurrent expenditure program in
eligible sectors. This expenditure program, to be prepared by the PO in consultation with
the Bank and the implementing entities, would be based on estimates of the financial
needs of implementing entities. Initially, disbursements would be limited to non-wage
recurrent expenditures in three sectors (windows): education, health and social assistance
(the TF was, therefore, complementary to the financing provided by the EC, in particular,
to cover salary recurrent expenditures). The main expenditure categories would be goods,
services, and incremental operating costs. However, as in the past, small-scale
rehabilitation activities (works), essential equipment, and the salaries of staff of tertiary
education institutions who are not PA civil servants would also be included.
Disbursements would also cover project management costs to be incurred by the
counterpart implementation units.

2.1.9 Windows could be added at a later stage, if the Bank determined such windows
were appropriate and one or more donors committed acceptable levels of funding to these
windows. If implementation arrangements for additional windows differed from the
initial set-up, they would first be assessed for readiness for implementation. The addition
of windows would not require the approval of all the donors participating in the ESSP
MDTF.

Supervision

2.1.10 Since the Bank would be responsible for supervising the implementation of the
ESSP MDTF, the design included rigorous fiduciary and implementation procedures
acceptable to the Bank. All Bank policies and fiduciary procedures would apply. All
procurement would be in accordance with Bank Guidelines, and procurement and FM
would be supervised by Bank technical specialists. An independent firm would be
contracted to carry out quarterly spot checks to verify that the items were delivered in the
agreed quantity and quality. In addition, an annual independent audit of the Project
accounts would be carried out. The Bank would undertake periodic supervision missions
to review implementation progress and adherence to fiduciary requirements.
Furthermore, the Bank would compare past actual expenses and future estimated needs
every six months and would revise the expenditure program and allocations between the
windows as needed.



                                             7
Government Commitment

2.1.11 The Project was developed in response to the PA‘s urgent request that the Bank
establish a mechanism for providing financial assistance to help the Palestinians deal with
the ongoing crisis. The PA, which was interested in ensuring that the social sectors
(health, education and social assistance) continue to operate, was very committed to the
Project‘s objective, and its ministries took an active part in project preparation.

Assessment of Risks

2.1.12 The Project Document (Technical Annex) included an assessment of the
Recipient‘s capacity to implement procurement, and rated the overall project risk for
procurement as ―High‖. The identified risks included limited knowledge of international
public procurement principles upon which Bank procedures and guidelines are largely
based, limited understanding of Bank procurement, and limited knowledge of the local
and international market and suppliers. These risks would be mitigated by the provision
of technical assistance under the Project. Capacity-building was provided under the
project in a number of areas, for example, through consultancies which provided
guidance in the contracting aspects of tertiary health care services provision (e.g.,
procurement, evaluations). Further, the PCU, which was familiar with Bank procedures,
was able to provide guidance and training to ministry staff in various areas of PM.
Regarding the Project‘s FM, because of the previous experience of ESSP I and II, the risk
was considered ―Moderate‖.

2.1.13 According to the ESSP IBTF, the risk associated with this TF was considerable for
several reasons: (i) poor security situation and poor enforcement of law and order; (ii)
non-payment by the PA of civil servant salaries, then in its fifth month (a massive walk
out by the staff from MOEHE, MOH and MOSA would bring project implementation to
a halt); (iii) multiplicity of benefiting institutions; and (iv) low capacity of the PO (the
primary implementing agency). The administration of the TF posed a significant
reputational risk to the Bank, since it could be seen as an instrument of donor politics in
WBG. The scattered nature of the Project and the inability of Bank staff to access Gaza
and some parts of the West Bank posed an additional challenge to the Bank in
supervising the Project. However, the Task Team responsible for supervision had a
proven track record and the appropriate skills mix, with a good balance between
Headquarter and Country Office-based staff. Also, the Country Management Unit (CMU)
would assist the project team in the dialogue with partners, including the PO, PA and
donors, to ensure a full understanding of the Bank‘s role and adequate handling of
relationships with donors. The ESSP IBTF had an overall risk rating of ―High‖ for the
TF.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 The implementation arrangements for the Project were generally similar to those
being followed under the previous two ESSPs. However, efforts were made to simplify
the processes for the ESSP MDTF (financed by Donors) and the ESSP III (financed by

                                             8
IDA) that were implemented concurrently. The Multi-Donor Trust Fund offered a more
suitable arrangement for managing large donor-financed operations than single donor
trust funds. Implementation was facilitated by the financing modality (partial pooling and
partial earmarking) and by the flexibility of adding new intervention windows as needed.

2.2.2 The main factors outside the control of Government or implementing agencies that
influenced project implementation and ultimately the project outcomes can be
summarized as follows:

(a) The environment was one of continuous conflict and insecurity. Restrictions on
movements of people and goods between West Bank and Gaza because of the closures
imposed by Israel, as well as periodic work stoppages, contributed to project
implementation delays.

(b) With Israel‘s restrictions on movements between West Bank and Gaza, PCU staff
based in Gaza worked under extremely difficult circumstances with limited fuel and
severe power outages.

(c) The implementing agencies‘ limited knowledge of Bank procedures was another
cause of delays. When the management of the MOH, MOEHE and MOSA was moved to
West Bank, the PCU had to provide assistance to new teams with limited experience in
managing a project administered by the Bank. The strong implementation support
provided by the WBG field office staff who collaborated closely with the authorities
helped to mitigate this problem.

(d) The willingness of donors to join in the financing and increase their contributions, and
their preference for the sectors to be financed with their contributions was also a factor.
Eleven donors provided US$88.04 million equivalent for the ESSP MDTF. However,
funding was unpredictable and erratic from year to year. Some scheduling of budget
assistance among donors would have facilitated the PA‘s task. Five donors earmarked
their contributions; of those, most expressed a preference for financing health services.
Six donors did not earmark their contributions, which provided more flexibility for the
management of the ESSP MDTF.

2.2.3 The factors subject to Government control that negatively influenced project
implementation included the complex management structure. Compared to previous
ESSPs, an additional management layer – the PO - had been introduced to provide
overall program oversight and sign-off authority on program activities. This increased
processing time significantly. On September 30, 2007, implementation arrangements
were changed; the responsibility for implementing the Project was transferred from the
PO to the Economic Affairs Department of the PLO, with the PCU as the first line of
contact with the Bank and responsible for the overall project financial management
aspects. Other negative factors were the weak budget management and the limited
procurement capacity within the line ministries. The various increases in donor
contributions and the related new allocations of the Grant proceeds provided an
opportunity to focus on quick disbursing items (such as incremental operating costs and

                                             9
higher education salaries) and to thereby reduce the share of the Grant allocated to goods
which required often cumbersome and lengthy procurement procedures. Further, it was
possible to monitor closely the delivery of essential goods and services and provide
assurances to donors regarding the use of their contributions as there were quarterly spot
check audits.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design

2.3.1 As mentioned in Section 1.2, the TFGA, the Project Document (Technical Annex)
and the ESSP Operations Manual did not discuss M&E and did not provide information
on indicators. However, the IBTF included a list of key performance indicators, but
without any baselines or quantified targets.

M&E implementation

2.3.2 The Emergency Project Paper for ESSP III and a Supplemental Letter to the TFGA
of January 17, 2008 included the PDO and intermediate outcome indicators. These
indicators were based in part on the IBTF indicators and had baseline values as of end of
September 2007. They dealt with the operating levels of education, health and social
services facilities: the number of public primary schools operating and the number of
students attending these schools, the utilization rates of two hospitals and the number of
social services facilities that are able to operate normally and their occupancy. The Bank
decided that these indicators which were formally approved in the supplemental letter for
the ESSP III TFGA will be monitored also for the ESSP MDTF, as reflected in a mission
aide-memoire and implementation status report (ISR). In 20105, an indicator was added
for the numbers of professors and students in the nine universities supported by the
Project. All of these indicators, with their baseline and end-of-project values, are shown
in the Project Data Sheet.

M&E utilization

2.3.3 The key performance indicators were monitored closely by the PA (including
through the spot check audits) and the Bank. Given the emergency nature of the Project,
the objective was to either maintain or increase the baseline values. It is not known
whether the M&E data was used to inform decision-making and resource allocation.

2.4 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Detailed information on ―Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance‖ is included in
Annex 14. The main points are summarized below.




5
    This was included for the first time in ISR No. 6 dated December 29, 2010.

                                                      10
Procurement

2.4.2 At the beginning of the Project, procurement delays (particularly for the
procurement of pharmaceuticals) contributed to slow disbursements. To avoid those
delays, the additional donor contributions were allocated to fast disbursing items, such as
incremental operating costs and higher education salaries, reducing the amounts for
procurement of civil works and goods that require lengthy procurement procedures.

2.4.3 The findings of an ex-post procurement review in March 2008 confirmed that the
Bank had done its part in terms of transparency and efficiency. Procurement for the
education sector and the utilities was satisfactory, but there were some problems for
health and social welfare:

   a) There were problems with two contracts with a pharmaceutical company which
      committed fraud. The fraud was identified by the PA who brought it to the Bank‘s
      attention. The case was investigated by the PA and the World Bank Integrity Vice
      Presidency (INT). The PA took immediate action: the two contracts were
      canceled, the amounts were reallocated to fuel and electricity bills for hospitals
      and clinics in Gaza, and the PA returned to the Bank the small amount already
      paid to the firm. The case remains under both judicial and administrative
      investigations by the PA‘s Attorney General, and pending the final decision by
      the PA‘s Supreme Court.
   b) There was one case of misprocurement for the procurement of materials for
      training centers in Gaza. The amount involved was small (about US$40,000
      equivalent) and was refunded to the Special Account (SA).

2.4.4 The Project was able to develop and implement a competitive and transparent
process for the award of tertiary health care contracts to private and non-governmental
organization (NGO) clinics that were previously awarded on a direct contracting basis.
This is one of the Project‘s achievements.

Financial management and disbursements

2.4.5 The original time-frame for the ESSP MDTF was 22 months, with a Closing Date
of June 30, 2008. However, since contributions were expected to be provided in tranches,
the Project Budget was prepared on the basis of a six month cycle of expenditures
(estimated initially at US$55.75 million), to be updated regularly in line with the Grant
Agreement and the Procurement Plans, taking into account additional donor
contributions.

2.4.6 An interesting aspect of the design is that there were four special (designated)
accounts for the Project, one for each sector (MOH, MOEHE and MOSA) and one for the
PO. To facilitate the monitoring of the project-financed activities, each SA would be
maintained as a separate identifiable account to be used exclusively for eligible project
expenditures financed under the Grant.



                                            11
2.4.7 Steps were taken to enhance project management and the implementation process,
including (i) the adoption of an FM system (computerized accounting system) to follow
up the disbursement process and to ensure accuracy of transactions and promptness of
payment, and (ii) special arrangements to control the financing of incremental operating
costs, particularly fuel.

2.4.8 The financial audit reports were all unqualified and submitted on time. The final
audit report is due by December 31, 2011. The reporting and auditing requirements
included quarterly spot check reports on a representative sample of expenditure
categories in each implementing agency, with physical inspection and a count of
quantities received. Sixteen spot check reports were submitted up to March 31, 2011(the
final report for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 yet to be submitted). Also, two
transaction reviews were carried out by a Bank consultant during the project life.

2.4.9 After the closing of the Project, the Bank identified an issue related to the final
disposal of funds reimbursed by the Bank to the PA for those eligible expenditures that
the PA had financed with its own resources. These funds, which were deposited into a
sub-account opened for that purpose by the Office of the President in November 2006,
have not been transferred immediately to the PA‘s Central Treasury Account, as required
by both Bank and PA financial management control mechanisms and guidelines. As
requested by the Bank, the PA took corrective action.

Safeguards

2.4.10 The ESSP MDTF did not finance investments. It was an emergency project that
financed only non-salary recurrent expenditures and did not, therefore, trigger any
safeguards.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 The whole Grant amount has been disbursed. The emergency operation was entirely
dependent on contributions from donors. Emergency-type budget support to help the PA
provide basic social services will continue to be needed in the short- and medium-term,
even under an optimistic scenario on fiscal developments in WBG. There is no planned
operation that could finance the recurrent expenditures of social sector ministries. If part
of the assistance provided by donors in the form of general budget support is not used to
finance non-salary recurrent expenditures, services to the Palestinian population are
bound to suffer.




                                            12
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Highly Relevant

3.1.1 The objectives, design and implementation of the Project were and remain highly
relevant to the Bank assistance strategy and to the current WBG priorities. Since WBG is
not a member country of the Bank, there is no formal Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS). Instead, the Bank relies on strategy notes to guide its work and keep the
Executive Directors informed on activities. The latest Interim Strategy Note (ISN) (2008-
2010) was endorsed by the Board on April 22, 2008. One of its pillars is the emergency
provision of basic services. A new interim strategy is planned for the second quarter of
FY12. With respect to WBG priorities, the ESSP MDTF was certainly aligned with the
PA‘s strategy to help prevent a collapse in social service delivery in this particular
moment of crisis.

3.1.2 The current strategy emphasizes the Bank‘s desire to carefully target its limited
resources to areas where the Bank can be most effective or can leverage additional donor
funds. Along with grants, the strategy calls for the Bank to use its analytical ability and
technical assistance to leverage other donor funds. Indeed, the Bank‘s most effective
efforts have been directed at encouraging donor funding of the recurrent budget on a
much larger scale than the ESSP MDTF.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory

3.2.1 The ESSP MDTF is a pure emergency operation with a focus on project outputs.
Although the original wording of the PDO indicator that was repeated in the ISRs may
have been confusing,6 the intent was clearly that, in order to assess the project
achievements, one would measure the extent to which education, health and social
services operate at the same or at higher levels than the September 2007 baseline figures7.

3.2.2 The main project outcomes were to: (a) maintain essential operation of public
education, health and social care facilities; (b) promote greater synergies among donor-
funded emergency projects in the social sectors; (c) leverage additional donor resources
to be channeled through the next phase of the ESSP MDTF; and (d) underpin discussions
on sector development by maintaining a policy dialogue in the social sectors.




6
  The wording is ―Education, health and social service facilities operate at the same, higher or lower levels
than baselines‖, which means that targets will always be met. However, all the ISRs made it clear that the
targets were end-of-project values the same or higher than the baseline values.
7
  Unfortunately, there was also a mistake in the baseline number of public primary schools due to confusion
on the definition of such schools and the inadvertent inclusion in that number of schools run by the United
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA). The actual number
of public primary schools at baseline was 972, not 1,615.

                                                     13
Achievement of targets

3.2.3 As shown in the Project Data Sheet, the assistance provided through the ESSP
MDTF prevented deterioration of education, health and social services in West Bank and
Gaza. Targets have basically been met. At the conclusion of the project, facilities
continued to operate at the same or higher levels than the 2007 baselines, as follows:

           a. The number of public primary schools operating in 2011 (1,155) is 19
              percent higher than the 2007 baseline (972), and the number of students
              per school (542) in 2011 is 36 percent higher than the 2007 baseline (400).
           b. In nine universities, the number of academic staff supported by the Project
              in 2011 (3,209) is the same as the 2010 baseline, and the number of
              students in 2011 (132,750) is 8 percent higher than the 2010 baseline
              (123,429).
           c. Regarding the utilization rates for the Shefa and Rafedia Hospitals, most
              actual values for 2011 for overall occupancy and gynecology occupancy
              exceed 2007 baseline values by significant margins, varying between 8
              and 50 percent; the exception is the overall occupancy for the Shefa
              Hospital which decreased by 8 percent. Particularly noteworthy are the
              sharp increases in the numbers of outpatients (40 percent for Shefa and
              232 percent for Rafedia).
           d. Regarding the social services provided by MOSA facilities, there have
              also been increases in the number of beneficiaries in 2011 compared to
              2007: a modest increase for the number of disabled (+6 percent), a
              significant increase for the number of students in training centers (+23
              percent), and a very substantial increase for the number of youths in youth
              centers (+230 percent).

Project Impact

3.2.4 Annex 2 provides a comprehensive list of outputs by component which shows that
the Project affected positively many areas that are important for the well-being of the
Palestinian population. The ESSP MDTF provided non-salary budgetary support to key
social sector ministries and utilities to allow them to continue to operate so that essential
services were continuously provided; this was accomplished by bridging the shortfall in
budget financing available to them. The main impacts are summarized below.

3.2.5 For all sectors supported by the Project, the ESSP MDTF covered a significant
percentage (about 70 percent) of operating costs of beneficiaries, such as rent payments,
water and electricity utilities, transportation costs, fuel, communications, maintenance of
equipment and buildings and cleaning contracts. About 40 percent of the Grant was used
to finance operating costs. The project impact for each sector would not have been
possible without the financing of operating costs by the Grant. Among those, the
provision of fuel was very important, particularly for Gaza hospitals and ambulances and
for water supply.



                                             14
3.2.6 For the Health Sector (which received about half of the funds), the Project
financed the purchase of essential drugs, vaccines, laboratory/blood bank materials,
medical consumables, equipment spare parts, replacement of some damaged medical
equipment, textiles for health care settings, electricity and water. About 27 percent of the
funds for the health sector financed the provision by non-governmental facilities of
emergency treatment services that public facilities in the areas could not provide. That
part of the program supported about 18,000 referrals annually to specialized private and
non-governmental hospitals. The ESSP MDTF financed the purchase of 420 laboratory
material items for hospitals and clinics, 350 items out of MOH‘s basic drug list (which
includes 550 items), and fuel for 120 ambulances and medical service vehicles. When the
additional donor contributions were allocated to fast disbursing items instead of drugs,
the gap was partly covered by donations from many sources. However, there were some
shortages of drugs and other materials because of the difficulties of delivering them,
whether purchased or donated, to health facilities, particularly in Gaza. Altogether, the
Project enabled about 4,000 doctors, more than 5,000 nurses and 3,160 technical
specialists to continue providing essential health services.

3.2.7 For the Education Sector, the Project funded minor school rehabilitation, school
furniture, general high school examinations, stationery and printing materials for schools
(essential in ensuring students were able to take final exams) and district directorates,
cleaning materials, as well as utilities in 1500 schools and 17 MOE directorate offices. In
addition, it provided computers and materials for vocational schools and food and animal
feed for agriculture schools. The project also financed the salaries of 2,000 teaching staff
working in 9 universities.

3.2.8 For the Social Services Sector, the Project financed tools, small machines and
materials and some food for 38 rehabilitation and vocational training centers and shelters.
Another Bank operation financed MOSA‘s activities, and the amount disbursed for social
services under the ESSP MDTF was very modest (about one percent of the total grant).
However, this support enabled MOSA to provide some services to elderly, orphans,
persons with disabilities and youth.

3.2.9 For the Water/Sanitation and Electricity Utilities, the Project financed basic
goods, works and services directly related to the operation and maintenance of the
networks, such as small network rehabilitations, electricity materials, and maintenance of
water wells and waste water equipment.

Other achievements

3.2.10 An important achievement is that the ESSP structure and mechanism are now
considered as a Palestinian-administered mechanism that can be scaled up or downwards
to fund non-salary recurrent expenditures for social sector ministries. Such a mechanism
ensures that key public services are not disrupted and benefit, to a large extent, the poorer
segments of the Palestinian population, particularly those who do not have money to seek
private health care or send their children to private schools.



                                             15
3.2.11 The ESSP approach is a valid concept in a protracted crisis situation. An
Operational and Policy Services (OPCS) review of emergency operations established the
ESSP model and adopted it as a ‗best practice‘ instrument in the Bank for similar country
situations. Such operations address priorities that are particularly important in a time of
crisis, such as the continuity in provision of essential social services for poor and needy
populations, with an added value of safeguarding social cohesion. Together with the
Social Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP) also financed by the Bank, the ESSP MDTF
was an essential element in preserving the social fabric in WBG. The conflict was
perpetuating an internal cycle of violence, fragmenting social cohesion and affecting
psychosocial well-being. The operation funded operating expenditures for health
facilities, schools, and social centers for disabled, elderly and youth to strengthen the
social fabric and community cohesion. In addition, it has given the Bank a solid platform
to maintain a policy dialogue in the social sectors.

3.2.12 The development and adoption of new contracting modalities for tertiary health
care providers with a competitive and transparent process is another achievement of the
Project.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory

3.3.1 The efficiency is rated ―Satisfactory‖. The ESSP MDTF did not finance
investments so that an assessment of economic or financial return does not apply. While
the program aim was to mitigate deterioration in service delivery, it ended up assuring
that these services were operating at the same level or higher.

3.3.2 At the time the ESSP MDTF was being established, the economic and social
implications of the crisis in WBG were evident and a rapid decline was expected. There
was a marked deterioration in performance of the social sectors (health, education and
social services). A shortage of drugs and medical supplies threatened to undermine the
operational capacity of health facilities and hospitals, many services had been
discontinued (e.g., mobile health clinics in some areas) and only urgent surgeries were
performed. The extended closure of border crossings in Gaza was continuing to result in
shortages of food supplies (UN Revised Emergency Appeal, 2006). About one-quarter of
the Palestinian labor force was out of work, with the unemployment rate in Gaza reaching
39 percent. The uncertain security situation with intermittent conflict, closures and
movement restrictions and fiscal deterioration had a profound impact on the lives of
Palestinians. The proportion of people living below the poverty line by end-2006 was 66
percent - a 16 percent increase from the March 2006 figure. Prior to the ESSP MDTF, the
donors‘ response to the crisis had been largely ad hoc.

3.3.3 Since this was an emergency project, it was not able to focus on potential
improvements that might have been undertaken in the efficiency of delivery systems.
However, the PA received value for money: the costs involved in achieving the project
objectives were reasonable in comparison with the benefits to the population. The ESSP
MDTF, which was the largest mechanism to support the majority of social services, was

                                            16
able to prevent a total collapse of the public service delivery system. The cost of
managing the project was very low - about one percent of the total disbursements to
ministries and utilities.

3.3.4 The project design and implementation included special arrangements to control the
use of funds. The spot checks carried out by the external auditor provided assurances that
funds were spent for the purpose intended. In order to follow up on the fuel consumption
and to supervise the fuel distribution, the PCU visited MOH hospitals when deliveries
were made, taking readings of the generators and capacity in order to check consumption.
For the ambulances, the MOH transportation department gave coupons to the ambulance
drivers with their names and the vehicle number; also, lists of names and vehicle numbers
were distributed to the fuel stations to ensure that fuel would be given only to those cars.
Each month, the PCU submitted a report to the Bank monitoring fuel supplies in Gaza.

3.3.5 In addition, the Project did provide some opening for capacity building, particularly
for financial management and procurement, and it introduced a management information
system that has contributed to improving the budget planning process.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1 The overall outcome rating is ―Satisfactory‖. ESSP financing was critical for
maintaining some health, education and social services as well as the operations of public
utilities. The channeling of donor funds through the ESSP was supposed to be replaced
by the PA allocating resources received from donors through general budget support, as
the ESSP MDTF was fully disbursed. However, supervision missions have noted that
adequate funding is not available for essential support to key services (including tertiary
health care, education services), substantial arrears are currently accumulating, and often
services provided are supported through personal contribution of time and resources. As
a result, they are operating at a very limited level. This might suggest that when aiming
to maintain a certain level of social services, an instrument which earmarks funds
specifically for these purposes should be used to provide support. Further research
should be dedicated to better understanding this occurrence in order to identify concrete
steps that can be taken to prevent a total decline in social service provision.

3.4.2 Since the beginning of the Project, implementation has been satisfactory. The PDO,
which is to mitigate the deterioration of service delivery to the Palestinian population in
the parts of the WBG under the jurisdiction of the PA, has been achieved. The ESSP
MDTF contributed to maintaining a minimum level of key social and other services,
particularly in Gaza which has been affected by a prolonged crisis. Compared to the
previous two ESSPs, the ESSP MDTF was a more suitable arrangement for mobilizing
and managing large contributions from donors, channeling them quickly to priority areas
in crisis situations. Eleven donors have contributed a total of US$88.04 million
equivalent, and all funds allocated to the Line Ministries and Utilities have been
disbursed to them. The Project was well-managed, with clearly assigned roles for the
MOF and the line Ministries/Utilities. In addition to the usual progress reports, FMRs and

                                            17
annual financial audits, the reporting and auditing requirements included quarterly spot
check reports covering review of procurement procedures/contracting and physical
inspection and counts of quantities received; two transaction reviews were also carried
out. Close supervision and implementation support provided by Bank staff based in the
field contributed to the success of the emergency operation. The success of the ESSP
MDTF is due in part to the fact that it was aligned with the PA‘s strategy to help prevent
a collapse in social service delivery.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 The ESSP MDTF financing, directly or indirectly, benefitted many poor people.
With respect to education and health, project activities were very important for the poorer
segments of the Palestinian population who cannot send their children to private schools
or seek private health care. Particularly noteworthy are the sharp increases in the numbers
of outpatients in the Shefa hospital (plus 40 percent) and the Rafedia hospital (plus 232
percent). Also, the increases in gynecology occupancy (17 percent for Shefa and 8
percent for Rafedia) show that the Project was important for women.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 The Project was an emergency intervention with no institutional development
ambitions beyond the specific improvements that were necessary for successful project
implementation. Country-based Bank staff and consultants provided training to the
counterpart staff on financial management and procurement procedures.

3.5.3 As noted in Section 3.2 under ―Other Achievements‖, an important institutional
change is the establishment and strengthening of an ESSP mechanism for service delivery
and emergency response in the social sectors that can be scaled up or downwards as the
need arises.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.4 See ―Other Achievements‖ in Section 3.2 on achievement of PDO.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

4.1 The ICR rates the overall risk to development outcome - i.e., the risk that
development outcomes will not be maintained – as ―Substantial‖. The Project was
entirely dependent on donors‘ contributions, and could not be sustained in the absence of

                                            18
such financing. The operation was not designed to create or develop sustainable systems,
but aimed to allow for the provision of some essential services in a period of crisis.
Emergency-type budget support to help the PA provide basic social services will continue
to be needed in the short- and medium-term, even under an optimistic scenario.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.1 The Bank‘s performance during preparation and appraisal is rated ―Moderately
Satisfactory‖. The ESSP MDTF was the result of close consultations with counterparts
and it built on the implementation experience of the previous ESSPs. As discussed under
Section 2 - ―Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes‖, the excellent
Concept Note for the Project included a clear presentation of the project design and
implementation arrangements, covering in particular the legal framework, eligible
expenditures and supervision. According to the ESSP IBTF, the overall risk for this trust
fund was rated as ―High‖, but the Task Team had a proven track record and the Country
Management Unit would assist the project team for supervision. The Quality Assurance
Group (QAG) that carried out a Quality at Entry Learning Review in the last quarter of
2007 found the ingenuity and creativity of the project team quite remarkable. It
commented that the Project draws together the resources from a large number of donors
to focus on services that are essential for the welfare of the population. QAG assessed the
Project to be moderately satisfactory overall.

5.1.2 On the negative side, compared to the previous ESSPs, the ESSP MDTF introduced
an additional management layer (the President‘s Office - PO) without any apparent gains
in efficiency or any other type of benefits. In practice, the three-tiered management
structure (the PO, the PCU, and the line ministries and agencies) was cumbersome and
resulted in a lengthier implementation process. Also, the Project Document, the TFGA
and the Operations Manual did not include M&E such as monitoring of key indicators,
but an M&E framework had been provided in the IBTF.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.3 The Bank‘s supervision performance is rated satisfactory. Compared to the previous
ESSPs, efforts were made to simplify the processes and streamline procurement for the
ESSP MDTF (financed by Donors) and the ESSP III (financed by IDA) that were
implemented concurrently. Also, the M&E shortcomings were quickly corrected with the
formal approval in January 2008 of the PDO and intermediate outcome indicators for the
ESSP III that were also monitored for the ESSP MDTF.




                                            19
5.1.4 The challenge for the Bank involved not only operating in a fragile, conflict
environment, but also working in a politically sensitive area. On balance, implementation
arrangements worked well despite all the external difficulties. The environment was one
of continuous conflict and insecurity, with restrictions on movements of people and
goods between West Bank and Gaza because of the closures imposed by Israel. The
strong implementation support provided by the West Bank and Gaza field office staff
helped to mitigate the problems due to the implementing entities‘ limited knowledge of
Bank procedures, and the weak budget management and limited procurement capacity
within the line ministries. Because of the slow disbursements at the beginning of the
Project due to the cumbersome and lengthy procurement procedures for goods
(particularly pharmaceuticals), the Bank and the PA agreed to focus on quick disbursing
items (such as incremental operating costs and higher education salaries), thereby
reducing the share of the Grant allocated to goods. The Project was originally designed to
be disbursed in about 22 months, but the closing date had to be extended by three years.
The complex management structure was a problem, and in September 2007,
implementation responsibility under the Project was transferred from the PO to the
Economic Affairs Department of the PLO.

5.1.5 Overall, the Bank Task Team paid good attention to financial management and
procurement aspects of the project, with extensive coverage in the aide memoires and
ISRs. The Task Team handled well one case of misprocurement and one case of fraud
(sent to INT and followed up with the PA). Management gave high priority to this
project, and invested a great deal of time in assisting the Task Team. Bank management
was proactive in managing expectations of individual donors in this multi-donor trust
fund arrangement implemented under difficult circumstances. For the processing of the
Grant, implementation support and supervision of this difficult project, the budget
financed by the ESSP MDTF Trust Fund was US$1.13 million for the six Bank fiscal
years 2007 to 2012 (Annex 4). Many technical staff and sector managers were deeply
involved in the preparation and appraisal of the Project, so that US$0.60 million (about
half of the total) was spent in FY2007 alone. There has been excellent continuity in
staffing with the original task team members remaining involved in the Project. In aide
memoires and ISRs, the candor, degree of detail, and meticulous reporting of project
progress or lack thereof were of high quality.

5.1.6 The project experience confirms that, under a complex emergency situation, it is
beneficial to have the Bank Task Team based in the field. PA staff had easy access to the
Bank team which is resident in WBG; this facilitated close monitoring of implementation
progress and quick response to the changing political and economic environment facing
the Government and affecting its priorities. It is because of the field-based Task Team
that implementation issues were identified early on and the Bank was able to respond
quickly. Because of the short original project period, no formal mid-term review was
planned, and none was carried out despite the three-year extension of the project period.
However, the reality is that the Project was always ―under review‖. Given the field
presence, supervision took the form of a continuous dialogue and/or coaching of
implementing agencies. The Bank team also facilitated regular quarterly meetings
between the donors and the PA to review progress.

                                           20
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.7 Since the ratings for the quality at entry and the quality of supervision are both in
the satisfactory range, the rating for the overall Bank performance is also satisfactory.
The success of the ESSP MDTF Trust Fund is reflective of the close relations between
the PA, the donor community and the Bank. In 2011, the Bank ESSP team was the
recipient of a Vice Presidency Unit (VPU) – Team Award for MENA8 in recognition of
the program impact and the team‘s ability to seek and understand the client‘s views and
needs and to respond promptly to those needs, basically putting the client first. The good
quality at entry and the close supervision and implementation support provided by Bank
staff based in the field contributed to the success of this emergency operation.

5.2 Recipient Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.1 This section on recipient performance will review first the performance of the PA
and MOF (including the PCU) which managed the Project, and second the performance
of the implementing ministries (MOH, MOEHE and MOSA) and utilities.

(a) PA and MOF Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.2 During preparation and appraisal, the PA was constructively engaged in the
dialogue with the Bank on ensuring effective implementation arrangements. The success
of the ESSP MDTF is due to the fact that it was aligned with the PA‘s strategy to help
prevent a collapse in social service delivery.

5.2.3 In a difficult emergency context, the PCU and MOF budget department managed
the Project in an efficient and proactive fashion, including identifying capacity gaps in
procurement and financial management in line ministries. There were clearly assigned
roles for the MOF/PCU and the line Ministries/Utilities. The PCU had the overall
responsibility for day to day Project implementation and management9, including
handling the follow-up tasks with implementing ministries and utilities. With Israel‘s
restrictions on movements between West Bank and Gaza, PCU staff based in Gaza



8
 Strictly speaking, the award was related to the ESSP III but, obviously, it applied also to the ESSP MDTF.
9
  The PCU also has responsibility for day-to-day implementation and management of the ESSP III; it
participates in all Bank-financed projects through attending agreement negotiations, reviewing the related
withdrawal applications and preparing all the necessary processes for hiring the external auditors for each
project funded through IDA. It is also providing financial, procurement and management assistance to other
PA ministries.

                                                    21
worked under extremely difficult circumstances with limited fuel and severe power
outages.

5.2.4 Steps were taken to enhance project management and the implementation process.
These included regular updates of the procurement plan, the use of a financial monitoring
system to follow up the disbursement process within the PM and to ensure accuracy of
transactions and promptness of payments, and a contract monitoring system at the PCU
and within the ministries to ensure that contracts were signed promptly upon approval.
At one point, donors complained that they were not kept well informed, so the PA took
measures to improve its communications strategy vis-à-vis donors. In addition to the
usual progress reports, FMRs and annual financial audits, the reporting and auditing
requirements included quarterly spot check reports covering review of procurement
procedures/contracting and physical inspection and count of quantities received. The spot
check audits were a positive factor because they monitored closely the delivery of
essential goods and services and provided assurances to donors regarding the use of their
contributions.

(b) Implementing Ministries and Utilities Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.5 Line ministries and utilities implemented the Project under difficult circumstances.
They ―made it happen‖: they were able to procure materials and equipment and deliver
the services in a manner that ensured a minimum of disruption despite the conflict
situations. Thanks to the PCU capacity building efforts under the previous ESSPs and the
support provided by the Bank‘s Task Team, the implementing entities had gained
experience, but budget management remained weak and procurement capacity was still
limited.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.6 Overall Recipient performance is rated satisfactory. The Recipient implemented the
Project under difficult conditions and had to deal with extraordinary challenges
associated with the emergency situation. Based on the satisfactory progress of the Project,
several donors increased their contributions. The ESSP team has played a significant role
during the war in Gaza, particularly by providing fuel to the Shifa and other main
hospitals which enabled them to continue to operate.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1 A fast disbursing operation without any conditionality, reform requirements,
cumbersome procurement procedures, or explicit capacity building component is an
efficient and effective vehicle for responding to emergency and crisis situations. The
ESSP approach is a valid concept in a protracted crisis situation; the ESSP‘s strength is
that it can be designed to provide fast disbursements to maintain essential services.



                                            22
6.2 A multi-donor trust fund is a more suitable arrangement for managing large
donor-financed operations than single donor trust funds. It reduces the burden on the
Bank teams administering the trust funds. Also, with donor resources pooled in a single
trust fund, it may be easier to entice donors not to earmark their financing.

6.3 Close supervision and flexibility to respond to urgent needs and changing
requirements through reallocation of resources are important to ensure that the
program remains responsive to the emergency situation. The project experience
confirms that under a complex emergency situation, it is beneficial to have the Task
Team based in the field. PA staff had easy access to the Bank team, and implementation
issues were identified early on and the Bank was able to respond quickly. Given the field
presence, supervision took the form of a continuous dialogue and/or coaching of
implementing agencies.

6.4 The Bank can mitigate risks for its program by having the external auditor
carry out spot checks of activities financed by the Grant. These spot checks are
particularly useful in monitoring physical implementation of the Project and in verifying
that funds are spent for the purpose intended and in accordance with Bank rules.

6.5 Some scheduling of budget assistance among donors would have facilitated the
PA’s task. Funding of the ESSP MDTF was unpredictable and erratic from year to year.

6.6 The ESSP approach of providing targeted emergency budget support is more
appropriate than the alternative of general budget support to ensure that essential
services continue to receive their share of scarce resources. Although the channeling
of donor funds through the ESSP was intended to be replaced by the PA allocating
resources received from donors through general budget support, the reality is that many
beneficiaries of the ESSP MDTF are no longer receiving funds following the end of the
ESSP MDTF and are accumulating substantial arrears.

6.7 In a multi-donor trust fund arrangement, Bank management has an important
role to play in managing expectations of individual donors, in order to reduce the
stress on the Bank Task Team and enable them to concentrate on project implementation
support.

6.8 The Bank must take great care to ensure that the Recipient complies with both
the Bank’s and the Recipient’s financial management control mechanisms and
guidelines to avoid potential misuse of funds.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
None




                                           23
(b) Co financiers/Donors
Comments received from donors on a draft of the ICR have been incorporated in this
final version of the ICR.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None




                                       24
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

 (a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million)

      Components                       Appraisal        Actual/Latest   Actual/Latest
                                       Estimate          Estimate *     estimate as a
                                     (US$ Million)      (US$ Million)   percentage of
                                                                         Appraisal
      Component 1 – Financing
      Non-Salary Recurrent
      Expenditures
      Part A – Education                 18.97              29.20           154%
      Part B – Health                    28.87              42.65           148%
      Part C – Social Welfare             1.00               0.80            80%
      Part D – Other Key Sectors          6.50               7.96           122%
      Sub-Total Component 1              55.34              80.61           146%
      Component 2 – Project
      Management and Monitoring
      Part E                                 0.41           0.71            173%

      Total Baseline Costs               55.75              81.32           146%

      Physical Contingencies                 0.00           0.00                -
      Price Contingencies                    0.00           0.00                -

      Total Project Costs                55.75              81.32           146%

      Project Preparation Costs              0.00           0.00                -

      Total Financing Required           55.75              81.32           146%

       *Disbursements to PA Ministries and Utilities. The actual/latest estimate exceeded the
       appraisal estimate due to additional donor contributions throughout the project.

 (b) Financing

    Source of Funds              Type of          Appraisal     Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                               Cofinancing        Estimate        Estimate           Appraisal
                                                (US$ Million)   (US$ Million)
Government                         N/A              0.00            0.00                0.00
ESSP Multi-Donor      Trust
Fund                               N/A              55.75           81.32              146%




                                               25
 (c) Actual/Latest Estimates of Project Costs in US$ Million (disbursements to PA
 Ministries and Utilities)

Components / Subcomponents                Actual/latest    Actual/latest   % of
                                           estimate         estimate
                                                                           total
                                         (US$ Million)    (US$ Million)
Component 1 – Education Services
 Part A
(i) MOE Small Works                           0.63                           1
(ii) Goods                                    4.50                           5
(iii) MOE Incremental Operating Costs         7.89                          10
(iv) HE Salaries                             14.48                          18
(v) HE Incremental Operating Costs            1.70                           2
Sub-Total Education Services Part A          29.20            29.20         36

Component 1- Health Services
Part B
(i) Goods                                    10.86                          13
(ii) Incremental Operating Costs             19.45                          24
(iii) Tertiary Health Care                   11.65                          14
(iv) Food                                     0.69                           1
Sub-Total Health Services - Part B           42.65            42.65         52

Component 1 – Social Welfare
Part C
(i) Goods                                    0.15                            0
(ii) Incremental Operating Costs             0.47                            1
(iii) Food                                   0.18                            0
Sub-Total Social Welfare – Part C            0.80             0.80           1

Component 1 – Other Key Sectors –
Utilities - Part D
(i)Small Works                               0.91                            1
(ii) Goods                                   3.99                            4
(iii) Incremental Operating Costs            3.06                            5
Sub-Total Other Key Sectors – Part D         7.96             7.96          10

Sub-Total Component 1                        80.61            80.61         99

Component 2 – Project Management and
Monitoring                                   0.71
Sub-Total Component 2                        0.71             0.71           1

GRAND TOTAL                                  81.32            81.32        100

                                        26
(d) Disbursements per year and per sector (in US$ Thousands)

                                         Entity
              MOEHE          MOH         Utilities     MOSA           MOF         Total
  2006          7,061         1,077         --          108            61          8,307
  2007          6,216        16,323       1,643         306           227         24,716
  2008         11,536        14,512       4,247         296           102         30,692
  2009          2,837         7,446        839          104           129         11,355
  2010          1,549         2,930       1,203          -8           121          5,796
  2011            --           362          26           --            68           455
  Total        29,199        42,650       7,959         806           708         81,322

(e) Disbursements per year and per sector (in GBP Thousands)

                                         Entity
              MOEHE          MOH         Utilities     MOSA           MOF         Total
  2006          3,703          554           0           56            32          4,346
  2007          3,087         8,136        820          153           115         12,311
  2008          5,933         7,713       2,226         150            55         16,077
  2009          1,802         4,693        523           68            84          7,170
  2010          1,016         1,944        764           -5            79          3,798
  2011            --           220          17           --            42           279
  Total        15,541        23,260       4,349         423           408         43,981



NOTE ON THE TABLES OF PROJECT COSTS

In this ICR, there are discrepancies between the grant amount expressed in Pounds
Sterling and the disbursed amounts in US Dollar equivalents – those discrepancies are
due to exchange rate fluctuations during the project life. Also, the figure for the original
commitment in the datasheet is greater than the amount of the Grant in the TFGA signed
on September 18, 2006 because donors had already pledged to provide a greater amount.

The Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TFGA) shows the grant amount and the category
allocations in Pounds Sterling. However, actual disbursements to the line ministries and
utilities were in multiple currencies (e.g., Israeli Shekels, Jordanian Dinars and US
Dollars). The Bank‘s Disbursement Department converted those disbursements into US
Dollars at the exchange rate when withdrawal applications were processed and
expenditures were charged to the pound sterling expenditure categories. On that basis, the
total disbursements to the line ministries and utilities were US$81.32 million equivalent.

The figure of US$81.32 million equivalent does not include the fees paid to the Bank by
the donors for administering the ESSP MDTF. Annex 10 shows the total contributions of
donors to the ESSP MDTF. The 11 donors paid their contributions in their own
currencies (Euros, Pounds Sterling, Swedish Krona, etc.). In the table in Annex 10, their

                                            27
contribution amounts have been converted into US Dollars based on the exchange rates
on the dates their contributions were received by the Bank, showing a total of US$88.04
million equivalent. The difference of US$6.72 million (donor contributions of US$88.04
million minus disbursements to Ministries and Utilities of US$81.32 million) is due to the
fees paid to the Bank by the donors for administering the ESSP MDTF but also to
exchange rate fluctuations in the conversions to US Dollars.




                                           28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

For each sub-component or Part, this annex will first present the actual disbursements in
British Pounds and US Dollars, and then provide some general information on the sector
and discuss the outputs for the various expenditure categories. As shown in Table C
(Estimate of Project Costs) in Annex 1, about half of the US$81.32 million went to
health, about one third went to education, and ten percent was spent for utilities. Less
than one percent of the total was used for project management and monitoring. These
percentages are very much in line with the appraisal estimates.


Part A – Education Services

                                Actual Disbursements           Actual disbursements
                                  (in GBP Million)               (in US$ Million)
MOE Small Works                         0.32                           0.63
MOE Goods                               2.42                           4.50
Sub-total MOE                           2.74                           5.13

HE Salaries                               7.59                          14.48

MOE & HE Incremental
Operating Costs                           5.21                          9.59

Total MOE & HE                           15.54                          29.20


MOEHE

MOEHE administers a total of 1,500 schools and 17 MOE directorates serving about
800,000 students (50 percent of them are females). Of these, 2,654 students study in 17
vocational secondary schools also managed by MOE in 5 Palestinian cities and camps,
namely Gaza, Beit Hanoun, Doura, Qalqilya, and Aroub. Schools are distributed through
13 directorates in the West Bank and 5 in Gaza. The total number of MOE teachers is
21,431.

MOEHE Small Works

ESSP MDTF provided US$0.63 million for the rehabilitation (US$0.44 million) and
maintenance (US$0.18 million) of schools in West Bank and Gaza. In the West Bank, 7
contracts were signed for 42 schools, benefitting 16,000 students, and in Gaza, 4
contracts were signed to benefit 8,600 students in 14 schools but only 2 contracts were
completed. The works included pavement of yards, retaining walls and boundary walls,
roof repairs, rehabilitation of classrooms and health units, and construction of sheds.
Some packages were canceled before tendering because the MOE did not provide the
required information. Also, some works were delayed and canceled due to the

                                           29
unavailability of building materials in Gaza. Apart from these cancelations, 100 percent
of the small works procurement packages were awarded and completed.

MOEHE Goods

Stationery and Printing for schools and district directorates and for general
examination: Twenty five contracts, with a total value of US$1.57 million, were
completed, providing stationery for WBG schools and district offices, including the
purchase of computers and printers, accessories, printed papers, office supplies and
stationery. The estimated number of students served by MOEHE during the academic
years of 2007-2008 was 800,000. The ESSP MDTF covered their needs for stationery,
blackboards, photocopying papers, ink, chalk, and erasers. It also covered MOE expenses
for stationery, exam notebooks, printing of exam papers, and enrollment forms for the
final high school examinations (Tawjihi). The number of high school students who took
the final exam in all fields in 2007 was around 60,000 students (60 percent in the West
Bank and 40 percent in Gaza).

Cleaning materials and consumables: The ESSP MDTF funded cleaning materials for
22,830 classrooms and 1,800 utility facilities, serving about 800,000 students (US$0.74
million). It also funded food (US$0.02 million) and animal feed (US$0.08 million) for
agricultural schools. The ESSP MDTF financed nine contracts for cleaning materials and
consumables. By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item was
US$0.84 million.

Learning Materials and Sports Equipment: The ESSP MDTF financed 29 contracts for
the provision of raw materials (for vocational and agricultural schools), lab equipment
and teaching aids as well as computers for vocational students and sports equipment. By
the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item was US$1.31 million,
enough for a one-year period.

Furniture: The ESSP MDTF financed the purchase of school furniture, including 4,600
tables and 9,300 chairs, benefitting about 9,000 students. By the end of October 2011, the
amount disbursed under this item was US$0.78 million.

Higher Education (HE) Salaries

The number of academics at Palestinian universities supported through ESSP MDTF is
2,000 teaching staff working in 9 universities (2 in Gaza and 7 in the West Bank). The
average basic monthly salary for university academic staff is US$1,000 for 8
months/year. An amount of US$14.48 million was paid to university academic staff.




                                           30
Incremental Costs for MOE&HE

As of October 31, 2011, the ESSP MDTF contributed US$9.59 million to cover part of
the incremental operating expenses for the MOE offices, schools and universities,
including the following items:

General Examination Controllers: An amount of US$1.93 million was paid to cover the
expenses of the final high-school exam (Tawjihi) for the academic years 2006-2007 and
2008-2009 for about 6,000 controllers/observers in Gaza, who performed their duties for
11 days with an average payment of 60 NIS/day for each controller.

Rent: By the end of October 2011 the amount disbursed reached US$1.30 million for
1,500 schools and 17 MOE directorate offices.

Electricity and Water: By the end of October 2011, an amount of US$4.04 million had
been disbursed to cover utility consumption of 1500 schools and 17 MOE directorate
offices.

Communication: By the end of October 2011, an amount of US$1.24 million had been
disbursed to cover communication bills of MOEHE facilities in West Bank and Gaza,
including administrative offices, school premises and universities.

Fuel for heating: The total amount disbursed under this item by the end of October 2011
reached US$0.46 million.

Maintenance and Cleaning Contracts: The total amount disbursed under this item by the
end of October 2011 reached US$0.54 million.

Advertising: The amount disbursed under this item by the end of October 2011 was
US$0.01 million.

Transportation and car insurance: The amount disbursed under this item by the end of
October 2011 was US$0.01 million.

Other related costs: The amount disbursed under this item by the end of October 2011
was US$0.002 million.

Insurance: The amount disbursed under this item by the end of October 2011 was
US$0.05 million.




                                          31
Part B – Health Services (MOH)


           MOH                  Actual Disbursements           Actual Disbursements
                                  (in GBP Million)               (in US$ Million)
MOH Goods                                5.63                          10.86
MOH Incremental                         11.15                          19.45
Operating Costs
MOH Tertiary Health                       6.14                          11.65
Care
MOH Food                                  0.35                           0.69
Total MOH                                23.26                          42.65

MOH runs 22 governmental hospitals (12 in West Bank and 10 in Gaza, with a total
capacity of 2,815 beds), in addition to 430 primary health care centers, as well as 146
laboratories (4 central laboratories, 19 hospital laboratories and 123 laboratories in
primary health care centers). The hospitals and centers serve 5 million Palestinians (1.3
million in Gaza and 3.7 million in West Bank) with an annual average number of hospital
admissions of 300,000. Total medical staff serving in MOH hospitals/facilities is: 4,017
doctors, 5,065 nurses, 3,160 technicians, and 226 midwives. In four governorates
(Jericho, Nablus, Gaza Mid Zone, and Rafah) the MOH is the only service provider.
MOH is also the sole service provider of secondary health care in Salfit, Jericho, Mid-
Zone and Rafah Governorates. Immunization is provided by MOH and UNRWA; NGOs
and private physicians do not regularly offer routine immunizations to children. MOH‘s
recurrent budget was estimated at US$57.5 million. Actual disbursements for the MOH
under the ESSP MDTF were US$42.65 million, i.e., 74 percent of the MOH budget.

The availability of drugs is the main issue that MOH faced. Therefore, the ESSP MDTF
was very timely; it relieved the pressure on MOH due to budget shortages and closures.

MOH Goods

The ESSP MDTF provided a total of US$10.86 million to cover all goods, including
pharmaceutical drugs, vaccines, nutrition supplements, medical disposables, lab
materials, and other items.

Pharmaceutical Drugs and Vaccines: Out of MOH‘s basic drug list, which includes 550
items, the ESSP MDTF financed the purchase of 350 items for a total of US$6.32 million
(amount disbursed as of October 31, 2011). These drugs were delivered to MOH stores
and distributed among 22 MOH hospitals and 430 primary health care centers. This was
enough to cover MOH needs for the first 7 months. About 167,250 patients benefited
from these pharmaceuticals in hospitals and 444,542 individuals benefited from
medicines in the outpatient clinic services. About 400,000 patients benefitted from drugs
in the primary health care centers.



                                           32
Medical Supplies and Disposables: About 650 needed medical supplies items were
purchased through 61 contracts for a total of US$2.08 million. They were delivered to
MOH stores and distributed to hospitals and clinics. MOH hospitals conduct an average
of 90,000 surgical operations every year. It is estimated that about 30,000 surgery
patients and 1,100,000 patients of primary health care centers, outside clinics, and
emergency units benefited from the medical supplies.

Lab Materials and Blood Bank Disposables: The ESSP MDTF financed the purchase of
420 lab material items for hospitals and clinics at a cost of US$1.49 million. With these
items, MOH was able to conduct 1.2 million medical tests serving 480,000 beneficiaries.

Medical Gases: For a total cost of US$0.15 million, medical gases were delivered to
MOH stores and distributed to hospitals and clinics, benefiting 250,000 patients at both
surgical and emergency units.

Nutrition Supplements: Nutrition items purchased at a cost of US$0.19 million were
delivered to MOH and benefitted 114 patients suffering from nutrition complications
with regular food due to genetic disorders.

Textiles: MOH needs textile to provide coats for it staff and bed cloths and curtains for
patients. Textiles were provided at a cost of US$0.09 million which covered 81 percent of
the Ministry‘s textile needs for 4,017 doctors, 5,056 nurses, 3,160 technicians, 226
midwives, and 2,815 beds.

Spare Parts and Replacement of Damaged Equipment: To ensure better standards of
medical treatment, the ESSP MDTF supported MOH at a cost of US$0.24 million to
purchase 65 percent of various spare parts for 6,000 pieces of medical and lab equipment.
These spare parts were needed for vital equipment such as X-Ray machines, CT scans,
hemodialysis machines, physiotherapy and vocational therapy equipment, computers, and
other items.

Cleaning Materials: ESSP MDTF provided US$0.05 million for cleaning materials. The
cleaning materials were delivered to MOH stores and distributed to the various hospitals
and clinics. This covered the cleaning materials (including bed cloths, covers, coats,
towels, curtains, etc.) for around 60,000 overnight cases using 2,815 beds and 9,000
technical staff.

Office Supplies: The ESSP MDTF provided US$0.25 million for administrative printing
and supplies related to medical reports, stationery for 22 hospitals and 416 primary health
care centers, as well as for MOH administrative offices for a period of four months.




                                            33
MOH Incremental Operating Costs

The ESSP MDTF contributed US$19.44 million to cover part of the incremental
operating expenses of MOH, including rent, fuel, electricity and water, cleaning
contracts, maintenance, communication, and advertising and transportation. As a result,
all health services in 120 laboratories and blood banks, 430 primary health care centers,
23 hospitals and 17 MOH Directorate offices have been maintained.

Rent: By the end of October 2011, an amount of US$1.12 million was disbursed under
this item.

Fuel: According to MOH statistics, MOH funded fuel for 120 vehicles (ambulances and
medical services vehicles; these vehicles‘ average monthly consumption was 250
liters/car with a total of US$0.15 million covering a period of 44 months), and 59
generators (with a monthly average fuel consumption of 100,000 liters) for hospitals and
medical clinics. The total cost of fuel was US$4.39 million.10 In order to follow up the
fuel consumption and to supervise the fuel distribution, the PCU visits MOH hospitals on
a weekly and daily basis when deliveries are made; the PCU takes readings of the
generators and capacity in order to check consumption. For the ambulances, the MOH
transportation department gives coupons to the ambulance drivers with their names and
the vehicle number; also, lists of names and vehicle numbers are distributed to the fuel
stations so that they can check that fuel is given only to those cars. ESSP also supplied
MOH facilities with cooking gas for a total of US$27,000/year. Each month, the PCU
submitted a report to the Bank monitoring fuel supplies in Gaza.

Electricity and Water: By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item
was US$10.29 million for all MOH facilities in West Bank and Gaza, including hospitals,
primary health care centers, stores, laboratories, administrative buildings, etc.

Cleaning Contracts: By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item
was US$1.87 million to contract cleaning firms for hospitals and primary health care
centers.

Maintenance: By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item was
US$0.39 million.

Communications: By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item was
US$1.37 million.

Advertising and Transportation: By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under
this item was US$0.01 million.



10
  In addition, the Ministry of Finance through the ESSP III Additional Financing has provided US$0.94
million for fuel for West Bank and Gaza Hospitals (of which US$0.39 million was allocated to MOH Gaza
hospitals and ambulances in Gaza).

                                                 34
MOH Tertiary Health Care

The capacity of MOH hospitals is limited vis-à-vis the increasing population, especially
in light of the geo-political situation in WBG where internal closures and checkpoints
make access within the West Bank very difficult for emergency cases such as birth
deliveries. As a result, non-governmental institutions are contracted by MOH to provide
services, including those related to heart diseases, nephrology, oncology, kidney diseases,
birth deliveries, ocular diseases, treatment for cancer patients, blood diseases, as well as
radiology services, etc.

The ESSP MDTF provided US$11.65 million to finance tertiary healthcare contracts with
45 health institutions (US$4.229 million for 32 institutions in the West Bank, US$1.879
million for 8 institutions in Gaza and US$5.534 million for 5 institutions in East
Jerusalem) for a period of 8 months. These treatments in private/non-governmental
institutions benefitted 16,654 patients (10,264 in Gaza and 6,390 in West Bank).

MOH Food

According to MOH statistics, the average length of patients‘ admission to the hospital is
2.5 days, i.e., MOH provides at least 5 meals for each patient. The ESSP MDTF provided
US$0.69 million to finance 22 contracts for the supply of food, including dry food, frozen
meat, dairy products, eggs, bread, fruit and vegetables benefiting 61,300 overnight cases
for a period of 6 months.



Part C – Social Affairs (MOSA)

          MOSA                   Actual Disbursements            Actual Disbursements
                                   (in GBP Million)                (in US$ Million)
MOSA – Goods                             0.08                            0.16
MOSA - Incremental costs                 0.25                            0.47
MOSA – Food                              0.09                            0.18
Total MOSA                               0.42                            0.81

MOSA runs a total of 38 centers/shelters in the West Bank and Gaza (21 in West Bank
and 17 in Gaza). These provide services, including overnight stays, meals and vocational
training for juveniles, elderly, and persons with disabilities. Vocational rehabilitation
centers provide training in carpentry, blacksmith, sewing, tailoring, plumbing, pottery,
furniture upholstering and straightening, aluminum work, electricity, radio maintenance,
computer maintenance and car maintenance. Training courses for women are usually
organized at MOSA‘s women development centers in vocational fields such as
embroidery, food production, and cosmetology; these courses aim at empowering women
and helping them take part in supporting their households. MOSA has provided shelter
and rehabilitation and training services to 2,150 beneficiaries.


                                            35
MOSA Goods

The ESSP MDTF provided US$0.16 million to finance the purchase of tools, raw
materials and small machines for training centers, office supplies and stationary, textile
and cleaning materials.

Tools, Materials and Small Machines for Training Centers: This item covered the needs
of 12 vocational training centers (in carpentry, blacksmith, sewing, plumbing, pottery,
furniture upholstering and straightening, aluminum work, electricity, radio maintenance,
computer maintenance and car electricity), benefitting 100 beneficiaries in Gaza and 150
beneficiaries in the West Bank. By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under
this item was US$0.05 million.

Office Supplies/Stationery: This item covered the expenses of printing checks for social
welfare beneficiaries over 6 months (approximately 50,000 beneficiaries), and stationery
for both MOSA educational institutions and MOSA administrative units. By the end of
October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item was US$0.06 million.

Textiles: This item covered some of the raw materials needs of MOSA vocational
training centers for women. By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this
item was US$0.02 million.

Cleaning Materials: This item covered some of the cleaning needs of MOSA‘s 38
rehabilitation centers/shelters, 2 headquarters and 16 directorate offices for the period of
3 months. By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item was
US$0.02 million. Due to the developments in the Gaza Strip, many of these centers have
closed.

MOSA Incremental Costs

The ESSP MDTF provided US$0.47 million to cover incremental operating expenses of
MOSA‘s facilities, including rent, water and electricity bills and fuel expenses.

Rent: Most of MOSA‘s premises are rented; MOSA rented 53 buildings in West Bank
and Gaza. By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item was
US$0.38 million.

Water and Electricity: By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item
was US$0.05 million.

Car insurance: By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item was
US$0.006 million.

Fuel: By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item was US$0.01
million.



                                            36
Maintenance: By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed under this item was
US$0.02 million.

MOSA Food

The ESSP MDTF provided US$0.18 million to assist MOSA in securing food for the
residents of the shelters and daily care centers, elderly, juveniles, and persons with
disabilities who benefit from the MOSA‘s in-house services for several months: 3-meals
a day for 330 overnight beneficiaries (elderly and juveniles), and one meal a day for 620
beneficiaries from the daily care centers for a period of 4 months for centers in Gaza and
11 months for centers in West Bank.



Part D – Other Key Sectors -- Utilities


                                 Actual Disbursements            Actual Disbursements
                                   (in GBP Million)                (in US$ Million)
CMWU                                     0.44                            0.84
PWA                                      1.94                            3.39
PEA                                      1.97                            3.73
Total Other Key sectors –                4.35                            7.96
Utilities

Since 2006, the utility sector was included as a beneficiary of the ESSP MDTF because,
in the prevailing situation, it was perceived as an emergency sector.


Coastal Municipalities Water Utility (CMWU) (Gaza)

CMWU serves 1.5 million inhabitants in Gaza through providing drinking water and
carrying out wastewater collection and treatment. CMWU runs 130 water wells, 4
desalination plants, 6 water pumps, 3 water treatment stations, one sewage treatment
plant and 38 wastewater pumps. The ESSP MDTF provided US$0.84 million to finance
small works, some goods and incremental operating costs. The financing provided by the
ESSP MDTF was very timely because: (i) there was deterioration in the quality of the
water being provided by existing wells, in addition to the increasing levels of salinity and
nitrate concentration which exceeds the World Health Organization (WHO) standard; and
(ii) the repeated Israel incursions in Gaza had destroyed the wastewater networks.




                                            37
CMWU Small Works

Small works carried out by CMWU aimed at improving the living conditions and public
health for the Gaza population, and also helping the CMWU to maintain better control
over the water resources. By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed for small
works was US$0.16 million, including:

Replacement of water and wastewater networks and connections (US$0.07 million) in
Magazi refugee camp, contributing to improving living conditions for 2,500 inhabitants;
and Equipping three emergency water production wells (US$0.10 million; this package
included supply and installation of 3 pumping units as well as 3 electrical control
switchboards) in Sabra, Zitoon, and Shijaiya areas in Gaza Strip, areas known for their
heavy population density.

CMWU Goods

By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed for goods was US$0.28 million.
CMWU purchased special chemicals for disinfection and to operate small scale
desalination pumps (US$0.10 million) and electromechanical spare parts for preventive
maintenance for 5 pumps and 2 vertical pumps (US$0.19 million).

CMWU Incremental Operating Costs

CMWU is responsible for maintaining the generators at the water and wastewater
facilities. In addition, CMWU has about 50 vehicles exclusively used for field trips by
the CMWU technical staff/engineers to visit locations and supervision. By the end of
October 2011, the amount disbursed for incremental operating costs was US$0.40
million, including:

Water, Electricity, Rent and Advertising: US$0.12 million;

Fuel for CMWU Vehicles: US$0.06 million;

Vehicles and Equipments Maintenance: US$0.0 million; and

Power supply generator maintenance (2 contracts for a period of 6 months): US$0.21
million


Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) (West Bank)

ESSP MDTF contributed to the improvement of the water situation in West Bank.




                                           38
PWA Small Works

The ESSP MDTF provided US$0.75 million to finance two procurement packages for the
rehabilitation of the water networks in Hebron and Bethlehem areas in the West Bank.
The impact of these projects included: (1) improvement in the accessibility of piped
water supply services for municipal and rural communities in Hebron and Bethlehem,
through water conservation/water demand management actions (reduction of water
losses); (2) improvement in the equitable use of municipal or village water supply within
the respective distribution zones (re-configuration of networks allowed for improved
zoning of systems); (3) improvement in the efficiency of the existing networks, by
adequate sizing of internal distribution mains and replacement of worn-out sections; and
(4) improvement in public health and environmental conditions in general in the targeted
municipalities/villages. In Samu‘ (population 7,000), which has severe water shortages,
the PWA provided water through a piped transmission system (at 45m3/hr).

The rehabilitation and expansion of the Al Ubedia Network aimed to improve village
water network efficiency in the Bethlehem district and to reduce the current losses which
had reached more than 35 percent through replacement and expansion of the piped
distribution system. With the system having deteriorated and being of limited capacity,
and residents suffering from insufficient quantities of water, the ESSP fund has helped
replace and expand the piped system to increase water consumption and improve public
health. The network efficiency has improved from 65 percent to 73 percent. The pipe
system will benefit a population of 8,500.

PWA Goods

The ESSP MDTF provided US$0.03 million to assist PWA in purchasing
electromechanical spare parts for water utilities in the West Bank.

PWA Incremental Operating Costs

The ESSP MDTF provided US$2.62 million for maintenance, fuel and electricity, as
follows:

Maintenance (General Vehicles and equipments): US$0.01 million;

Fuel for water wells, wastewater pumps and vehicles: US$1.72 million; and

Electricity and Advertising: US$0.89 million.


Palestinian Energy Authority (PEA)

The objective of the ESSP MDTF for the electric utilities is to cover the operating and
maintenance costs of the main utilities in West Bank and Gaza serving 730,000
inhabitants, to ensure continuous electricity services to consumers‘ households, firms and

                                           39
workshops, and to maintain or increase quality of services and supply to consumers and
within acceptable limits in health care services, water supply, and other commercial and
industrial sectors. The ESSP MDTF provided a total of US$3.72 million under 7
contracts.

The electric utility companies supported in this project are:
a) Gaza Electricity Distribution Company (GEDCO) serving 250,000 inhabitants;
b) Jerusalem (Central) District Electricity Company (JDECO) serving 250,000
inhabitants; and
c) Southern Electricity Distribution Company (SELCO), and Hebron Power Company
(HEPCO) serving 230,000 inhabitants.

The deterioration in the economic situation in WBG resulted in a dramatic shortage of
capital and thus very poor collection rates in the utility sector. This affected the utility
institutions‘ ability to ensure maintenance and quality of services provided to consumers.

PEA Goods

Many feeders are overloaded. The electricity networks need rehabilitation and
enhancement in order to avoid an increase in losses (which, in 2006, were estimated at
20-30 percent of the total electricity purchased), and to increase the quality of supply to
the consumers and reduce the network outages. The ESSP MDTF provided US$3.68
million to finance the purchase of urgently needed items for operation and maintenance
of the networks for the first half of 2007. Goods included transformers, medium voltage
and low voltage cables, conductors, switches, and insulators.

PEA Incremental Operating Costs

By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed for incremental operating costs was
US$0.04 million for the following:

Transportation, Advertising and Bank charges: US$ 0.01 million;

Fuel: US$0.03 million; and

Utility Bills (Maintenance): US$0.004 million.




                                            40
Part E – Project Management (PM) and Monitoring (PCU)


                                 Actual Disbursements          Actual Disbursements
                                   (in GBP Million)              (in US$ Million)
PM Services                              0.39                          0.67
PM Goods                                 0.01                          0.02
PM Incremental
Operating Costs                           0.01                           0.02
Total PM                                  0.41                           0.71

The ESSP MDTF provided US$0.71 million to finance the Project Management and
Monitoring Component. There were three categories of expenditures, and the main one
was for services.

PM Services

By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed for services was US$0.67 million.
Services include the contracts of the ESSP-PCU team and a few consultants (a local
lawyer and two international consultants to provide support to MOH for the tertiary
health care services, and the financial auditor).

The ESSP PCU team consisted of a financial officer, a procurement officer, a
disbursement officer, and four accountants responsible for following with line ministries.
The team was selected on a sole source basis since comprised the same staff members
who had been working on the previous phases of the ESSP and who were experienced
and knowledgeable about the program.

The auditing contract was extended several times after incorporating some changes in the
TORs, such as focusing on the quality of the spot check report and increasing the number
of samples to cover all the expenditure categories, including the incremental operating
costs. The auditor submitted 16 spot check reports to the MOF which forwarded them to
the Bank.

PM Goods

By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed was US$0.02 million for computers
and accessories and some stationary and office supplies.

PM Incremental Operating Costs

By the end of October 2011, the amount disbursed for incremental operating costs was
US$0.02 million for communication, transportation, electricity, maintenance, fuel,
advertising and miscellaneous expenses.



                                           41
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable.

The ESSP MDTF did not finance investments. It was an emergency operation that
financed only non-salary recurrent expenditures.




                                      42
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


                                                                  Responsibility/
          Names                       Title              Unit
                                                                    Specialty
                         Grant Preparation/Appraisal
David Craig              Country Director          MNCA4 Management
Faris Hadad Zervos       Program Manager           MNCA4 Management
Sima W. Kanaan           Sr. Operations Officer   MNSHD TTL
                                                         VPU – Funding
Nicola S. Renison        Trust Funds Coordinator   MNACS
                                                         Coordinator
                         Country Program
Markus Kostner                                     MNCA4 Operations
                         Coordinator
Claus Astrup             Sr. Country Officer       MNCA4 Operations
Hege Hope Wade           Operations Officer             MNCA4 Operations
Akiko Maeda              Health Sector Manager          MNSHD   Health
Samira Hillis            Operations Officer             MNSHD   Operations
Jean-Jacques Frère       Sr. Public Health Specialist   MNSHD   Health
Adriana Jaramillo        Sr. Education Specialist       MNSHD   Education
Imad Dweik               Consultant                     MNSHD   Health
                         Sr. Financial Management
Hyacinth Brown                                          LOAFC Finance
                         Specialist
                         Sr. Financial Management
Siaka Bakayoko                                          MNAFM Finance
                         Specialsit
Thao le Nguyen           Sr. Finance Officer            LOAG2 Finance
                         Financial Management
Adel Odeh                                               MNC04 Finance
                         Analyst
Antonio Cittati          Sr. Procurement Specialist      OPCS Procurement
Frederick Kranz          Sr. Procurement Specialist     MNACS Procurement
Ahmed Merzouk            Sr. Procurement Specialist     MNACS Procurement
Afaf Abbasi              Procurement Specialist         MNACS Procurement
Ali Awais                Counsel                        LEGMS Legal
                                                              TFO      Clearance
Saadat Siddiqi           Consultant                     CFPTP
                                                              Officer
Maha Bali                Program Assistant              MNC04 ACS
Huda Skaik               Program Assistant              MNC04 ACS




                                         43
(a) Task Team members (continued)


                                Supervision/ICR
Samira Ahmed Hillis     Senior Operations Officer   MNSSP   TTL
                        Financial Management
Adel Fahed J. Odeh                                  MNC04   Operations
                        Analyst
Adriana Jaramillo       Sr Education Specialist     MNSHE   Education
Afaf Khalil Abbasi      Procurement Specialist      MNAPR   Procurement
Akiko Maeda             Lead Health Specialist      MNSHD   Health
                        Senior Procurement
Ahmed Merzouk                                       SARPS   Procurement
                        Specialist
David J. Steel          Consultant                  OPCRX   Operations
Eileen Murray           Country Manager             MNCTN   Operations
Faris H. Hadad-Zervos   Program Manager             OPCFC   Operations
Firas Raad Zaid Al-
                        Senior Health Specialist    MNSHH   Health
Hussein
Francisco Sarno         Consultant                  AFTEN   Procurement
Frederick P. Kranz      Consultant                  SARPS   Procurement
Hjalte S. A. Sederlof   Consultant                  SASDU   Operations
                        Senior Infrastructure
Khairy Al-Jamal                                     EASIS   Infrastructure
                        Specialist
Laura McDonald          Consultant                  MNSHD   ICR
Lina Tutunji            Procurement Specialist      MNAPR   Procurement
Maha Muhammad Bali      Program Assistant           MNC04   ACS
Majd Laisoon            Consultant                  MNAFM   Finance
                        Sector Leader, Social
Markus Kostner                                      EASER   Social
                        Development
Md. Khaled Jahangir     Procurement Assistant       MNSSD   Procurement
Paul Geli               Consultant                  MNSHD   ICR
Samir B. Sahhar         Consultant                  MNAFM   Finance
Sana Kh.H. Agha Al
                        Sr Water & Sanitation Spec. MNSWA   Infrastructure
Nimer
                        Sr. Financial Management
Siaka Bakayoko                                      MNAFM   Finance
                        Specialist
Somin Mukherji          Sr Financial Analyst        AFTEG   Finance
Suhair M. Saah          Financial Specialist        MNAFM   Finance
Surat F. Nsour          Operations Officer          MNSSP   Operations




                                       44
(b) Staff Time and Cost – Bank Budget Only


                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
         Stage of Project Cycle                                US$ Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY06

Total:                                       0.00                           0.00

Supervision/ICR
FY07                                             1                          5.89
FY08                                                                        1.34
FY09
FY10
FY11
FY12

Total:                                           1                          7.23



(c) Staff Time and Cost – Trust Fund


                                               Staff Time and Cost (Trust Fund)
Bank Fiscal Year                                                US$ Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)



FY07                                          134                         602.37
FY08                                           33                         119.07
FY09                                           22                          81.25
FY10                                           35                         173.29
FY11                                           16                         131.57
FY12                                            5                          18.41

Total:                                        245                        1,125.96




                                            45
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      46
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   47
Annex 7. Summary of Recipient’s ICR

                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              EMERGENCY SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT, ESSP
                           November 2011

PROJECT BACKGROUND

In response to recent fiscal crisis emerged from the Palestinian legislative elections in
January 2006, the World Bank and other donors (EC, DFID , Austria, Norway, Sweden,
Belgium , Spain , Swiss Development Cooperation , France) has re-lunched ESSP MDTF
as a window of Temporary International Mechanism (PEGASE) administrated by
International Development Association, the grant agreement was signed between Office
of the President and International Development Association in September 18, 2006 with
total a accumulative budget amount GBP 44,024,793 to finance non-salary recurrent
expenditures of the Palestinian Authority social sector ministries(MOH, MOEHE, and
MOSA) and the three utility sectors (Palestinian Water Authority, Palestinian Energy
Authority and Coastal Management Water Utility).

The main concept behind launching ESSP-MDTF was to ensure the continuation of flow
of essential services under the status quo, through helping the PNA in covering the non-
salary recurrent expenditures in the social sector; including health, education and higher
education, social services, and the three utility sectors by providing required funds for
sustaining essential supplies in drugs and medical supplies, covering the tertiary health
care expenses, maintaining availability of school supplies, paying the university's
academic staff salaries and sustaining utility services such as fuel, maintenance,
electricity and water.

The first phase of the Emergency Services Support Program (ESSP) was launched in
2002 to mitigate the impacts of the economic crisis through financing of non-salary
recurrent expenditures of the ministries of health, education and higher education and
social affairs, the total budget was provided by World Bank and others donors through
two phases of ESSP around 176 million USD to finance non-salary recurrent
expenditures of the Palestinian Authority social sector ministries. Almost 100% of the
planned budget for these ministries could be reported covered if we exclude some
uncovered components of the emergency budget, such as the social safety net for
hardship cases program at MOSA, and abroad tertiary health care at MOH.

Although the MOLG component was excluded in the second phase of the ESSP and in
the ESSP-MDTF as it is covered under special bank financing program (EMSRP) due to
its particular nature. Instead, three additional components were added to the MDTF. The
first was to the benefit of Palestinian Water Authority. The second component was to the
benefit of Palestinian Energy Authority. The third component was to the benefit of and
Coastal Management Water Utility.




                                           48
SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES
ESSP-MDTF was launched to mitigate the deterioration of social, education, health and
utility sector services by financing the tertiary health care expenses, essential drugs,
school supplies and university teaching staff salaries, food for social centers, utility sector
services, thus, the main components under the MDTF-Trust Fund of the project consisted
of providing fund to the social sector ministries which are MOH, MOEHE, MOSA, in
addition to a particular component designed for providing support to the three utility
sectors to cover emergency projects in these sectors such as water network rehabilitation,
supplying electric materials, spare parts, fuel and chemicals solid waste, water, waste
water, electricity, and roads.

On 2006 the governmental financing became increasingly fragmented leaving the
government unable to cover current and recurrent expenses of its ministries including the
universities thus it was deemed necessary to increase the special component for the
universities to reach the amount of USD 16 million, to provide financial support to
universities and its teaching staff.

The project objectives were to provide non-salary budgetary support to key social sector
ministries and utility sectors with the aim of mitigating further deterioration of basic
social services and the continued rise in poverty rates brought about by Israeli‘s
continuous policy of withholding PNA clearance revenues and Border‘s closure and trade
restrictions, especially in Gaza. This was accomplished by bridging the shortfall in
budget financing available to the ministries particularly in the field of social sectors such
as education, health, and welfare to enable them to sustain their services and respond to
the new emerging needs of the population. The project had a strong development
objective of keeping those institutions responsible for development from collapsing
through support to their non- recurrent costs budgets.

DESCRIPTION BY COMPONENT
ESSP-MDTF included the following components; Education, Health, Social Welfare and
Utility Sector Services.

I. Education Services
This component covered the following operating budget items of the MOEHE.

a) Recurrent Expenditure: This sub-component included expenditures such as:
   a) Rent payments of school buildings
   b) Transportation expenses, including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and
      insurance
   c) water and electricity for schools, directorates and the Ministry's headquarters
   d) Communication costs, including telephones and mail
   e) Consumables
   f) Maintenance
   g) Office supplies
   h) Heating fuel



                                              49
b) Learning Materials: This sub-component included expenditures such as:

   i)   Tools& Materials For School Lab.
   j)   Teaching Aid For Schools
   k)   Sport Tools For Schools
   l)   Computers For Vocational Schools
   m)   Raw Materials for Vocational & agricultural Schools

c) Furniture's For Schools: This sub-component included routine replacement of
   furniture and equipment in existing schools.

d) Consumables Materials: This sub-component included Cleaning Materials, Food
   for Agric. Schools, and Animal Feed for Agric. Schools.

e) Printing& Stationary: This sub-component included Printed Administrative
   Forms, G .Examination Stationary, Printing for G .Examination Stationary for
   Schools.

f) Small works: This sub-component included Rehabilitation Of Schools and Urgent
   Maintenance Of Schools


g) Universities academic staff salaries.

II: Health Services
This component covered the following operating budget items of the MOH:

a) Essential Drugs and Medical Consumables: This sub-component included the
   procurement of essential drugs, vaccines, laboratory and blood bank materials and
   other medical consumables.

b) Non-medical Recurrent Expenditure: This sub-component included non-medical costs
   of operating and maintaining health facilities, including maintenance, spare parts,
   communications, fuel, water and electricity utilities, rent for health facilities, cleaning
   services, cleaning material, transportation, hospital linens, uniforms and stationary.

c) Treatment in private/Non Governmental Clinics: This sub-component included
   contracts with private/non-governmental medical institutions for providing
   emergency services that are not available by public facilities in the area.

d) Hospital Food Contracts: This sub-component covered the cost of food for hospitals.




                                             50
III: Social Assistance Services
This component covered the recurrent operating budget of MOSA and its shelters,
rehabilitation and training centers. It also upgraded some of the essential equipment used
in the shelters and vocational training centers. These centers provide school dropouts
with labor market technical skills and rehabilitation and reintegration services to
dysfunctional youth, the elderly and the disabled.

a) Recurrent Expenditures: This sub-component financed expenditures such as: rent,
   transportation, fuel, vehicle rental, insurance, licensing and insurance, water and
   electricity utilities, and communication including telephones and mail, office
   supplies, maintenance of equipment and buildings, and heating fuel.

b) Equipment for shelters / Rehabilitation and Training Centers. This sub – component
   covered procurement of Tools, Materials and Small Machines for Training Centers,
   as well as Office Supplies, Textile and Cleaning Materials,.

c) Food: This sub-component covered the cost of food for the residents of the shelters
   and daily care centers, elderly, juveniles, and handicapped who benefit from the
   MOSA‘s in-house services.

IV: Support to the Utility sector :
This component covered the following operating budget items for PWA,PEA and
CMWU:

a)   Replacement of water& wastewater Networks
b)   Water well replacement& rehabilitation
c)   Water Network rehabilitation
d)   Electromechanical generator
e)   Chemicals for water disinfection& water treatment
f)   Electromechanical supplies
g)   Electricity Material
h)   Recurrent Expenditures: This sub–component financed expenditures such as: rent,
     transportation, fuel for water cars and wells, vehicle rental, insurance, licensing and
     insurance, water and electricity utilities, maintenance of equipment and buildings,
     and Repair& maintenance of stand by for generator, oils, filters.


V: Project Management and Capacity Building:
This component included the following:
a)   Project management and monitoring: This sub-component supported the project
     management structure as well as consultants contracts to support and monitor
     project implementation and also finance audits

b)    Equipments and furniture: This sub-component supported the project management
      through providing Computer & other office equipments as well as furniture and
      office supplies.

                                             51
c)   Capacity building for key ministries and utilities sector: This sub-component
     included support to the line ministries or utilities to improve their
     Procurement operations related to the project activities and financial
     management.
d)   Project Audit Cost.


PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The particularity of the emergency nature of the project, plus the complicated
circumstances under which the ESSP-MDTF has been functioning, implies less
measurable performance indicators per se to evaluate the achievements and outcomes
brought about by the project implementation, which could primarily be attributed to the
specific character of such outcomes and achievements, being more of an abstract-value
oriented rather than a assessable product.

The following performance indicators were however identified in the Project Appraisal
Document for monitoring of Project Outputs:
1. Increased availability of essential drugs and rehabilitation services through financing:
   (i) essential drugs and medical consumables; and (ii) non-medical recurrent
   expenditures, such as costs of operating and maintaining health facilities including
   communication, fuel, water and electricity utilities, rent for health facilities, cleaning
   services and materials, transportations, uniforms and stationary; (iii) contracts with
   NGOs to provide unavailable health services; (iv) nutrition services and hospital food
   contracts.

2. Improving and sustaining educational facilities for students and sustain educational
   services at all levels through supporting (i) recurrent expenditures such as rent or
   school buildings, transportation (including fuel) and vehicle maintenance, water and
   electricity utilities for schools, communication, maintenance of equipments and
   buildings; (ii) Learning Materials; (iii) general examinations including financing of
   stationary, printing of examinations; (iv) financing materials required for school
   activities such as sports, arts, science, home economics, and other summer school
   activities; (v) financing furniture's for Schools (vi) vocational and commercial
   education schools; (X) Rehabilitation Of Schools and Urgent Maintenance Of
   Schools and (vi) support for higher education institutions.

3. Implementation of projects structured to improve utility sectors component(PWA,
   PEA and CMWU) services in the fields of water and waste water and electricity
   sector, and thus improvement of life quality of people through providing emergency
   support for (i) Water sector; (ii) Water Networks; (iii) electricity sector.

4. Having better equipped MOSA shelters facilities and increasing number of benefited
   inhabitants from these centers and providing better quality of services through
   covering (i) recurrent operating budget of MOSA and its shelters/rehabilitation and
   training centers; (ii) upgrading essential equipment used in shelters and vocational



                                             52
   training centers; (iii) covering minor rehabilitation works on shelters/rehabilitation
   and training centers and (iv) food for the residents of the shelters


ESSP MDTF BUDGET
By end of October 2011, the budget of ESSP MDTF totaled GBP 44,024,793, of which
the amount of GBP 44,024,733 was disbursed by line ministries and the amount of GBP
25.20 was not received. The average monthly disbursement from the beginning to the
deadline date of the project is GBP 898,450 per month.

The amount of GBP 44,024,768 was disbursed by IDA, and the amount of GBP 34.42
will be refunded to World Bank during November 2011 and all remaining funds under
the project will be closed.

ESSP MDTF started with commitments from several donors for a total amount of GBP
24.3 million and the project budget has been increased to reach GBP 44.02 million after
new commitments from other donors. Therefore the project agreement has been amended
five times to reflect the new donor‘s commitment. These amendments were signed
respectively as follows: first amendment on December 14, 2006 with total amount of
GBP 29.3; third and fourth amendment's on December, 2007, March 2008 with total
amount of GBP 39.2; and the Fifth Amendment was on 16 April 2009 with total amount
of GBP 44.02 million.


PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overall management of the ESSP MDTF was at the first stage the responsibility of the
President office through a Project Coordination Unit that was especially established for
this project however after the second amendment dated on September 30, 2007, the
implementation responsibility under the project transferred from Office of the President
of Palestinian Authority to Economic Affairs Department of Palestine Liberation
Organization through MOF and the same PCU. The actual implementation of the various
project components was handled by both line ministries and PCU.

I. Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
The PCU is staffed with project coordinator, procurement officer, disbursement officers,
Financial Officer, two junior accountants and secretary. The PCU acts as a liaison
between MOF and the participating line ministries. It reported to the Head of the
International Relations and Projects Department, who was responsible for ensuring
timely submission of project monthly statements and quarterly reports.

Implementation arrangements between the recipient and implementing agencies:
While the physical implementation of the project components was the responsibility of
the line ministries concerned (MOEHE, MOH, MOSA, MOF, PEA, PWA and CMWU),
implementation according to Bank rules and procedures was supervised and monitored
on a daily basis by the Ministry of Finance based on regular records and book keeping.
The MOF provided on-the-job training for the line ministries‘ employees to improve their

                                          53
capacity and familiarity with the World Bank‘s procurement and disbursement
procedures and regulations. A Procurement consultant has been contracted by DFID to
provide assistance in procurement related matters to the PCU and the beneficiary
ministries, including assisting in the evaluation process, support with preparation of
technical specifications for medical equipment, etc

II. World Bank Involvement
Bank staff maintained close and continuous cooperation, especially staff in the regional
office that were available to provide support and advice around the clock, and even in
holiday times. The understanding of the Bank staff to the special nature of this project
and of the circumstances through which the Palestinian people and Authority were going,
helped simplify the application of the procurement guidelines, and in many events MOF
got waivers from the Bank for various procurement processes. The World Bank raised the
authorized allocations and accelerates the replenishment process as a response to the
increased number of submitted WA and the delays of its delivery due to the closures.

III. Monitoring and Evaluation
Execution of the project was continuously monitored at different levels. Day to day and
regular monitoring was done by MOF, under the supervision of the International
Relations and Projects Department and through the Project Coordination Unit. MOF
maintained policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate the
project on an ongoing basis. MOF was responsible for the preparation of the summarized
quarterly progress reports and FMRs, which included a detailed breakdown of
expenditures incurred under the Project during the preceding period.

IV. Audit Arrangements
As per the Bank‘s regulations, an independent Auditor was selected and contracted based
on a competitive process from a short list of qualified firms. The selection method criteria
were Least Cost Based Selection (LCS). ―Talal Abu Ghazala& Co.‖ was chosen to be the
external auditor for the ESSP MDTF (three extension requests took place for the auditor
contract to continue auditing the project). The audits were to be performed on a quarterly
basis. The Terms of reference prepared by MOF and cleared by IDA, were used to
require the auditor to operate under international auditing standards on the project
financial statements (including an SOE statement) and a statement of Special Account.
The financial statements are audited and presented to IDA within six months of the end
of each fiscal year. IDA has also requested that the External Audits be supplemented with
physical spot audits that confirmed the physical delivery of goods and their well
maintenance. Physical Audits are provided quarterly in a separately documents.

The first contract with Talal Abu Ghazala& Co. for ESSP MDTF was signed on May 1,
2007. Since the starting date of the contract, Talal Abu Ghazala& Co. submitted to MOF
& IDA the following reports:
         1.    Spot check report up to June 2007.
         2.    Financial Auditing report up to June 2007
         3.    Spot check report up to September 2007
         4.    Spot check report up to December 2007.

                                            54
        5.    Financial Auditing report up to December 2007.
        6.    Spot check report up to March 2008.
        7.    Spot check report up to June 2008.
        8.    Spot check report up to September 2008.
        9.    Spot check report up to December 2008.
        10.   Financial Auditing report up December 2008.
        11.   Spot check report up to March 2009.
        12.   Spot check report up to June 2009.
        13.   Spot check report up to September 2009.
        14.   Spot check report up to December 2009.
        15.   Spot check report up to March 2010.
        16.   Spot check report up to June 2010.
        17.   Spot check report up to September 2010.
        18.   Spot check report up to December 2010.
        19.   Spot check report up to March 2011.
        20.   The final check report up to October.
        21.   The final auditing report in preparation and will issue shortly.

In its reports, Talal Abu Ghazala& Co stated that they conducted their audit in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing. In their opinion, the financial
statements presented by the project‘s management present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of the ESSP MDTF and its cash receipts and expenditures and cash
flows, i.e. no material findings and the reports were all unqualified.

As a result of extending the closing date of the grant agreement ―June 30, 2010‖, the PLO
has sent a request to the World Bank to extend the auditor‘s contract to be valid till June
30, 2010, and thus a new contract was signed with the auditor. The auditor‘s contract has
also been extended twice to be valid till the application deadline of the project (31
October 2011).

In addition to the external Audits, IDA conducted procurement and financial ex-post
reviews. While these reviews generally assessed the performance of the ministries as
adequate and that, by and large, most transactions were done in accordance with the
Bank‘s procedures and guidelines, few transactions were identified whereby project
funds were used for ineligible items. These were small in amounts and the MoF were
asked to reimburse the project for their total value. These reviews were extremely helpful
in terms of providing an opportunity for the Bank to supplement technical assistance to
the line ministries to improve their capacity in handling financial and procurement
transactions.


DIFFICULTIES AND OBSTACLES
Internal closures represented the biggest constraint on the project implementation,
particularly during the first year. The closures not only affected the procurement of goods
and works, but also affected the movement of goods and personnel between cities, towns
and villages. This had a big negative impact on the fulfillment of the commitments by

                                            55
different suppliers and contractors, and consequently on the commitments of the different
line ministries. The current strict siege on Gaza Strip and the absence of the official
employees at the Gaza Ministries; adds further obstacles and problems in the
implementation process. Sine Nov. 2008, No fuel was allowed to enter Gaza strip from
Israel accordingly the quantities of fuel available in Gaza were very limited and were not
enough to supply the hospitals and clinics.

ESSP-PCU is based in Gaza which has been closed off since June 2007. ESSP PCU staff
have been working under extremely difficult circumstances and have been dealing with
severe power outages in addition to the Limited fuel quantities in Gaza caused a lot of
obstacles to both PCU and the Beneficiary ministries in terms of transportation and
providing services.
To assist in overcoming some of the physical constraints faced due to closures, IDA
allowed in some cases for the operation of sub-accounts for some ministries. This was
however subject to ex-post review and amounts of transfers were limited to certain
thresholds.

Some difficulties related to the Procurement of the Goods and Works for the benificiary
ministries were faced in the beginning of the ESSP MDTF, which slowed down the
implementation during the first year of the project. Such difficulties were a result of the
huge number of procurement transactions that is subject for prior review and the low
capacity of line ministries in dealing with procurement guidelines at that stage. On the
other hand a few persons were assigned at the bank side for reviewing and following the
procurement packages which results in an additional delays.

Derived from the PNA‘s lack of experience in handling international biddings, delays in
the tendering process used to occur in the beginning of the project.


ESSP IMPACT
Despite the continued closures and curfews imposed on many areas in the Gaza Strip and
West Bank, the functional capacity and structure of ESSP MDTF has been positively
established and developed vis-à-vis its outlined goals, and ESSP MDTF has helped
maintaining basic public services related to education, health, Utility sector and social
affairs. The project managed to support essential needs to line ministries as follows:

MOE: The ESSP MDTF helped the MOE to meet the demands of 1500 schools and
education and 17 MOE directorate offices and to keep its operation going and to improve
its capabilities.

MOH: Funding essential drugs and other incremental operating expenses have helped the
ministry.

MOSA: Under both the social shelters program and rehabilitation and training centers
program, ESSP helped MOSA provide adequate equipment, furniture, and learning
materials.

                                            56
PWA: ESSP is contributing to the improvement of the water situation in the West
Bank, through covering Water Systems Rehabilitation Packages in Hebron and
Bethlehem areas with the total amount of USD 748,475.

CMWU: ESSP comes in the time where there is deteriorating in the quality of the water
being provided by existing wells in addition to the increasing levels of salinity and nitrate
concentration which exceeds the WHO standard, in addition to the destroyed wastewater
networks from the repeated Israel incursions in Gaza.

PEA: ESSP funds been utilized to provide utility providers with the main goods needed
to maintain the electricity networks in order to increase the quality of supply to the
consumers and reduce to network outage for the benefit of the Palestinian people.


LESSONS LEARNT

   Success of emergency projects is based on close supervision, and readiness to be
    flexible in adopting the project to domestic realities, in addition to the quick response
    from financer and implementing agency to the urgent needs and changed
    requirements through reallocations.

   The broad success of ESSP-MDTF is primarily due to the fact that it is aligned with
    the PA‘s strategy to help prevent a collapse in social service delivery.

   The ESSP -MDTF was the result of close consultations with the counterparts
    and consensus, the PCU faced little difficulties in implementation.

   Although the centralization of all procurement and financial transactions at the PCU
    and MOF may cause some delays it has gained the PCU with a rich experience in
    dealing with all accepts of procurement and financial issues. Also it has allowed the
    PCU to track and monitor all contracts related to the project. In addition the PCU was
    able to obtain and gather all types of information need for reporting and presentation
    purposes.

   Given the nature of budgetary support operations and compared to other programs,
    the implementation rate of emergency projects is quicker; therefore disbursement and
    procurement procedures should be simplified.


   The later simplification in the design of ESSP-MDTF has allowed faster
    disbursement than has been possible under previous ESSP phases as there is not
    any procurement of goods, works, or drugs.




                                             57
   Another positive lesson stems from the accessibility of the Bank‘s task team which is
    resident in the WB&G country office. It also enabled close monitoring of and
    response to the ever-changing political and economic environment facing the
    government and affecting its priorities.

   Using three different currencies in dealing with the project financial management
    under Trust Fund has caused some pressure on the financial management team
    at the PCU in terms of managing and tracking budget and contract management.

   Donors at the first stage of the ESSP MDTF have fulfillment their commitments
    toward Funding the project however funding the program has been unpredictable and
    erratic in the last years




                                           58
Financial Progress:
Summary:
Total allocated budget of ESSP MDTF is GBP44.024 million, become GBP 43.99
million after the refunded amounts, the total budget was fully disbursed at the deadline
date of the grant "October 31, 2011".

Analysis:
The following tables summarize and compare the allocated budget commitments and
expenditure report for each of the line ministries in end October 2011.


                           Allocated Budget         Disbursement by IDA       Disbursement by Ministry
Explanations
                          GBP         USD              GBP        USD          GBP             USD

   MOE                  15,592,377   29,442,925   15,540,995   29,360,591   15,540,995      29,198,789

       Small Works       420,000      786,479      320,054      626,326       320,054        626,326
                Goods 2,520,000      4,669,575    2,415,737     4,502,504    2,415,737      4,502,504
        Incremental 5,053,786        9,329,841    5,213,442     9,585,673    5,213,442      9,585,673
   Un. Staff Salaries 7,598,591      14,495,227   7,591,762    14,484,285    7,591,762      14,484,285
  Exchange R. Disc.                   161,802                   161,802
   MOH                  23,196,676   42,932,533   23,259,640   43,033,427   23,259,640      42,649,832
                Goods 6,166,710      11,725,135   5,628,091    10,862,052    5,628,091      10,862,052
               Services 6,093,318    11,583,190   6,135,043    11,650,051    6,135,043      11,650,051
                 Food    350,000      693,598      349,858      693,371       349,858        693,371
        Incremental 10,586,648       18,547,014   11,146,648   19,444,358   11,146,648      19,444,358
  Exchange R. Disc.                   383,595                   383,595
       Utility Sectors 4,298,411     7,983,775    4,349,357     8,065,410    4,349,357      7,958,983
       Small Works       512,000      925,649      503,618      912,217       503,618        912,217
                Goods 2,322,966      4,340,355    2,104,990     3,991,071    2,104,990      3,991,071
        Incremental 1,463,446        2,611,344    1,740,749     3,055,695   1,740,749.03    3,055,695
  Exchange R. Disc.                   106,427                   106,427
  MOSA                   436,360      827,249      422,936      805,739       422,936        805,739
                Goods    78,825       155,312      78,824       155,311       78,824         155,311
                 Food    93,023       183,845      93,022       183,843       93,022         183,843
        Incremental      264,512      488,092      251,090      466,585       251,090        466,585
   MOF                   457,120      787,123     408,015.42   708,437.79   408,015.42      708,437.79
                Goods    30,975       53,281       11,513        22,095       11,513          22,095
 Services& Training      400,145      690,090      387,951      670,551       387,951        670,551


                                                  59
                                     Allocated Budget           Disbursement by IDA              Disbursement by Ministry
      Explanations
                                     GBP          USD              GBP            USD             GBP                  USD

              Incremental        26,000           43,751           8,552         15,792          8,552                15,792
        Exchange R. Disc.                         112,464                       112,464

         Total                 43,980,944      82,086,068     43,980,944       82,086,068      43,980,944         81,321,781




      MOEHE
                                                                      Allocated Budget                       Actual
                       Description
                                                                   GBP             USD             GBP                  USD
                                                            MOE&H.E
                        Rehabilitation Of School               225,568.46       442,345.04      225,568.46        442,345.04
         Small works    Urgent Maintenance Of School           94,485.72        183,981.33       94,485.72        183,981.33
                        Unallocated                            99,945.82        160,153.18

         Total Small Works                                     420,000.00       786,479.55      320,054.18        626,326.37

                                Learning Materials             731,368.16       1,309,430.96    731,368.16       1,309,430.96
                        Tools & Materials For School
                                                               230,630.95       395,284.28      230,630.95        395,284.28
                        LAe.
                        Teaching Aid For Schools               186,355.43       323,777.00      186,355.43        323,777.00

                        Sport Tools For Schools                72,835.50        145,221.50       72,835.50        145,221.50
                        Computers      For   Vocational
                                                               90,842.29        177,596.43       90,842.29        177,596.43
                        Schools
                        Raw Materials for Vocational &
                                                               150,703.99       267,551.75      150,703.99        267,551.75
                        agricultural Schools

MOE                     Furniture‘s For Schools                482,712.29       783,715.36      482,712.29        783,715.36
                        Consumables Materials                  413,701.72       836,679.43      413,701.73        836,679.45
           Goods        Cleaning Materials                     363,428.65       737,285.99      363,428.66        737,286.01

                        Food For Agric. Schools                 8,248.50         16,849.44        8,248.50            16,849.44

                        Animal Feed For Agric. Schools         42,024.57         82,544.00       42,024.57            82,544.00
                        Printing& Stationary                   787,954.40       1,572,678.03    787,954.40       1,572,678.03

                        Printed Administrative Forms           15,903.87         31,094.50       15,903.87            31,094.50

                        G. Examination Stationary              120,165.66       242,297.65      120,165.66        242,297.65

                        Printed For G. Examination             30,835.28         61,896.60       30,835.28            61,896.60
                        Stationary      For       Schools&
                                                               621,049.59       1,237,389.28    621,049.59       1,237,389.28
                        District Office
                        Unallocated                            104,263.43       167,071.72
         Total Goods                                          2,520,000.00      4,669,575.50    2,415,736.58     4,502,503.80



                                                              60
                                                                       Allocated Budget                        Actual
                      Description
                                                                    GBP             USD             GBP                   USD
                       G. Examin. Controllers                  1,105,677.25      1,934,503.53    1,105,677.25      1,934,503.53

                       Rent                                     674,074.39       1,281,975.93    674,074.39        1,281,975.93

                       Transportations                           2,026.82          4,007.83        2,026.82             4,007.83

                       Electricity & Water                     1,792,861.93      3,208,238.01    1,792,861.93      3,208,238.01

                       Communications                           539,335.34       963,241.99      539,335.34         963,241.99
     Incremental       Maintenance                              136,331.16       261,079.20      136,331.16         261,079.20

                       Miscellaneous                                865.68         1,609.27        865.68               1,609.27

                       Insurance                                 23,945.89        47,356.91       23,945.89             47,356.91

                       Fuel                                      88,797.99       174,571.15       88,797.99         174,571.15

                       Advertising                               5,345.19         10,470.94        5,345.19             10,470.94
                                     Unallocated                (159,655.88      -255,832.58)

     Total Incremental                                         4,209,605.76      7,631,222.18    4,369,261.64      7,887,054.76

                      Total MOE                                7,149,605.76     13,087,277.23    7,105,052.40      13,015,884.93



                       Salaries                               7,591,762.30     14,484,285.23    7,591,762.30       14,484,285.23
       Salaries
                                    Unallocated                 6,828.70         10,942.31
     Total Salaries                                           7,598,591.00     14,495,227.54    7,591,762.30       14,484,285.23

                       Water& Electricity                     411,490.92        827,301.16       411,490.92             827,301.16

                       Communications                         139,429.78        280,706.46       139,429.78             280,706.46
HE
                       Rent                                     9,705.38         19,523.78        9,705.38              19,523.78
     Incremental       Transportations&               Car
                       Insurance                                3,592.60         7,263.80         3,592.60               7,263.80

                       Fuel                                   142,990.46        286,459.54       142,990.46             286,459.54
                       Maintenance&               Cleaning
                       Contract                               136,971.10        277,363.89       136,971.10             277,363.89
     Total Incremental                                        844,180.24       1,698,618.63      844,180.24         1,698,618.63

                      Total H.E                               8,442,771.24     16,193,846.17    8,435,942.54       16,182,903.86

                                       Exchange R. Disc.                          161,802

              Total- MOE&H.E.                                15,592,377.00     29,442,925.14    15,540,994.94      29,198,788.79




                                                               61
              MOH:


                                                                     Allocated Budget                        Actual
                        Description
                                                                 GBP               USD             GBP                   USD

                                                              MOH

                      Drugs                                  3,204,657.62       6,322,667.70   3,204,657.62           6,322,667.70

                      Medical Supplies& Disposables          1,091,679.42       2,082,443.32   1,091,679.42           2,082,443.32
                      Lab    Materials&      Blood    Bank
                                                              765,953.89        1,485,017.69    765,953.89            1,485,017.69
                      Disposables
                      Medical Gazez                           75,576.50         148,546.55      75,576.50             148,546.55

                      Nutrition                               116,911.28        190,732.01      116,911.28            190,732.01
       Goods
                      Stationery & Office Supply              145,742.31        245,188.34      145,742.31            245,188.34

                      Cleaning Materials                      26,378.28          52,853.58      26,378.28              52,853.58

                      Textile                                 55,593.32          91,093.00      55,593.32              91,093.00
                      Spare Parts&Replacement Damage
                                                              145,598.68        243,510.20      145,598.68            243,510.20
                      Equipments
                                    Unallocated               538,618.70        863,082.60

Total Goods                                                  6,166,710.00      11,725,134.99   5,628,091.30       10,862,052.39

                      Rent                                    689,667.88        1,115,604.09    689,667.88            1,115,604.09

                      Fuel                                   2,605,478.21       4,351,455.24   2,632,366.58           4,394,541.17

                      Communication                           800,795.59        1,370,493.16    800,795.59            1,370,493.16

                      Electricity&Water                      5,853,089.58      10,290,012.52   5,853,089.58       10,290,012.52
Incremental
                      Maintenance                             209,350.96        389,430.48      209,350.96            389,430.48

                      Cleaning Contract                       953,877.82        1,869,392.95    953,877.82            1,869,392.95

                      Transportations& Advertising             7,499.45          14,883.69       7,499.45              14,883.69

                                    Unallocated              (533,111.49)       (854,257.85)

Total Incremental                                            10,586,648.00     18,547,014.28   11,146,647.86      19,444,358.06

                      Tertiary Care                          6,133,680.04      11,647,689.48   6,134,324.35       11,648,721.92
Tertiary Care         Bank Charge Services                      718.56            1,329.27        718.56                1,329.27
                                    Unallocated               (41,081.07)       (65,828.31)

Total Tertiary Care                                          6,093,317.53      11,583,190.44   6,135,042.91       11,650,051.19

                      Foods                                   349,857.96        693,370.75      349,857.96            693,370.75
Food
                                    Unallocated                 142.04            227.60



                                                               62
                                                              Allocated Budget                        Actual
                       Description
                                                          GBP               USD             GBP                   USD

Total Food                                             350,000.00        693,598.35      349,857.96             693,370.75

                    Exchange R. Disc.                                    383,594.90

                       Total-MOH                      23,196,675.53     42,932,532.98   23,259,640.03       42,649,832.39




              MOSA:
                                                              Allocated Budget                         Actual
                      Description
                                                          GBP                USD             GBP                    USD

                                                       MOSA

                      Tools, Materials and Small
                                                        25,392.36         49,708.52        25,392.36              49,708.52
                      Machines for Training Centers

                      Office Supplies                   30,796.93         60,908.51        30,796.93              60,908.51
  Goods
                      Textile                           10,168.58         19,818.80        10,168.58              19,818.80

                      Cleaning Materials                12,466.22         24,875.21        12,466.22              24,875.21

                      Unallocated                         0.91               1.46

Total Goods                                             78,825.00         155,312.50       78,824.09             155,311.04

                      Rent                             207,660.58         382,161.38       207,660.58            382,161.38

                      Electricity & Water               25,445.30         49,050.24        25,445.30              49,050.24

                      Communication                       0.00               0.00             0.00                  0.00
Incremental           Maintenance                       10,182.93         19,952.08        10,182.93              19,952.08

                      Fuel                              4,867.07           9,646.76         4,867.07              9,646.76

                      Insurance                         2,934.39           5,774.10         2,934.39              5,774.10

                      Unallocated                       13,421.73         21,506.98

Total Incremental                                      264,512.00         488,091.54       251,090.27            466,584.56

                      Food                              93,021.80         183,843.13       93,021.80             183,843.13
Food
                      Unallocated                         1.20               1.92

Total Food                                              93,023.00         183,845.05       93,021.80             183,843.13


Total MOSA                                             436,360.00         827,249.09       422,936.16            805,738.73


                                                        63
        MOF:


                                                                Allocated Budget                    Actual
                       Description
                                                        GBP                   USD          GBP                  USD


                                                        PM

                     Computers & Accessories          10,854.17             20,840.00   10,854.17            20,840.00
                     Office Equipments                   0.00                 0.00         0.00                 0.00

      Goods          Vehicle                             0.00                 0.00         0.00                 0.00
                     Stationery & Office Supply        658.39               1,254.92     658.39               1,254.92
                     Unallocated                      19,462.24             31,186.29

Total Goods                                           30,974.80             53,281.21   11,512.56            22,094.92

                     Communication                     1,342.77             2,339.36     1,342.77             2,339.36
                     Transportation& Electricity       2,448.97             4,586.02     2,448.97             4,586.02
                     Maintenance                       2,138.91             4,263.50     2,138.91             4,263.50
                     Fuel                              647.34               1,228.30     647.34               1,228.30
   Incremental
                     Miscellaneous                     843.10               1,529.90     843.10               1,529.90
                     Advertising                       1,851.57             3,000.00     1,130.94             1,845.26

                     Unallocated                      16,727.34             26,803.89

Total Incremental                                     26,000.00             43,750.97    8,552.03            15,792.34

                     Contracts for Consultants        317,418.52           541,624.00   317,418.52           541,624.00
                     Capacity Building Staff          30,063.91             59,463.81   30,063.91            59,463.81

     Services        Training &Conference                0.00                 0.00         0.00                 0.00

                     Consulting Services / Auditing   42,521.74             72,753.00   40,468.40            69,462.72
                     Unallocated                      10,140.83             16,249.66

Total Services                                        400,145.00           690,090.47   387,950.83           670,550.53

                    Exchange R. Disc.                                      112,463.75


                       Total P.M                      457,119.80           787,122.65   408,015.42           708,437.79




                                                        64
         Utility Sectors:

                                                                            Allocated Budget                    Actual
                           Description
                                                                          GBP             USD          GBP                 USD


                                                        Utility Sectors

                             Replacement of water& Waste
                             water services connections                   0.00            0.00         0.00                0.00
                             Replacement        of      water&
                             wastewater Networks                     35,072.08         65,016.24    35,072.08            65,016.24
             Small works
                             Water        well    replacement&
                             rehabilitation                          47,516.66         98,725.54    47,516.66            98,725.54
                             Repair& maintenance of CMWU&
                             water wells                                  0.00            0.00         0.00                0.00
             Total Small Works                                       82,588.74         163,741.78   82,588.74        163,741.78
                             Electromechanical spare parts for
                             repair or replacement                   95,429.70         185,427.00   95,262.89        185,159.70
                Goods
                             Chemicals for water disinfection&
                             water treatment                         48,291.07         96,473.20    48,291.07            96,473.20
CMWU
             Total Goods                                            143,720.77         281,900.20   143,553.96       281,632.90

                             Vehicles &equipment maintenance              0.00            0.00         0.00                0.00
                             Water and Electricity& Rent&
                             Advertising                             71,939.13         124,326.35   71,939.13        124,326.35
                             Repair&       maintenance    for
             Incremental     electromechanical work, water
                             wells                                        0.00            0.00         0.00                0.00
                             Repair& maintenance of stand by
                             for generators oils filters            106,275.06         208,866.54   106,275.06       208,866.54

                             Fuel For water cars                     32,470.80         64,586.35    32,470.80            64,586.35
             Total Incremental                                      210,684.99         397,779.24   210,684.99       397,779.24

Total CMWU                                                          436,994.50         843,421.22   436,827.69       843,153.92

                             Network rehab. Samua Beit Ula
                             Net.                                   306,522.73         539,112.18   306,522.73       539,112.18

                             Network rehab. South Bethlehem               0.00            0.00         0.00                0.00
                             Network      rehab.      Ubaidia-
             Small works
                             Bethlehem                              114,506.37         209,363.25   114,506.37       209,363.25

                             Network rehab. Beit Amra                     0.00            0.00         0.00                0.00
PWA                          Repair Maintenance of       Civil
                             Works                                        0.00            0.00         0.00                0.00
             Total Small Works                                      421,029.10         748,475.43   421,029.10       748,475.43

                Goods        Electromechanical spare parts for
                             repair and replacements                 14,001.52         27,723.00    14,001.52            27,723.00

             Total Goods                                             14,001.52         27,723.00    14,001.52            27,723.00



                                                             65
                                                                              Allocated Budget                      Actual
                               Description
                                                                            GBP             USD            GBP                 USD

                                 Maintenance                   (G.
                                 Vehicle,Equipment)                      6,250.00        12,000.00       6,250.00            12,000.00
                 Incremental
                                 Wells Fuel                             981,946.98      1,717,281.25    981,946.98      1,717,281.25

                                 Electricity& Advertising               520,911.62       887,507.21     520,911.62       887,507.21

                 Total Incremental                                     1,509,108.60     2,616,788.46   1,509,108.60     2,616,788.46



Total PWA                                                              1,944,139.22     3,392,986.89   1,944,139.22     3,392,986.89


                    Goods
                                 Electricity Material                  1,966,156.93     3,711,715.52   1,947,435.01     3,681,715.52

                 Total Goods                                           1,966,156.93     3,711,715.52   1,947,435.01     3,681,715.52


PENRA                            Utility Bills(Maintenance)              2,075.12         4,212.49       2,075.12            4,212.49
                                 Transportations&      Advertising&
                 Incremental
                                 Bank Charge                             5,189.15        10,181.09       5,189.15            10,181.09

                                 Fuel For cars                          13,691.17        26,733.41      13,691.17            26,733.41

                 Total Incremental                                      20,955.44        41,126.99      20,955.44            41,126.99


Total PENRA                                                            1,987,112.37     3,752,842.51   1,968,390.45     3,722,842.51


                 Small works                                             8,382.16        13,431.57
 unallocated
                    Goods                                               199,086.36       319,015.98

                 Incremental                                           (277,303.03)     (444,350.38)
                         Exchange R. Disc.                                               106,427.01


Total Utility Sectors                                                  4,298,411.58     7,983,774.81   4,349,357.36     7,958,983.32




Grand Total                                                            43,980,943.91   82,086,068.42   43,980,943.91    81,321,781.02




                                                                  66
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments received from donors on the draft ICR have been incorporated in this final
version of the ICR.




                                        67
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

         a) Implementation Completion Report – No.: 32356 – for an Emergency
            Services Support Project – June 3, 2005
         b) Implementation Completion Report – No.: 32357 – for a Second
            Emergency Services Support Project – June 3, 2005
         c) ESSP MDTF – Concept Note – draft dated June 28, 2006
         d) Initiating Brief for Trust Fund (IBTF) – ESSP MDTF – Request Number:
            1891 (Approved) – Clearance Date: 7/31/2006
         e) Emergency Services Support Program – Program Document – Undated
         f) Trust Fund Grant Agreement – Emergency Services Support Program –
            TF 057315 – Dated September 18, 2006
         g) ESSP – Additional Instructions: Disbursements – Dated September 18,
            2006
         h) ESSP Operating Manual (OM) – Undated
         i) Administration Agreements (AA) and amendments between IDA and
            individual countries (Australia, Austria, Belgium, France, Italy, Norway,
            Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom) and three
            Administration Agreements (AA) between IDA and the European
            Commission (EC).
         j) Interim Evaluation of the Temporary International Mechanism (TIM).
            Draft Final report – Volume 1, Main report – European Union / Gruppo
            Soges S.p.A. – July 2007.
         k) Supplemental Letter (Performance Monitoring Indicators) to the Trust
            Fund Grant Agreement for ESSP III – January 17, 2008.
         l) Emergency Services Support Program – Evaluation Report – Undated
         m) ESSP – MDTF – TF 057315 – Progress Reports – Quarterly.
         n) Supplemental Letter - TF Grant No. TF090212-GZ – Third Emergency
            Services Support Project – Performance Monitoring Indicators.
         o) Aide memoires
         p) Implementation Status and Results (ISRs)
         q) Spot-Check Audit Reports – quarterly
         r) IDA - Program Document for a Proposed Grant (US$40 million
            equivalent) to the PLO for a Palestinian National Plan Development
            Policy Grant IV – July 2011 - Report No. 63157-WG




                                        68
Annex 10. Contributions of Donors to the ESSP MDTF

    Donors       Amount       Administration Agreement                Sectors
                  (US$            (AA) / Amounts
                 Million
               equivalent )
                              AA dated 10/1/2007,           Not earmarked
1. Australia      3.60        Countersigned 10/9/2007
                              Australian Dollars
                              AUD 4,000,000
                              AA dated 8/4/2006,            96% for Health Services
2. Austria        1.26        countersigned on 9/1/2006     4% for Project Management
                              Euro 1,000,000
                              AA dated 9/20/2006,           Not earmarked
3. Belgium        3.28        countersigned on 10/24/2006
                              Euro 2,500,000
                              AA dated Aug. 14, 2006        Health Sector Components
                              Euro 10,000,000

                              AA dated Dec. 7, 2007         Health Sector, and fuel for
                              Euro 5,000,000                electricity generators in the
                                                            health and water sectors
                              AA dated Dec. 14, 2008        Incremental operating cost
                              Euro 5,000,000                for the health sector,
4.  European      27.44                                     including fuel as well as
Commission                                                  referral costs to local NGOs
                                                            and private hospitals in Gaza
                                                            and     the     West     Bank
                                                            (including East Jerusalem),
                                                            running costs for the
                                                            education sector, and fuel
                                                            costs, maintenance and
                                                            rehabilitation related to the
                                                            provision of water supplies
                              AA dated 12/6/2006,           Not earmarked
5. France         3.98        Countersigned 12/8/2006
                              Euro 3,000,000
                              AA dated 3/26/2007,           Social Welfare Services and
6. Italy          3.24        countersigned 4/30/2007       Health Services Sectors
                              Euro 2,277,000




                                       69
Annex 10. Contributions of Donors to the ESSP MDTF (continued)

   Donors          Amount       Administration Agreement                 Sectors
                    (US$            (AA) / Amounts
                   Million)
                                AA dated 11/13/2006            Not earmarked
                                Norwegian Kroner
                                15,000,000
7. Norway            3.53       AA amended 12/15/2006          Not earmarked
                                Countersigned 12/21/2006
                                Norwegian Kroner
                                6,696,711
8. Spain             19.50      AA dated 1/8/2007              Not earmarked
                                Euro 15,000,000
                                AA dated 10/17/2006,           Not earmarked
9. Sweden            6.53       Countersigned 8/18/2006
                                Swedish Krona 45,000,000
                                AA dated 12/20/2006,           Education Services Sector
                                Countersigned 1/9/2007
10. Switzerland                 US$ 2,000,000
                     4.30       AA amended 12/10/2007,         Education Services Sector
                                Countersigned
                                US$ 2,300,000
                                AA dated 8/4/2006,             Health Services Sector
                                Countersigned 8/11/2006
11.    United        11.38      GBP 3,000,000
Kingdom
                                AA amended 11/2/2006,          Health Services and Water,
                                Countersigned 11/3/2006        Electricity and Sanitation
                                GBP 3,000,000                  Sectors
TOTAL                88.04

Note: The 11 donors paid their contributions in their own currencies (Euros, Pounds
Sterling, Swedish Krona, etc.). In the above table, their contribution amounts have been
converted into US Dollars based on the exchange rates on the dates their contributions
were received by the Bank, showing a total of US$88.04 million equivalent.

However, the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shows the grant amount and category
allocations in Pounds Sterling; but, actual disbursements to the line ministries and
utilities were in multiple currencies (e.g. Israeli Shekels, Jordanian Dinars and US
Dollars). The Bank‘s Disbursement Department converted those disbursements into US
Dollars at the exchange rate when withdrawal applications were processed and
expenditures were charged to the pound sterling expenditure categories. As shown in
Annex 1, the total disbursements to the Line Ministries and utilities were US$81.32
million equivalent. The difference of US$6.72 million (donor contributions of US$88.04

                                          70
million minus disbursements of US$81.32 million) is due to the fees paid to the Bank by
the donors for administering the ESSP MDTF and to the exchange rate discrepancies in
the conversions to US Dollars.




                                          71
Annex 11. Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background

The Economy

11.1 More than five years after the outbreak of the second intifada in 2000, the West
Bank and Gaza (WBG) remained in a state of protracted economic crisis, as the volatile
political and security situation continued to block conditions for economic revival.
Intermittent conflict and Israeli security measures severely restricted movement of goods
and people between and within Palestinian territories, fragmenting the economy and
imposing significant transaction costs that reduced its growth potential.

11.2 The decision by Israel, taken in early 2006, to suspend the transfer of clearance
revenues that it collected on behalf of the Palestinian Authority (PA) led to a severe fiscal
crisis that undermined public institutions and the delivery of essential public services.
Clearance revenues usually account for some 60 percent of PA revenues. Since the
advent of the Hamas led-government on March 29, 2006, the flow of funds to the
Palestinian Authority (PA) has dropped by roughly over 80 percent. As a result, monthly
revenues and external financing fell from US$135 million in 2005 to roughly US$30
million; the PA had full control over only US$15-20 million per month. As a result, PA
salaries to the estimated 160,000 personnel had not been paid since early March 2006.

11.3 The PA faced the impact of spending policies introduced under the Hamas
government that dramatically increased the public sector wage bill, and the fiscal impact
following the expulsion of Fatah from Gaza that brought economic activity there to a
virtual standstill. Consequently, the Government‘s capacity to provide basic services
remained severely compromised. Available funds were allocated across ministries for
critical needs, including urgent medical care abroad, food assistance and some utility
payments. The resulting economic and social implications of the crisis were already
evident and could get worse quickly. A shortage of drugs and medical supplies was
threatening to undermine the operational capacity of health facilities and hospitals. In
Gaza, extended closure of border crossings continued to result in shortages of food
supplies. According to the UN‘s Revised Emergency Appeal, poverty among PA
employees had risen from 37 percent in 2005 to 46 percent in 2006. 11

11.4 Economic performance was poor. Real GDP was estimated to have fallen by 5 to 6
percent in 2006 and, at US$1,000, average per capita income was some 40 percent below
its 1999 level. About a quarter of the Palestinian labor force was out of work, and there
was large-scale underemployment with significant regional differences - the situation was
particularly severe in Gaza, where the unemployment rate was 39 percent in 2006
compared to 28 percent in the West Bank. The labor force participation rate was 41
percent, indicating that a significant number of working age individuals had altogether

11
  UN Revised Emergency Appeal May 31, 2006; joint survey by the UN Office of the Coordinator of
Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) and the Institut Universitaire d‘Etudes du Développement (IUED),
University of Geneva, 2006.

                                              72
stopped looking for a job. Only increased donor support prevented the economy and
household incomes from falling even more rapidly.

11.5 The uncertain security situation with intermittent conflict, the closures and
movement restrictions, and economic and fiscal deterioration had a profound impact on
the livelihoods of ordinary Palestinians. As a result of declining incomes and precarious
employment, the proportion of people living below the poverty line by end-2006 was 66
percent, an increase of 16 percent over the March 2006 figure. Again, the situation in
Gaza was worse, with over 75 percent of the population living below the poverty line
(compared to 59 percent in the West Bank). With public resources stretched, essential
services had been lagging, and this was reflected in key health and nutrition indicators.
There was a reversal of trends in infant mortality in 2006, as infant mortality increased by
4.5 percent that year compared with 2004, from 24.2 deaths per thousand births to 25.3
per thousand. Mortality rates were noticeably higher in Gaza than in the West Bank.
While strong community and family ties pre-empted acute household hunger, chronic
malnutrition was rising, and micro-nutrient deficiencies were an increasing concern. The
FAO/WFP estimated that some 45 percent of the population was either vulnerable to
becoming, or already was, food insecure – that is, unable to access an essential food
package.

The Social Sectors

11.6 The economic and social implications of the crisis were evident in deteriorating
performance in the social sectors – health, education, and social services. Insufficient
domestic revenues squeezed operating budgets and caused disruptions and decline in
service provision; limited mobility between the West Bank and Gaza reduced the scope
for allocating resources where they were most needed while also raising transactions
costs. While the large wage bill reduced the resources available for operations and
maintenance, salary budgets were also insufficient, causing intermittent strikes and
absenteeism by civil servants, which further disrupted services. Donors played a key role
in helping maintain services, but assistance was insufficient to maintain an adequate level
of service delivery in the public sector. A sharp re-focusing of both domestic and donor
resources on a selected subset of essential social services was needed to avoid a collapse
of public provision.

11.7 Health. With the sharp drop in domestic revenues over the past fifteen months, the
health system service standards had deteriorated and health indicators had worsened.
Restrictions on movement of goods and services had aggravated shortages of medical
supplies and drugs disrupting services; intermittent health worker strikes exacerbated the
situation. Public sector facilities were often under-staffed and mostly under-equipped,
and in most instances operated at levels significantly below capacity. While other health
providers – UNRWA, NGOs, and the private sector – played an increasingly important
role, they were not able to fully compensate for public sector declines. Drug shortages
were frequent as the PA had yet to establish a reliable procurement and funding
mechanism and thus had to rely on ad-hoc donor support. In addition, drug storage
facilities were limited. Lack of funding for the health care system resulted in the

                                            73
disruption of essential public health functions and of a substantial part of the delivery of
basic health services. Early indications of the negative impact of the crisis could be seen.
In some health facilities (e.g., Gaza European Hospital and PHC facilities in the West
Bank), some staff had stopped coming to work as they could not afford to pay
transportation costs. Many hospitals and PHCs were lacking essential drugs; e.g., 22
items were out of stock in Al-Shifa hospital, and anesthetics and oncology drugs were out
of stock at the Gaza European hospital. As a result, only urgent surgeries were
performed. Some health directorates, like in Hebron, had discontinued the operation of
their mobile health services, including home visits, health inspections and vaccinations at
74 village health rooms. Meanwhile, the UN Office of the Coordinator of Humanitarian
Affairs (OCHA) reported that the number of in-patients and out-patients attending
Ministry of Health facilities had increased significantly in the last three months compared
with the same period last year as patients could no longer afford private service
provision12. Donors provided significant funding for operations and maintenance, which
helped slow down the deterioration of services. The key challenge for the immediate
future was to ensure that sufficient resources were available to maintain public services at
some minimum acceptable level, while at the same time leveraging complementarities
between public and private provision.

11.8 Education. In the short term, the education sector faced problems similar to those in
the public health sector – a shortage of financial resources to keep the school system
operational and a large wage bill limiting resources for operating expenditures. Both
needed to be dealt with. An adequate salary budget would avoid disruptive strikes, and
would reduce the number of teachers leaving the public school system. With the
beginning of every new school year, the system faced growing demands on non-salary
operating resources, including the need to cope with new entrants into the system. In
addition, the situation over the years had not been conducive to ensure proper upkeep of
education facilities and thus a number of schools required rehabilitation. The PA runs 76
per cent of all schools, accounting for 72 per cent of total student enrollment. Many
schools ended the 2005-2006 school year early due to funding shortages. Also, UNRWA
reported a substantial increase in the number of applications received for teaching posts
in the West Bank (5,000 in 2006/07 compared to 3,328 in 2005/06), suggesting that
teachers were looking for opportunities outside the PA. Again, donors played an
important role as providers of resources for essential goods and services, and in
facilitating stronger interaction between public and private provision.

11.9 Social Welfare. Given the limited financial resources and the large social assistance
requirements as a growing number of households and individuals fell below the poverty
line, or became at risk, it was critical that available resources target those most in need.
This required priority-setting among ongoing, under- or un-funded programs, and
focusing resources on a few high profile interventions, including the cash payments to
poor households, and shelters, rehabilitation and training centers for youth, handicapped,
elderly and women‘s development. These shelters and centers are run by the Ministry of
Social Affairs (MOSA), providing vocational training, social support, meals and
overnight residence to vulnerable individuals. As in the case of the public health and
12
     OCHA, Humanitarian Monitor, May 2006.

                                             74
education sectors, public resources for spending on services beyond salary payments
were severely constrained. Still, maintaining these programs, which cater to some of the
most vulnerable individuals and households, was an essential element in preserving the
social fabric in the West Bank and Gaza. The PA‘s Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA)
had not been able to pay cash assistance to the beneficiaries of its Social Hardship Case
Program since December 2005. Similarly, people hired through the Ministry‘s
Unemployment Program had gone without any salary payments. The Ministry reported a
250 per cent rise in applications for its Special Hardship Case Program. WFP also
reported a significant increase in demand at their food distribution points. A WFP/FAO
food security update (May 2006) noted a 14 percentage point increase in food
insecurity—51 percent in June 2006 as compared to 37 percent at the end of 2005.

Donor Response to the Emergency

11.10 The Emergency Services Support Program (ESSP) was launched in 2002 to
mitigate the impacts of the economic crisis through financing of non-salary recurrent
expenditures of the PA social sectors ministries (health, education and higher education,
and social affairs). The total budget (about US$176 million) was provided by the World
Bank and others donors through two phases of ESSP. Until June, 2006, the donors‘
response to the existing fiscal and humanitarian crisis had been ad hoc. A few countries
responded to the PA‘s appeal for budget support through one-time transfers. Several
others provided emergency financial and in kind support in the health sector. A number
of UN organizations also stepped up their programs to expand their delivery of services
to a larger number of beneficiaries.

11.11 In response to a request by the Quartet, the EC proposed a Temporary International
Mechanism (TIM) for providing direct delivery of assistance to the Palestinian
population. The TIM envisaged three windows of assistance, as follows: (1) Window I
ensured the provision of essential supplies and other recurrent costs in the areas of health,
education, social services, electricity, water and sanitation The TIM envisaged the World
Bank‘s administered Emergency Services Support Program (ESSP), as an appropriate
mechanism for Window I. (2) Window II aimed at ensuring the continued provision of
essential public utilities to the Palestinian population, such as electricity, via the provision
of fuel. This window was entirely funded by the EC through its ―Interim Emergency
Relief Contribution‖ (IERC). (3) Window III would provide social allowances to public
service providers and vulnerable Palestinians in the occupied Palestinian territory. This
window was funded by the European Commission, EU Member States and other donors.
As of July 2006, Window II had been well underway, with the EC financing the cost of
fuel and electricity in the health, water and sanitation sectors. On July 27 2006, the EC
made the first payment of allowances to health sector workers in the form of direct
transfers to the accounts of 300 doctors and nurses. Meanwhile, through a transfer of
US$50 million from the Arab League, the President‘s Office was able to make a partial
salary payment for civil servants at the end of July 2006. In response to the fiscal crisis
resulting from the Hamas election victory in January 2006, the World Bank and other
donors launched the ESSP MDTF as a window of the Temporary International
Mechanism (TIM) administrated by the International Development Association (the

                                              75
Grant Agreement was signed between Office of the President and IDA on September 18,
2006 with an original grant amount of GBP 24.34 million to finance non-salary recurrent
expenditures of the Palestinian Authority social sector ministries (MOH, MOEHE, and
MOSA) and the three sector utilities (Palestinian Water Authority - PWA, Palestinian
Energy Authority – PENRA, and Coastal Management Water Utility - CMWU).

Rationale for Bank Assistance

11.12 The Bank has been asked by the Palestinian Authority and several donors to
administer a mechanism for providing financing to sustain the delivery of basic services.
The Bank responded to the request by agreeing to extend its Emergency Services Support
Program (ESSP) which started in 2002 with the objective of mitigating the deterioration
in service delivery resulting from the economic crisis. As of August 2006, the ESSP
continued to be operational through a Swedish Grant.

11.13 Between 2002 and 2006, the ESSP mobilized a total budget of US$ 176 million.
During 2003 and 2004, it financed up to 85 percent of the non-salary recurrent
expenditures of the ministries of health, education and higher education and social affairs,
in addition to providing financial support to municipalities and covering the operational
expenditures of a few other PA ministries. The ESSP was, therefore, instrumental for
sustaining the PA‘s social service delivery system at a time when the PA‘s own resources
were scarce and the social ministries were forced to cut back on services due to lack of
funding. As an existing mechanism, the ESSP could be effectively revived to prevent
against a collapse of the public service delivery system and further deepening of the
humanitarian situation.




                                            76
Annex 12. Detailed Program/Project Description
(From Schedules 1 and 2 of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and pages 4 to 6 of the
Program Document)

Program/Project Objective

According to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement13, the objective of the Project is to
mitigate the deterioration of service delivery to the Palestinian population in the parts of
the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority.

Program/Project Description

Component 1: Financing Non-Salary Recurrent Expenditures

Part A. Education Services (Appraisal estimate - in Grant Agreement: GBP 7.91
million)
This subcomponent covers the following expenditures:

(i) Recurrent Expenditures of MOEHE, including schools, directorates and Ministry
headquarters, covering (a) rent payments; (b) transportation costs, including fuel, vehicle
maintenance, licensing and insurance; (c) water and electricity, (d) communications
including telephones and mail; (d) consumables; (e) maintenance of equipment and
buildings; and (f) heating fuel and other items.

(ii) Costs of General Examinations: stationery, printing of examinations; and the payment
of per diem expenses to examination monitors and reviewers.

(c) Support for Schools and Vocational Training Centers: learning and teaching tools and
materials, stationery, and materials for school activities (sports, arts and home economy
classes).

(e) Support to Higher Education Institutions: salaries of the staff of High Education
Institutions (who are not PA civil servants) and University operating expenses.

(f) Minor Rehabilitation of School Buildings: small works for the rehabilitation of school
buildings.

Part B. Health Services (Appraisal estimate - in Grant Agreement: GBP 12.61 million)
This sub-component covers the following expenditures:


13
  In the Program Document, the wording of the PDO is slightly different, as follows: The Program‘s
objective is to mitigate the deterioration of basic services brought about by the inability of the Palestinian
Authority to meet its budget requirements by providing financing for non-salary operating expenditures in
key social and service delivery sectors.


                                                     77
(i) Non-medical recurrent expenditures: non-medical costs of operating and maintaining
Ministry directorates and health facilities, including selected hospitals, covering (a) rent
payments; (b) transportation costs, including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and
insurance; (c) water and electricity bills, (d) communications including telephones and
mail; (d) consumables, including textiles, office supplies, stationery, and cleaning
materials; (e) maintenance of equipment and buildings, including financing of spare parts
for medical and non-medical equipment; (f) fuel for heating and generators; and (h)
cleaning services.

(ii) Provision of Essential Drugs, Supplies and Medical Consumables: provision of
essential drugs, vaccines, laboratory and blood bank materials and other medical
consumables.

(iii) Treatment in Private/Non-Governmental Clinics: cost of contracts with non-
governmental and private medical institutions for providing services that are not available
by public facilities.

(iv) Nutrition Supplements: provision of supplementary milk formulas and iron
supplements to public clinics.

(v) Hospital Food and Cleaning Contracts: provision of food for hospital patients and
financing of cleaning services for hospitals and other health facilities.

Part C. Social Welfare Services (Appraisal estimate - in Grant Agreement: GBP 0.42
million)
This sub-component will cover the recurrent operating expenditures of the Ministry of
Social Affairs (MOSA) and its shelters, rehabilitation and training centers, as follows:

(i) Recurrent Expenditures: recurrent costs covering (a) rent payments; (b) transportation
costs, including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance; (c) water and
electricity, (d) communications including telephones and mail; (d) consumables; (e)
maintenance of equipment and buildings; (f) fuel for heating and generators; and (g)
office supplies.

(ii) Support to Shelters/Rehabilitation and Training Centers: provision of work tools,
equipment and materials, and of minor rehabilitation work to maintain the operation of
centers.

(iii) Food: provision of food for residents of Shelters and non-residents of vocational
rehabilitation centers.

Part D. Recurrent Expenditures in Other Key Sectors (Appraisal estimate - in Grant
Agreement: GBP 3.18 million)

Recurrent Expenditures in Electricity, Water and Sanitation sectors consisting of (a) rent
payments; (b) transportation costs, including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and

                                            78
insurance; (c) water and electricity, (d) communications including telephones and mail;
(e) maintenance and equipment and buildings; (f) office suppliers and consumables and
(g) fuel for heating and generators.

Component II – Part E: Project Management and Monitoring (Appraisal estimate –
in Grant Agreement: GBP 0.22 million)

This component finances costs related to project management, including (i) short term
consultancies to support the management capacity of the President Office and the Project
Coordination Unit; (ii) the provision of technical assistance to improve the capacity of the
participating ministries in managing contracted services; (iii) provision of essential
equipment; (iv) project operating costs; and (v) external financial and physical spot
audits.




                                            79
Annex 13. Other Significant Changes

13.1 Other significant changes included two extensions of the project closing date, five
amendments of the TFGA and five reallocations of the proceeds of the Grant.

Extensions of closing date

13.2 The original closing date of the ESSP MDTF was June 30, 2008. The closing date
was extended twice (on June 26, 2008 and on June 30, 2010) for a cumulative extension
of three years.

13.3 On June 26, 2008, the ESSP MDTF was extended the first time for two years from
June 30, 2008 to June 30, 2010. The reasons for the extension were to enable the PA to
fully disburse the ongoing contracts (border‘s closure and trade restrictions, especially in
Gaza, were causing a lot of delays to the delivery of most supply contracts) and the new
funds provided by the EC and the Swiss required an additional period to be disbursed.
Also, at that time, the EC had issued a document outlining their emergency strategy for
West Bank and Gaza where the ESSP was singled out as the preferred mechanism to
provide emergency funding to key social sector ministries.

13.4 On June 30, 2010, the closing date was extended a second time from June 30, 2010
to June 30, 2011. The reason for the extension was that the EC had committed to provide
an additional Euro 10 million for the ESSP MDTF. That additional funding would
finance priority emergency items, such as fuel for hospitals and water wells which cannot
be disbursed in one large installment, thus the need for the extension. Also, the PA was
keen on ensuring that the ESSP MDTF remained open due to its prominent role in the
management of the PA‘s emergency response.

Amendments of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement

13.5 The TFGA was amended five times: December 2006, September 2007, December
2007, March 2008, and April 2009. One amendment was because of a change in
implementation responsibility; all the others were mainly because of increases in donor
contributions.

13.6 The first amendment on December 14, 2006 - countersigned on December 17, 2006
- increased the total amount of the Grant by GBP 4,978,000, reallocated the proceeds of
the Grant, and included provision of goods and incremental operating costs and carrying
out of works under Part D (Other Key Sectors - Utilities) of the Project. In Schedule 1, all
references to ―recurrent expenditures‖ were deleted and replaced with ―incremental
operating costs.‖

13.7 The second amendment on September 13, 2007 – countersigned on September 30,
2007 – transferred implementation responsibility under the Project from the Office of the
President of the Palestinian Authority to the Economic Affairs Department of the

                                            80
Palestine Liberation Organization. In the whole agreement, ―PO‖ was replaced by
―Economic Affairs Department.‖

13.8 The third amendment on December 14, 2007 – countersigned on December 30, 2007
– increased the total amount of the Grant by additional donors‘ contributions of GBP
5,140,000 and reallocated the grant proceeds. The additional contributions were allocated
towards the fast disbursing items that do not require lengthy procurement procedures,
such as consultants‘ and other services, incremental operating costs and higher education
salaries. The reallocation reduced the current amounts for civil works and goods in favor
also of the fast disbursing categories.

13.9 The fourth amendment on February 21, 2008 – countersigned on March 5, 2008 –
increased the total amount of the grant by GBP 4,828,000 based on additional donor
contributions, and allocated the new contributions towards the expenditure categories.

13.10 The fifth amendment on April 16, 2009 – countersigned on April 23, 2009 -
increased the total amount of the grant by GBP 4,759,433 based on an additional
contribution of Euro 5 million from the EC and allocated the new contributions towards
the expenditure categories.

New Allocations/Reallocations of the Proceeds of the Trust Fund Grant

13.11 In addition to the four reallocations of the proceeds of the Grant in connection with
the amendments to the TFGA mentioned above, there was another reallocation on
October 5, 2009. Following the findings of the PA Attorney general and the Bank INT
regarding the case of the Al-Jalaa Pharmaceutical Company - AJPCO (see section on
procurement and Annex 14), the PLO‘s Economic Affairs Department requested that
most of the funds committed for this contract (GBP 1,833,290) be reallocated from the
―goods‖ category to the ―incremental operating costs‖ category. This amount was still be
for the benefit of MOH, and covered fuel and utility charges for MOH hospitals and
clinics in Gaza.




                                            81
Allocation and Reallocations of the Proceeds of the Grant (in GBP thousands)

Category                Original          New              New              New
                       Allocation     Allocation of    Allocation of    Allocation of
                        9/18/06         12/17/06         12/30/07          3/05/08
Civil works               634             1,700            1,150            1,150
Goods                    12,564          14,694           12,723           12,723
Consultants and
Other Services           2,268            3,259            5,274               6,074
Incremental
Operating Costs          5,197            5,578            9,203           11,847
Food                      507              507              507             507
Higher Education
Salaries                  3,170           3,580            5,580            6,964
Canceled*                   -               -               21*              21*
Total                    24,340          29,318           34,458           39,286
Increase over
previous allocation         -             4,978            5,140               4,828

Category                  New             New              Final            Final
                      Allocation of   Allocation of    Allocation**    Allocation as a
                         4/23/09        10/05/09                       % of original
                                                                         Allocation
Civil works                  932              932          824               130
Goods                      12,953           11,120       10,239               82
Consultants and
Other Services              6,537            6,537        6,523       290
Incremental
Operating Costs            15,561           17,394       18,360       353
Food                         443              443          443         87
Higher Education
Salaries                    7,598            7,598        7,592       239
Canceled                     21*              21*          21*         --
Refunded amount                                          44***
Total                      44,045           44,045       43,981      181%
Increase over
previous allocation         4,759              -           -20
* Canceled under category 2 (Goods) as of July 16, 2007.
** These are actual disbursement figures.
***This amount refunded to World Bank on December 15, 2011 under Category 3
(Consultants and Other Services).




                                        82
Annex 14. Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

Project Management (PM)

14.1 On the recipient side, the project team (ESSP PCU) consisted of a project
coordinator, a financial officer, a procurement officer, a disbursement officer, and four
accountants responsible for handling the follow-up tasks with implementing ministries
and utilities. The team was selected on a sole-source basis since it included the same staff
members who have been working on the previous phases of the ESSP, and were well
experienced with the ESSP approach and procedures. Following the Donors‘ and the
Bank‘s approval to extend the project‘s closing date, the contracts of the PCU staff
members have been renewed accordingly. The Project was well managed, with clearly
assigned roles for the MOF and the line Ministries/Utilities.

Procurement

14.2 The procurement arrangements for the Project and the procedures to be followed
were described in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Program Document (Technical
Annex) and the OM. Since the Project was to be implemented through three line
ministries (MOH, MOEHE and MOSA) and the PO of the PA under separate budgets, it
was decided to operate the Project under four separate procurement plans for the initial
six months of financing. The procurement arrangements were largely based on the
findings and recommendations of the Country Procurement Review for WBG published
in December 2004, unless specified otherwise because of the emergency project
conditions, the issues resulting from the recurrent crisis in the territories and/or the
specific issues affecting the sectors assisted by the Project (in particular, the health sector
and the conditions of the local market for drugs and health services).

14.3 In July 2006, the appraisal included an assessment of the procurement capacity of
implementing entities. It identified a number of issues and risks, such as the limited
knowledge and understanding of procurement methods, procedures and practices and the
limited knowledge of local and international markets and suppliers. As a corrective
measure, it was agreed that the Project would include technical assistance in the form of:
(i) one international Pharmaceutical Procurement Specialist to assist MOH in the
preparation of bidding documents, bid evaluation and development of efficient and
economic procurement strategies; (ii) one international Health Service Contracting
Specialist to assess the conditions of health services market, review present contracting
practices and assist the MOH in developing an appropriate contract document for health
services; and (iii) one or more procurement specialists to be hired as necessary by the
implementing ministries.

14.4 At the beginning of the Project, procurement delays (delays in the preparation and
approval of bidding documents, and delays in bid evaluations) contributed to slow
disbursements. This was particularly true for the procurement of pharmaceuticals for the
Health Sector. A Procurement Due Diligence Review was carried out by an independent

                                              83
consultant in March 2008. It confirmed that the Bank had done its part in terms of
transparency and efficiency, and that the ESSP was not the suited vehicle for adopting
complex procurement procedures for works, goods and services in general and the
procurement of pharmaceuticals in particular. To avoid delays, the proceeds of the Grant
were reallocated towards fast disbursing items, such as incremental operating costs and
higher education salaries, reducing the amounts for civil works and goods that require
lengthy procurement procedures.

Misprocurement

14.5 In July-August 2007, the Bank declared misprocurement of contracts using the
shopping method (MOSA G-G-3) for the procurement of materials for training centers in
Gaza. The amount of GBP 20,640 (i.e., US$ 40,000 equivalent) allocated for three
contracts which were not procured in accordance with the legal agreement and the
procurement plan, was cancelled from the Grant proceeds, and the previously disbursed
amounts against these contracts were refunded to the SA in November 2007.
Additionally, the cancelled amount of GBP 20,640 was reflected in the fourth amendment
to the TFGA dated March 5, 2008 and was then returned to the main Trust Fund account.

The Contracts with the Al-Jalaa Pharmaceutical Company - AJPCO

14.6 All contracts for drug packages were delivered to MOH stores and distributed to the
various hospitals and clinics, except two contracts with the Al Jalaa Pharmaceutical
Company (AJPCO). AJPCO, a pharmaceutical supply company based in Gaza, was
awarded two contracts valued at US$3.6 million to deliver pharmaceuticals to the MOH
drug stores in the West Bank and Gaza. These contracts were signed between the AJPCO
and the PO in June and July 2007. The case was first perceived as a dispute between the
MOH and the AJPCO over issues related to compliance with contract conditions. Being
unable to deliver the drugs within the period specified in the contract, the AJPCO
invoked the force majeure situation in view of the deteriorating security conditions and
tight closure of Gaza; whereas, at a later stage, the MOH suspected the company of being
involved in fraudulent practices by smuggling the drugs into the Palestinian territory. In
March 2008, the MOF terminated AJPCO‘s contracts and made an official announcement
in local newspapers that AJPCO was under investigation for smuggling pharmaceuticals
while serving as a supplier under a Bank-financed project. In April 2008, the Bank‘s
project team reported the case to INT. In October 2009, the INT released its final
investigative report, which concluded that: (i) AJPCO improperly sought to use the Bank
project as justification to seek financial and administrative privileges not permitted under
PA and Israeli laws (it did not receive those privileges); (ii) AJPCO committed fraud in
order to reduce or avoid costs and time delays associated with pharmaceutical
registration, fees and customs duties; and (iii) the PA and the PCU in the MOF did not
manage AJPCO‘s contract properly. Based on these findings, the INT report
recommended seeking sanctions against AJPCO and its owners for fraud, and referred its
findings to the Israeli and Palestinian authorities. The case remains under both judicial
and administrative investigations by the PA‘s Attorney General, and pending the final
decision by the PA‘s Supreme Court. Following a PA‘s request, the Bank reallocated the

                                            84
amount of about US$3 million related to AJPCO contracts to be used for urgent expenses
under the MOH component, such as fuel and electricity bills for hospitals and clinics in
Gaza. At the Bank‘s request, MOF returned the amount of US$72,556 which had been
paid directly by the Bank to AJPCO.

Service Delivery Contractors – Tertiary Health Care

14.7 In the past, specialized medical services that could not be provided in public
facilities (either because they were not available or because of insufficient capacity) were
provided by MOH through annual contracts with private or NGO clinics awarded on a
Direct Contracting basis. Past attempts by IDA to introduce competitive selection were
not successful, mainly because the number, specialization and location of existing service
providers did not lend themselves to competitive selection. A review of the fees charged
to MOH under ongoing contracts has shown that they were well below the fees for the
same services provided to private patients. The conditions of contract, however, were
found lacking in the definition of the minimum quality standards for the services
required, and of suitable provisions for monitoring and enforcement of minimum quality
standards. Therefore, it was agreed that the Project would finance the ongoing service
contracts for the first six months from the signature of the Grant Agreement, provided
that within six months of the signature of the Grant Agreement a form of contract,
satisfactory to IDA, and a detailed tracking system for these contracts would be
developed and adopted for all contracts to be entered into for the subsequent duration of
the Project.

14.8 At the beginning of the Project, 39 tertiary health care contracts were entered under
the Direct Contracting method, with 22 health institutions in West Bank, 12 health
institutions in Gaza and 5 health institutions in Jerusalem. The total amount was US$10.3
million which was committed and spent. In December 2007, the Bank gave its no
objection to a new version of the request for proposal (RFP) for tertiary health care based
on a competitive and transparent selection process. MOH received back 36 RFP from
local bidders, and prepared an initial draft of the evaluation report to be submitted to the
Bank for review. In order to obtain a better quality of the evaluation report, the MOF
contracted with an International Consultant to assist MOH in finalizing the Evaluation
Report which was submitted in a format that meets Bank requirements. An evaluation
report was prepared and approved by the Bank. There were delays and implementation
problems with the new contracting modalities (including difficulties in forecasting the
number of cases to be treated/financed) but, in the end, the competitive and transparent
process was satisfactory; this is one of the Project‘s achievements.

Financial management and disbursements

14.9 The TFGA dealt with the withdrawal of the proceeds of the Grant, and the financial
management procedures were described in the Program Document (Technical Annex)
and the OM.




                                            85
14.10 An assessment of the ESSP PCU financial management capacity was completed
during appraisal in July 2006. The assessment review concluded that PCU had the
adequate expertise to support the implementation of the Project and to process the
transactions of the ESSP MDTF in a satisfactory manner. However, given the large
volume of transactions and the multiplicity of participating agencies, the review also
recommended that the staffing of the PCU be strengthened.

14.11 The ESSP MDTF would run over a period of 22 months, ending on June 30, 2008.
However, since contributions were expected to be provided in tranches, the Project
Budget was prepared covering six months of expenditures (estimated initially at
US$55.75 million), to be updated on a regular basis in line with the Grant Agreement and
the Procurement Plans based on donor additional contributions.

14.12 The ESSP PCU would be responsible for the overall financial management aspects
of the Project; it would prepare the financial monitoring reports (FMRs) and other reports
on the basis of information and data provided monthly by the line ministries. In addition,
it would contribute to the preparation, by the PO, of the withdrawal applications and the
related SOEs for replenishment of the Special accounts or just for direct payments. The
PO would be responsible for managing the Project‘s Special Accounts (SAs) and for
issuing and signing all checks and bank transfers. There would be four SAs, consisting
of: (i) SA ―A‖ for Health Services; (ii) SA ―B‖ for Education covering all eligible
expenditures including non-salary operating costs; (iii) SA ―C‖ for eligible recurrent
expenditures necessary to sustain the delivery of electricity, water and sanitation services;
and iv) SA ―D‖ for eligible expenditures in other sectors including (a) eligible
expenditures under Social Affairs, b) non-salary operating costs in the health sectors; and
(c) capacity-building and project management costs of the PO. To facilitate the
monitoring of the project-financed activities, each SA would be maintained as a separate
identifiable account to be used exclusively for eligible project expenditures financed
under the Grant. These arrangements were very useful for tracking the channeling of
funds to the beneficiary Ministries and Utilities. The line Ministries would process all the
transactions based on the budget of eligible expenditures as agreed to in the Grant
Agreement. They will prepare the complete documentation supporting the transactions
processed for transmission to the MOF-ESSP/PCU for eligibility compliance and
completeness review, before clearance and submission to the PO for validation and
payment. In September 2007, implementation responsibility under the Project was
transferred from the PO of the PA to the Economic Affairs Department of the PLO.

14.13 In addition to the usual progress reports, FMRs and annual financial audits, the
reporting and auditing requirements included quarterly spot check reports14 covering
review of procurement procedures/contracting and physical inspection and count of
14
  The External Auditor‘s TORs included the following: ―In addition to the end of year full-fledged audit,
the auditors are expected to carry out quarterly spot-checks on a representative random sample of
expenditures categories in each implementing agency as well as service delivery activities supported under
the project in order to ascertain the achievement of physical and other progress in the implementation of the
Project. A report covering the expenditures review and the physical inspections shall be produced on a
quarterly basis, 30 days after the beginning of the auditors‘ intervention, and should be made available to
the PM for transmission to IDA in a timely manner‖.

                                                    86
quantities received. The Bank made some comments to improve the quality of the
quarterly spot check auditing process (essentially to provide more details and specific
information on inspected contracts and to improve the selection process for the sample of
contracts showing an equitable coverage to the West Bank and Gaza). These reports
confirmed the eligibility of expenditures incurred and claimed under the Project. Sixteen
spot check reports were submitted for the project period up to March 31, 2011 (final spot
check report for the period ended June 30, 2011 yet to be submitted). Two transaction
reviews were also carried out by financial management consultants.

14.14 The appointment of the auditor was under a competitive process15 from a short list
of qualified firms. The External Auditor contract was signed on May 1, 2007. It was
extended twice; first to extend the audit period until December 31, 2010, and second to
extend the audit period until December 31, 2011. Since the beginning of the Project, five
annual financial audit reports were submitted; the final audit report for 2011 is due by
December 31, 2011. The financial audit reports were submitted on time and were all
unqualified.

14.15 There was a long standing issue for the 2008 audit report because of missing
documents that were lost when the MOF premises were destroyed during the Gaza war
(December 2008 - January 2009). The issue was resolved by the External Auditor
providing a supplemental letter highlighting that the missing documents had been verified
during the spot check review process.

14.16 The ESSP PCU put in place systems to expedite reviews and payments. Special
arrangements were made to control the financing of incremental operating costs. In order
to follow up the fuel consumption and to supervise the fuel distribution, the PCU took
readings of the generators and capacity in order to accurately calculate the consumption.
For the ambulances, coupons were given to the ambulance drivers with their name and
the vehicle number. Also, a list of names and vehicle numbers were distributed to the fuel
stations in order to ensure that fuel is given only to those eligible vehicles. Each month,
the PCU submitted a monthly report to the Bank to monitor fuel supplies in Gaza. These
reports were crossed check with the EU periodical site visit reports.

Safeguards

14.17 Not applicable.

14.18 The ESSP MDTF did not finance investments. It was an emergency project that
financed only non-salary recurrent expenditures and did not trigger any safeguards.




15
     The selection method criteria were Least Cost Based Selection (LCS).

                                                     87
                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33512R1
                                                                                                                                                                To                         35°30'E
                                                                                                              35°00'E                                         Nazareth

               WEST BANK                                                                                                           To Haifa

               AND GAZA
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                        32°30'N                                                                                                                                   32°30'N
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                       Yamoun
                                                                                                                                                                    Jenin
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                    Ya'bad
                                                                                                                                 Kaffeen
                 RAILROAD                                                                                                                                      Qabatia

                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949                                                                                                     JENIN
                 NO-MAN’S LAND AREAS,
                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949                                                  To Netanya               TULKARM
                                                                                                                                      Anapta                                     Tubas
                                                                                                                        Tulkarm                                                          TUBAS
                 JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY                                                                                                                               Tammun
                 EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
                 THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980                                                                                                             Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                        (940 m)
                 GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                          Nablus
                                                                                                   Qalqilyah
                 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY                                                                               QALQILYAH                              NABLUS
                                                                                           To                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Tel Aviv                                                                                                                    Um Qais
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 SALFIT
                                              34°30'E                                                                                     Salfit   West




                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                               Jordan Rive
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                       To
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                      Ramla
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JORDAN
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
32°00'N
                                                                                       To
                                                                                    Tel Aviv
                                                                                                                                                   Bank                                                        To 32°00'N
                                                                                                                                                                 Tall Asur                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                                 (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                       RAMALLAH                                          JERICHO

                                                                                                                                                     Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Amman
                                                                                                                                                                                           Jericho
           Mediterranean
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                           Sea                                                                                                                                                                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM


                                                                                                       To                                           Bethlehem
                                                                                                     Ashdod
                                                                          ISRAEL
                                                                                                                                                      BETHLEHEM
                                                                To
                                                             Tel Aviv
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                               Ashqelon                                                                                   Dead
                              JABALYA
                                    Beit Lahia                                                                                        (1,020 m)                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                     Hebron
                           Gaza City
                                                 Jabalya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31°30'N
                      GAZA CITY                                                                                                   HEBRON
   Gaza Nusejrat
                                                           To                                                                       Yattah
DEIR EL BALAH                     El Bureij             Beersheba
           Deir el Balah                                                                                          Zohar

      KHAN
      YUNIS
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                      Khan                                                                                                                                               Zofar
                      Yunis                                                          To
                                                                                  Beersheba
              Rafah
                           RAFAH                                                                                                                                                                JORDAN
                Abu 'Awdah
   To           (105 m)
El Arish
                  To                          WEST BANK
                  Elat                        AND GAZA

 ARAB                                                                                                     0        5        10     15 Kilometers

REP. OF
EGYPT                                                                                                     0             5            10            15 Miles

31°00'N                                                                                                                                                                                                           31°00'N

                                              34°30'E                                                           35°00'E                                                                     35°30'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUNE 2007
